3 3433 08173702 9

- Y&va

v\\

HAMILTON'S WORKS.

VOL. VI.

THE WORKS

ALEXANDER HAMILTON

COMPRISING

HIS CORRESPONDENCE,

HIS POLITICAL AND OFFICIAL WRITINGS,

EXCLUSIVE OF THE FEDERALIST,

CIVIL AND MILITARY.

PUBLISHED FROM THE ORIGINAL MANUSCRIPTS DEPOSITED IN
THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE,

BY ORDER OF

THE JOINT LIBRARY COMMITTEE OF CONGRESS.

EDITED BY

JOHN C. HAMILTON,

AUTHOR OP ''THE LIFE OF H A M . L TC N .

vol. viy^B^M

NEW-YORK : "^^ J^r-

JOHN F. TROW, PRINTER, 49, 51 & 53 ANN-STREET.

M.DCCC.LI.

Checked

ft*. <Bdg. H».)

/6&

Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1850, by

JOHN C. HAMILTON,

In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States for the Southern
District of New-York.

iEl. 38. 1

CORRESPONDENCE.

BRADFORD TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, May 21, 1795.

My Dear Sir:

I thank you very sincerely for your letter of the 10th instant,
which I received a few days ago. The conduct of Fauchet, which
you so justly reprobate, could not escape the notice of the Presi-
dent, though it does not seem to have excited so much public
attention as I expected. A little before this took place, that
minister had intimated to Mr. Randolph his expectation of return-
ing soon to France — and Mr. Monroe's letters gave reason to
expect that Mr. Adet was on his way to America to succeed
him. Mr. Randolph, therefore, thought it would be sufficient to
communicate to his successor, either at the first interview or
immediately after, the sense of the government on this subject.
If such gross improprieties could have been suppressed for the
future, without any new irritation to Fauchet, who has been ex-
tremely soured of late, and is disposed, I suspect, to do us mis-
chief on his return, it would have been desirable, and perhaps
the best course ; but as we hear nothing more of Adet, and this
man is evidently endeavoring to stimulate the party which is op-
posed to the treaty, the march you intimate would not have been
amiss. I showed your letter to the Secretary of State ; but his
censure of Fauchet outran yours : — and he means that he shall
learn through his successor the sentiments which are entertained
F 1

2 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Ex. 38.

of his behavior. As no letter can be given him at his depar-
ture, he will, at least, gather it from that circumstance. He finds
great fault with Mr. Eandolph of late, and I understand has had
the effrontery to complain "that he did not show him the whole
of the instructions to Mr. Jay ; and that he did not inform him
that Mr. Jay was authorized to conclude a commercial treaty."
On the subject of that treaty he is extremely irritable, and from
various circumstances I have reason to. believe that the pieces
signed Franklin, which are directed against our having any con-
nection with Great Britain, are written under his direction, but it is
impossible to prove that the fact is so. I am persuaded no means
will be left untried to induce the Senate to reject the treaty, and
I sincerely hope Mr. Jay will arrive before the discussion com-
mences. The trial of the insurgents has commenced. Mr.
Rawle selected what he thought a pretty strong case ; but his
principal witness proved recreant, and flatly contradicted what
his deposition contained. The prisoner was of course acquitted
without argument, and on application of the district attorney, the
witness, Major Parker, (you may recollect him, perhaps ; a tall,
red-haired, snuff-taking fellow,) was bound in recognizance to
take his trial for the perjury. The trials of several others have
been put off on affidavits of the absence of material witnesses,
the Court being of opinion " that they were entitled to a reasona-
ble time to collect their evidence after the list of the United
States witnesses is furnished." This creates not a little embarrass-
ment, and their counsel will in future try the prisoners in such
order as best suits their own views. Adieu.

Believe me, very truly and affectionately,

W. Bradford.

RUTLEDGE TO HAMILTON.

Charleston, May 27th, 1795.

Dear Sir:

The cause of the heirs of General S. Harris and Blackford
has been decided, and we have lost it. The argument lasted for

JEt. 38.] CORRESPONDENCE. 3

three days — and I exerted every faculty in favor of our friends,
but it was all in vain ; and we shall have the enormous sum of
£11,000 sterling to pay in this unfortunate business. Mrs. Greene
(as well she might) relies implicitly on your friendship for assist-
ance. She means to make an application to Congress for relief,
and is sanguine in her expectations. The delegates from this
State in the Senate have offered her their best services ; and she
feels a pleasure in observing that most of her enemies are out of
Congress — and that their places have been supplied by better
men. Mr. Warrington, the agent of Harris and Blackford, has
acted from the beginning to the end of the affair with uncom-
mon humanity and kindness. His success has not damped his
virtues — and he is now as willing to oblige as ever he was. Mrs.
Greene thinks his testimony may be of considerable importance.
He was one of those whose debts the General originally guaran-
tied ; was privy to all the transactions, and is able and willing to
speak with great clearness on the subject. He knew the motives
by which our friend was actuated — he will bear witness to the
patriotic principles which gave rise to all his honorable embar-
rassments— embarrassments, my dear sir, which were too mighty
for his independent spirit; and which, in a luckless moment,
bereaved his country of one of her brightest ornaments.

As you are not only perfect master of the subject, but know
full well the precise objections which were made to the relief so-
licited by Mrs. Green, I thought it best to place Mr. Warrington
in your hands, that you may obtain from him such testimony as
shall be sufficient to remove every doubt with respect to the fair-
ness of the General's conduct. This business, happily terminated,
will leave the family in the enjoyment of a very considerable
estate, and add to the catalogue of services which she has re-
ceived from your disinterested friendship.

I am, dear Sir, with much esteem and respect,
Your very humble servant,

Ed. Rutledge.

Mrs. Rutledge, who was once known to you and to Mrs.
Hamilton, desires me to say that she has not lost the remem-

4 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

brance of your friendly attentions, and hopes she still holds a
place in the esteem of those whom she highly values. She con-
gratulates Mrs. II. on your return to private life, and wishes you
may reap your full share of the golden harvest.

WILHEM JAN WILLINK TO HAMILTON.

Amsterdam June 1st, 1795.

Sir:

With heartfelt satisfaction and gratitude did we receive your
esteemed favor of the 31st January.

That one of your last ministerial acts should have been to
testify the sense you entertain of the zeal and fidelity we have
invariably exerted to promote the interests of the United States
committed to our management, is the most flattering and honor-
able recompense that could be bestowed upon us ; and we assure
you we highly cherish it as such.

The success of those efforts you have been pleased to deem
meritorious in us, have been greatly facilitated by the unlimited
confidence we have had in your abilities, probity, and zeal for
the support of the honor of your country, and the credit of its
government, which have enabled us most boldly and conscien-
tiously, as well to our dearest relations and nearest friends, as to
the most indifferent money-lenders, to recommend the invest-
ment of their capitals in bonds of the United States preferably
to those of any European power whatever — an advice we now
experience the pleasure to be sincerely thanked for.

We are happy to learn from you the character of your suc-
cessor. Your testimony of him cannot fail to secure him our full
confidence, and we shall not be wanting in our duty to inculcate
the same when it may be necessary or useful.

Allow us, in taking leave of you, sir, in your official capa-
city, to return you our most unfeigned thanks for the confidence
you have constantly shown us, and for the polite attention you

JEt. 38.] CORRESPONDENCE. O

have ever paid to all our advices and recommendations. Be
assured, sir, they have made an indelible impression on our
hearts, and that none of your friends can wish you more happi-
ness and felicity in your retreat than we do, nor be more desirous
to promote them than we are by any agreeable offices or services
it may be in our power to render you.

Entreating you most earnestly and sincerely, as a proof of
your regard and friendship for us — not to spare us, but, on the
contrary, freely to apply to us on all such occasions.

HAMILTON TO KING.

New-York, June 11th, 1795.

Dear Sir:

I thank you for your letter of the 10th. The case has been
with me as with }Tou. Eeflection has not mitigated the excep-
tionable point. Yet it will be to be lamented, if no mode can be
devised to save the main object and close the irritable questions
which are provided for. Every thing besides an absolute and
simple ratification will put something in jeopardy. But, while
on the one hand I think it advisable to hazard as little as possi-
ble— on the other I should be willing to hazard something, and
unwilling to see a very objectionable principle put into activity.

It is to be observed that no time is fixed for the ratification of
the treaty. It may then be ratified with a collateral instruction
to make a declaration, that the United States consider the article
in question, aggregately taken, as intended by the king of Great
. Britain as a privilege ; that they conceive it for their interest to
forbear the exercise of that privilege with the condition annexed
to it, till an explanation in order to a new modification of it shall
place it on a more acceptable footing, or till an article to be sent
to our minister containing that modification shall be agreed upon
between him and the British court as a part of the treaty — the
ratification not to be exchanged without further instruction from

6 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

this country, unless accepted in this sense and with this qualifi-
cation.

This course appears to me preferable to sending back the
treaty to open the negotiation anew, because it may save time
on the points most interesting to us, and I do not see that if the
ratifications be exchanged with this saving, there can be any
doubt of the matter operating as intended. Adieu.

Yours truly.

HAMILTON TO KING.

New-York, June 20th, 1795.

My Dear Sir :

A considerable alarm has been spread this morning by a
report that the treaty had been disagreed to. I have assured
those I have seen, that I was convinced any rumor of a decision
must be premature. The anxiety, however, about the result, is
extreme. The common opinion among men of business of all
descriptions is, that a disagreement to the treaty would greatly
shock and stagnate pecuniary plans and operations in general.
This is not a small source of disquietude. Others who are not
likely to be affected in that sense (and among these myself), look
forward to the result with great solicitude, as fixing or en-
dangering the stability of our present beneficial and desirable
situation.

My influence in seconding the wishes of our friend General
Greene, is, I fear, overrated. Unwilling to raise expectation
which may not be realized, I will only say, that it will give me
real pleasure to be able to promote his accommodation or advan-
tage, as my opinion of him entirely corresponds with yours. In
the mean time, I will, as far as circumstances permit, have an
eye to the affair.

Yours affectionately.

AZt. 38.] CORRESPONDENCE. T

WOLCOTT TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, June 18th, 1795.

Dear Sir:

I have received your letters of June 18th and 15th, for which
I thank you, and I inclose the statement you desire.

I had in season taken measures for reviving our debt or loan
in Amsterdam. The plan- is to surrender the existing obliga-
tions to the commissioners, who, in lieu thereof, issue triplicate
descriptive certificates to the creditors ; any one, being produced
at the Treasury, will command the new stock. The certificates
are not transferable, to prevent fraud and insecurity in the
transmission. The old bonds are to be cancelled and delivered
to our minister, who is to possess a control over the whole
business.

A similar plan has been adopted for Antwerp, which I ex-
pect will be conducted by Mr. De Wolfe, under the eye of Mr.
Adams, jr., the secretary o the minister.

Some of our creditors have, doubtless, emigrated, and may
be unable to comply with the proposed form. Mr. Cazenove
has suggested the expediency of advertising that the original
bonds will be received at the Treas i Th s may be necessary ;
yet, as the bonds must be verified here, a very inconvenient
delay or great risk must be incurred. Will you favor me with
your opinion on the point?

The French debt has been finally settled, and the balance
issued in stock to James Swan, agent to the Eepublic, pursuant
to an authority from the Co n n i n e o Public Safety.

This Mr. Swan has proposed to me to contract to pay our
interest in specie in Holland, and when done, to receive payment
here at par. He has immense funds at command here, and, as he
says, in France. His ability cannot be doubted. All the objec-
tions which exist will occur to you. Supposing I contract with
him, and at the same time authorize our commissioners to draw
on the treasury if he fails to comply, will the provisions be ade-
quate, or what better can be done ? The shipment of produce is

8 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 38.

impracticable. The French agents command every thing ; and
the risk and probable loss would be immense. On this point
will you drop me a line soon.

The 500,000 dollars you sent, arrived in London the latter
part of April ; this was in season if my subsequent remittance
went safe, and the stock would sell. The principal, interest and
instalments, were paid punctually.

I must soon decide upon some plan for paying all our do-
mestic debt under the law of the last session. Several questions
arise.

1st — -Is it best to declare by a public act that the payments
will be made, and to state the mode throughout, or only that a
payment will be made next December ?

2d — If a declaration is to be made, in what manner, and by
what officer should it be made ?

3d — What distribution of the annual 8 per cent, for principal
and interest will be proper in the several years, to avoid too
minute fractions, and essentially to comply with the law ? The
inclosed table in the columns marked A and B, exhibits the
most exact scale which can be adopted in practice ; and the
columns C and D, the true distribution on the principles of the
law. Is it a matter of discretion, after the year 1807, to divide
1 per cent, for three-quarters of a year, and 5 per cent, at the
close of the year ? This distribution would be most convenient
in practice, and most satisfactory to the creditors. The fractional
dividends after that time, on small sums of capital, would not be
worth attention.

4th — Does it not result from the general spirit of the act of
the last session, and from the express authority to borrow (for
interest) in the first section, that the payments of interest as well
as principal are to be made under the management of the trustees
of the sinking fund? And is not this idea fortified by the
necessity which exists of blending a portion of the payments of
principal in the dividends of interest ?

5th — What is it the duty of the secretary to do in respect to
the vested and appropriated funds — that is, is he to separate them
from the treasury when wanted ? or, is he to carry them by

JSt.38.] correspondence. 9

warrant to a distinct account, as they accrue in the treasury?
The former mode is justified by practice, and understood by the
Legislature. The latter is the most efficient mode, by prevent-
ing a competition with the demands for the current service, and
by compelling an adequate revenue establishment.

6th — If I am obliged to recur to new loans, will it be best
to make an arrangement by which the bank shall be the organ
of the sales of stock for the public ? or to endeavor to obtain a
loan of the bank for which transferable stock is to be delivered ?
Can any objection in relation to the charter of the bank be made
to the last expedient ?

7th — The 11th section of the act directs the commissioners of
the sinking fund to pay the instalments of the loan of two mil-
lions to the bank. What is the fund out of which the payments
are to be made ? and is a farther appropriation necessary ?

For reasons which are sufficient, I have but little knowledge
of what is going forward in the Senate ; but I understand, gene-
rally, that the prospects are good. The Senate is more firm and
able than at any former period. A certain number will, how-
ever, oppose the ratification, but except on a point of which you
are informed, I believe there is no difficulty ; even that will be
so managed as to avoid danger. I think I can assure you that
the result will be satisfactory.

P. S. "We have as yet no comptroller appointed, and I do not
see a prospect of obtaining an efficient character.

HAMILTON TO WOLCOTT.

New-York, June 22d, 1795.

Dear Sir :

I have received your letter of the 18th instant. I will reply
to one or two points now, and to the rest hereafter.

With regard to the measure of receiving Dutch bonds here to
be exchanged, as is usual, it has different sides. To do it may

10 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 38"

be, in some measure, necessary to effectuate the main object, as
there may be many individuals who, from circumstances, might
not think themselves safe in employing the mode which has been
adopted, and which is no doubt proper. Yet it is easy to see
it might be attended with hazard of imposition. But some-
thing may depend on the nature of the checks which the course
of the business originally gives to our agents at Amsterdam.
If similitude of handwriting is the only internal check, perhaps
it may be possible to manage the matter here. A conversation
with Cazenove may furnish you with the requisite data. Yet I
feel great doubts of the safety of the operation, and, if adopted
at all, it ought to be upon condition that no definitive or alienable
evidences are to be given in exchange for the original bonds till
after a period (to be named) long enough to receive at the Trea-
sury the result of the operation in Holland, and a particular and
detailed statement of it ; and that no interest be payable (in the
mean time) without a guarantee for repayment,; with these checks
none but respectable men will come forward ; and there may be
little or no risk. Yet, as I intimated, even the expediency of
this may depend on the nature of the original checks ; and it
ought to be announced that the Treasury reserves to itself entire
discretion as to the admission .or non-admission of the bonds pre-
sented here.

With regard to the contract proposed by Mr. Swan, I answer,
that I doubt much the advisability of concluding any thing with
him here, for being concluded, it must be relied upon as a
primary resource with the auxiliary and contingent expedient of
drawing in case of failure ; and Mr. Swan is not of standing, or
character, to justify the leaving the public credit to depend
primarily upon his punctuality. If Mr. Swan is able to do what
he offers, it must be on the basis of French government funds, or
that of a powerful moneyed combination in Europe. If either,
why cannot he be referred to our commissioners and minister,
under letters from the Treasury stating the offer ; the desirable-
ness that such a contract could be formed under adequate guards
for its performance; and leaving it to them to judge of the
adequateness of the guards which shall be proposed ? It appears

JEt. 38.]

CORRESPONDENCE. 11

to me very material that they should be satisfied with the ar-
rangement, and essential that there should be good security and
known resources for the execution of it.

Else no loss on shipping commodities, or otherwise, for the
short time it can last, will counterpoise the risk of disappoint-
ment, and censure of reliance on an incompetent character.

I will barely observe on one point of the latter part of your
letter, namely, the payment of interest under the direction of the
commissioners of the sinking fund. I have not the act by me,
and can only speak from memory ; but I am persuaded it does
not require it. I am sure it will be highly inexpedient to place
any extra clogs on that operation, and I do not perceive why the
manner of keeping the accounts may not obviate any embarrass-
ment from a separate management of the two things. I will
write again more particularly, on this as well as on other points.
I am glad to know that there is a probability of a proper issue
to the affair of the treaty.

Yours truly.

•

HAMILTON TO WOLCOTT.

New- York, June 26th, 1795.

Dear Sir:

I have direct information, in confidence, that the minis-
ter of France, by a letter received yesterday, has ordered a fast-
sailing vessel for France to be prepared at this port. No doubt
this has connection with the Treaty with England. I presume,
with the reserves that decorum requires, he is apprised of the
contents of that Treaty. This ought, at least, to go so far as to
satisfy him, that there is nothing in it inimical to his country,
especially as I suppose it to have been adopted. It is well to
guard our peace on all sides, as far as shall consist with dignity.

Indeed, I am of opinion, on the whole, that all further mys-
tery, at present, is unnecessary, and ought to be waived, for the

12 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 38.

satisfaction of the public mind. I do not think any scruples of
diplomatic decorum of weight enough to stand in the way.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

(private and perfectly confidential.)

Philadelphia, 3d July, 1795.

My Dear Sir:

The treaty of amity, commerce, and navigation, which has
lately been before the Senate, has, *s you will perceive, made its
public entry into the gazettes of this city. Of course, the merits
and demerits of it will (especially in its unfinished state) be freely
discussed.

It is not the opinions of those who were determined (before it
was promulgated) to support or oppose it, that I am solicitous to
obtain ; for these, I well know, rarely do more than examine the
side to which they lean, without giving the reverse the consider-
ation it deserves ; possibly without a wish to be apprised of the
reasons on which the objecVons are founded. My desire is to
learn from dispassionate men, who have knowledge of the sub-
ject, and abilities to judge of it, the genuine opinion they enter-
tain of each article of the instrument, and the result of it in the
aggregate. In a word, placed on the footing the matter now
stands, it is more than ever an incumbent duty on me to do what
propriety and the true interest of this country shall appear to
require at my hands on so important a subject, under such deli-
cate circumstances.

You will be at no loss to perceive, from what I have already
said, that my wishes are to have the favorable and unfavorable
side of each article stated and compared together, that I may see
the bearing and tendency of them ; and ultimately, on which
side the balance is to be found. This treaty has, I am sensible,
many relations, which, in deciding thereon, ought to be attended
to ; some of them too are of an important nature.

jEt. 38.] CORRESPONDENCE. 13

I know, also, that to judge with precision of its commercial
arrangements, there ought likewise to be an intimate acquaint-
ance with the various branches of commerce between this coun-
try and Great Britain as it now stands ; as it will be placed by
the treaty ; and as it may affect our present, or restrain our future
treaties with other nations. All these things, I am persuaded,
you have given as much attention to as most men ; and I be
lieve that your late employment under the General Government
afforded you more opportunities of deriving knowledge therein,
than most of them who had not studied and practiced it scientific-
ally, upon a large and comprehensive scale. I do not know how
you may be occupied at present, or how incompatible this request
of mine may be to the business you have in hand. All I can say
is, that however desirous I may be of availing myself of your
sentiments on the points I have enumerated, and such others as
are involved in the treaty, and the resolution of the Senate, (both
of which I send you, lest they should not be at hand,) it is not
my intention to interrupt you in that business ; or if you are dis-
inclined to go into the investigation I have requested, to press
the matter upon you : for of this you may be assured, that, with
the most unfeigned regard, and with every good wish for your
health and prosperity,

I am your affectionate friend and obedient servant,

G. "Washington.

P. S. Admitting that his Britannic Majesty will consent to
the suspension of the 12th article of the treaty, is it necessary
that the treaty should again go to the Senate ? or is the President
authorized by the resolution of that body to ratify it without ?

G. W.

14 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [vEt. 38*

WADSWORTH TO HAMILTON.

1795.

Dear Sir :

A week since Franklin Backe passed through this town to the
eastward, distributing the treaty. It appears there is a settled
plan to disturb the public tranquillity, and the greatest industry
and pains are operating for that purpose. Men are in every
part of this State misrepresenting the treaty, and have already
succeeded to alarm many people. I do not yet find they have
yet written any thing but private letters. I yesterday saw Mr.
Ellsworth, who says it is best to let them alone until they begin
to publish, and then answer them. I believe otherwise. I doubt
their publishing any thing in this State, but by their emissaries,
who are scattered in^all directions, and are busy in slandering
the treaty verbally. The Connecticut Courant, published in this
town, circulates to the extremity of Vermont, far into the State
of New-York, and all through Massachusetts. They publish once
a week, and more than five thousand papers. It has a good
character from the former publications, but those who formerly
furnished this paper with the best political pieces are either grown
idle, changed in their politics or stations, so that nothing can be
expected. If you will furnish me with any thing on the subject,
I will cause it to be published.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, July 7th, 1795.

My Dear Sir:

Your letter of yesterday is this moment received. Not a line
from Mr. Pinckney. I fancy he left London for Madrid about the
8th or 10th of May. Nor has the government any thing but the
newspaper accounts of the order you allude to.

Yours ever and affectionately,

G. Washington.

JEt. 38.] CORRESPONDENCE. 15

WOLCOTT TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, July 10th. 1795.

I have received your several letters dated June 22d, 26th,
30th, and the 2d current.

The new publication of the treaties was a measure not con-
sistent with my first impressions and expectations. It was not,
however, left by the Senate in the manner you suppose ; this re-
solution indeed evinces the contrary, and the executive must, in
addition to whatever difficulties would have attended a publica-
tion if the Senate had been silent respecting the publication, have
appeared to oppose their sense by an official disclosure. The
French minister has been informed of the contents seasonably.
No extraordinary sensibility has been discovered by him respect-
ing the treaty. The Spaniards are, however, feverish with respect
to the Mississippi article. Between ourselves, I have reason
to believe that a cession of Louisiana and the Floridas will be
required by France, as the price of peace, and I believe they will
obtain them. The Spaniards must comply, and the French will
offer a guaranty of the remaining Spanish American dominions.
The effect of this measure on our affairs it is easy to foresee.

By late letters from France there is reason to fear that the
most destructive commotions will be produced by the scarcity or
rather famine in that country. Mr. M.'s family, of fourteen
persons, were allowed two pounds of bread per diem. Flour
costs forty dollars per barrel in specie. The finances were in a
state of ruin, as appears from facts, though the conclusion is not
admitted. The canton of Berne has prohibited the exportation
of provisions, from a fear of famine among themselves. I am
inclined to believe that our friends, the Dutch, are irretrievably
ruined. A commissioner is known to have gone from Paris to
Amsterdam for mone}T, &c, &c.

I have every reason, short of official information, to believe
that the stock purchased has arrived. This resource, with the
liberty of postponing the instalment, the chance of negotiating
bills on this country, and an arrangement which I have made

16 HAMILTON'S WORKS. \Mt. 38.

by bills on Hamburg and Paris, in the alternative of a failure at
either place, gives every chance for supporting our credit at this
crisis, which the nature of things will admit. All money negotia-
tions, except with England, are and must be hazardous to a cer-
tain degree. There is, indeed, a French link in the chain upon
which reliance must be had.

The anticipations which you intimate in the case of Mr. F

I have felt with much anxiety. It would astonish you to know
how far the capital of this country has been placed in the power
of France by speculations to that country and the excessive use
of credit during the last season. If we have a good crop, and the
ardor of speculation can be checked, so as to allow a loss which I
know to be inevitable to fall gradually upon us, the merchants
will struggle through ; but if we proceed in our present course
until a sudden revulsion takes place, the consequences may be
serious. As yet the revenue comes in as usual, but further anti-
cipations will, in the present state of things, be attended with
difficulty.

Various opinions obtain respecting the treaty, but I think
people here are more temperate than in some other places,
especially at Baltimore and at the southward. There is much
prejudice which will be dispelled, and I think that the country
cannot be much excited.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.
(private.)

Philadelphia, 13th July, 1795.

My Dear Sir :

I have in the regular course of the posts been duly favored
with your letters of the 9th, accompanying your observations on
the several articles of the treaty with Great Britain, and of the
10th, supplementary thereto.

For both, I offer you my sincere thanks, as they have

iET. 38.]

CORRESPONDENCE. 17

afforded me great satisfaction. Although, it was my wish that
your observations on each article should be diffusive, yet I am
really ashamed when I behold the trouble it has given you to
expose, and to explain so fully as you have, the whole of them.

The most obnoxious article (the 12th) being suspended by
the Senate, there is no occasion to express any sentiment thereon.
I wish, however, it had appeared in a different form. And
although it is but fair to presume that no further advantage
could have been obtained in the 3d article, yet the exclusion of
the vessels belonging to the United States, from all the " sea-
ports, harbors, bays, or creeks of his Majesty," when theirs are
admitted into all ours, to the highest ports of entry, is not
marked with reciprocity. It may be urged, and truly, that under
the existing regulations of the British government, we are not
at this time allowed those privileges, except when they are made
to subserve their own purposes ; whilst from Quebec (but how
we are to get there I know not), and upwards, the lakes and the
waters on their side of the line are open to our commerce, and
that we have equal advantages in the Indian trade on both sides,
except within the limits of the Hudson's Bay Company.

All this looks very well on paper, but I much question
whether in its operation it will not be found to work very much
against us. 1st. What are the limits of that company ? Are
they so defined, and so clearly understood, as that our traders,
when they are in the wilderness, can with precision say, thus far
I may of right go without let or hindrance ? 2d. Admitting the
fact, will they not, having possession of the trade, and the
Indians being in their interest, by every artifice of their traders,
prevent ours from extending themselves into the country, sharing
in the profits, and thereby bringing on disputes which may ter-
minate seriously ? 3d. Does not the hitherto (I might add pre-
sent) improper interference of the British within our territory,
and the solicitude that government has manifested on all occa-
sions to get a footing on the Mississippi, and on the waters and
carrying places leading thereto, evince, in a most unequivocal
manner, that disputes may be expected to arise within our terri-
tory as well as their oica, from the attempts of their traders to
F 2

18 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 38.

monopolize the trade, and from the overbearing support or
underhand countenance they will give, not only in what is right,
but in what is convenient to its views also ?

My opinion of this article, therefore, is, that it would have
been more for our peace, if not for our interest, to have restrained
the traders of both nations to their own side of the line, leaving
the Indians on each to go to whichsoever their interest, conve-
vience, or inclination might prompt them. This would have
thwarted the views of the British on the Mississippi, whilst all
the doors into Upper Canada, and the western country, would
have been as wide open then as they are now made by this treaty ;
and no difficulty, I am persuaded, would have been found by
our people of introducing goods across the line after they had
got them to it, and the posts possessed by us, if this avenue
should be found the most convenient and cheapest.

I wish, too, the 2d article had been more definite with respect
to the terms "precincts or jurisdiction;" except that the short-
ness of its duration for operation may afford a remedy, I should
expect many disputes to arise therefrom.

I asked, or intended to ask, in my letter of the 3d, whether
you conceived (admitting the suspension of the 12th article
should be agreed to by the British government) there would be
a necessity for the treaty going before the Senate again for their
advice and consent? This question takes its birth from a
declaration of a minority of that body to that effect.
With much truth and sincerity,

I am always your affectionate,

Geo. Washington.

Colonel Alexander Hamilton.

P. S. I was almost in the act of sending the inclosed letter
to the post-office, when your favor of the 11th was put into my
hands.

Query. Whether the passage which you have quoted from
the 15th article, in your letter of the above date, does not mean
that no prohibition shall be imposed on the exportation or im-
portation of any articles to and from the United States, which shall
not also be imposed on the like exportation or importation to or

iET. 38.] CORRESPONDENCE. 19

from other foreign nations? That is, that the United States
shall be under no other disability than any other foreign nations.
If so, there would seem to be no privilege granted, but only an
engagement, that other nations shall not be rivals to the United
States, by being freed from the prohibition. For example.
Your idea is, that whatever of its own produce Spain may carry
from their territory ; that is they may re-export to England
Spanish produce. I wish this could be made clear ; for I readily
see the advantage of it in one sense ; though I am not sure that
we can bring any country, except the East Indies, into our own,
the produce of it, and re-export it to England, so as to make a
profit from this circuitous voyage. G. W.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, 14th July, 1795.

My Dear Sir:

I received your favor of yesterday this moment, when I am
on the eve of a journey to Virginia.

The opinion which you have given as to its being necessary
to submit the new article to the Senate, being in direct opposi-
tion to that of the Secretaries and of the Attorney-General, has
occasioned some embarrassment with me. For I always under-
stood it to be the sense of a majority of the Senate, that they
were not to pass their judgment upon the new article further
than they have done. But as I shall be absent, and Mr. Ean-
dolph has before him the bringing up of this business to a close,
I wish you to write to him your ideas, if upon mature reflection
you shall think differently from the gentlemen around me, or
you find the sense of the Senate to be different from what I have
been led to expect. I have told Mr. Eandolph that your senti-
ments do not agree with those which I received from the officers
of government, and have desired him to revise them. I have

20 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

also told him that I have requested the favor of you to write to
him on this subject.

Very affectionately,

And always am, yours,

Geo. Washington.

P. S. Notwithstanding one great object of my visit to
Mount Vernon is relaxation, yet to hear from you the senti-
ments entertained of the treaty, and in short, on any other inter-
esting subject with which the public mind is occupied, would be
a considerable gratification. The state of our pecuniary matters
in Holland, at this time, is a bar to Mr. Adams's leaving that
country ; but the next best step will be adopted.

Yours, as before, (x. W.

WOLCOTT TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, July 20. 1795.

I have received your several letters, dated June 22d, 26th,
30th, and the 2d current.

The new publication of the treaty was a measure not consist-
ent with my first impressions and expectations. It was not,
however, left by the Senate in the manner you suppose. Their
resolution, indeed, evinces the contrary ; and the Executive must,
in addition to whatever difficulties would have attended a publi-
cation, if the Senate had been silent respecting the publication,
have appeared to oppose their anger by an official disclosure.

The French minister has been informed of the contents
seasonably. No extraordinary sensibility has been discovered
by him respecting the treaty. The Spaniards are, however,
feverish with respect to the Mississippi article.

Between ourselves, I have reason to believe that a cession of
Louisiana and the Floridas will be required by France as the
price of peace, and I believe they will obtain them.

jEt. 38.] CORRESPONDENCE. 21

The Spaniards must comply, and the French will offer a
guarantee of the remaining Spanish American dominions. The
effects of this measure on our affairs it is easy to foresee.

By late letters from France, there is reason to fear that the
most destructive commotions will be produced by the scarcity or
rather famine in that country. Mr. Monroe's family, of fourteen
persons, were allowed two pounds of bread per diem. Flour
cost forty dollars per barrel in Spain. The finances were in a
state of rain, as appears from facts, though the conclusion is not
admitted. The canton of Berne have prohibited the exportation
of provisions from a fear of famine among themselves.

I am inclined to believe that our friends the Dutch are irre-
trievably ruined — a commission is known to have gone from
Paris to Amsterdam for money, &c, &c.

I have every reason, short of official information, to believe
that the stock purchased has arrived. This resource, with the
liberty of postponing the instalment, the chance of negotiating
bills on this country, and an arrangement which I have made
by bills on Hamburgh and Paris in the alternative of a failure at
either place, gives every chance for supporting our credit at this
crisis, which the nature of things will admit. All money nego-
tiations, except with England, are and must be hazardous to a
certain degree. There is indeed a French link in the chain upon
which reliance must be had.

The anticipations which you intimate in the case of Mr.
Franklin, I have felt with much anxiety. It would astonish you to
know how far the capital of this country has been placed in the
power of France by speculations to that country, and the exces-
sive use of credit during the last season. If we have a good
crop, and the ardor of speculation can be checked, so as to allow
a loss, which I know to be inevitable, to fall gradually upon us,
the merchants will struggle through, but if we proceed in our
present course, until a sudden revulsion takes place, the conse-
quences may be serious. As yet the revenue comes in as usual,
but further anticipations will, in the present state of things, be
attended with difficulty.

I shall do every thing practicable for Mr. Franklin, but I do

22 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

not see how the measure he has resorted to, of entering a caveat
against the transfer of the new stock, can be of any service.
This government certainly cannot compel the execution of a
contract by the French government by any process in this
country.

I have looked at my house and in the office, and sent to the
Secretary of the Senate respecting your* French book, and have
caused a general search for Mr. Livingston's book and papers,
but as yet without success : the letters ought to have been with
Mr. Cox and Mr. Harrison, who say they have not had them. I
shall pursue the matter further. Your opinion on some of the
points mentioned in my letter will be acceptable, when you have
leisure.

Various opinions obtain respecting the treaty, but I think
people here are more temperate than in some other places, espe-
cially at Baltimore, and at the southward. There is much preju-
dice which will be dispelled, and I think that the country cannot
be much excited.

RANDOLPH TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, July 21st, 1795.

Dear Sir:

I am much obliged to you for your explanatory letter to my-
self, and your permission for my inspection of the two addressed
to your southern correspondent; I had intended to drop you a few
lines upon the depending subject. But hearing that you are to
be at the Supreme Court of the United States, and not being
able to say to you much sooner than the first day of their ses-
sion what I wish, it will be deferred to a personal interview.

I am, dear Sir,
With great esteem and regard, &c.

iET.38.] CORRESPONDENCE. 23

LINCOLN TO HAMILTON.

Boston, July 24th, 1795.

My Dear Sir :

I have the pleasure to forward the inclosed letter from our
treasurer, which will give the best light I can obtain on the ques-
tion you submitted to me.
Are the people mad !

With the highest esteem, and the warmest affection,
I am your friend and obedient servant,

B. Lincoln.

HAMILTON TO WOLCOTT.

New-York, July 28th, 1795.

Dear Sir:

We have some cause to suspect, though not enough to be-
lieve, that our Jacobins meditate serious mischief to certain indi-
viduals. It happens that the militia of this city, from the com-
plexion of its officers in general, cannot be depended on, and it
will be difficult for some time to organize a competent armed
substitute. In this situation our eyes turn as a resource in a
sudden emergency, upon the military now in the forts, but these,
we are told, are under marching orders. Pray converse confi-
dentially with the Secretary at War, and engage him to sus-
pend the march. Matters in eight or ten days will explain
themselves.

How are things truly in Philadelphia ? I have good reason
to believe that the President, before he left Philadelphia, had
concluded to ratify the treaty according to the advice of the

24 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

Senate. Has any thing finally been done, or are we where we
were?

Yours, &c.

WOLCOTT TO HAMILTON".

Philadelphia, July 28th, 1795.

Dear Sir:

You see that attempts are made to stir up a flame, and con-
vulse the country respecting the treaty. Though the actors
hitherto are known to be a factious set of men, and their fol-
lowers generally a contemptible mob, yet from the systematical
manner in which they have proceeded, and some curious facts
which have recently come to my knowledge, I cannot but sus-
pect foul play by persons not generally suspected. Every thing
is conducted in a mysterious and strange manner by a certain
character here, and, to my astonishment, I am recently informed
that Mr. Eutledge has had a tender of the office of Chief Justice.

By the favor of Heaven, the commission is not opened, and
now I presume it will not be ; but how much ruin and disgrace
has the country seen ?

Cannot you come and attend the Supreme Court for a few
days the nest week ? A bed at my house is at your command.
If you cannot, pray drop me a line.

Will you reply briefly to a few questions I lately stated ? I
care not how briefly. Your ideas upon a system projected
essentially by you, will enable me to proceed with less hesita-
tion. Indeed I need some help. There is no comptroller here
as yet, and now I have suffered an irreparable loss by the
appointment of Mr. Kane to be assistant cashier of the bank.

JEt. 38.] CORRESPONDENCE. 25

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.
(private.)

Mount Vernon, July 29th, 1795.

My Dear Sir:

Your letters of the 20th and 21st inst. found me at this place,
after a hot and disagreeable ride.

As the measures of the government respecting the treaty-
were taken before I left Philadelphia, something more imperious
than has yet happened must turn up to occasion a change. Still,
it is very desirable to ascertain, if possible, after the paroxysm of
the fever is a little abated, what the real temper of the people is
concerning it ; for at present the cry against the treaty is like
that against a mad dog ; and every one, in a manner, seems en-
gaged in running it down.

That it has received the most tortured interpretation, and that
the writings against it (which are very industriously circulated)
are pregnant of the most abominable misrepresentations, admits
of no doubt ; yet there are to be found, so far as my informa-
tion extends, many well-disposed men who conceive that in the
settlement of old disputes a proper regard to reciprocal justice
does not appear in the treaty ; whilst others also well enough
affected to the government, are of opinion, that to have had no
commercial treaty, would have been better for this country than
the restricted one agreed to ; inasmuch, say they, the nature of
our exports and imports (without any extra or violent measures)
would have forced or led to a more adequate intercourse between
the two nations without any of those shackles which the treaty
has imposed. In a word, that as our exports consist chiefly of
provisions and raw materials, which to the manufacturers of Great
Britain and their islands in the "West Indies, affords employment
and food, they must have had them on our own terms, if they
were not to be obtained on their own ; whilst the imports of this
country offers the best mart for their fabrics ; and of coiirse is
the jDrincipal support of their manufacturers. But the string
which is most played on, because it strikes with most force the

26 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 38.

popular car, is the violation, as they term it, of our engagements
with France ; or, in other words, the predilection shown by that
instrument to Great Britain at the expense of the French nation.
The consequences of which are more to be apprehended than
any which are likely to flow from other causes, as grounds of
opposition, because, whether the fact is in any degree true or not,
it is the interest of the French, whilst the animosity or jealousies
between the two nations exist, to avail themselves of such spirit
to keep us and Great Britain at variance ; and they will, in my
opinion, accordingly do it. To what length their policy will in-
duce them to carry matters is too much in embryo at this moment
to decide ; but I predict much embarrassment to the government
therefrom — and, in my opinion, too much pains cannot be taken
by those who speak or write in favor of the treaty, to place this
matter in its true light.

I have seen with pleasure that a writer in one of the New-
York papers, under the signature of Camillus, has promised to
answer — or rather to defend the treaty which has been made
with Great Britain. To judge of this work from the first num-
ber, which I have seen, I augur well of the performance ; and
shall expect to see the subject handled in a clear, distinct and
satisfactory manner ; — but if measures are not adopted for its
dissemination, a few only will derive lights from the knowledge
or labor of the author, whilst the opposition pieces will spread
their poison in all directions ; and Congress, more than probable,
will assemble with the unfavorable impressions of their constitu-
ents. The difference of conduct between the friends and foes of
order and good government, is in nothing more striking than
that the latter are always working like bees ; whilst the former,
depending oftentimes too much and too long upon the sense and
good disposition of the people to work conviction, neglect the
means of effecting it.

With sincere esteem and regard,
I am your affectionate

George Washington.

Mt. 38.] CORRESPONDENCE. 27

WOLCOTT TO HAMILTOX.

Philadelphia, July 30th, 179-5.

Dear Sir:

I have your letter of the 28th. I will see the Secretary at
War this morning, and you may rely upon it the movement will
be suspended.

The true state of things in this city is, that the treaty was at
first unpopular. The expectations of vain, sanguine men, who
considered this country as all-powerful, and entitled to dictate,
were not satisfied. Every engine of faction was successfully set
at work. At present there is more temper and moderation ; the
truth begins to prevail. I think we shall have no dangerous
riots ; but one month will determine the fate of our country, so
far as depends on ourselves. The extreme hazards of foreign
war I do not take into account.

I dare not write, and hardly dare think of, what I know and
believe respecting a certain character, whose situation gives him
a decided influence. There has as yet nothing more passed be-
tween the government and Mr. Hammond than a verbal confer-
ence, in which the President's opinion respecting the merits of
the treaty has been declared to be like that of the Senate. No
written memorial has passed, nor have any measures as relative
to the ratifications been adopted.

The ratification of the President has, moreover, been con-
nected with the repeal of some unknown order, respecting vessels
bound with provisions to France. Though this was a condition
improperly prescribed, in my opinion, yet the circumstance
might have been mentioned in a manner which would not be
offensive, and have assumed the form of a prudent precaution
on the part of the President.

But what must the British government think of the United
States when they find the treaty clogged with one condition by
the Senate, with another by the President ; no answer given, in
a precise form, after forty days ; no minister in that country to
take up negotiations proposed by ourselves ; the country rising

28 HAMILTON'S WORKS.

[jEt. 38.

into a flame ; their minister's house insulted by a mob ; their
flag dragged through the streets, as in Charlestown, and burnt
before the doors of their consul ; a driveller and fool appointed
Chief Justice, &c, &c. ; can they believe we desire peace?

I shall take immediate measures with two of my colleagues
this very day. They are firm and honest men. We will, if
possible, to use a French phrase, save our country. You must
not think we have been to blame for the delay. We have been
constantly amused by Eandolph, who has said that the President
was determined to ratify. The precise state of the business has
never been communicated till within a few days. The affairs of
his department are solely conducted by himself. Feel no con-
cern, however, for I see a clue which I know will conduct us
through every labyrinth except that of war. On that point we
must take our chance. It would be well if you, or Mr. King,
or Governor Jay, could be here some time next week, provided
too much speculation would not be excited.

WASHINGTON" TO HAMILTON.

Mount Vernon, August 3d, 1795.

Dear Sir :

The inclosed was written, as you will perceive, on the 29th
ultimo, and, with many other letters, was sent to the post-office
in Alexandria, to proceed with the northern mail next morning.
But the blundering postmaster of that place, in putting the let-
ters addressed to, put all the letters from me into my own bag;
of course they were returned to me. Since which the unusual
(at almost any season of the year) and violent rains which have
fallen, have given such interruption to the post as to detain my
letters to this time ; and although I am now sending them to
the post-office, I have little expectation of their proceeding
to-morrow — the waters being yet very high, and the bridges all

Mr. 38.] CORRESPONDENCE. 29

gone. In short, the damage of every sort is very great in these
parts.

Yours, always,

Geo. Washington.

HAMILTON TO OLIVER WOLCOTT.

New-York, August 10th, 1795.

Dear Sir:

I have received your letter by Saturday's post. The one
you inquire about was received.

I incline very much to the opinion that this will be the
proper course of conduct in reference to the order to seize our
vessels with provisions, viz. : To send to our agent the treaty
ratified as advised by the Senate, with this instruction, — That if
the order for seizing provisions is in force when he receives it,
he is to inform the British ministry that he has the treaty ratified,
but that he is instructed not to exchange the ratification till that
order is rescinded, since the United States cannot ever give an
implied sanction to the principle. At the same time, a remon-
strance ought to go from this country, well considered, and well
digested, even to a word, to be delivered against the principle of
the order.

My reasons for this opinion are summarily these : —
Firstly — That in fact we are too much interested in the
exemption of provisions from seizure, to give even an implied
sanction to the contrary pretensions.

Secondly — That the exchange of ratifications pending such
an order, would give color to an abusive construction of the
eighteenth article of the treaty, as though it admitted of the
seizure of provisions.

Tit irdly — That this would give cause of umbrage to France,
because it would be more than merely to refrain from resisting
by force, an innovation injurious to her ; but it would be to give
a sanction to it in the midst of a war.

30 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

Fourthly — It would be thus construed in our country, and
would destroy confidence in the government.

Fifthly — It would scarcely be reputable to a nation to con-
duct a treaty with, a power to heal past controversies, at the
very moment of a new and existing violation of its rights.

P. S. If an order has existed, and has been rescinded, the
remonstrance ought still to be presented, after the exchange of
ratifications, as a protest against the principle, &c.

WOLCOTT TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, August 15, 1795.

Dear Sir:

The President has decided that the treaty shall be ratified,
and transmitted for exchange immediately ; and in my opinion
he has decided right. I regret that this was not done long
since, as I presume much of the party spirit which has been in-
vited would have been prevented.

A government like ours can rarely take a middle course on
any point which interests the public feelings. Delay, for what-
ever reason, would be construed into a dislike of the treaty it-
self; and this opinion diffusing among the people, would gene-
rate the most inveterate factions. Circumstances have happened
tending to incite a distrust of the sincerity of this government in
the British cabinet, which can be no otherwise explained than
by a ratification.

jEt. 38.] CORRESPONDENCE. 31

RANDOLPH TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, August 1G, 1795.

Dear Sir :

I expected to have the pleasure of seeing you here at the
Supreme Court, when I meant to enter into a full conversation
with you. But being disappointed, I shall only beg you to read
a letter, which I have this day written to Mr. Jay, and requested
him to show to you. If I do not mistake, your ideas and mine
were not very different as to the provision order.
I am, dear Sir,

With real esteem and regard, &c.

Philadelphia, August 16th, 1795.
Sir:

I have forwarded, agreeably to your Excellency's request, the letter which
you inclosed to me for General Lee.

It was always my intention to inform you of the President's final act on the
treaty. This being now taken by an assurance in writing to Mr. Hamilton that
it would be immediately ratified ; and the necessary forms being on the point of
completion, little need be added on that head. But candor induces me to ex-
plain to you some opinions, produced by a recent occurrence, relative to an im-
mediate exchange of ratifications.

You know, sir, the sentiments which I have always entertained, and still en-
tertain upon the treaty. To dictate the terms we could not expect ; and there-
fore the single question with me was, whether, under all circumstances, the plea-
sant things did not outweigh the unpleasant. My mind told me that in this view
we ought to ratify. So that upon the treaty itself, I have been constantly pre-
pared to give my affirmation. But the late order for seizing our provision vessels
goes beyond the treaty ; and required, that for the sake of national dignity, and
of silencing the complaints of the French, one effort ought to be made for remov-
ing that order out of the way. To exchange ratifications and afterwards object?
was a feeble and unavailing expedient. The means of rendering the effort effec-
tual, seemed to consist in not consummating the treaty, until the minister who
was to exchange should urge the rescinding of the order, and, upon being re-
fused, should receive further instructions. I saw no danger of losing the treaty
by this measure ; because the President might as well have the ratification ex-
changed a few months hence, as now ; and the difference of time between an
immediate exchange and a future one would have been but a few weeks ; the
space sufficient for the passage of the papers from London, if the British king

32 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

should assent to the exchange being made in the United States. I had a hope,
too, that even if the order was not withdrawn by that time, that the present cam-
paign, which is probably the last, would be so far advanced, and the French har-
vest would have banished famine to such a degree, that we should have avoided
the suspicion of a desire to co-operate in the attempt to starve France. I was
persuaded also that the treaty will, for the most part, be postponed for its effect,
until Congress shall pass auxiliary laws. I doubted, too, whether the surrender
of the posts would be much quickened by concluding the treaty immediately ;
since I feared that the unexpected waste of this summer, without its completion,
might prompt the British government to take a further time.

The President was occupied until the 13th -of July in considering what was
to be done ; and then decided on a course somewhat analogous to these ideas.
He left Philadelphia on the 15th; and about a week afterwards I sent down to
him at Mount Vernon the draft of a memorial to Mr. Hammond, upon the subject
of the treaty. From the blunder of the postmaster at Alexandria, and the great
floods of rain, his instructions and the memorial were not returned to me until
the 5th of August. Although I was at perfect liberty to announce publicly the
President's decision, and was rather urged to do so, yet I held it best to keep him
at liberty to mature the business farther ; and accordingly he, on Thursday last,
thought proper to take a course very different from that which he first pro-
jected. In that course I acquiesce, and shall certainly support it to the best of
my faculties.

I make these last observations, because from something which I have seen, I am
confident, that it has been supposed, that unnecessary delay has occurred, and for
a purpose, not reconcilable with a friendship to the treaty. In this view I will
go into the following statement of the papers, which I had drawn, upon the plan
which the President at first preferred.

These were a memorial and instructions.

The memorial declared, that the President would ratify, upon the provision
order being laid aside : that if this was not done, the President would take the
subject into farther consideration ; that the doing of this should be the only obstacle
to the pursuing of the advice of the Senate ; that in order however to produce
perfect cordiality the King was inviled — 1st. To provide by some clear distinction
against the impressment of our citizens. 2d. To reconsider the compensation of
the negroes. 3d. To cause the execution of the 7th article to be expedited, and
the expense thereof lessened. 4th. To give instructions against the vexations of
privateers and the rigors of some of the American admiralties. The reason why
I again brought up the negroes was, that, as the amount would to the British
nation be small, so the King might, upon reconsideration, be desirous of giving
the best chance for conciliation, by removing one of the chief irritations.

You perceive, sir, that there was no ultimatum in all this ; nor yet the
semblance of one, except as to the provision order, which could be an obstruction
for only a few months more.

jEt. 38.] CORRESPONDENCE. 33

The instructions went upon a broader scale; but as the negotiation under
them was subsequent to the ratification, it was referred to the discretion of the
minister to endeavor to procure a greater latitude of advantages, than we enjoy.
This being so familiar a practice, I need not detail the particulars of that
instrument.

I ought to add, that the reason why a memorial was at all thought of, was,
that the President at first believed (as I confess I did), that he could not ratify
until the new suspending article was agreed to by the British King. It thereby
became necessary to assure him in writing, that he affected no delays, and meant
to ratify if the provision order was abolished.

I will thank you to permit Mr. King and Col. Hamilton to see this letter ; and
I beg you to receive the tender of that respect and esteem, with which I have the
honor to be, Sir,

Your Excellency's most obedient servant,

Edmund Randolph.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.
(private.)

Philadelphia, August 31st, 1705.

My Dear Sir :

Since my return to this city I have received a letter from you
dated August.

"We know officially, as well as from the effects, that an order
for seizing all provision vessels going to France has been issued
by the British Government ; but so secretly, that as late as the
27th of June it had not been published in London ; it was com-
municated to the cruisers only, and not known until the captures
brought it to light. By these high-handed measures of that gov-
ernment, and the outrageous and insulting conduct of its officers,
it would seem next to impossible to keep peace between the
United States and Great Britain.

To this moment we have received no explanation of Holmes'

conduct from their charge des affaires here ; although application

was made for it before the departure of Mr. Hammond on the

statement of Governor Fenner, and complaint of the French min-

f 3

34 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

ister. Conduct like this disarms the friends of peace and order,
while they are the very things which those of a contrary descrip-
tion wish to see practised.

I meant no more than barely to touch upon the subject of
this letter, the object of it being, to request the favor of you to
give me the points on which, in your opinion, our new negotiator
is to dwell when we come into the field of negotiation again ;
agreeably to the recommendation of the Senate; agreeably to
what appears to have been contemplated by Mr. Jay and Lord
Grenville, at the close of the treaty subscribed by them ; and
agreeably, also, to what you conceive ought to be brought for-
ward and insisted upon on this occasion.

I am sorry that I have been so late in applying for this opin-
ion, but a coincidence of unexpected events have involved me in
more than usual business, and some of it not of a very pleasant
nature. This has occasioned the delay ; but the pros and cons
relative to the treaty that is, and the treaty that ought to be, in
the judgment of the opponents, are so much in your view, that
if you wanted a remembrancer, you would be at no loss from
these discussions to advert to them ; and you will require but
little time to furnish me with what I have here asked. This I
press with more earnestness, inasmuch as circumstances will ren-
der it very inconvenient for me to remain here longer than the
present week (before I return to Mount Yernon for my family),
but which I must do until the instructions for the new negotiator
are completed.

Although you are not in the administration — a thing I sin-
I cerely regret — I must, nevertheless, (knowing how intimately
acquainted you are with all the concerns of this country,) request
the favor of you to note down such occurrences as, in your opin-
ion, are proper subjects for communication to Congress at their
next session — and particularly as to the manner in which this
treaty should be brought forward to that body ; as it will, in any
aspect it is susceptible of receiving, be the source of much declam-
ation, and will, I have no doubt, produce a hot session.
With sincere regard, I am, my dear Sir,

Your affectionate and obedient

Geo. Washington.

At. 38.] CORRESPONDENCE. 35

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Monday Morning, 2d September, 1795.

Dear Sir:

Interwoven in the inclosed address are sentiments as difficult
to answer, as it would seem hard to pass by unnoticed, believing,
as I do, that they are the sentiments of a large part of the people
of this country.

I would thank you for making such alterations in the ex-
pression of the draft of an answer (inclosed), as in your judg-
ment will make it palatable on all sides, or unexceptionable.
The bearer will wait, as I wish to return the answer by the mail
of to-day.

Yours always,

G-. Washington.

No matter how rough the answer comes to me, so that it can
be read.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

New-York, Sept. 4, 1795.

Sir:

I had the pleasure of receiving, two days since, your letter of
the 31st ultimo. A great press of business, and an indifferent
state of health, have put it out of my power sooner to attend to it.

The incidents which have lately occurred have been in every
way vexatious and untoward. They render indispensable a
very serious, though calm and measured, remonstrance from this
government, carrying among others this idea, that it is not suffi-
cient that the British government entertain towards our nation
no hostile dispositions ; 'tis essential that they take adequate
measures to prevent those oppressions of our citizens, and of
our commerce, by their officers and courts, of which there are

36 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

too frequent examples, and by which we are exposed to suffer
inconveniences too nearly approaching to those of a state of war.
A strong expectation should be signified of the punishment of
Capt. Holmes, for the attempt to violate an ambassador passing
through our territory, and for the hostile and offensive menaces
which he has thrown out. The dignity of our country, and the
preservation of the confidence of the people in the government,
require both solemnity and seriousness in these representations.

As to the negotiation for alteration in, and additions to, the
treaty, I think it ought to embrace the following objects : —

A new modification of the 12th article, so as to extend the
tonnage, and restrain the prohibition to export from this country
to articles of the growth or production of the British islands.
The more the tonnage is extended the better ; but I think ninety
tons would work advantageously if nothing better could be done.
I had even rather have the article with seventy, as it stood, than
not at all, if the restriction on exportation is placed on the proper
footing. Some of our merchants, however, think its value would
be questionable at so low a tonnage as seventy. It would be
also desirable that the article should enumerate the commodities
which may be carried to, and brought from the British islands.
This would render it more precise and more intelligible to all.

Great Britain may have substantial security for the execution
of the restriction, if it be stipulated on our side,—" That a law
shall be passed and continued in force during the continuance of
the article, prohibiting the exportation in vessels of the United
States, of any of the articles in question, if brought from British
islands, on pain of forfeiture of the vessel, for wilful breach of
the law ; and that the same law shall provide that the regula-
tions contained in our laws respecting drawbacks, shall be
applied to all exportations in our vessels of the articles in ques-
tion, to ascertain that they were imported into the United States
from other than British islands, and this whether a drawback of
duty is required or not by the exporter; and shall also provide
that all such articles exported in our vessels from the United
States, shall be expressed in the clearance, with a certificate of
the collector endorsed, specifying that he has carefully examined,

iEi.38.] CORRESPONDENCE. 37

according to the treaty and to the law, the identity of the articles
exported, and that it did bona fide appear to him that they had
not been imported from any British island or islands." This
security is the greatest difficulty in the case, and would, in my
opinion, be given by a provision similar to the foregoing.

It would be a very valuable alteration in the loth article, if
a right could be stipulated for the United States to go with articles
taken in the British territories in India, to other parts of Asia.
The object of the present restriction upon us to bring them to
America, was, I believe, to prevent our interference with the
British East India Company in the European trade in India
goods. If so, there could be no objection to our having a right
to carry commodities from the British territories to other parts
of Asia. But if all this latitude cannot be obtained, it would be
a great point gained to have a right to carry them thence to
China. It is a usual and beneficial course of the trade to go
from the United States to Bombay, and take in there a freight
for Canton, purchase at the last place a cargo of teas, &c.

It would be well if that part of the loth article, which speaks
of countervailing duties, could be so explained as to fix its sense.
I am of opinion that its only practicable construction is, and
ought to be, that they may lay on the exportation from their Eu-
ropean dominions, in vessels of the United States, the same addi-

■l duties on articles which we lay on the importation of the
same articles into the United States in British vessels. But the
terms of the clause are vague and general, and may give occasion
to set up constructions injurious and contentious.

As to the more exact equalization of duties, of which this
article speaks, it is a ticklish subject, and had better, I think, be
left alone.

It would be right that it should be expressly agreed that
wherever our vessels pay, in the ports of Great Britain, higher
charges than their own vessels, a proportional reduction shall be
made out of any duty of tonnage which may be laid on our ves-
sels to counteract the difference of tonnage on theirs in our
ports.

The 18th article is really an unpleasant one, and, though there

38 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 38.

is, I fear, little chance of altering it for the better, it may be ne-
cessary, for the justification of the President, to attempt it. The
standard to be approached by us as nearly as possible is that in
our treaty with France. As to the point of free ships making
free goods, though it be desirable to us to establish it if practi-
cable— and ought to be aimed at — yet I neither expect that it
will be done at present, nor that the great maritime powers will be
disposed to suffer it to become an established rule, and I verily
believe that it will be very liable, though stipulated, to be disre-
garded, as it has been by France through the greater part of the
present war. But naval stores and provisions ought, if possible,
to be expressly excluded from the list of contraband— except
when going to a blockaded or besieged port, town, or fortress,
or to a fleet or army engaged in a military operation, for I can
imagine no other cases in which there is a just pretence to make
provisions contraband.

Some provision for the protection of our seamen is infinitely
desirable. At least Great Britain ought to agree that no seamen
shall be impressed out of any of our vessels at sea, and that none
shall be taken out of such vessel in any of her colonies which
were in the vessel at the time of her arrival at such colony. This
provision ought to be pressed with energy as one unexception-
ably just, and at the same time safe for Great Britain.

The affair of the negroes, to give satisfaction, may be retouch-
ed, but with caution and delicacy. The resolution proposed in
the Senate will afford a good standard for this.

As to the crowd of loose suggestions respecting the treaty,
which have no reasonable foundation, it would not consist with
the reputation of the Government to move concerning them.
Only reasonable things merit, or can, with propriety, have atten-
tion.

I beg, Sir, that you will at no time have any scruples about
commanding me. I shall always with pleasure comply with
your commands. I wish ■• my health, or the time for it, would
permit me now to be more correct. The other part of your
letter shall be carefully attended to in time.

jEt. 38.] CORRESPONDENCE. 39

With, the truest respect, and the most affectionate attachment,
I have the honor to be, Sir,

Your obedient and humble servant,

A. Hamilton.

The President of the United States.

WOLCOTT TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, Sept. 26, 1795.

My Dear Sir :

I have received your letter of the 20th, and regret the cause
which deprived me of the pleasure of seeing you.

Nothing is known of the authors to which you allude. The
"Features of the Treaty," were doubtless painted by Dallas.
Doctors Logan and Lieb, Bache, Beekley, T. L. Shippen, are much
suspected. I. Sayre, of New Jersey, is, I understand, very vio-
lent. Perhaps the avowed intemperance of these men against
the government, is the only evidence against them. I can furnish
no direct proof.

Mr. Eandolph has published a preface, which you have seen.
This is the opening up of a new and very extraordinary cam-
paign— perhaps you know something of the cause of his hostility.
I consider Mr. Eandolph as perfectly desperate and malignant.
He will do all the mischief in his power. His long acquaintance
with our affairs ; the predominating influence which he has pos-
sessed in those which concerned his own department, and his
skill in misrepresentation, furnish him with important advan-
tages. Dallas is councillor in all his councils, and will, of course,
prune away many indiscretions, and render a bad cause as plausi-
ble as the nature of it will admit. I rely, however, upon the
sense and virtue of the public, and trust that the truth will pre-
vail.

The public affairs are certainly in a critical state. I do not
clearly see how those of the treasury are to be managed. Our

40 HAMILTON'S WORKS.

[Mt. 38.

foreign resources are dried up ; our domestic are deeply antici-
pated, at least as respects the bank. Banks are multiplying like
mushrooms. The prices of all our exports arc impaired by paper
negotiations and unfounded projects, so that no foreign market
will indemnify the shippers. Our commerce is harassed by the
war, and our internal revenue unproductive of the expected
sums, owing to prejudice, combination, and the want of compe-
tent officers. Usury absorbs much of that capital which might
be calculated upon as a resource, if visionary speculations could
be destroyed.

You know, however, that I shall do the best in my power,
and that intimations from you will always be thankfully received.

HAMILTON TO WOLCOTT.

New-York, October 3d, 1795.

Dear Sir:

I have received your letter of the and thank you for

the information. As to Eandolph, I shall be surprised at nothing,
but if the facts come out, his personal influence is at all events
damned. No coloring will remove unfavorable impressions. To
do mischief, he must work in the dark.

What you say respecting your own department disquiets me,
for I think we shall, for the present, weather all storms but
those from real deficiencies in our public arrangements. Not
knowing details, I can attempt to suggest nothing, except the
general observation, that if the means heretofore provided, are
seriously likely to prove inadequate, Congress ought to be expli-
citly told so, in order to a further provision. It was a maxim in
my mind, that executive arrangements should not fail for want
of full disclosure to the Legislature. Then, if adequate provision
be not made, the responsibility is theirs. The worst evil we can
struggle with, is inefficiency in the measures of government.

If I remember right, it never appeared that Fauchet had any

Mt. 38.] CORRESPONDENCE. 41

power to make a commercial treaty with us, and the late
Attorney-General (Bradford) informed me, that Adet had power

only to treat, none to conclude. How are these things ? I ask for
special reasons.*

What is the object of the dispatch boat from France?
Nothing menacing, I hope.

WOLCOTT TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, Oct. Gth, 1795.

Dear Sir:

I will in a few days inform you of the facts upon which my
former letter was predicated.

The inclosed case of the Betsey, Captain Furlong, creates
much alarm here, and I think with reason. The same principles
will extirpate nine-tenths of our claims for spoliations, and lead
to new assaults upon our commerce.

I wish to know your opinion of the mode of proceedings
under the 7th article of our treaty with England. Must all cases
go through a process of litigation before the English courts before
they are submitted to Commissioners ? If so, for what purpose ?
Is the legality or illegality, the regularity or irregularity of a capture
to be determined solely in those courts ? Or will the commis-
sioners take up claims de novo ? This is an interesting question,

* Col. Pickering writes Wolcott in reference to the above :

" October Gth, 1705.
11 Dear Sir : — Mr. Taylor informs me that Mr. Fauchet never to his knowledge
made even any overtures relative to a treaty of any kind. I have cast my eye over
those of Mr. Adet, by which it appears, that lie is authorized to digest with the
American government a new treaty of commerce and a new consular convention, but
not to conclude any thing. Mr. Randolph agreed to meet him on this ground. If
the articles digested should meel the approbation of the respective governments,
they might give full powers to constitute of these articles the proposed new treaties.

" Sincerely yours,

"T. Pickering."

1- HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JET. 38.

for there is now little doubt but that the commissioners of
appeals will affirm most of the judgments of condemnation.

My doubt on this subject principally arises from finding that
the 6th article provides for the British debts in the same manner
as the 7th provides for the spoliation cases, and, moreover,
defines the cases to be those whose relief cannot be had in the
ordinary course of 'judicial proceedings.

Now it appears to me it would be a very dilatory, expensive,
and unnecessary process to compel an Englishman to travel
through our courts, merely to ascertain that they could not do
him justice, and to prepare his case for the commissioners. The
same objections exist against a similar operation in the British
courts of admiralty. Is it not, therefore, the meaning of the
treat}- that commissioners shall settle both descriptions of claims,
and award compensation according to principles of equity ? And
if this is the case, why is Mr. Bayard trying questions which are
decided against him, at an expense which he estimates may
amount to £75,000 sterling.

I must own I do not see through this business, and though
you may think it strange, I beg you to remember that I knew
nothing concerning the treaty till lately, and cannot devote
much time to it, without sacrificing objects more immediately in
the line of my duty.

The fact is, that the old doctrines of inalienable allegiance, and
that neutrals may not, in time of war, carry on a commerce in-
hibitedin time of peace, are to be advanced against the^ United
States; and from present appearances, they will govern the
courts of Admiralty. The effects which these principles will
have, I need not state to you ; if all this subject cannot be taken
up by commissioners and compromised equitably, the discussion
of the claims will work infinite mischief. I wish therefore to
see some way in which Mr. Bayard's agency at the British courts
might be arrested.

Mr. Fauchet made no overtures relating to a treaty of any
kind. M. Adet says he is authorized to digest a new treaty of
commerce, and a new consular convention, but not to conclude.
Mr. Bandolph agreed to meet him on this ground, but nothing
has been clone that I know of.

jEt. 38.] CORRESPONDENCE. 43

I knoAV nothing of dispatches. The French minister is re-
served ; he thinks more than he expresses, and his expressions
breathe something of dissatisfaction. We are, I think, in no very
good way, but must make the best of circumstances. What you
say of efficiency is true, but there are no materials to be efficient
with.

Colonel Pickering and myself are perfectly agreed, and he is
as firm, industrious, and intelligent, as any body could wish.
There is, however, a mass of business, and few of that class of
men in the public service, Avho understand details, and endeavor
to keep things in order. Even our able clerks cannot be re-
tained; several have actually gone. Be pleased to jDresent my
respects to Mrs. Hamilton, and believe me ever yours.

N. B. — I have found your ordonnance de la marine, but have no
way to send it.

HAMILTON" TO WOLCOTT.

New-York, October loth, 1795.

Dear Sir:

I have received your letter of the 6th instant.

I am of opinion, that the commissioners to be appointed
under the seventh article, are competent to grant relief, in all
cases of captures and condemnations of our property, during the
present war, and antecedent to the treaty, which were contrary to
the laws of nations, and in which there is adequate evidence, (of
which they are to judge bona fide), that compensation could not,
at the time of the treaty, for whatever reason, be actually obtained.
I think their power competent to relief, after a decision, in the last
resort; that is, by the Lords Commissioners of Appeals, and if the
proper steps have been taken to ascertain that justice cannot be
had, in the ordinary course of justice, before and without such de-
cision.

This opinion is founded upon the following reasons.

44 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mi. 38.

Firstly. The subject of complaint to be redressed, is irregular
or illegal captures or condt mnations. The word "condemnations"
is general. It is not restricted to condemnations in the inferior
courts, or in the final Court of Appeals. It may then apply to
either. Condemnation in the last resort, may have been had prior
to the treaty. There being no restriction, they, like those in in-
ferior tribunals, were equally within the terms of complaint. Cut
could they be illegal? Yes, in controversies between nations,
respecting the application of the rules of the laws of nations,
decisions of the highest court of one of the parties, if contrary to
those rules, are illegal. In other words, they are contrary to
that law, which is the standard of legality and illegality between
nations, and, if manifestly so, are a cause of war. Moreover, this
rule of legality or illegality, is recognized by the article itself, in
that part which authorizes the commissioners to decide according
to the merits of the several cases, to justice, equity, and the laws
of nations.

Secondly. The article contemplates that " various circum-
stances " may obstruct compensation in the ordinary course of
justice. These terms would not be full}" satisfied by tying the
article down, as has been attempted, to cases of insolvency and
absconding.

Thirdly. The article expressly declares, that when compen-
sation cannot, " for whatever reason" be had in the ordinary
course of justice, it shall be made by the British government
ujiuii the award of the commissioners. It is inadmissible to
narrow down these very comprehensive terms to the two cases
of insolvency or absconding. They are commensurate with every
cause of irregularity or illegality, pronounced such by the laws
of nations. The exceptions of manifest delay, or negligence, or
wilful omission, confirm the extensive interpretation.

Fourthly. The commissioners are not restricted in the descrip-
tion of the cases they are to take up ; and they are to decide
them according to their merits, to justice, equity, and the laws of
nations. These terms are as latitudinary as they could be made.
They seem formed on purpose to overrule any technical difficul-
ties, with regard to local tribunals, or positive rules of decision
in those tribunals.

JEt. 38.] CORRESPONDENCE. 45

Fifthly. The nature of the circumstances which led to the
article, and which involved a controversy between two nations,
respecting the rules of the laws of nations, as well as the appli-
cation of those rules. The natural presumption is, that it was
meant to refer this controversy, in all its latitude, to the extra-
ordinary tribunal created ; to transfer the right of judgment of
each nation, which being exercised differently, might have ended
in Avar, to that tribunal. Any thing less than this would be
inadequate to the origin of the business, to the solemnity of the
provision, or to the views which, from the facts, must be con-
ceived to have governed the parties.

All this appears so clear to me, that I confess I am con-
founded at an opinion which I have seen of Messieurs Lewis and
Rawle. They seem to pare away the object of the articles to
the two cases mentioned above, founding their opinion upon the
maxim, that the courts of the belligerent power, are the compe-
tent tribunals to decide similar questions between that power
and a neutral nation.

This maxim is true ; but how can it be deemed to apply to
the instance of a controversy between two nations about the in-
terpretation of the laws of nations, and about decisions of courts
founded upon an interpretation concerning which they disa-
greed? And this, when an extraordinary tribunal has been
constituted by the joint acts of the two parties to decide their
differences plainly as a substitute for a controversy by arms?
Is not the constitution of such a tribunal, by the two parties, a
manifest abandonment of the pretension of one to administer
justice definitively through its tribunals ? How can it be pre-
sumed, after such a proceeding, that the neutral power meant to
be concluded by the decisions of those tribunals ? Is not the
reverse the obvious presumption ? Why else was it not left to
the British courts of Admiralty to liquidate the damages, in the
admitted cases of insolvency and absconding to be paid by the
government? These circumstances could call for a substitute
only in the person to pay, not in the person, or tribunal, which
was to liquidate. There was no need, on the principle set up, for
an extraordinary tribunal to liquidate and award damages !

46 HAMILTON'S WORKS. OEt. 38.

I confess, that the opinion referred to, appears to me desti-
tute of color, contrary to the antecedent course of the transac-
tion, contrary to the positive expressions of the article ; and to
what can reasonably be presumed to be the intention of the par-
ties. It fritters away to nothing a very solemn and important
act between two contending nations.

The exception of the cases in which justice might be obtain-
ed, in the ordinary course, appears to me to decide nothing. It
might be unobtainable in that course, as well from the obstruc-
tions of positive regulations of the belligerent parties controlling
the courts, and from false principles adopted by the courts, as
from the inability or default of the captors. The commissioners,
who are the Court of the two nations, are to pronounce whether
justice is unobtainable, in the ordinary course, for any of these
reasons. As the tribunal of. both parties, they are necessarily
superior to the tribunals of either. And they are the judges, in
their own way, and upon their own grounds of the question,
whether and when justice can or cannot be obtained in the ordi-
nary course.

But they ought to exercise their discretion reasonably, not to
abuse it; otherwise they may release the party injured from the
obligation to perform.

Hence, though it is not necessary that every individual case
of capture should be prosecuted to a decision in the last resort, it
appears to me proper, that by such prosecution of some one case
of the several classes of cases, it may be ascertained, by a final
decision on the principle of each class, that redress cannot be ob-
tained. Else the commissioners may object, that there has been
a neglect to procure for them satisfactory evidence, that justice
could not be had in the ordinary course.

I would advise, then, that our agent be instructed to lay all
the cases, with the evidence, before our counsel, and to desire
them to make a selection of one of each class, in which a defence
can be made with probability of success, on some difference of prin-
ciple, to have these cases prosecuted to an ultimate decision, and
to leave all the rest pending, if possible, undecided in a course of
appeal. This will give reasonable evidence to the commission-

vEt. 38.] CORRESPONDENCE. 47

ers, strengthened, in the view of those appointed by the other
party, by the character of our counsel, who, I learn, are every
way men of respectability.

The other points in your letter I shall pursue hereafter.

P. S. In a consultation on an insurance case, between our
district-attorney, Mr. Burr, B. Livingston, and myself, the above
points incidentally occurred, and I understood all these gentle-
men as agreeing in the opinion I have stated. You are at lib-
erty to communicate this to Mr. Pickering.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON".

New-York, Oct. 16th, 1795.

Sir:

About a fortnight since arrived here Mr. Tristel, with G. W.
Fayette, son of the marquis. The former, who is in capacity of
tutor to the latter, requested me to mention their arrival to you,
and that they meant to retire to some place in the neighboring
country, till they should receive some direction from you. Thus,
at least, I understood him ; and accordingly they are gone to a
house between Hackensack and Eamapo, in the Jerseys, to which
may be conveyed any letter you may confide to me for them.
They are incog.

Having been informed you were speedily expected from Phil-
adelphia, and being oppressed with occupation, I delayed writing-
till this time.

Mr. Tristel, who appears a very sedate, discreet man, informs
me that they left France with permission, though not in their
real characters, but in fact with the privity of some members of
the Committee of Safety, who were disposed to shut their eyes
and facilitate their departure.

The young Fayette also appears to me very advantageously ;
modest, of very good manners, and expressing himself with in-
telligence and propriety.

48 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 38.

Shall I trespass on your indulgence in hazarding a sentiment
upon the subject of this young gentleman? If I do, let it be
ascribed to the double interest I take in a son of the marquis, and
in whatever interests the good fame and satisfaction of him to
whom I write.

On mature reflection, and on sounding opinions, as far as
opportunity and the nature of the case have permitted, I fully
believe that the President need be under no embarrassment as to
any good offices his heart may lead him to perform towards this
young man. It will not, I am persuaded, displease those in pos-
session of the power of the country from which he comes, and in
ours it will be singularly and generally grateful. I am even con-
vinced, that the personal and political enemies of the President
would be gratified, should his ideas of the policy of the case re-
strain him from that conduct which his friendship to the marquis
and his feelings otherwise would dictate. The youth of this per-
son, joined to the standing of his father, make the way easy.

I even venture to think it possible, that the time is not very
remote, when the marquis will again recover the confidence and
esteem of his country, when perhaps the men in power may be
glad to fortify themselves and their cause with his alliance. This,
however, is supposition, merely to be indulged as a reflection, not
to be counted upon as a fact.

There is another subject upon which I will hazard a few
words. It is, that of Mr. Eandolph. I have seen the intercepted
letter, which I presume led to his resignation. I read it with re-
gret, but without much surprise — for I never had confidence in
Mr. Eandolph, and I thought there were very suspicious appear-
ances about him on the occasion to which the letter particularly
refers.

I perceive, that, rendered desperate himself, he meditates as
much mischief as he can. The letter he calls for, I presume, is
that above alluded to. His object is, if he obtains it, to prejudice
others — if any part is kept back, to derive advantage to his cause
from the idea, that there may be something reserved which would
tend to his exculpation, and to produce suspicion that there is
something which you are interested to keep from the light.

.&. 38.] CORRESPONDENCE. 49

Though, from the state of public prejudices, I shall probably
for one be a sufferer by the publication ; yet, upon the whole, I
incline to the opinion that it is most advisable the whole should
come before the public. I acknowledge, that I do not express
this opinion without hesitation, and therefore it will deserve, as
it will no doubt engage, your mature reflection ; but such is the
present bias of my judgment. I am the more inclined to the
opinion, as, I presume, that the subject being in part before the
public, the whole letter will finally come out through the quarter
by which it was written, and then it would have additional
weight to produce ill impressions.

With great respect and affectionate attachment, I have the
honor to be, &c.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON".

New-York, [.October 26, 1795.

Sir:

I have noticed a piece in the Aurora, under the signature of
the " Calm Observer" which I think requires explanation, and I
mean to give one with my name. I have written to Mr. Wolcott
for materials from the books of the Treasury.

Should you think it proper to meet the vile insinuation in the
close of it, by furnishing for one year the account of expenditure
of the salary, I will with pleasure add what may be proper on
that point. If there be any such account signed by Mr. Lear, it
may be useful.

I wrote to you some days since, directed to you at Philadel-
phia, chiefly on the subject of young La Fayette. I mention it
merely that you may have knowledge that there is such a letter,
in case it has not yet come to hand.

I touched in it upon a certain intercepted letter. The more I
have reflected, the more I am of opinion that it is advisable the
whole should speedily appear.

With affection and respect,

I have the honor to be, &c.
f 4

50 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.tor. 38.

HAMILTON TO WOLCOTT.

New-York, October 26, 1795.

Dear Sir :

I have observed in the "Aurora," a piece under the signa-
ture of " A Calm Observer" which I think merits attention. It
is my design to reply to it, with my name, but for this I wish to
be furnished, as soon as possible, with the account of the President,
and of the appropriations for him, as it stands in the Secretary's
office, the Comptroller's, and the account rendered to Congress,
and also the account of appropriations for Jhis object. Of one
point I am sure — that we never exceeded the appropriations,
though we may have anticipated the service. Add any remarks
you may judge useful. The sooner the better.

HAMILTON TO WOLCOTT.

New-York, October 27, 1705.

Dear Sir :

I wish the statements, requested in my letter of yesterday,
may contain each particular payment, not aggregates for periods.
It runs in my mind, that once, there being no appropriation, I
procured an informal advance for the President from the bank.
If this is so, let me know the time and particulars. If the ac-
count has been wound up to an exact adjustment, since the period
noticed by the " Calm Observer," it may be useful to carry it
down to that period.

I should like to have a note of other instances of advances
on account of salaries.

jEt. 38.] CORRESPONDENCE. 51

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

(private.)

Philadelphia, 29th October, 1795.

My Dear Sir:

Two or three days ago, I wrote you a few lines in haste, and
promised one more lengthy when I was more at leisure : — for
this purpose I am now seated.

The letters from young Fayette and Mr. Frestel ; my letter to
Mr. Cabot, and his answer, (all of which are herein inclosed for
your perusal — mine in the rough state it was first drawn, and to
be returned when read,) will give you a full view of what I have
already done in this affair, up to the present moment. I have
unavailingly, owing to accidents, been endeavoring, through in-
direct means, to learn Mr. Adet's sentiments relative to the com-
ing over of this young gentleman. But if you, after the infor-
mation now given, and the reiterated assurance of what I have
expressed in my letter to Mr. Cabot, and which I authorize you
to repeat to him again, in the very strongest terms you can con- ■
ceive, should be of opinion that I ought to go further at this
time, I will do so at all events ; for to be in the place of a father
and friend to him, I am resolved under any circumstances. If,
therefore, as I have just said, you should think that good would
come from it — or even consolation therefrom to young Fayette,
and his tutor, I pray you to send them hither incog., without de-
lay, that some plan may be fixed upon : in settling of which I
pray you to give me your ideas of that which shall appear most
eligible, either by them, or previous to their arrival here.

Other matters which I have to communicate, shall become the
subject of another letter.

I am, ever and affectionately,
Yours,

Geo. Washington.

52 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.
(private and confidential.)

Philadelphia, October 29th, 1795.

My Deak Sir:

A voluminous publication is daily expected from Mr. E .

The paper alluded to in the extract of his letter, of the 8th inst,
and inserted in all the Gazettes, is a letter of my own, to him ;
from which he intends (as far as I can collect from a combination
of circumstances) to prove an inconsistency in my conduct in
ratifying the treaty with Great Britain, without making a rescind-
ing (by the British government) of what is commonly called the
Provision order, equally with the exception of the 12th article,
by the Senate, a condition of that ratification. Intending there-
by to show that my final decision thereon was the result of party
advice ; and that that party was under British influence. It be-
ing a letter of my own which he asked for, I did not hesitate a
moment to furnish him therewith ; and to authorize him to pub-
, lish every private letter I ever wrote, and every word I ever ut-
tered to him, if he thought they would contribute to his vindica-
tion. But the paper he asked for is but a mite of the volume
that is to appear ; for without any previous knowledge of mine
he had compiled every official paper (before this was asked) for
publication, the knowledge of which could subserve the purposes
he has in view ; and why they have not made their appearance
before this, I know not, as it was intimated in the published ex-
tract of his letter to me, that nothing retarded it but the want of
the paper then applied for, which was furnished the day after my
arrival in this city, where, on the 20th inst., I found his letter
after it had gone to Alexandria, and had returned.

I shall now touch another subject as unpleasant as the one I
have just quitted. What am I to do for a Secretary of State?
I ask frankly, and with solicitude ; and shall receive kindly any
sentiments you may express on the occasion. That there may be
no concealment, and that the non-occupancy of the office until
this time may be accounted for, (I tell you in confidence that,)

2Et. 38.] CORRESPONDENCE. 53

Mr. Paterson, of New Jersey ; Mr. Thomas Johnson, of Mary-
land; Gen. Pinckney, of South Carolina; and Mr. Patrick
Henry, of Virginia ; in the order they are mentioned, have all
been applied to, and refused. Would Mr. King accept it? You
know the objections I have had to the nomination, to office, of any
person from either branch of the Legislature, and you will be at
no loss to perceive, that at the present crisis, another reason
might be adduced against this appointment. But maugre all ob-
jections, if Mr. King would accept, I would look no further.
Can you sound, and let me know, soon, his sentiments on this oc-
casion ? If he should feel disposed to listen to the proposition,
tell him candidly, all that I have done in this matter ; that neither
he nor I may be made uneasy thereafter from the discovery of it ;
he will, I am confident, perceive the ground upon which I have
acted, in making these essays ; and will, I am persuaded, appre-
ciate my motives. If he should decline also, pray learn with
precision from him, what the qualifications of Mr. Potts, the
Senator, are, and be as diffusive as you can with respect to
others, and I will decide on nothing until I hear from you —
pressing as the case is.

To enable you to judge of this matter with more lights still ;
I add, that Mr. Marshall, of Virginia, has declined the office of
Attorney General, and I am pretty certain, would accept of no
other, and I know that Col. Carrington would not come into the
War Department (if a vacancy should happen therein). Mr.
Dexter, it is said, would accept the office of Attorney -General.
No person is yet absolutely fixed on for that office. Mr. Smith,
of South Carolina, some time ago, would have had no objection
to filling a respectable office under the General Government, but
what his views might lead to, or his abilities particularly fit him
for, I am an incompetent judge ; and besides, on the ground of
popularity, his pretensions would, I fear, be small. Mr. Chase,
of Maryland, is, unquestionably, a man of abilities ; and it is
supposed by some that he would accept the appointment of
Attorney-General. Though opposed to the adoption of the Con-
stitution, it is said, he has been a steady friend to the general
government since it is has been in operation. But he is violent-

54 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

ly opposed in his own State by a party, and is besides, or to
speak more correctly, has been accused of some impurity in his
conduct. I might add to this catalogue that Col. Innis is among
the number of those who have passed in review ; but his extreme
indolence renders his abilities (great as they are said to be) of
little use. In short, what with the non-acceptance of some, — the
known dereliction of those who are most fit ; the exceptionable
drawbacks from others ; — and a wish (if it were practicable) to
make a geographical distribution of the great offices of the
administration, I find the selection of proper characters an
arduous duty.

The period is approaching, indeed is already come, for select-
ing the proper subjects for my communications to Congress at
the opening of next session — and the manner of treating them
merits more than the consideration of a moment. The crisis,
and the incomplete state in which most of the important affairs
of this country are at present, make the first more difficult, and
the latter more delicate than usual.

The treaty with Great Britain is not yet concluded. After
every consideration, however, I could bestow on it (and after
entertaining very serious doubts of the propriety of doing it on
account of the provision order), it has been ratified by me ; what
has been or will be done by the government of Great Britain,
relative to it, is not now, and probably will not be known by
the meeting of Congress. Yet such perhaps is the state of that
business, as to make communication thereof to the legislature
necessary ; whether in the precise form, or to accompany it with
some expression of my sense of the thing itself, and the manner
in which it has been treated, merits deep reflection. If good
would flow from the latter, by a just and temperate communi-
cation of my ideas to the community at large, through this
medium ; guarded so as not to add fuel to passions prepared
to blaze, and at the same time so expressed as not to excite the
criticisms or animadversions of European powers, I would readi-
ly embrace it. But, I would decidedly, avoid every expression
which could be construed into a dereliction of the powers
of the President with the advice and consent of the Senate to

JE-r. 38.] CORRESPONDENCE. 55

make treaties, — or into a shrinking from any act of mine relative
to it. — In a word, if a conciliatory plan can be assimilated with
a firm, manly, and dignified conduct in this business, it would be
desirable ; but the latter I will never yield. On this head it
may not be amiss to add, that no official (nor indeed other)
accounts have been received from France of the reception of the
treaty with Great Britain, by the national convention. Perhaps
it is too soon to expect any.

Our negotiations with Spain, as far as accounts have been
received from Mr. Pinckney (soon after his arrival there, but
after a conference with the Duke de la Alcuden on the subject,
before, however, the peace between France and that country
was publicly known), stand upon the same procrastinating,
trifling, undignified (as it respects that government) and insulting
as it relates to this country, ground as they did at the commence-
ment of them. Under circumstances like these, I shall be at a
loss (if nothing more decisive shall arrive between this and the
assembling of Congress) what to say on this subject, especially
as this procrastination and trifling has been accompanied by
encroachments on our territorial rights. There is no doubt of
this fact; but persons have, nevertheless, been sent both by
Gov. Blount and Gen. Wayne, to know by what authority it is
done. The conduct of Spain (after having herself invited this
negotiation, and throughout the whole of its progress) has been
such, that I have, at times, thought it best to express this senti-
ment at once in the speech, and refer to the proceedings. At
other times, to say only that matters are in the same inconclusive
state they have been ; and that if no alteration for the better, or
a conclusion of it, should take place before the session is draw-
ing to a close, that the proceedings will be laid fully before
Congress.

From Algiers, no late accounts have been received ; and little
favorable, it is to be feared, is to be expected from that quarter.

From Morocco, the first communications, after our agent
arrived there, were pleasing ; but the final result, if any has
taken place, is yet unknown — and are more clouded.

Our concerns with the Indians will tell well. I hope, and

56 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

believe, the peace with the "Western Indians will be permanent,
unless renewed difficulties with Great Britain should produce (as
it very likely would do) a change in their conduct. But
whether this matter can be mentioned in the speech with pro-
priety, before it is advised and consented to by the Senate, is
questionable ; and nothing, I am sure, that is so, and is suscepti-
ble of cavil or criticism, will escape the anonymous writers, if it
should go unnoticed elsewhere. It will be denominated by these
gentry a bolster. All the hostile Indians to the southward have
renewed the treaties of amity and friendship with the United
States, and have given the best proof in their power of their
sincerity, to wit, a return of prisoners and property ; and peace
prevails from one end of our frontier to the other. Peace also
had been produced between the Creeks and Chickasaws by the
intervention of this government ; but something untoward and
unknown here has occasioned a renewal of hostilities on the part
of the Creeks.

The military establishment is of sufficient importance to claim
a place in the general communication, at the opening of the
session ; and my opinion is, that circumstanced as things are at
present, and the uncertainty of what they may be next year, it
would be impolitic to reduce it, but whether to express any
opinion thereon, or leave it entirely to their own decision, may
be considered.

Whether a report from the Secretary of the Treasury, rela-
tive to fiscal matters, particularly on the loans of money, and
another from the Secretary of War respecting the frigates,
arsenals, military stores directed to be provided ; and the train
in which the trade with the Indians is, agreeably to the several
acts of Legislature, may not be proper, and to be referred to in
the speech.

Having desired the late Secretary of State to note down every
matter as it occurred, proper either for the speech at the opening
of the session, or for messages afterwards, the inclosed paper
contains every thing I could extract from that office. Aid me,
I pray you, with your sentiments on these points, and such

JEr. 38.] CORRESPONDENCE. 57

others as may have occurred to you relative to my communica-
tions to Congress.

With affectionate regard,

I am always yours,

Geo. Washington.

WOLCOTT TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia. October 29, 1795.

Dear Sir:

I send you abstracts of all the payments to the President to
the present time. It is a fact that more money has been, at times,
advanced than was due for service, but never a dollar for which
there was no appropriation.

The villany of the suggestion against the President has
induced me to reply to the " Calm Observer," on the 26th and
28th. You will see what I have said, and the inclosed papers
will enable you to add any thing which you think proper. I
have not time to-day to ascertain whether any advance by the
bank was ever granted.

You know that the compensation to both Houses of Congress
has been paid in advance frequently.

HAMILTON TO WOLCOTT.

New-York, October 30th, 1795.

Dear Sir:

I wrote you yesterday for a statement of the advances and
appropriations for the Department of State.

I am very anxious that Fauchefs whole letter should appear
just as it is. Strange whispers are in circulation of a nature

w

58 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 38.

foreign to truth, and implicating honest men with rascals. Is it
to come out ? Can't you send me a copy ? I will observe any
condition you annex.

The secret journals, and other files of the Department of
State, will disclose the following facts : —

That during the war, a commission to negotiate a treaty of
commerce with Great Britain, was given to Mr. Adams, and
afterwards revoked.

That our commissioners for making peace were instructed to
take no step whatever, without a previous consultation with the
French ministry, though there was, at the time, reason to believe
that France wished us to make peace, or truce, with Great
Britain, without an acknowledgment of our independence ; that
she favored a sacrifice to Spain, of our pretensions to the navi-
gation of the Mississippi, and the relinquishment of a participa-
tion in the fisheries.

It will appear that instructions were actually given to Mr.
Jay, to yield the navigation of the Mississippi to Spain, in con-
sideration of an acknowledgment of our independence. That
Mr. Jay made a proposal accordingly, but clogged with some
condition, or qualification, to bring it back to Congress before a
final conclusion ; and expostulated with Congress against the
measure.

It will appear that this was effected by a southern party, who
would also have excluded the fisheries from being an ultimatum;
in which they were opposed by the north, who equally con-
tended for Mississippi and fisheries.

It will appear that Chancellor Livingston, as Secretary of
State, reported a censure on our commissioners, for breaking
their instructions in the negotiations for peace.

It will appear that shortly after the arrival, in this country,
of the preliminary articles, I made a motion in Congress, to re-
new the commissions to negotiate a treaty of commerce with
Great Britain ; that a committee was appointed to prepare one,
with instructions, of which Mr. Madison was one ; and that the
committee never reported.

Thus stand the facts in my memory.

&t. 38.] CORRESPONDENCE. 59

It is very desirable, now that a free access to the files of the
Department can give the evidence, to examine them accurately,
noting times, places, circumstances, actors, &c. I want this very
much, for a public use, in my opinion essential.

It would also be useful to have a copy of Mr. Jefferson's letter
to Congress, concerning the transfer of the French debt to private
money-lenders, on which the report of the Board of Treasury is
founded.

Yours, truly, &c.

Nov. 12. This letter, by accident, has lain in my desk since
it was written. I send it still. Bache's paper of the eleventh
has a Valerius, which I think gives an opportunity of over-
setting him. The leading ideas may be, —

Firstly — He discloses the object of the party to place Mr.
Jefferson in contrast with the President.

Secondly — He discloses the further object, an intimate and
close alliance with France, to subject us to the vortex of European
politics, and attributes it to Mr. Jefferson.

Thirdly — He misrepresents totally Mr. Jefferson's returning
from France.

A solid answer to this paper, with facts, would do great good.

WOLCOTT TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, November 2, 1795.

My Dear Sir:

I inclose a statement of the President's account quarterly,
which shows that he has not been in advance a quarter's salary at
any time.

You will see that the Aurora denies that the members of
Congress have ever received moneys which were not earned, and
refers to a letter of mine to prove the fact. I never wrote a

60 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

letter on the subject, except to the speakers, Muhlenburgh and
Trumbull, in answer to an application from them on this point :
" Whether any advances that had been made to members of the House
of Representatives beyond their real pay had been afterwards accounted
for in their subsequent accounts in a succeeding session t"

To this I answered to the following effect :

" It is certain that the Speakers of the House have in no in-
stance advanced moneys beyond the compensation claimed by
the members as actually due, of course it does not appear to have
been designed in any case that moneys advanced in one session,
should be accounted for by services to be rendered in another."

" In the accounts of the second session of the first Congress,
two errors were discovered of six dollars each, and one other of
eighty-five dollars, which sums were overpaid in consequence of
miscalculations. These sums were credited by the members who
received the moneys in the succeeding session in consequence of
notes which were placed in the pay books by the clerks who
made the examination."

" A few other errors of a trivial nature have at different times
been noted as errors by the clerks, but whether they have been
explained by the members, or accounted for, does not appear
from the pay books. The foregoing three cases are all that I can
find, which fall within the inquiry contained in your letter."

The plain meaning of my letter is, that it was not the practice
to advance during a session, more than was earned in that session,
further I never meant, or examined the books to ascertain. I
shall do it now.

The reference to this letter proves either that Muhlenburgh is
party to this business, or, what is more likely, that my letter was
lodged in the clerk's office, and that Beckly and Randolph are the
authors of this attack.

Nothing to the purpose can be gained from the accounts of
the Secretary of State, but you will find them inclosed. It is not
fit to use them, in my opinion.

N". B. — What I say of my own letter to M. and R, is for your
information. I shall use the affair here.

iEi.38.] CORRESPONDENCE. 61

The clerks have disappointed me, and I cannot send the state-
ment of the Department of State claims till to-morrow.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

New- York, November 5th, 1795.

Sir:

I received on the second instant, your two letters of the 29th
of October, with the inclosures. An answer has been delayed, to
ascertain the disposition of Mr. King, who, through the summer,
has resided in the country, and is only occasionally in town. I
am now able to inform you, — he would not accept. Circumstances
of the moment conspire with the disgust which a virtuous and
independent mind feels at placing itself en hut to the foul and
venomous shafts of calumny, which are continually shot by an
odious confederacy against virtue, to give Mr. King a decided
disinclination to the office.

I wish, sir, I could present to you any useful ideas as a sub-
stitute. But the embarrassment is extreme, as to the Secretary
of State. An Attorney-General, I believe, may easily be fixed
upon by a satisfactory choice. Either Mr. Dexter, or Mr. Gore,
would answer. They are both men of undoubted probity. Mr.
Dexter has most natural talent, and is strong in his particular pro-
fession. Mr. Gore, I believe, is equally considered in his pro-
fession, and has more various information. No good man doubts
Mr. Gore's purity, but he has made money by agencies for British
houses in the recovery of debts, &c, and by operations in the
funds, which a certain party object to him. I believe Mr. Dex-
ter is free from every thing of this kind. Mr. King thinks Gore
on the whole preferable. I hesitate between them. Either will,
I think, be a good appointment.

But for a Secretary of State I know not what to say. Smith,
though not of full size, is very respectable for talent, and has
pretty various information. I think he has more real talent than

62 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

the last incumbent of the office. But there are strong objections
to his appointment. I fear he is of an uncomfortable temper :
he is popular with no description of men, from a certain hardness
of character, and he, more than most other men, is considered as
tinctured with prejudices towards the British. In this particu-
lar, his ground is somewhat peculiar. It may suit party views
to say much of other men, but more in this respect is believed with
regard to Smith. I speak merely as to bias and prejudice. There
are things, and important things, for which I would recommend
Smith ; thinking well of his abilities, information, and industry,
and integrity, — but at the present juncture, I believe, his ap-
pointment to the office in question would be unadvisable.

Besides it is very important that he should not now be re-
moved from the House of Kepresentatives.

I have conferred with Mr. King with respect to Mr. Potts ;
we both think well of his principles, and consider him as a man
of good sense. But he is of a cast of character ill suited to such
an appointment, and is not extensive, either as to talents or infor-
mation. It is also a serious question, whether the Senate at this
time ought to be weakened.

Mr. Innis, I fear, is too absolutely lazy for Secretary of
State. The objection would weigh less as Attorney-General.

The following characters, in the narrowness of the probabte
circle, as to willingness, have occurred to me. Judge Pendleton,
of Georgia ; Mr. Desaussure (late Director of the Mint), of South
Carolina; Governor Lee, or Mr. Lee, late Collector of Alex-
andria, of Virginia ; McHenry, of Maryland. / mean the doctor.

Judge Pendleton writes well ; is of respectable abilities, and
a gentleman-like smooth man. If I were sure of his political
views, I should be much disposed to adopt his appointment un-
der the circumstances, but I fear he has been somewhat tainted
with the prejudices of Mr. Jefferson and Mr. Madison, and I
have afflicting suspicions concerning these men. Desaussure,
I believe, has considerable talents, is of gentleman-like manners,
good views, and only wants sufficient standing, to put him upon
a footing with any attainable man.

Governor Lee has several things for him and several against

Mt. 38.] CORRESPONDENCE. 63

him ; he ought to have a good secretary under him. His brother
I only know enough of to think him worth considering.

McHenry you know. He would give no strength to the ad-
ministration, but he would not disgrace the office ; his views are
good ; perhaps his health, &c, would prevent his accepting.

I do not know Judge Bee ; I have barely thought of him.

In fact, a first-rate character is not attainable. A second-rate
must be taken with good dispositions and barely decent qualifi-
cations. I wish I could throw more light. 'Tis a sad omen for
the government.

By the fifteenth I will carefully attend to the other parts
of your letters. I regret that bad health and a pressure of avo-
cations will permit nothing earlier.

With the most respectful and affectionate attachment,

I have the honor to remain, Sir, &c.

WASHINGTON" TO HAMILTON.
(private.)

Philadelphia, November 10th, 1795.

My Dear Sir:

Your favor of the 5th has been duly received, but nothing
was said in it of young Fayette. I am willing, as I said in my
last, to receive him under any circumstances, or in any manner
you may conceive best ; and wish to know what that is.

Having since I wrote to you on the 29th ult. received more
agreeable, though not conclusive accounts from abroad, I pray
you to suspend your superstructure until you receive a ground
plan from me, which shall be in a few days, with better, or at
least with more ample materials.

Yours always,

And very affectionately,

Geo. Washington.

64 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

HAMILTON TO WOLCOTT.

New-York, November 15th, 1795.

Dear Sir:

At length I am able to send you the explanation I mentioned
to you. The papers upon which it is founded are returned, that
you may compare, and if necessary, correct. You may, by alter-
ing the body, or by a note, rectify any inaccuracy.

You will observe marks in the margin which will require
particular attention. (A.) Let the distance, if not so now, be
rightly stated. (B.) Insert the most usual sum or sums. I think
it was 10,000 to Senate, 20,000 to House of Eepresentatives. (C.)
If you think it best you may leave out here, and afterwards, all
that concerns the instruction referring the commencement of the
compensation to the 4th of March, 1789. .1 think, in this re-
spect, something will depend on the question whether the Trea-
sury has finally taken its ground, and even then a note at foot,
as after closing the letter, may be considered instead of striking
out. Do as you please on this point. (F.) Examine the calcu-
lation that gives this balance.

I will thank you to have a proof-sheet brought you. You
observe the quarterly statement is to be subjoined. Will it not
be best that the Eegister should sign it?

Yours,

A. Hamilton.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.
(private and confidential.)

Philadelphia, Nov. 16th, 1795.

My Dear Sir:

The papers herewith inclosed are so full on the subject of my
former request, that nothing more remains than to refer to them
for every information I can give, as the groundwork of the

JEt. 38.] CORRESPONDENCE. 65

superstructure you are to build. When you are done with them,
be so good as to return the whole to me again, with those sent
before, together with the letters respecting young Fayette — and
the result relative to him.

I would beg the favor of you to run your eye over the letter
from Madam de Segur, and let one of your young men make
some inquiry into the truth of her narrative, and if found just,
to seal and forward my letter to her, safely. The reason why I
give you this trouble, is, that applications of the kind have been
and still are very frequent ; and in more instances than one, im-
positions have been practised on me. If this lady's tale be true,
her case is pitiable ; and I have only to regret that the frequent
calls upon my private purse render it inconvenient for me to do
more for her than the pittance I inclose to her.

With sincere and 'affectionate esteem and regard,
I am ever yours,

George Washington.

P. S. — Be so good as to drop me a single line, merely to say
that this letter and its inclosures have got safely into your hands.

WOLCOTT TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, Nov. 16th, 1795.

My Dear Sir:

I sent you on Saturday an important translation of Fauchet's
letter. I now send you a copy of the original. You may at
your discretion use the letter, except causing copies to be taken
or suffering it to be printed.

Mr. Eandolph has extensively circulated a letter in which he

attributes his disgrace to the artifices of a "British faction."

This letter is accompanied with an explanatory certificate from

Fauchet, written at Newport, which I have not seen. I am told,

F 5

66 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 38.

however, by persons who have seen it, that it is a weak, evasive
performance, and only makes bad worse. When the affair was
opened to Kandolph, he denied having received money, or having
made any proposition relative to money, except on one occasion,
which was this :

He said that in the summer of 1794, Fauchet told him that
there was a meeting of persons in New- York consisting among others
of Mr. Hammond and Mr. Jaudines, who were conspiring to destroy
him (E.) and Governor Clinton. Being asked what he meant by
destroying him and Governor Clinton, Eandolph answered, to de-
stroy his character as Secretary of State, and Governor Clinton's,
as Governor of New- York. Eandolph said, that he then inquir-
ed whether proof could be got of this conspiracy, and that after
some conversation he suggested to Mr. Fauchet, that as he (F.)
had the resources of the French government at command, he could
obtain the proof. This foolish story could make no impression,
and though Mr. Eandolph promised to reduce it to writing, he
omitted to do so.

There are reports in circulation, I find, which change the
complexion of this first declaration of Eandolph's, and represent
the conspiracy as one to ruin France.

I also suspect that attempts will be made to represent you as
concerned in it, but of this I am not certain. At any rate, the
whole is idle nonsense, and Fauchet's attempt, by a posterior act,
to invalidate the evidence of a confidential letter, will not succeed.
What must have been the footing of those men when they could
familiarly talk about the subversion of the government, and
inviting the French, to aid the insurrection with money.

Pray let me know if the letters are received.

jEt. 38.] CORRESPONDENCE. 67

PICKERING TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, November 17th, 1795.

Dear Sir :

The interest you take in all public measures of importance,
and the peculiar solicitude you must feel at this time of general
agitation, when so many are busy, apparently, to undermine the
government which you so effectually labored to establish, and
have so eminently contributed to maintain, induce me, with that
sincerity which I trust has ever marked my character, and that
frankness which an entire confidence in your judgment and can-
dor inspires, to exhibit to your view the present situation of the
great public offices.

Near three months have elapsed since the office of Secretary
of State became vacant. At that moment, matters of magnitude
respecting the treaty with Great Britain demanded attention, and
the general business of the office could not be suspended. With
the President's approbation, I undertook the conduct of whatever
required the uninterrupted agency of that officer — hoping, how-
ever, to have been relieved long ere this time from the burthen.
The President, I know, took immediate measures to fill the office.
He first tendered it to Judge Patterson, then to Governor John-
son of Maryland, to General Pinckney, and to Mr. King, in
succession ; and by all it has been refused. The three former
nominations the President early communicated to me, but the
last he did not mention till about six days ago ; nor, indeed, till
then, had he spoken of the subject since his last return from Mount
Vernon. He recited these attempts to fill the office of Secretary
of State, and that finally he had, through Colonel Carrington,
made a tender of it to Patrick Henry, who also declined it. In
the event of this repulse, he proposed to Colonel Carrington's
acceptance the Department of "War, under the idea of removing
me to the Department of State. Colonel Carrington chose to re-
main where he is. The President having given this detail, made
me the tender. I declined it, as not possessing the talent so much
to be desired in a Secretary of State, in the propriety and abil-

68 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

ity of whose conduct the dignity as well as the interests of the
nation were so materially involved. On various grounds the
President urged my acceptance; and after the many fruitless en-
deavors he had used to fill the office, I felt reluctant to give him
a denial. I promised to consider of it.

The same day Mr. Wolcott called upon me. I found he had
been consulted. I related what had passed, and he pressed me
to accept the office : but I remained undecided. "We repeatedly
conversed about it afterwards. I still wished the office in abler
hands. Last Friday evening, going to see Mrs. Washington, I
found the President and Mr. Wolcott in the antechamber, the
President's countenance manifestly uneasy. As soon as an oppor-
tunity offered, I spoke to Mr. Wolcott. The President was
anxious for my determination, and again Mr. Wolcott urged me
to take the office. I reflected a few minutes ; the company re-
tired ; and I then made the President the following declaration :

That I wished to keep him no longer in suspense, and that I
would accept the office of Secretary of State ; but as I had no
ambitious views, and fresh embarrassments might arise in his
attempts to fill the Department of War, I would propose, with
submission to his opinion, that things should remain for the pres-
ent as they were ; I would continue my attention to both depart-
ments ; if that of War could be filled to his satisfaction, I would
go to the Department of State ; if a character well adapted to the
latter should present, I would remain where I was. In one word,
to free him from all embarrassment, I would serve in one office
or the other, as the public good should require. The President
answered, " That is very liberal," and desired me to call the next
morning to consider of a successor in the Department of War.

The President had examined his list of officers in the late
war, and selected the most prominent characters, whose names you
will find in the inclosed list. Of these you will see but few to
be recommended for the office, especially to the southward of
Pennsylvania, where, of choice, the President would name one.
With ample military talents, General Lee is conceived to want
others essential to a Secretary of War. Embracing some great
objects, the department comprehends a multitude of details, and

jEt. 38.] CORRESPONDENCE. 69

demands economy in its numerous expenditures. This appoint-
ment would doubtless be extremely unpopular. It would be dis-
approved by the enemies of the government without acquiring
the confidence of its friends. These ideas I have already sug-
gested to the President. Expressing his earnest desire to find a
gentleman southward of Pennsylvania, the President remarked,
that it would be much less difficult to choose one from the other
side of this State. But even there the object may perhaps be
found not very easy to accomplish.

The State of New- York has not now one officer on the general
staff of government. Colonel William North, you will see, is on
the President's list. I have thought favorably of his character
and abilities, but am not sufficiently acquainted to form any de-
cisive opinion ; you must know him well : will you have the
goodness to express your mind? Will you consider the whole
list ? Will you indulge me with your sentiments on all the sub-
jects of this letter? One other idea ought perhaps to be taken
into view. The President, beyond all doubt, will, at the close of
his present term, retire for ever from public life. We do not
know who will succeed him. Our internal politics, and our ex-
terior relations, may be deeply affected by the character and
principles of the President, and the Secretary of State.

The tenor of this letter shows that it is perfectly confidential.
The President has no knowledge of it ; he will be impatient to
decide to whom the department of war shall be tendered. I shall
therefore be anxious to receive your answer. I earnestly hope
your health and business will allow you to put it into the mail
of Friday, that it may reach me on Saturday.

With the truest respect.

P. S. — Mr. Wolcott informed me of your wish to see Mr. Fau-
chet's letter. I furnished him with a French copy of it, and
with my translation, to be copied, and forwarded for your revi-
sion and correction. I was sorry to propose this labor for you ;
but the letter is of no small importance. It must soon be pub-
lished, and you are implicated in every page. I therefore wish
the translation may be exact.

10 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 38.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, 18th November, 1795.

My Dear Sir:

Having no doubt that the petition contained in the inclosed
gazette will make its appearance in the Virginia Assembly ; and
nearly as little of its favorable reception in that body, I resolved
to give you the perusal of it at this moment.

But my principal view in writing to you now is, to request
that you would desire young Fayette and his tutor to proceed to
this place without delay ; having resolved, unless some powerful
reasons can be suggested to the contrary, to take them at once
into my family.

The young gentleman must have experienced some unpleasant
feelings already from being kept at a distance from me, and I feel
as unpleasantly as he can do, from the same cause.
Very sincerely and affectionately,
I am yours,

George Washington.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

New-York, November 19, 1795.

Sir:

Your letters of the 16th and 18th instant, with the inclosures,
are received.

An extraordinary pressure of professional business has delayed
my reply on the subject of young La Fayette, in which another
cause co-operated. I wished, without unveiling the motives in-
cidentally, to sound the impressions of other persons of judgment,
who, I know, had been apprised of his being in the country.

The bias of my inclination has been that you should proceed
as your letter of yesterday proposes, and I cannot say it is
changed, though it is weakened. For I find that in other minds,

JEt. 38.] CORRESPONDENCE. 71

and judicious ones, a doubt is entertained, whether at the actual
crisis it would be prudent to give publicity to your protection of
him. It seems to be feared, that the factious might use it as a
weapon to represent you as a favorer of the anti-revolutionists of
France ; and it is inferred that it would be inexpedient to furnish
at this moment any aliment to their slanders.

These ideas have enough of foundation and importance to
make me question my own impressions, which, from natural dis-
position, are in similar cases much to be distrusted.

I shall therefore do nothing more at present than write to La
Fayette and his preceptor to come to New-York, and I shall for-
bear any definitive communication to them till I hear further
from you, after you have reflected on the information I now give.

Should you on reconsideration conclude on yielding to the
doubt as a matter of greater caution — perhaps it will be then left
for you to write young La Fayette a letter, affectionate as your
feelings will naturally lead you to make it, announcing your reso-
lution to be to him a parent and friend, but mentioning that very
peculiar circumstances of the moment impose on you the neces-
sity of deferring the gratification of your wishes for a personal
interview, desiring him at the same time to concert with me a
plan of disposing of himself satisfactorily and advantageously in
the mean time. I shall with pleasure execute any commands
you may give me on the subject. The papers respecting this
matter are herewith returned. I shall without delay attend to
all the others.

Yery respectfully and affectionately,

I have the honor to be, Sir, &c.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, Nov. 23d, 1795.

My Dear Sir :

Inclosed are letters for Mr. de La Fayette and his tutor. I
leave them open for your perusal ; and notwithstanding the re-

72 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

quest in my letter of the 18th, I shall cheerfully acquiesce in
any measures respecting them which you (and others with whom
you may be disposed to consult) may deem most eligible.

As there can be no doubt that the feelings of both are alive
to every thing which may have the semblance of neglect or
slight ; and, indeed, expectant as they must have been, (without
adverting perhaps to the impediments,) of an invitation to fly to
me without delay, and distressing and forlorn as the situation of
one of them is, it is necessary that every assurance and consola-
tion should be administered to them. For these reasons, I pray
you to send my letters to them by express, the expense of which
I will repay with thankfulness.

The doubt which you have expressed of the propriety of an
open and avowed conduct in me towards the son of Mr. de La
Fayette, and the subject it might afford to malignancy to misin-
terpret the cause, has so much weight, that I am distrustful of
my own judgment in deciding on this business, lest my feelings
should carry me further than prudence (while I am a public
character) will warrant. It has, however, like many other
things in which I have been involved — two edges, neither of
which can be avoided without falling on the other. On one
side, I may be charged with countenancing those who have been
denounced the enemies of France ; on the other, with not counte-
nancing the son of a man who is dear to America.

When I wrote to you last, I had resolved to take both the
pupil and tutor into my own family, supposing it would be most
agreeable to the young gentleman, and congenial with friend-
ship ; at the same time that it would have given me more com-
mand over him, been more convenient, and less expensive to
myself than to board them out. But now, as I have intimated
before, I confide the matter entirely to your decision, after see-
ing and conversing with them.

Mr. Adet has been indirectly sounded on the coming over of
the family of Fayette generally, but not as to the exact point ;
his answer was, that as France did not make war upon women
and children, he did not suppose that their emigration could ex-
cite any notice. The case, however, might be different, if one of

Mt. 38.] CORRESPONDENCE. 73

them (with his tutor, whose character, conduct, and principles
may, for aught I know to the contrary, be very obnoxious) was
brought into my family, and of course, into the company that
visited it. But as all these things will be taken into considera-
tion by you, I shall not dwell upon them, and only add that,
With esteem, regard, and sincere affection,

I am ever yours,

Geo. Washington.

P. S. I have no doubt but that young Fayette and his tutor
might be boarded at German Town or in the vicinity of this
city, and would be at hand to receive assistance and advice as
occasion might require, although he might not be a resident
under my roof.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, November 28th, 1795.

My Dear Sir :

If indisposition or business of a pressing nature should have
prevented you looking into, and making a digest of the papers
I sent you on the 16th inst., I pray you to return them to me by
the first post after this letter is received.

The meeting of Congress is near at hand — and there is good
reason to expect a punctual attendance of the members. I should
be extremely unwilling, therefore, to be unprepared for this
event ; and shall endeavor to work the materials (no copy of
which I have by me) into the best form I am able, so soon as I
get them, if it is yet to do.

You omitted in your last to inclose the letters of Mr. Fayette,
his tutor, and Mr. Cabot to me, and the copy of mine to the lat-
ter. I beg they may accompany the other papers.

I am always and affectionately yours,

Geo. Washington.

P. S. I had written the foregoing letter to go by young Mr.

74 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 38.

Jay this morning, but he having postponed his journey, I now
add, that your letter of the 26th came to me by the mail of to-day
without the papers, or any mention thereof, which (as I requested,
if you could possibly make it convenient to let me have them by
the 24th) has given me a good deal of alarm, lest they should
have been intrusted to a private hand, who may be dilatory — or
may have met with some other mischance on the way.

Did my letter to young Fayette, under cover to you, get to
hand in time to be presented to him at the interview you had with
him ? My desire of seeing, and assuring him from my own mouth
of my fixed determination to be his friend and supporter, is such,
that I hardly know how to reconcile to my feelings the denial of
permitting him to come hither for a few moments to receive it.
But, supposing that whatsoever you decide will be for the best, I
shall acquiesce therein.

Yours,

G-.W.

WOLCOTT TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, December 1st, 1795.

Dear Sir:

I have not been able to ascertain all the points upon which
you requested me to write to you.

In February, 1780, a committee reported a conference with
the minister of France, the substance of which was, — That the
king of Spain wished for an alliance with the United States, but
that it was necessary that the United States should explain their
claims precisely.

That the cabinet of Madrid construed the western rights of
the United States to extend no further westward than the line of
settlement permitted by the British proclamation of 1763.

That the United States had no right to navigate the Missis-
sippi.

That the king of Spain would conquer Florida for himself.

iET. 38.]

CORRESPONDENCE. Y5

And that the lands westward of the line of 1763 were proper
subjects of conquests by Spain, from Great Britain.

The French minister said, that his Most Christian Majesty was
united by ties of blood to the king of Spain, and to the United
States by treaty and friendship, and that he would endeavor to
conciliate the differences of opinion with liberality, &c.

There are many intimations in the French conferences, ex-
horting the United States to moderation in their claims. It was
stated that France might not be able to obtain an implicit acknow-
ledgment of independence, in which case the United States
ought to consider whether a tacit acknowledgment ought not to
be accepted.

There are intimations at several times that Mr. Adams re-
quired positive instructions to prevent him from acting too inflex-
ibly, &c, &c, (this is the idea, not the expression.)

June 11th, 1781. Mr. Adams was instructed thus, — " to make
the most candid and confidential communications upon all sub-
jects to the ministers of our previous ally, the King of France?
to undertake nothing in the negotiations for peace or truce, with-
out their knowledge and concurrence, and ultimately to govern
yourself by their advice and opinion, endeavoring in your whole con-
duct, to make them sensible how much we rely upon his ma-
jesty's influence for effectual support in every thing that may be
necessary for the present security or future prosperity of the
United States of America."

It is worthy of remark, that the draft of instruction was com-
municated to the French minister, and the words scored with a
line underneath, inserted afterwards by way of amendment.

I send Chancellor Livingston's draft of a treaty with Eng-
land; it furnishes good matter for testing the opinions of Cat o
by a nib of authority for himself.

You will judge of the manner of using these hints. Perhaps,
under present circumstances, they ought only to be considered
as information, from which to state facts and reason. You will
hear from me on other points, when I can get time.

I lately requested a corrected translation of a document which
I sent to you. I hope it reached you.

76 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 38.

PICKERING TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, December 14, 1795.

Dear Sir:

The printer of Mr. Randolph's vindication, advertises that it
will be published next Friday. The translation of Fauchet's let-
ter will be in it. This translation was made by Mr. Taylor, at
Randolph's request; but Mr. Taylor, who desired the use of
mine, told me that he had made but few variations. Now if I
have mistaken the sense in any material passages, it is highly
probable that they will be transferred to Mr. Taylor's translation •
or Mr. Taylor may mistake the meaning of some passages, to
which he will always be liable, from the want of a comprehensive
view of his subject. I have met with such instances in his other
translations ; although he is more familiar with the French than
I am Now it seems to me important, that the first translation
of Fauchet's letter that shall be published, should convey its true
meaning. And therefore I wish earnestly that yours, or the
one you are correcting, may be returned by to-morrow's post (if
not already on its way), that it may be printed in Fenno's paper
before the vindication appears.

HAMILTON TO KING.

Dec. 14th, 1795.

My Dear Sir :

An extraordinary press of occupation has delayed an answer
to your letter on the subject of Mr. R. Though it may come
too late, I comply with your request as soon as I can.

The subject is truly a perplexing one ; my mind has several
times fluctuated. If there was nothing; in the case but his im-
prudent sally upon a certain occasion, I should think the reasons

JEt. 38.] CORRESPONDENCE. 77

for letting him pass would outweigh those for opposing his pas-
sage. But if it be really true that he is sottish, or that his mind
is otherwise deranged, or that he has exposed himself by impro-
per conduct in pecuniary transactions, the bias of my judgment
would be to negative. And as to the fact, I would satisfy my-
self by careful inquiry of persons of character who may have
had an opportunity of knowing.

It is now, and, in certain probable events, will still more be
of infinite consequence that our judiciary should be well com-
posed. Reflection upon this in its various aspects weighs heavily
upon my mind against Mr. E. upon the accounts I have received
of him, and balances very weighty considerations the other
way.

P. S. — From what a Mr. Wadsworth, lately in Philadelphia,
tells me of a conversation between Burr, Baldwin, and Gallatin,
it would seem that the two last gentlemen have made up their
minds to consider the treaty, if ratified by Great Britain, as con-
clusive upon the House of Representatives. I thought it well this
should be known to you, if not before understood from any other
quarter.

KING TO HAMILTON.

16th December, 1795.

I send you Dunlap of this morning. In it you have the
foreign intelligence. Fenno, Dunlap, and others, have errone-
ously stated, that Mr. Warden brought the ratification of Great
Britain. No official dispatch has been received. Rutledge was
negatived yesterday by the Senate. From present appearances,
the address to the President by the House, will pass without a
debate. The draft has been, by agreement in the Committee who
reported it, shaped so as to reserve all points intended to be dis-
cussed relative to the treaty. The words underscored in the

78 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

inclosed draft, were offered in the Committee by Mr. Madison,
who agreed to concur in the paragraph, if they were added.
You perceive the object.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, 22d Dec, 1795.

My Dear Sir:

Have you seen or heard more of young Fayette, since you
last wrote to me on that subject? Where did he go to? Did
you deliver him the letter I sent, under cover to you for him ?
His case gives me pain, and I do not know how to get relieved
from it. His sensibility, I fear, is hurt, by his not acknowledg-
ing the receipt of my letter to him ; and yet, if considerations of
a higher nature are opposed to a more uncovert countenance, it
must be submitted to. If he wants money, I am ready to fur-
nish it.

Ere this, I presume, you have seen the long promised vindi-
cation, or rather accusation. What do you think of it; and
what notice should be taken of it ? You are fully acquainted
with my sentiments relative to the rival and warring powers of

E and E ; and have heard as strong sentiments from me

with respect to both, as ever he did. His declaration that he was
always opposed to the commercial part of the negotiation, is as im-
pudent and insolent an assertion, as it is false ; if he means more
than that it was contingent, (as the instructions to Mr. Jay de-
clare,) and to apply the knowledge of it to me. But if you have
seen his performance, I shall leave you to judge of it without
any comments of mine.

With much sincerity and truth,

I am always and affectionately,
Yours,

Geo. Washington.

JEt. 38.] CORRESPONDENCE. 79

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

New- York, December 24, 1795.

Sir:

I have received your letter of the .

Young La Fayette is now with me. I had before made an
offer of money in your name, and have repeated it; but the
answer is, that they are not as yet in want, and will have re-
course when needed.

Young La Fayette appears melancholy, and has grown thin.
A letter lately received from his mother, which speaks of some-
thing which she wishes him to mention to you (as I learn from
his preceptor), has quickened his sensibility, and increased his
regret. If I am satisfied that the present state of things is likely
to occasion a durable gloom, endangering the health, and in
some sort the mind of the young man, I shall conclude, on the
strength of former permission, to send him to you for a short
visit ; the rather, as upon repeated reflection, I am not able to
convince myself that there is any real inconvenience in the step,
and as there are certainly delicate opposite sides. But it will be
my endeavor to make him content to remain away.

I have read with care Mr. Eandolph's pamphlet. It does not
surprise me. I consider it as amounting to a confession of guilt;
and I am persuaded this will be the universal opinion. His
attempts against you are viewed by all whom I have seen, as
base. They will certainly fail of their aim, and will do good,
rather than harm, to the public cause and to yourself. It appears
to me that, by you, no notice can be, or ought to be taken of
the publication. It contains its own antidote.

I perceive that Mr. Fauchet, and with him Mr. Eandolph,
have imputed to me the having asked to accompany you on the
western expedition.

The true course of the fact was as follows : — You had men-
tioned, and that early in the affair, as a question for consideration,
the propriety and expediency of your going out with the militia.
But no opinion had been given to you, and you had not an-

80 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38

nounced any determination on the point when my letter to you,
of the 19th of September, was written. That letter does not
ask to accompany you, but to be permitted to go on tiie expedi-
tion. A short time after it was sent, you mentioned to me that
you had concluded to go as far as Carlisle in the first instance,
and to take your ulterior determination according to circum-
stances, and proposed to me to accompany you.

My request was independent of your going or not going.
Its objects were, — 1st. That mentioned in my letter. 2d. An
anxious desire that, by being present, I might have it in my
power, in a case very interesting to my department, as well as
the government generally, to promote, in the event of your not
going on the expedition, a course of conduct the best calculated
to obviate impediments, and secure its object. I had serious
fears of treachery in Governor Mifflin, and I thought that even
Lee might miss the policy of the case in some particulars, &c, &c.

These were the considerations that determined me, and not
the little cunning rjolicy by which Mr. Fauchet supposes me to
have been governed.

I greatly miscalculate if a strong and general current does
not now set in favor of the government, on the question of the
treaty.

With true respect and attachment, &c.

HAMILTON TO PICKERING.

New-York, Dec. 26th, 1795.

Dear Sir:

Mr. Cutting has given to me a perusal of his papers, respect-
ing his agency in relieving our seamen from British impress. He
wished my opinion professionally respecting the validity of his
claim, which I declined to give, because it would contradict cer-
tain maxims I have prescribed to myself with regard to public
questions pending while I was part of the administration.

Mr. 38.] CORRESPONDENCE. 81

But there are reasons which induce me to convey to you
privately my view of the subject.

It appears to me clearly established that Mr. Cutting rendered
a very meritorious and an important service to the United States.
Its value is not to be estimated merely by the number of persons
relieved, but by the influence of the exertion upon other cases
— indeed upon our trade generally with the English ports at the
juncture. It is also a service very interesting to the feelings of
all our citizens — and there was certainly much good zeal and
address displayed upon the occasion. It sufficiently appears,
too, that the nature of the case must have involved considerable
expense, and in ways which frequently would not admit of after
authentication.

Under these circumstances I feel a strong impression that it is
of the policy as well as of the justice of the government to go
lengths in giving satisfaction to Mr. Cutting. "lis a case which
calls for liberality, not scrupulous or prying investigation. Mr.
Cutting's own testimony from necessity ought to be received as
to expenditures. This observation, to be sure, has reasonable
limits. But still the case demands that the testimony should be
received with influential effect.

Mr. Dorhman is an example of similar compensation in circum-
stances not unlike. Our own citizen has not an inferior claim.

What has been hitherto done for Mr. Cutting appears to be
manifestly inadequate. If it could be supposed that there was
risk of doing too much, it is of the reputation of the government
that the error should be on that side. Care ought to be taken
that a zealous citizen, who has rendered real service, should not
be out of pocket, and out of reputation, too, by his bargain. I
include a reasonable compensation for service as well as reim-
bursement of expenses.

These ideas will, I am sure, be received as they are intended

82 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 39.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

December, 1795.

Sir:

I have the pleasure to send you inclosed two letters, one
from young La Fayette, the other from his preceptor. They ap-
pear reconciled to some further delay.

I take the liberty to inclose a copy of a letter to the Secretary
of State respecting Mr. Cutting. I do not know upon the whole
what sort of a man Mr. Cutting is ; but as to the particular subject
of his claim, I really think it deserves an indulgent consideration,
and that it is expedient and right to favor it to a liberal extent.
Some reflections have made me think it advisable to place the
matter under your eye. Neither the Secretary of State nor Mr.
Cutting will be informed of this.

I wrote you a few lines two or three days ago in answer to
your letter concerning Mr. Eandolph's pamphlet.

Your very respectful and affectionate servant,

A. Hamilton.

HAMILTON TO KING.

January, 1796.

My Dear Sir:

If the newspapers tell truth, it would appear that Massachu-
setts has anticipated New- York. But it is intended by our
friends in the Legislature, to give some pointed discountenance
to the propositions. It was expected that it would have been
done to-day, but by the divergings of some men who seek popu-
larity with both sides, they have gotten into an unnecessary de-
bate upon the proposition in detail, which will lose time ; but in
the result a handsome majority will do right.

Lawrance is hurt, and as far as I see, not without some rea-

Mt. 39.] CORRESPONDENCE. 83

son, from particular circumstances, at being left out of the direc-
tion of the bank. It will be balm to his feelings to be put into
the direction of the office here, and I believe it will be an im-
provement of the direction to do it. I wish you would endeavor
to bring it about. Speak to Bayard of our city and to Wharton
of Philadelphia. This is a suggestion of my own, for Lawrance
rather rides a high horse upon the occasion.

Yours, truly.

DAYTON TO HAMILTON".

Philadelphia, Jan. 15, 1796.
The short interrogatory respecting our political prospect with
which you conclude your letter, cannot be answered in as few
words. Our session has hitherto been remarkably tranquil, but
we can have no security that it will continue so much longer.
That instrument, the cause of so much pleasure to some, and of
displeasure to others, — that compact, which has already drawn
forth so many pens, and occasioned so much warmth — the treaty
(as ratified), has for some time past been impatiently expected,
and will, when it arrives and is laid before the house, produce,
or I err exceedingly, agitations, collisions, and oppositions, the
extent of which cannot be foreseen or calculated.

Yours, with sincere esteem, &c.

WOLCOTT TO HAMILTON.

Treasury Department, January 15th, 1796.

Sir:

The question upon the constitutionality of the act imposing-
duties on carriages, will, I expect, be determined by the Supreme
Court the next month. I request you, if possible, to attend the

84 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt.Z9.

trial as counsel for the United States. Mr. Lee, the Attorney-
General, is now here, and will be able to inform you of the time
when the trial will come on, and will concert with you the mea-
sures proper to be pursued.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

New- York, January 19, 1796.

Sir:

Mrs. De Neuville, widow of Mr. De Neuville, formerly of
Holland, lately passed through this city. On her way she called
upon me, and announced her intention to make application to
Congress, on the ground of the political services rendered the
United States by her husband, as, in fact, a principal cause of
his pecuniary misfortunes, and expressed a wish that I would lay
the case under your eye. I told her that your situation did not
permit you to take an agency in similar matters, depending be-
fore Congress, and that you was very delicate on such subjects.
She replied, that you might perhaps indirectly promote iier
cause, and that from a letter from you to her husband, she was
encouraged to think you would be disposed to befriend her. I
yielded at last to female importunity, and promised to mention
the matter. I do not know what the case admits of, but, from
papers which she showed me, it would seem that she has pre-
tensions on the kindness of this country.

Our merchants here are becoming very uneasy on the subject
of the French captures and seizures. They are certainly very
perplexing and alarming, and present an evil of a magnitude to
be intolerable, if not shortly remedied. My anxiety to preserve
peace with France is known to you ; and it must be the wish of
every prudent man that no honorable expedient for avoiding a
rupture be omitted. Yet there are bounds to all things. This
country cannot see its trade an absolute prey to France without
resistance. We seem to be where we were with Great Britain,

JEt. 39.] CORRESPONDENCE. 85

when Mr. Jay was sent there ; and I cannot discern but that the
spirit of the policy, then pursued with regard to England, will
be the proper one now in respect to France (viz.) : a solemn and
final appeal to the justice and interest of France ; and if this will
not do, measures of self-defence. Any thing is better than abso-
lute humiliation. France has already gone much further than
Great Britain ever did.

I give vent to my impressions on this subject, though I am
persuaded your own reflections cannot materially vary.
With respectful and affectionate attachment,

I have the honor to remain, Sir,

Your very obedient servant, &c.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

January 19, 1796.

Sir:

The bearer of this letter is Doctor Bolman, whom you have
heard of, as having made an attempt for the relief of the Marquis
La Fayette, which very nearly succeeded. The circumstances
of this affair, as stated by Doctor Bolman and Mr. Huger, son of
B. Huger, of South Carolina, deceased, who assisted, do real
credit to the prudence, management, and enterprise of the doctor,
and show that he is a man of sense and energy.

He appears to have been induced to think that he attempted
a service which would strongly recommend him to the favor of
this country ; in which idea I have reason to believe that Mr .
Pinekney, among others, encouraged him ; and as a consequence
of it, he hopes for some civil employment under our government.
His expectations of what he may begin with are not high, it
being principally his object to obtain some present provision in
a way which may lead him, if he discovers talents, to something
better. He appears to be a man of education, speaks several
languages, converses sensibly, is of polite manners, and, I dare say,
has the materials of future advancement.

86 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 39.

I have not left him unapprised of the difficulties in his way ;
but he concludes to go to Philadelphia to ascertain what is, or is
not possible, relying at least on a kind reception from you.

He brought me letters from Mr. and Mrs. Church, which
speak handsomely of him. I believe they had a chief agency in
promoting his undertaking.

At his request, I give him this letter to you,

"With respectful and affectionate attachment.

•
P. S. The Doctor is a German.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON".

New-York, February 25, 1796.

Sib:

The evening I had last the pleasure of seeing you, you asked
my opinion whether any and what measures might be taken with
the Senate, with reference to the treaty with Great Britain, in the
event of its not arriving before the adjournment of the legis-
lature.

I mentioned as a hasty thought, that I feared it would be im-
practicable to detain them long in expectation of a treaty not
arrived ; but that it might be advisable, immediately after the
adjournment, to notify another meeting, as little distant as might
be compatible with reasonable time of notice.

On reflection, this opinion appears to me not to be well
founded, as to the last point. I fear the first part will be found
true, and that the body would not upon casualty remain many
days together after the expiration of the session.

In place of the course which I at first mentioned, I submit
the following.

" That the Secretary of State write a letter to each member
present and absent, announcing the expectation of the treaty, and
that, when arrived, the Senate will be convened by a proclama-
tion for a time not exceeding six weeks."

.Et. 39.] CORRESPONDENCE. 87

The letter of the Secretary of State to be sent by land, and
by water also, to the most remote members, and when the proc-
lamation for convening the Senate issues the same be done ; upon
special expresses for the land conveyance, and having ready some
swift-sailing vessel for the water conveyance.

With these precautions, I think six weeks' notice will be
enough.

The President cannot specially convene the Senate without
announcing that an extraordinary occasion exists. He had when
I left Philadelphia no such advice of the treaty as would warrant
the assertion, and even if he had, until it arrives, there is a pos-
sibility of a miscarriage, which might prevent his having it ready
to lay before the Senate at the time of meeting, if they should
be convened upon contingency. These reflections have led to
the change of opinion.

In great haste I have the honor to be, sir, your affectionate
and obedient servant.

JAY TO HAMILTON.

New-York, March 4th, 1796.

Sir:

In pursuance of a concurrent resolution of the two houses of
the legislature of the third and fourth instant, I desire you, as
a Counsellor at Law, to defend in behalf of this State, a certain
suit brought against Lewis Cornwall by or in behalf of Alexander
Colden for the recovery of a farm sold to the said Lewis by the
commissioners of forfeitures for the Southern District.

You will herewith receive a copy of the said resolution, and
of the petition of Lewis Cornwall which gave occasion to it.
I have the honor to be, Sir, &c.

88 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 39.

MOREIS TO HAMILTON.

London, March 4th, 1706.

My Dear Hamilton:

I have just now written to the President, to communicate
some intelligence lately received from Paris. This I have done in
the abstract, but my correspondent has written to me as follows.

(Here was inserted the letter from .) This letter is dated

Paris, the fifteenth of last month.

You may be sure, by my communicating this to you, that I
have confidence in the sources from whence it is derived. Now,
my dear friend, I have barely stated to the President the inten-
tion as to the new minister. His late declaration, as to the exist-
ing French government, has prevented me from saying a word
to him on a subject, where he has, I think, committed himself.

To you I will declare my conviction, that this government
cannot stand, whether the monarchy be restored or not. The
people in general are averse to it. The adherents to the royal
cause grow daily more numerous. If I knew decidedly the steps
to be taken in aid of them, I could tell you almost with certainty
whether they would be successful, for the state of that country
now presents sufficient data on which to reason soundly.

I need not say to you, that if the French rulers persist in the
measures which are above mentioned, America will probably be
obliged to take part in the war. On a former occasion, when
they talked somewhat highly, I told them that they could certain-
ly force us into the contest ; but as certainly it would be against
them, let the predilections in their favor be ever so great, because
it would be madness in us to risk our commerce against the navy
of the world. That to join them could do them no good, and
must do us much evil. At that time they believed me. What
representations Mr. Monroe may make, I cannot pretend to
divine, and much less the effect of them. Supposing, however,
that you should be driven to make this election, you will natu-
rally weigh not only the naval force, but also the financial
resources of the opposed powers. The noisy folks with you will

Mr. 39.] CORRESPONDENCE. 89

undoubtedly be loud on our obligations to France, and on the
long list of our grievances from England.

As to the former, I think we should always seek to perform
acts of kindness towards those, who, at the bidding of their
Prince, stepped forward to fight our battles. Nor would I ever
permit a frigid reasoning on political motives to damp those
effusions of sentiment, which are as laudable in a nation, as they
are decorous to a private citizen. But would it be kind to sup-
port that power, which now tyrannizes over France, and reduce
her inhabitants to unheard-of misery ? Would it be grateful to
mix with, much less to league with, those whose hands are yet
red with the blood of him who was our real protector ? Would
it be decent ?

As to the conduct of Britain towards us, although I see as
clearly as others the ground, which we have for complaint, and
can readily account for the resentments which have been ex-
cited, yet I give due weight to the causes by which that conduct
was instigated ; and if in some cases I find it unjustifiable, I can-
not consider it as in all cases inexcusable. Provided, therefore,
that our honor be saved, I am so far from thinking, that the
injuries we have endured should become the source of inextin-
guishable hatred and perpetual war, that I would rather seek in
future amity and good offices the fair motive for consigning them
to utter oblivion. I have not, my dear Hamilton, any such view
of our present political machinery, as to judge what may be the
effect of lofty menace. I apprehend that some feeble counsels
will be given. Whether they will be received and pursued, you
best know, and will doubtless act accordingly. What I have to
ask is, that you would put yourself in the way of being con-
sulted. I mean locally, for should you be at a distance, the time
may be too short for communication.

It is possible, after all, that the demand may turn on a single
point, viz., that we shall no longer pretend to claim an exemp-
tion from seizure for those goods of an enemy, which may be
found in our ships. If so, the case is plain and easy. We slide
back to the law of nations, which it is our interest to preserve
unimpeached. Probably we shall be called on for our guaran

90 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 39.

tee of St. Domingo, and here many questions will arise, in the
course of which we shall see, perhaps, some wise and virtuous
slave-masters contending for the propriety of general emancipa-
tion, with all its consequent train of crimes. It appears certain
to me, that the French Directory would not risk high language
to us, if they had not received previous assurances that the peo-
ple would force our government to sacrifice the national interest.
These assurances were, I presume, given, and the present plan
proposed, while victory seemed yet bound to the French stand-
ards, and while you received official assurances of the prosperous
state of their internal affairs. The scene is now not only changed,
but almost reversed, and I presume that the language, if not the
conduct of certain persons, will experience a similar change.

Adieu. I am forced to conclude thus abruptly. You know
I am always and truly yours,

GOUVERNEUR MORRIS.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

New-York, March 7, 1796.

Sir:

I found young La Fayette here, and delivered him your letter,
which much relieved him. I fancy you will see him on the first
day of April.

Mr. Livingston's motion in the House of Eepresentatives,
concerning the production of papers, has attracted much atten-
tion. The opinion here of those who think, is, that if the motion
succeeds, it ought not to be complied with. Besides, that in a
matter of such a nature the production of the papers cannot fail
to start new and unpleasant game. It will be fatal to the nego-
tiating power of the government if it is to be a matter of course,
for a call of either House of Congress to bring forth all the com-
munications, however confidential.

It seems to me that something like the following answer
by the President, will be advisable :

zEt.39.] correspondence. 91

" A right in the House of Representatives to demand and
have as matter of course, and without specification of any object,
all communications respecting a negotiation with a foreign power,
cannot be admitted without danger of much inconvenience. A
discretion in the Executive department, how far and when to
comply in such cases, is essential to the due conduct of foreign
negotiations, and is essential to preserve the limits between the
legislative and Executive departments. The present call is alto-
ther indefinite and without any declared purpose. The Execu-
tive has no basis on which to judge of the propriety of a com-
pliance with it ; and cannot, therefore, without forming a very
dangerous precedent, comply.

" It does not occur that the view of the papers asked for can be
relative to any purpose of the competency of the House of
Eepresentatives, but that of an impeachment. In every case of
a foreign treaty, the grounds for an impeachment must primarily
be deduced from the nature of the instrument itself, and from
nothing extrinsic. If at any time a treaty should present such
grounds, and it shall have been so pronounced by the House of
Eepresentatives, and a further inquiry shall be necessary to
ascertain the culpable person, there being then a declared and
ascertained object, the President would attend with due respect
to any application for necessary information."

This is but a hasty and crude outline of what has struck me
as an eligible course. For while a too easy compliance will be
mischievous, a too peremptory and unqualified refusal might be
liable to just criticism.

Most respectfully and affectionately,
I have the honor to be, &c,
Your obedient servant,

A. Hamilton.

92 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 39.

HAMILTON TO JAY.

New-York, March 10th, 1796.

Sir:

I had the honor duly to receive your Excellency's letter of
the 4th instant. I did not immediately answer it, from an indis-
tinct and confused recollection that a state of things existed, in
reference to the opposite party, which did not permit my being
concerned for the State. It now appears that I was not mistaken,
and that I cannot, with propriety, execute your Excellency's de-
sire.

With perfect respect,

I have the honor to be, Sir,

Your very obedient servant.

To the Governor of New- York.

HAMILTON" TO WILLIAM SMITH.

March 10th, 1796.

Dear Sir:

I observe Madison brings the power of the House of Kepre-
sentatives in the case of the treaty to this question. Is the
agency of the House of Representatives on the subject deliberative
or executive •? On the sophism that the Legislature, and each
branch of it, is essentially deliberative, and consequently must have
discretion, will he, I presume, maintain the freedom of the House
to concur or not.

But the sophism is easily refuted. The legislature, and each
branch of it, is deliberative, but with various restrictions, not with
unlimited discretion. All the injunctions and restrictions on the
constitution, for instance, abridge its deliberative faculty, and leave
it quoad hoc, merely executive. Thus the constitution enjoins
that there shall be a fixed allowance for the Judges, which shall
not be diminished. The Legislature cannot, therefore, deliberate

jEt. 39.] CORRESPONDENCE. 93

whether they will make a permanent provision, and when the
allowance is fixed they cannot deliberate whether they will ap-
propriate and pay the money. So far their deliberative faculty
is abridged. The mode of raising and appropriating the money,
only remains matter of deliberation.

So likewise, the constitution says that the President and Sen-
ate shall make treaties, and that these treaties shall be supreme
laws. It is a contradiction to call a thing a law which is not
binding. It follows that by constitutional injunction the House
of Representatives quoad the stipulations of treaties, as in the
case cited, respecting the Judges, are not deliberative, but merely
executive, except as to the means of executing.

Any other doctrine would vest the Legislature, and each
House, with unlimited discretion, and destroy the very idea of a
constitution limiting its discretion. The constitution would at
once vanish.

Besides, the legal power to refuse the execution of a law, is a
power to repeal it. Thus, the House of Representatives must, as
to treaties, concentre in itself the whole legislative jDOwer, and
undertake without "the Senate to repeal a law. For the law is
complete by the action of the President and Senate.

Again. A treaty, which is a contract between nation and
nation, abridges even the legislative discretion of the whole le-
gislature by the moral obligation of keeping its faith ; a fortiori,
that of one branch. In theory, there is no method by which the
obligations of a treaty can be annulled, but by mutual consent
of the contracting parties — by ill faith in one of them, or by a
revolution of government, which is of a nature so to change the
condition of parties, as to render the treaty inapplicable.

94 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 39.

HAMILTON TO KING.

New-York, March 16th, 1796.

My Dear Sir:

I thank you for your letter of the . My opinion on the

resolution when it first appeared was that the President should
answer in substance as follows, viz. :

" That it could not be admitted as a right of course in the
House of Representatives, to call for and have papers in the Ex-
ecutive department, especially those relating to foreign negotia-
tions, which frequently embrace confidential matters. That under
all the circumstances, upon so indefinite a call without any de-
clared specific object, he did not think it proper nor consistent
with what he owed to a due separation of the respective powers
to comply with the call. That if, in the course of the proceed-
ings of the House, a question of their competency should arise,
for which any of the papers in question might be necessary, an
application made on that ground would be considered with proper
respect," &c.

But after what has taken place in the discussion, if it can with
propriety be got in as to form, I think a stand ought to be made
by the President against the usurpation. The following propo-
sitions comprise an obvious ground :

I. The Constitution empowers the President, with the Senate,
to make treaties.

II. A treaty is a perfected compact between two nations, obli-
gatory on both.

III. That cannot be a perfected contract or treaty, to the
validity of which the concurrence of any other power in the State
is constitutionally necessary. Again,

IV. The Constitution says a treaty is a law.

V. A law is an obligatory rule of action, prescribed by the
competent authority. But,

YI. That cannot be such a rule of action, or law, to the valid-
ity of which the assent of any other person is requisite. Again,
VII. The object of the legislative power is to prescribe a rule

JEt. 39.] CORRESPONDENCE. 95

of action for our own nation, which includes foreigners coming
among us.

Vm. The object of the treaty power is, by agreement, to settle
a rule of action between two nations, binding on both.

IX. These objects are essentially different, and in a consti-
tutional sense, cannot interfere.

X. The treaty power binding the will of the nation, must,
within its constitutional limits, be paramount to the legislative
power, which is that will ; or, at least, the last law being a treaty,
must repeal an antecedent contrary law. And,

XI. If the legislative power is competent to repeal this law by
a subsequent law, this must be the whole legislative power, by a
solemn act in the forms of the constitution, not one branch of the
legislative power by disobeying the law.

XII. The foregoing construction reconciles the two powers,
and assigns them distinguishable spheres of action ; while

XIII. The other construction, that claiming that a right of
assent is a sanction for the House of Representatives, destroys the
treaty, making powerless and negative two propositions in the
Constitution, to ivit: 1. That the President, with the Senate, are
competent to make treaties. 2. That a treaty is a law.

On these grounds, with the President's name, a bulwark not
to be shaken is erected. The propositions, in my opinion, amount
to irresistible demonstration.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

New-York, March 24th, 1796.

Sir:

I had the honor to receive yesterday your letter of the 22d.
The course you suggest has some obvious advantages, and merits
careful consideration. I am not, however, without fear that
there are things in the instructions to Mr. Jay — which good
policy, considering the matter externally as well as internally^

96 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 39.

would render it inexpedient to communicate. This I shall as-
certain to-day. A middle course is under consideration — that of
not communicating the papers to the House, but of declaring
that the Secretary of State is directed to permit them to be read
by the members individually. But this is liable to a great part of
the objections which militate against a full public disclosure. I
throw it out, however, here, that you may be thinking of it, if it
has not before occurred. In the course of this day, I shall
endeavor to concentre my ideas, and prepare something, the
premises of which may be in any event proper, admitting of the
conclusion being modified and adapted to your eventual deter-
mination.

Eespectfully and affectionately, Sir, &c.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

March 26th, 1799.

Sir:

I perceive by the newspaper that the resolution has been
carried. I have not been idle as far as my situation would per-
mit, but it will not be in my power, as I had hoped, to send you
what I am preparing by this day's post ; the next will carry it.
It does not, however, appear necessary that the executive should
be in a hurry.

The final result in my mind, for reasons I shall submit in my
next, is, that the papers ought all to be refused. I am persuaded
the communication of the instructions in particular would do
harm to the President and to the government.

Eespectfully and affectionately, &c.

jEt. 39.] CORRESPONDENCE. 07

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

March 28th, 1796.

Sir:

I am mortified at not being able to send you by this post
a certain draft. But the opinion that reasons ought to be
given, and pretty fully, has extended it to considerable length,
and a desire to make it accurate as to idea and expression, keeps
it still upon the anvil. But it is so far prepared that I can
assure it by to-morrow's post. Delay is always unpleasant. But
the case is delicate and important enough to justify it.

I mentioned as my opinion, that the instruction to Mr. Jay,
if published, would do harm. The truth, unfortunately, is, that
it is in general a crude mass, which will do no credit to the ad-
ministration. This was my impression of it at the time ; but
the delicacy of attempting too much reformation in the work of
another head of department, the hurry of the moment, and a
great confidence in the person to be sent, prevented my attempt-
ing; that reformation.

There are several particular points in it which would have
a very ill effect to be published.

I. There is a part which seems to admit the idea that an
adjustment might be made respecting the spoliations which
should leave that matter finally to the ordinary course of the
British courts. This is obscurely and ambiguously expressed,
but the least color for such a construction would give occasion
for infinite clamor.

II. The negotiator is expressly instructed to accede to the
entire abolition of alienism as to inheritances of land. You have
seen what clamor has been made about the moderate modifica-
tion of this idea in the treaty, and can thence judge what a load
would fall on this part of the instructions.

III. He is instructed to enter into an article against the em-
ployment of privateers in war. This is manifestly against the
policy of a country which has no navy in a treaty with a country
which has a large navy. For it is chiefly by privateers that we

f 7

98 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 39.

could annoy the trade of Great Britain. Some would consider
this as a philosophic whim ; others as an intentional sacrifice of
the interests of this country to Great Britain.

IV. There are several parts which hold up the disreputable
and disorganizing idea of not being able to restrain our oivn
citizens.

V. There are parts which, though proper to our own agent,
the publication of which would be a violation of decorum to-
wards Great Britain, after an amicable termination of the affair,
and offensive, because contrary to the rules of friendly and re-
spectful procedure.

YI. The instructions have too little point (in the spirit of the
framer, who was in the habit of saying much and saying little),
and would be censured as altogether deficient in firmness and
spirit.

On the whole, I have no doubt that the publication of these
instructions would do harm to the executive, and to the character
and interest of the government.

The draft will be so prepared as to admit of this conclusion.

If the President concludes to send papers, they ought only
to be the commissions, and Mr. Jay's correspondence, saying, that
these are all that it appears to him for the public interest to send.

But he may be then prepared for as much clamor as if he
sent none. It would be said that what was done showed that the
principle had not been the obstacle — and that the instructions
were withheld because they would not bear the light. Or, at
most, only that part of the instructions should go which begins
at these words, " 4. This enumeration presents, generally, the
objects which it is desirable to comprise in a commercial treaty,
&c," to the end of the instructions.

But after the fullest reflection I have been able to give the
subject (though I perceive serious degrees of inconveniencies in
the course), I entertain a final opinion that it will be best, after
the usurpation attempted by the House of Eepresentatives, to
send none, and to resist in totality.

Affectionately and respectfully, &c.

At. 39.] CORRESPONDENCE. 99

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.
(private.)

Philadelphia, 31st March, 1796.

My Dear Sir:

I do not know how to thank you sufficiently, for the trouble
you have taken to dilate on the request of the House of Kepre-
sentatives for the papers relative to the British treaty ; or how
to apologize for the trouble (much greater than I had any idea of
giving) which you have taken to show the impropriety of that
request.

From the first moment, and from the fullest conviction in my
own mind, I had resolved to resist the principle which was evi-
dently intended to be established by the call of the House of Eep-
resentatives ; and only deliberated on the manner in which this
could be done, with the least bad consequences.

To effect this, three modes presented themselves to me — 1st,
a denial of the papers in Mo, assigning concise, but cogent rea-
sons for the denial ; 2d, to grant them in whole ; or, 3d, in part ;
accompanied with a pointed protest against the right of the House
to control treaties, or to call for papers without specifying their
object; and against the compliance being drawn into precedent.

I had as little hesitation in deciding that the first was the
most tenable ground, but from the peculiar circumstances of this
case, it merited consideration, if the principle could be saved,
whether facility in the provisions might not result from a com-
pliance. An attentive examination, however, of the papers and
the subject, soon convinced me that to furnish all the papers
would be highly improper ; and that a partial delivery of them
would leave the door open for as much calumny as the entire
refusal — perhaps more so — as it might, and I have no doubt
would be said, that all such as were essential to the purposes of
the House were withheld.

Under these impressions I proceeded, with the Heads of De-
partments, and the Attorney-General, to collect materials, and to
prepare an answer, subject, however, to alteration and revision

100 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 39.

according to circumstances. This answer was ready on Monday,
and proposed to be sent in on Tuesday, but it was delayed until
I should receive what was expected ; not doing it definitely on
that day, the delivery of my answer was further postponed till
the next, notwithstanding the anxious solicitude which was visi-
ble in all quarters to learn the result of Executive decision.

Finding that the draft I had prepared embraced most if not
all the principles which were detailed in the paper I received
yesterday, though not the reasonings — that it would take con-
siderable time to copy the latter — and above all, having under-
stood, that if the papers were refused, a fresh demand, with stric-
tures, might be expected, I sent in the answer which was ready,
reserving the other as a source for reasoning, if my information
proves true.

I could not be satisfied without giving you this concise ac-
count of the business — to express again my sincere thanks for the
pains you have been at to investigate the subject.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

New-York, April 2d, 1796.

Sir:

The express is this morning gone off with your letter to young
La Fayette. I foresaw when in Philadelphia a certain machina-
tion on the subject.

I rejoice at the decision you have come to in regard to the
papers. Whatever may happen, it is right in itself, will elevate
the character of the President, and inspire confidence abroad.
The contrary would have encouraged a spirit of usurpation, the
bounds of which could not be foreseen.

If there is time, I should like to have back the paper lately
sent to correct, prune, guard, and strengthen — I have no copy.
But of the expediency of this the circumstances on the spot will
decide. There is great fitness in the message to the House. I

jEt. 39.] CORRESPONDENCE. 101

see only one point the least vulnerable, the too direct notice of
the debate in the House — which may be attacked as contrary to

parliamentary usage. I hear the criticism here among the L s.

But this cannot be very material.

Most respectfully and affectionately,

I have the honor to be, &c.

HAMILTON TO KING.

April 2d, 1796.

Thank you for yours of yesterday. I have no copy of the
paper sent : the greatest part went in the original draft, though
considerably reformed according to joint ideas, and somewhat
strengthened by new thoughts. A letter I have received tells me
that it came to hand after the ground which was acted upon had
been formally considered and taken in council, and that it is re-
ferred for future use in the event of an expected criticism of the
message.

I have asked for it conditionally, to prune, correct, &c. If I
get it you shall have a copy. But you must take care that there
is no crossing of path.

EAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

April 8th, 1796.

Sir:

I have done something, but not what I intended. The sitting
of two courts, and my professional engagements there, prevent
the execution of my plan. I no longer withhold the paper, lest
circumstances should render it of any use.

Yours affectionately and respectfully,

A. H.

102 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 39.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

New-York, April 9th, 1796.

Sir:

It gives me great pleasure to have the opportunity of an-
nouncing to you one whom I know to be interesting to you as a
bearer of this — Mr. Motier La Fayette. I allow myself to share,
by anticipation, the satisfaction which the meeting will afford to
all the parties — the more, as I am persuaded that time will con-
firm the favorable representation I have made of the person, and
justify the interest you take in him.

I have pleasure, also, in presenting to you Mr. Frestel, who
accompanies him, and who more and more convinces me, that he
is entirely worthy of the charge reposed in him, and every way
entitled to esteem.

With the most respectful and affectionate attachment, I have
the honor to be, Sir,

Your very obedient servant,

A. Hamilton.

KING TO HAMILTON.

Wednesday, April 20th, 1796.
The petitions of the merchants and others will be presented
to-day, and, it is said, they have been signed by almost every
merchant and trader in the city. — Pettit, Barclay, and some few
others are exceptions. — A counter petition has been very in-
dustriously carried through the city and its suburbs, and though
very few merchants, traders, or principal mechanics have signed
it, it will show a long catalogue of names. The persons engaged
in this service have been very successful in the Northern and
Southern liberties, and taking their stands upon the wharves

jEt.39.] CORRESPONDENCE. 103

they have collected the names of sailors, and others, as well
foreigners as citizens. Baltimore has become very zealous, and
I fear from their displeasure at the conduct of Col. Smith, they
have hazarded his vote and influence whatever it may be in the
question of provision for the treaty. They have drawn up a
paper, which is signed by almost the whole body of merchants,
in which they request and instruct him to promote by the pro-
per provisions the execution of the treaty. His inclination was
in favor of a provision, but I am apprehensive his pride will be
so wounded by this instruction that he may vote against his
judgment to prove his independence. We shall probably re-
ceive from the House to-day a bill, making an appropriation for
defraying the expenses of carrying into effect the Spanish treaty.
We shall amend it by adding a provision for the British
treaty, — if the House disagree, we shall adhere, and they will
lose the bill by refusing our amendment, — we shall then add to
the Algerine bill an amendment providing for the British and
Spanish treaties. The House will also decide the fate of this
bill. We shall then add to the bill providing for the Indian
treaty an amendment providing for the British, the Spanish,
and the Algerine treaties. The House will also decide the fate
of this bill. We shall then oifer them a bill providing for all
the treaties. This likewise they may reject, but my belief is,
that the opposition will give way before we have gone through
this course.

HAMILTON TO KING.

New-York, April 15th, 1796.

My Dear Sir :

A letter by yesterday's post, from our friend Ames, inform-
ed me that the majority (57 concurring) had resolved in a private
meeting to refuse appropriation for the treaty. A most import-
ant crisis ensues. Great evils may result, unless good men play

104 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 39.

their card well and with promptitude and decision. For we
must seize and carry along with us the public opinion, and loss
of time may be loss of every thing.

To me our true plan appears to be the following (I pre-
suppose that a certain communication has been made) :

1st. The President ought, immediately after the House has
taken the ground of refusal, to send them a solemn protest. This
protest ought to contain reasons in detail against the claim of the
House in point of constitutional right, and ought to suggest
summarily, but with solemnity and energy, the danger to the
interest and peace of the country from the measures of the
House, the certainty of a deep wound to our character with
foreign nations, and essential destruction of their confidence in
the government, concluding with an intimation that in such a
state of things he must experience extreme embarrassment in
proceeding in any pending or 'future negotiations which the
affairs of the United States may require, inasmuch as he cannot
look for due confidence from others, nor give them the requisite
expectation that stipulations will be fulfilled on our part.

A copy of this protest to be sent to the Senate for their in-
formation. The Senate by resolutions to express strongly their
approbation of his principles, to assure him of their firm support,
and to advise him to proceed in the execution of the treaty on
his part in the confidence that he will derive from the virtue and
good sense of the people, constitutionally exerted, eventual and
effectual support, and may still be the instrument of preserving
the Constitution, the peace, and the honor of the nation.

Then the merchants to meet in the cities, and second by their
resolutions the measures of the President and Senate, further ad-
dressing their fellow citizens to co-operate with them. Petitions
afterwards to be handed throughout the United States.

The Senate to hold fast, and consent to no adjournment till
the expiration of the term of service of the present House, unless
provision made.

The President to cause a confidential communication to be
made to the British minister stating candidly what has happened,
his regrets, his adherence nevertheless to the treaty, his resolu-

^Et. 39.]

CORRESPONDENCE. 105

tion to persist in the execution, as far as depends on the Execu-
tive, and his hope that the faith of the country will be eventually
preserved.

I prefer that measures should begin with a protest of the
President, as it will be in itself proper, and there will be more
chance of success if the contest appears to be with him and the
Senate auxiliaries, than in the reverse.

But in all this business, celerity, decision, and an imposing-
attitude, is indispensable. The glory of the President, the safety
of the Constitution, the greatest interests, depend upon it.
Nothing will be wanting here. I do not write to the President
on the subject.

An idea has come from Cooper, of an intention in our friends
in the House of Kepresentatives to resist the execution of the
other treaties, the Spanish and Algerine, unless coupled with the
British. But this will be altogether wrong and impolitic. The
misconduct of the. other party cannot justify in us an imitation of
their principles. 'Tis best, I think, that the first course should be
given to the other treaties. Or at most, if a, feint of opposition is
deemed advisable, it ought to be left to the Senate by postpone-
ment, &c. But even this is very delicate and very questionable.

Let us be right, because to do right is intrinsically proper, and
I verily believe it is the best means of securing final success.
Let our adversaries have the whole glory of sacrificing the inter-
ests of the nation.

Yours, affectionately.

pt s# — if the treaty is not executed, the President will be
called upon, by regard to his character and the public good, to
keep Ms post till another House of Kepresentatives has pronounced.

106 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 39

HAMILTON TO KING.

New-York, April 18, 1796.

Dear Sir:

I thank you for your letter received to-day. Our merchants
here are not less alarmed than those of Philadelphia, and will do
all they can. All the insurance people meet to-day. The
merchants and traders will meet to-morrow, or the next day.
A petition will be prepared, and circulated among the other
citizens.

I regret that a certain communication was not made. In-
deed, I think that the Executive will be hereafter blamed for
keeping back the fact in so critical a posture of things.

Yours truly, &c.

HAMILTON TO KING.

April 20, 1796.

Dear Sir:

Yesterday's post brought me a letter from you, which gave
me pleasure. The papers will apprise you of the proceedings of
the merchants and traders here on yesterday. There is among
them, also, " unexampled unanimity," and, as far as I can judge,
the current is in our favor throughout the city. Persons to-day
are going through the different wards.

Yours sincerely, &c.

P. S. Our friends in the House will do well to gain time.

jEt. 39.] CORRESPONDENCE. 107

HAMILTON" TO WOLCOTT.

New-York, April 20th, 1790.

Dear Sir:

I have received your letter of the 18th instant. The money
paid me for you shall be placed to your credit in the office of
discount and deposit, as you desire.

The British ministry are as great fools, or as great rascals, as
our Jacobins, else our commerce would not continue to be dis-
tressed as it is by their cruisers ; nor would the Executive be
embarrassed, as it now is, by the new proposition.

Not knowing the precise form of that proposition, I cannot
have an opinion what is right on the part of the Executive. But
if I understand it, it ought to be sufficient for the Executive to
declare that the article in the treaty with the Indians can never
operate, nor will be permitted to operate, in contravention of
the treaty with Great Britain. It relates to a right reserved for
our benefit, which we can, and will, waive ; and, being in a treaty
of subsequent date, it naturally gives way to another of prior
date, with which it is consistent. The Executive ought to be
careful about admitting the propriety of a new condition, though
it ought to be ready to give all due satisfaction. It should not
even shun a new explanatory article, if reasonable in itself, but
should agree to it upon the strength of its own reasonableness,
not as a new condition foreign to the treaty. This affair requires
great attention ; but, as I said, I do not know enough to give
advice worth much.

Yet the government must take care not to appear pusillani-
mous. I hope a very serious remonstrance has long since gone
against the wanton impressment of our seamen. It will be an
error to be too tame with this overbearing cabinet.

Our city is in motion against the plan of the majority in the
House of Eepresentatives, with regard to the treaty. The cur-
rent appears to be strong with us. The papers will tell you the
measures in contemplation.

But I was sorry to learn that a proper qualified communica-

108 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

tion was not made to the House of Kepresentatives, of the late
communication from the British agent. The Executive may
hereafter be blamed for withholding so important a fact ; yet,
not knowing the whole affair, I cannot judge well on this point,
more than on the other.

HAMILTON TO KING.

April 23d, 1796.

Dear Sir:

I have received your two letters, and shall this day attend to
the one which requires it. I see, however, no objection to it
as it stands, and I do not now perceive how the further object
you aim at could be accomplished in the manner you seem to
desire.

I have written to Ames this day concerning the course of
things in our city. He will communicate to you, as I have not
time to repeat. We are decidedly well. But it is intended to-
day to continue the petition in circulation, and to-morrow it will
be sent. I have thought it advisable to publish an extract from
your letter without naming you.

Yours truly, &c.

MARSHALL TO HAMILTON.

Richmond, April 25th, 1796.

Yours of the 14th only reached me by the mail of this even-
ing. I had been informed of the temper of the House of Kepre-
sentatives, and we had promptly taken such measures as appeared
to us fitted to the occasion. We could not venture an expres-
sion of the public mind under the violent prejudices with which

iET. 39.] CORRESPONDENCE. 109

it has been impressed, so long as a hope remained, that the
House of Representatives might ultimately consult the interest
or honor of the nation. But now, when all hope of this has van-
ished, it was deemed advisable to make the experiment, how-
ever hazardous it might be. A meeting was called, which was
more numerous than I have ever seen at this place ; and after a
very ardent and zealous discussion which consumed the day, a
decided majority declared in favor of a resolution that the well-
fare and honor of the nation required us to give full effect to the
treaty negotiated with Britain. This resolution, with a petition
drawn by an original opponent of the treaty, will be forwarded
by the next post to Congress. The subject will probably be
taken up in every county in the State, or at any rate in very
many of them. It is probable that a majority of the counties will
avow sentiments opposed to ours, but the division of the State
will appear to be much more considerable than has been stated.
In some of the districts there will certainly be a majority who
will concur with us, and that perhaps may have some effect. As
man is a gregarious animal, we shall certainly derive much ai(
from declarations in support of the constitution and of appro-
priations, if such can be obtained from our sister States. The
ground we take here is very much that of Mr. Hillhouse. We ad-
mit the discretionary constitutional power of the representatives
on the subject of appropriations, but contend that the treaty is as
completely a valid and obligatory contract when negotiated by the
President and ratified by him, with the assent and advice of the
Senate, as if sanctioned by the House of Representatives also under
a constitution requiring such sanction. I think it would be very
difficult, perhaps impossible, to engage Mr. H. on the right side
of this question. If you have any communications which might
promote a concurrence of action, we shall be proud to receive
them.

With much respect and esteem,

From, dear Sir, your obedient servant,

John- Marshall.

110 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 39.

"WOLCOTT TO HAMILTON.
(private.)

Philadelphia, April 29. 1796.

Dear Sir :

I have received jour favor of the 20th. The affair with
Bond stands thus, and is truly attended with some perplexing
circumstances.

The communication states, that provisional orders have been
given for the surrender of the posts whenever the House of Eep-
resentatives shall have indicated an intention to give effect to the
treaty, and when an article shall have been negotiated, explana-
tory of the sense of the two nations ; that the 8th article of our
treaty with the Indians shall not abrogate from the rights stipu-
lated in favor of British subjects by the 3d article of the treaty
with Great Britain.

The style of the memorial is respectful, and the doubtful
article in the Indian treaty is attributed to want of information
on our part of the stipulation in the British treaty.

I have thought that a declaration by the Executive, that we
admit the doctrine of the Law of Nations, ought to be sufficient,
and that insisting upon an explanatory article was pressing a
point rather unreasonably against us. As however Mr. Bond
says he is instructed to insist on an article, and as the terms can
be adjusted so as completely to save the national honor, perhaps
we are bound to consent. I feel, however, that the Executive
ought not to have been embarrassed at present.

There being two points to be settled before we obtain the
posts, one concerning the legislature, and the other the Senate,
it has appeared to me, that a partial communication would be
improper, and that a general one would be inexpedient. A mes-
sage to the House would moreover unnecessarily stimulate the
passions of the opposition. A resolution for giving effect to the
treaty is under consideration ; the presumption ought to be that
they will do their duty. On this ground the Senate have for-
borne to connect a provision for the British treaty, with the bills

JEt. 39.] CORRESPONDENCE. Ill

which, have been sent up respecting the other treaties. The
principles which have governed the Senate, if correct, require the
Executive to forbear his interference.

Some difficulty may be apprehended in obtaining a ratifica-
tion of the explanatory article in the present state of the Senate,
but it will be surmounted.

I think the government will succeed in the present contest,
but it remains doubtful whether order can be long preserved.
Unless a radical change of opinion can be effected in the
Southern States, the existing establishments will not last eighteen
months. The influence of Messrs. Gallatin, Madison and Jeffer-
son must be diminished, or the public affairs will be t to
a stand. No proper attention is paid to the cui 3S of
the government by the House. Every thing is in the Lands of
the Committees ; nothing is understood, and few matters of im-
portance in a train for being completed. Before the treaty ques-
tion commenced, the treaty furnished a pretence for delay ; the
length of the session, and the languor of the members, will furnish
another pretext, after that question shall have been determined.

Mr. Patten, the postmaster, communicated to me yesterday a
singular circumstance. Some time since letters were delivered
into his office, for Eobert Cowper, and a Doctor Graham, of Suf-
folk, in Virginia. By some means, Mr. Patten discovered that
these letters had been brought from Virginia, and this he says
induced him to suspect some mischief, and to write to Virginia.
I have seen the answer which he (P.) received from Eobert Cow-
per, in which he says that the letter to him was signed with your
name — that to Doctor Graham was signed with the name of Mr.
Van Allen, of Congress.

It seems that the letters were forgeries, and contain some-
thing which, if true, might injure yours and Mr. Van Allen's
characters. This is doubtless some Jacobin trick.

I shall try to detect it, and give you information ; at present
I have no particulars.

112 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 39.

KING TO HAMILTON.

Sunday, 1st May, 1796.

In committee of the whole on Friday, it was resolved by the
casting vote of Muhlenburgh, the chairman, to make provision
by law for carrying the treaty with England into effect ; yester-
day the resolution of the committee of the whole was passed in
the House by 51 against 48. A projDosition to prefix to the
resolution a preamble declaring the treaty to be injurious to the
interests of the United States, and assigning the short duration of
its temporary articles as a reason why it should be permitted to
go into effect, was negatived by 50 against 49, and the resolution
was immediately, and without division, referred to a committee,
with instructions to prepare and report a bill or bills in confor-
mity with the resolution. The failure of the party in their
intention to denounce the treaty, I am fearful, will not discourage
them in a second attempt. A majority of five or six (if I am
not mistaken) would join in a vote of condemnation, but in the
shape in which the proposition was offered, some of the most in-
veterate opponents of the treaty voted in the negative, because,
they said, if they voted for the preamble, it would be then proper
for them to vote for the resolution, which they were determined
not to do. Though from the stage in which the business now is,
I hope the attempt will not be made ; yet, if an independent
resolution should be offered, declaring the treaty to be injurious,
&c, I am apprehensive it would be adopted. This, however,
would not defeat the provision for the execution of the treaty —
51 votes in the affirmative ; the Speaker's vote with that of Mr.
Freeman, of Massachusetts, both of whom are in favor of the
provisions, make 53 affirmative voices, a majority of the whole
number of representatives.

Yours, &c.

Mt. 39.] CORRESPONDENCE. 113

KING TO HAMILTON.

Monday, 2d May, 1796.

The inclosed letter will give you all the information that we
have on the subject to which it relates. It seems problematical
whether P. H. can be induced to agree in the arrangement.
Some circumstances of which I have lately heard incline me to
believe that he will not. Our session will close by the first of
June, provided no further impediment is thrown in the way of the
provision for giving efficacy to the treaty with England — and it is
much to be wished that a definitive arrangement should be made
before we separate.

Mr. Pinckney has asked leave to return home, and waits only
for permission. To his former stock of popularity he will now
add the good- will of those who have been peculiarly gratified
with the Spanish treaty. Should we concur in him, will he not
receive as great, perhaps greater, southern and western support
than any other man ?

You must know that I am not a little tired with this separa-
tion from my family and drudging in the Senate. The work now
before us being finished, I think I am entitled to a dismission.
It would be agreeable to me to spend a few years abroad, and if
I do not misconceive the interests of the country, I think I could
render some service to the public at the present period in Eng-
land. Will you converse with Mr. Jay on this subject — I can
through no other channel communicate with the Executive — nor
do I desire that either of you should suggest the measure, unless
you both agree in its propriety and utility. Farewell.

Yours very sincerely.

114 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 39.

HAMILTON TO KING.

May 4, 1796.

My Dear Sir :

Since my last I have received two or three letters from you.
The late turn of the treaty question makes us all very happy. I
hope no future embarrassment will arise.

I am entirely of opinion that, Patrick Henry declining, Mr.
Pinckney ought to be our man. It is even an idea of which I
am fond in various lights. Indeed, on latter reflection, I rather
wish to be rid of Patrick Henry, that we may be at full liberty
to take up Pinckney.

In the event of Pinckney's return to this country, I am of
opinion, all circumstances considered, it is expedient you should
replace him. I hope no great question will in a short period
agitate our councils, and I am sure you will do much good on
the scene in question. I have called on Jay, but happened not
to find him disengaged. I shall quickly see him, and shall, with
great pleasure, do every thing requisite on my part.

We believe confidently our election in the city has succeeded ;
the other party, however, also claims success. Our Senator ticket
seems admitted on both sides to have prevailed, and all accounts
assure us of great success throughout the State. The vile affair
of whipping Burke and McCredy made our election, in the view
of the common people, a question between the rich and the poor.
You will easily conceive how much this must have embarrassed
and jeoparded.

Yours affectionately, &c.

HAMILTON TO KING.

May 5th, 1796.

Dear Sir:

After reading, seal and hand in the inclosed. If such things
are to be, you cannot leave the Senate. Jay is against it, at all

jEt. 39.] CORRESPONDENCE. 115

events till the European storm is over. We must all think well
of this business. Adieu.

Yours affectionately, &c.

The inclosed letter was for the President.

R K.

STEVENS TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, May 7, 1796.

My Dear Friend :

Almost ever since your departure I have been confined to my
chamber, by a severe and obstinate catarrh. Though much bet-
ter, at present my health is still so much deranged that I dread
encountering the warmth of the summer months in this city. I
have, therefore, determined to take a voyage to sea, and I shall
visit St. Croix before my return. Mrs. Stevens has concluded to
accompany me with our little ones. Our absence will be but
short. If no unexpected eveut takes place, we shall certainly
return by the month of September. I could not, however, leave
America without assuring you of our best wishes for the health
and prosperity of yourself and family. May every blessing
attend you. Mrs. S. unites with me in affectionate remembrance
of Mrs. Hamilton.

I remain, with unfeigned attachment,
My dear Sir,

Your sincere friend,

Edward Stevens.

116 HAMILTON'S WORKS

[.-Et. 39.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.
(private and confidential.)

Philadelphia, 8th May, 1796.

My Dear Sie:

Your note of the 5th instant, accompanying the information

given to you by G M , on the 4th of March, came safe

on Friday. The letter he refers to as having been written to me
is not yet received ; but others from Mr. Monroe, of similar com-
plexion, and almost of as imperious a tone from that govern-
ment, have got to hand.

That justice and policy should dictate the measures with
which we are threatened, is not to be conceived ; and one would
think that even folly and madness, on their part, would hardly go
such lengths, without supposing a stimulus of a more serious nature
than the town meetings and the particular resolutions which ap-
peared in the course of last summer and autumn, on ours. Yet,
as it seems to be the era of strange vicissitudes and unaccount-
able transactions — attended with a sort of irrresistible fatality in
many of them, I shall not be surprised at any event that may
happen, however extraordinary it may be, and therefore, it may
not be amiss to ruminate upon the information which has been
received in its fullest latitude, and be prepared to answer the de-
mands on the extensive scale which has been mentioned.

What then do you think ought to be said in case G

M 's information should prove true in all its parts ? and what

if the .proceedings and instructions of the French Directory
should not agree with my conjecture, which is, that encouraged
by the proceedings of last summer on the treaty (as already men-
tioned), and aided, perhaps, by communications of influential men
in this country, through a medium which ought to have been the
last to engage in it, that that government may, and I believe
will, send out an envoy extraordinary, with instructions, to make
strong remonstrances against the unfriendliness (as they will term
it) and the tendency of our treaty with Great Britain; accom-
panied, probably, and expectedly, with discretionary powers to

^t. 39.] CORRESPONDENCE. 117

go farther, according to circumstances, and the existing state of
matters when he shall have arrived here.

Perhaps these instructions may extend to a releasement from
that part of our treaty with them, which claims exemption from
the seizure of enemies' goods in our vessels ; perhaps to demand
the fulfilment of our guarantee of their West India islands
as the most likely means of affording them relief, under the cir-
cumstances they labor at present ; perhaps, too, to endeavor to
render null and void our treaty with Great Britain ; possibly
all of them, or the dissolution of the alliance. But I cannot bring
my mind to believe that they seriously mean, or that they could
accompany this envoy with a fleet, to demand the annihilation of
the treaty with Great Britain in fifteen days, or that war, in case
of refusal, must follow as a consequence.

Were it not for the unhappy differences among ourselves, my
answer would be short and decisive, to this effect : We are an
independent nation, and act for ourselves. Having fulfilled, and
being willing to fulfil (as far as we are able), our engagements
with other nations, — and having decided on, and strictly observ-
ed a mutual conduct towards the belligerent powers, from an
unwillingness to involve ourselves in war, we will not be dictated
to by the politics of any nation under heaven, farther than trea-
ties require of us.

Whether the present, or any circumstances should do more
than soften this language, may merit consideration. But if we are
to be told by a foreign power (if our engagements with it are
not infracted) what we shall do, and what we shall not do, we
have independence yet to seek, and have contended hitherto for
very little.

If you have communicated the purport of Mr. G M 's

letter to Mr. Jay, I wish you would lay this also before him, in
confidence, and that you and he would be so good as to favor me
with your sentiments and opinions on both ; and on the measures
which you think would be most advisable to be taken in case we
should have to encounter the difficulties with which we are
threatened, which, assuredly, will have been brought on us by
the misconduct of some of our own intemperate people, who seem

118 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 39.

to have preferred throwing themselves into the arms of France
(even under the present circumstances of that country), to that
manly and neutral conduct which is so essential, and would so
well become us, as an independent nation.

Before I close this letter I will mention another subject, which,
though in a smaller degree, is nevertheless embarrassing. This
also is communicated in confidence. It respects the wishes of
young La Fayette, relative to his father. As is very natural, and
what might have been expected, he is extremely solicitous that
something should be attempted to obtain the liberation of him,
and has brought forward several plans (suggested by Doctor
Bollman, who, it is to be feared, will be found a troublesome
guest among us) to effect it.

These will be better understood by the inclosures now sent,
than by any details I could give, when I add to them the sup-
position of Fayette and Frestel, that the Doctor is without funds,
and will be more embarrassing to them, the longer he remains
here — no mention, however, that has come to my knowledge, of
his going away.

The result of my reflection on this subject, and which I have
communicated to the two young men, is, that although I am con-
vinced in my own mind that Mr. La Fayette will be held in con-
finement by the combined powers until peace is established ; yet,
to satisfy them and their friends of my disposition to facilitate
their wishes, as far as it can be done with any propriety on my
part, I would, as a private person, express in a letter to the empe-
ror my wish, and what I believe to be the wishes of this country
towards that gentleman, viz. : that the liberation of him, condi-
tioned on his repairing hither, would be a grateful measure ; that
this letter I would put under cover to Mr. Pinckney, to be for-
warded or not, according to the view he might have of its suc-
cess, after conversing indirectly with the diplomatic characters
of the combined powers in London ; but that I could not, while
in public office, have any agency in, or even knowledge of any
project that should require concealment, or that I should be un-
willing to appear openly and avowedly in ; that as Doctor Boll-
man had committed an act (however meritorious and pleasing it

Mi. 3t.] CORRESPONDENCE. 119

might be to the friends of Mr. de La Fayette,) which was received
in a very obnoxious light by the power in whose possession the
prisoner was — had narrowly escaped condign punishment for it
himself — and was released upon the express condition that he
should never again appear in those dominions — that I could
neither show him countenance, nor could I furnish him with
money to extricate himself from difficulties, (if he was in any,) —
seeing but little difference between giving before or after to a man
who stands in the light in which he does between that power and
the Executive of the United States ; but that, if he was disposed
to quit the latter, I had no doubt, and he might be so assured,
that the friends of Mr. de La Fayette would raise a sufficient sum
to enable him to do this, and to defray his expenses since he has
been in this country. What they will say to him, or he do in
this matter, I know not. If you and Mr. Jay see no impropriety
in such a letter as I have mentioned, to be used at the discretion
of Mr. Pinckney, I would thank either of you for drafting it —
Mr. Jay in particular having been in the habit, and better ac-
quainted with the style and manner of addressing these sort of
characters than I am, would be able to give it a better shape. To
return the papers now sent with the draught required as soon as
convenient, would be acceptable to, dear Sir,

Your affectionate servant,

Geo. Washington.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

New-York, May 10th, 17%.

Sir:

When last in Philadelphia, you mentioned to me your wish,
that I should re-dress a certain paper which you had prepared.
As it is important that a thing of this kind should be done with
great care, and much at leisure, touched and re-touched, I submit

120 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 39

a wish that, as soon as you have given it the body you mean it to
have, it may be sent to me.*

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, May 15th, 1796.

My Dear Sir:

On this clay week, I wrote you a letter on the subject of the

information received from G M , and put it with some

other papers respecting the case of Mr. de La Fayette under cover
to Mr. Jay ; to whom also I had occasion to write. But in my
hurry (making up the dispatches for the post-office next morn-
ing) I forgot to give it a superscription ; of course it had to re-
turn from New- York for one, and to encounter all the delay
occasioned thereby before it could reach your hands.

Since then I have been favored with your letter of the 10th
instant; and inclose (in its rough state) the paper mentioned
therein, with some alteration in the first page (since you saw
it) relative to the reference at foot. Having no copy by me
except of the quoted part, nor the notes from which it was
drawn, I beg leave to recommend the draft now sent, to your
particular attention. f

Even if you should think it best to throw the ivhole into a dif-
ferent form, let me request, notwithstanding, that my draft may
be returned to me (along with yours), with such amendments
and corrections, as to render it as perfect as the formation is sus-
ceptible of; curtailed if too verbose; and relieved of all tauto-
logy, not necessary to enforce the ideas in the original or quoted
part. My wish is that the whole may appear in a plain style ;
and be handed to the public in an honest, unaffected, simple
garb.

* Copied from Writings of Washington. Whether it is an extract from, or the
entire letter, is unknown to the editor.

•f The above draft of the Farewell Address is among the papers of Washington.

Mr. 39.] CORRESPONDENCE. 121

It will be perceived from hence, that I am attached to the
quotation. My reasons for it are, that as it is not only a fact that
such an address was written and on the point of being published,
but known also to one or two of those characters who are now
strongest and foremost in the opposition to the government ; and
consequently to the person administering of it contrary to their
views ; the promulgation thereof as an evidence that it was
much against my inclination that I continued in office, will
cause it more readily to be believed, that I could have no view
in extending the powers of the Executive beyond the limits pre-
scribed by the Constitution ; and will serve to lessen, in the pub-
lic estimation, the pretensions of that party to the patriotic zeal
and watchfulness, on which they endeavor to build their own
consequence at the expense of others, who have differed from
them in sentiment. And besides, it may contribute to blunt, if
it does not turn aside, some of the shafts which it may be pre-
sumed will be aimed at my annunciation of this event ; among
which conviction of fallen popularity, and despair of being re-
elected, will be levelled at me with dexterity and keenness.

Having struck out the reference to a particular character in
the first page of the address, I have less (if any) objection to ex-
punging those words which are contained Avithin parentheses in
pages 5, 7, and 8, in the quoted part, and those in the 18th page
of what follows. Nor to the discarding the egotisms (however
just they may be), if you think them liable to fair criticism, and
that they had better be omitted ; notwithstanding some of them
relate facts which are but little known to the communit}r.

My object has been, and must continue to be, to avoid per-
sonalities; allusions to particular measures, which ma\ appear
pointed ; and to expressions which could not fail to draw upon
me attacks which I should wish to avoid, and might not find
agreeable to repel.

As there will be another session of Congress before the politi-
cal existence of the present House of Representatives, or my
own, will constitutionally expire, it was not my design to say a
word to the Legislature on this subject; but to withhold the
promulgation of my intention until the period when it shall be-

122 HAMILTON'S WORKS. \JEt. 39.

come indispensably necessary for the information of the electors,
previous to the election (which, this year, will be delayed until
the 7th of December). This makes it a little difficult and uncer-
tain what to say, so long beforehand, on the part marked with a
pencil in the last paragraph of the second page.

All these ideas and observations are confined, as you will
readily perceive, to my draft of the valedictory address. If you
form one anew, it will, of course, assume such a shape as you
may be disposed to give it, predicated upon the sentiments con-
tained in the inclosed paper.

With respect to the gentleman you have mentioned as suc-
cessor to Mr. P , there can be no doubt of his abilities, nor

in my mind is there any of his fitness. But you know, as well
as I, what has been said of his political sentiments with respect
to another form of government; and from thence can be at no
loss to guess at the interpretation which would be given to the
nomination of him. However, the subject shall have due con-
sideration ; but a previous resignation would, in my opinion,
carry with it too much the appearance of concert ; and would
have a bad, rather than a good effect.

Always, and sincerely,

I am yours,
Geo. Washington.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

New- York, May 20, 1796.

Sir:

A belief that the occasion to which they may be applicable,
is not likely to occur, whatever may have been once intended,
or pretended in terrorem, has delayed the following observations
in compliance with your desire, and which are now the result
of conferences with the gentlemen you named.

The precise form of any proposition or demand which may be
made to, or of the government, must so materially influence the

JEt. 39.] CORRESPONDENCE. 123

course proper to be pursued with regard to such proposition or
demand, that it is very difficult to judge by anticipation what
would be fit and right. The suggestions which can be submitted,
must, therefore, be very general and liable to much modification,
according to circumstances.

It would seem in almost any case advisable to put forward a
calm exhibition of the views by which our government have
been influenced in relation to the present war of Europe, —
making prominent the great interest we have in peace, in our
present infant state — the limitedness of our capacity for external
effort — the much greater injury we should have suffered, than
good we could have done to France, by taking an active part
with her — the probability that she would have derived more
advantage from our neutrality than from our direct aid — the
promptitude with which, while all the world was combined
against her, we recognized the new order of things and the con-
tinuance of our treaties, and before any other power had done
so — the danger to which we exposed ourselves in so doing — the
fidelity with which we have adhered to our treaties, notwith-
standing formal violations of certain parts of them on the other
side — our readiness to the utmost extent of our abilities to dis-
charge our debt without hesitation in the earliest period of the
revolution, and latterly having facilitated an anticipated enjoyment
of the balance — the zeal and confidence of our merchants, by
which they are now creditors for very large sums to France —
the patience with which we have seen infractions of our rights —
the peculiar nature of the war as it regarded the origin of our
relations to France (quere ?) — the declaration of the war by
France against the maritime powers — her incapacity for maritime
effort, and to supply our deficiency in that particular, so as to
render a war not absolutely ruinous to us — the early expecta-
tions given to us by her agents, that we were not expected to
become parties — the exposed state of our commerce at this time
with an immense property of our merchants afloat, relying on
the neutral plan which they have understood our government to
be pursuing, even with the concurrence of France, at least with-
out its opposition — the extreme mischiefs to us of a sudden

124 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEa. 39.

departure from the plan, and the little advantage to France from
our aid — the merely peace views which influenced our treaty with
Great Britain — the nature of that treaty involved no ingredient
of political connection reserving the obligation of our prior
treaties — the commercial articles terminating in two }^ears after
the present war — nothing in it to change the nature of our rela-
tions with France. All this will, of course, require great caution
and delicacy, so as not to compromise the dignity of the country,
or give umbrage elsewhere ; and I think the observations ought
to hold out the idea that, under all the circumstances of the case,
the government of the country thought itself at full liberty, con-
sistently with its treaties with France, to pursue a neutral plan.
And they ought to hold up strongly our desire to maintain
friendship with France — our regret that any circumstance of dis-
satisfaction should occur — our hope that justice and reason will
prevail, and preserve the good understanding, &c. The conclu-
sion of this preliminary exposition will be according to the
nature of the proposition.

If it should claim a renunciation of the British treaty, the
answer will naturally be, that this sacrifice of the positive and
recent engagements of the country is pregnant with consequences
too humiliating and injurious to allow us to believe that the
expectation can be persisted in by France, since it is to require
a thing impossible, and to establish, as a price of the continuance
of friendship with us, the sacrifice of our honor by an act of
perfidy, which would destroy the value of our friendship to any
nation. That, besides, the Executive, if it were capable of com-
plying with a demand so fatal to us, is not competent to it, it
being of the province of Congress, by a declaration of war, or
otherwise, in the proper cases, to annul the operation of treaties.

If it should claim the abandonment of the articles of the
present treaty respecting free ships, free goods, &c, the answer
may be that our treaties with France are an entire work — parts of
a whole — that nevertheless the Executive is disposed to enter
into a new negotiation by a new treaty to modify them, so as may
consist with a due regard to mutual interest and the circum-
stances of parties, and may even tend to strengthen the relations

Mr. 39.] CORRESPONDENCE. 125

of friendship and good understanding between the two coun-
tries.

If the guarantee of the West Indies should be claimed, the
answer may be, " that the decision of this question belongs to
Congress, who, if it be desired, will be convened to deliberate
upon it." I presume and hope they will have adjourned — for
to gain time is every thing.

The foregoing marks the general course of our reflections.
They are sketched hastily, because they can only be general ideas,
and much will depend on minute circumstances.

I observe what you say on the subject of a certain diplomatic
mission. Permit me to offer with frankness the reflections which
have struck my mind.

The importance of our security, and commerce, and good
understanding with Great Britain, renders it very important that
a man able and not disagreeable to that government, should be
there. The gentleman in question, equally with any who could
go, and better than any willing to go, answers this description.
The idea hinted in your letter will apply to every man fit for the
mission, by his conspicuousness, talents, and dispositions. 'Tis
the stalking-horse of a certain party, and is made use of against
every man who is not in their views and of sufficient consequence
to attract their obloquy. If listened to, it will deprive the gov-
ernment of the services of the most able and faithful agents.
Is this expedient ? What will be gained by it ? Is it not evident
that this party will pursue its hostility at all events as far as pub-
lic opinion will permit? Does policy require any thing more
than that they shall have no real cause to complain ? Will it do,
in deference to their calumniating insinuations, to forbear em-
ploying the most competent men, or to intrust the great business
of the country to unskilful, unfaithful, or doubtful hands ? I
really feel a conviction that it will be very dangerous to let party
insinuations of this kind prove a serious obstacle to the employ-
ment of the best qualified characters. Mr. King is a remarkably
well-informed man, a very judicious one, a man of address, a man
of fortune and economy, whose situation affords just ground of
confidence ; — a man of unimpeached probity where he is best

126 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

known, a firm friend to the government, a supporter of the
measures of the President — a man who cannot but feel that he
has strong pretensions to confidence and trust.

I might enlarge on these topics, but I have not leisure, neither
can it be necessary. I have thrown out so much in the fulness
of my heart, and too much in a hurry to fashion either the idea
or the expression as it ought to be. The President, however,
will, I doubt not, receive what I have said — as it is meant, as
dictated by equal regard to the public interest and to the honora-
ble course of his administration.

I have the honor to be very respectfully and affectionately,
Dear Sir, your obedient servant.

WATSON TO HAMILTON.

New- York, May 27, 1796.

Dear Sir:

Wishing to have the benefit of your much esteemed counsel
as a lawyer in important cases, if unfortunately I should be
hereafter involved in any, I have inclosed you my note for one
thousand dollars, payable in five years, with interest, at five per
cent, per annum, which I beg you to accept, and am, respectfully,
&c.

(Eeturned as being more than is proper, A. H.)

WOLCOTT TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, May 28, 1796.
I much fear that the new stock will not sell on the terms pro-
posed, nor on any terms, without an enormous discount, probably
not in sufficient sums at more than 17 shillings.

iET. 39.]

CORRESPONDENCE. 127

Treasury drafts cannot be negotiated for the sums wanted,
without a still greater loss, unless they are made payable at a
short date, say three or four months ; this will endanger the pub-
lic credit, and affect the banks, especially that of the United
States. The consequence is, the frigates must stop, or the new
stock must be sold on any terms. Sales of bank stock are
urged ; this idea has, however, been strenuously opposed by me.
There is but one other resource which I can think of, and that
is, to pledge sufficient sums of the new stock to be sold, after
the expiration of six or eight months, if not redeemed.

HAMILTON TO WOLCOTT.

May 30th, 1796.

Dear Sir:

I perceive Congress are invading the Sinking Fund system.
If this goes through, and is sanctioned by the President, the fab-
ric of public credit is prostrate, and the country and the President
are disgraced. Treasury bills, and every expedient, however
costly, to meet exigencies, must be preferable, in the event, to
such an overthrow of system.

HAMILTON TO MCHENRY.

New-York, June 1st, 1796.

My Dear Mc.

I am told the Executive Directory have complained of Mr.

our consul at . Perhaps the complaint may be

ill-founded, but perhaps also he was indiscreet in giving color
for it. Admit too that he is a good man, yet we must not quar-
rel with France for .pirn and needles. The public temper would

128 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 39.

not bear any umbrage taken, where a trifling concession might
have averted it. "Pis a case for temporizing, reserving our firm-
ness for great and necessary occasions. Let Mk be super-
seded with a kind letter to him. I do not write to Pickering, or
the President, because I am not regularly possessed of the infor-
mation, but I hope you will attend to the matter, even at the ex-
pense of being a little officious.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

New-York, June 1st, 179G.

Sir:

I am almost afraid to appear officious in what I am going to
say ; but the matter presses so deeply on my mind, that fearing
you may not recollect the situation of the thing, and that it may
happen not to be brought fully under your eye, I cannot refrain from
making the suggestion to you. It regards a bill which, I am
told, has lately passed the two Houses of Congress, authorizing a
sale of bank stock, for paying off a sum due to the bank. You will
perceive by the 8th and 9th sections of the act entitled " An Act
making further provision for the support of the public credit,"
and for the redemption of the public debt, passed the 3d of
March, 1795, that the dividends of the bank stock are appro-
priated to the sinking fund, with all the force and solemnity of
which language is capable, and that to divert them in the manner
proposed (and this too without any substitute in the act which
so diverts) will be a formal, express, and unequivocal violation of
the public faith, will subvert the system of the sinking fund, and
with it all the security which is meant to be given to the people
for the redemption of the public debt, and, violating the sanctity
of an appropriation for the public debt, will overturn at once the
foundation of the public credit. These are obvious and undeni-
able consequences ; and though I am aware that great embarrass-
ments may ensue to the Treasury if the bill by the objection of

Mr. 39.] CORRESPONDENCE. 129

the President is lost, and no substitute for it takes place towards
the reimbursement of the bank — yet I am sure no consequences
can ensue of equal moment from the rejection as from the prin-
ciple of the bill going into execution.

All the President's administration has effected for establishing
the credit of the country will be prostrate at a single blow. He will
readily make all necessary comments upon this position. It
grieves my heart to see so much shocking levity in our represen-
tative body.

A. Hamilton".

WOLCOTT TO HAMILTON.

June 14th, 1796.

The plan of the French and our patriots begins to develope.
The history of the capture of the Mount Yernon, and the apol-
ogy, or rather hypothesis offered in Mr. Bache's paper of this
morning, are important facts when taken in connection with
what we before knew. If more seizures shall be made, or if M.
Adet shall not give a satisfactory explanation, I do not see but
that Mr. Monroe must be recalled, and a special confidential min-
ister sent. I shall be glad to know your opinion of what is to
be clone. If a minister is sent, who should he be ?

HAMILTON TO WOLCOTT.

June 15th, 1796.

Dear Sir:

The post of to-day brought me a letter from you. From some
recent information which I have obtained here, I have scarcely a
doubt that the plan of the French is,
f 9

130 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 39.

Firstly — To take all enemy property in our ships, contrary to
the treaty between the two countries.

Secondly — To seize and carry in all our vessels laden with
provisions for any English port.

Among this, all that they choose to think enemy property will
be seized ; and, for the residue, they will promise to pay.

This state of things is extremely serious. The government
must play a skilful card, or all is lost. No doubt an explanation
has been asked of Mr. Adet. There is room enough for asking
it, and the result, if explanatory, ought in some convenient way
to be made known.

Moreover, the government must immediately set, in earnest,
about averting the storm. To this end a person must be sent in
place of Monroe. General Pinckney, John Marshall, Mr. Des-
saussure, of South Carolina, young Washington the lawyer, Mc-
Henry, Secretary at War, Judge Peters, occur as eligible, in dif-
ferent degrees, either of them far preferable to Monroe. It may be
understood, that the appointment is permanent or temporary, at
choice of the person sent. Under this idea perhaps Pinckney may
be prevailed upon — perhaps Marshall — it being well urged as a
matter of great importance to the country.

I mentioned to Colonel Pickering an idea which has since
dwelt powerfully on my mind. Mr. King ought not to be em-
powered to do any thing to prolong the treaty beyond the two
years after the war. This will afford the government a strong
argument. I earnestly hope this idea will prevail in the in-
stuctions.

P. S. — After turning the thing over and over in my mind, I
know of nothing better that you have in your power, than to
send McHenry. He is not yet obnoxious to the French, and has
been understood formerly to have had some kindness towards
their revolution. His present office would give a sort of import-
ance to the mission. If he should incline to an absolute relin-
quishment, his mission might be temporary, and Colonel Picker-
ing could carry on his office in his absence. He is at hand, and
might depart immediately ; and I believe he would explain very

/Et. 39.] CORRESPONDENCE. 131

well, and do no foolish thing. Though unusual, perhaps it might
be expedient for the President to write, himself, a letter to the
Executive Directory, explaining the policy by which he has been
governed, and assuring of the friendship. But this would
merit great consideration. Our measures, however, should be
prompt.

Sometimes I think of sending Pinckney, who is in England :
but various uncertainties, and possible delays, deter one from
this plan.

Remember always, as a primary motive of action, that the
favorable opinion of our country is to be secured.

A frigate or two to serve as convoys, would not be amiss.
If the English had been wise, they would neither have harassed
our trade themselves, nor suffered their trade with us, to be
harassed. They would see this a happy moment for conciliating
us by a clever little squadron in our ports, and on our coast.

A hint might not perhaps do harm.

HAMILTON TO WOLCOTT.

June 16th. 1796.

Dear Sir:

It appears to me material, under our present prospects, to
complete three frigates without delay. They may be useful with
reference to the Algerines. They may be useful to convoy our
vessels out of the reach of picaroon privateers, hovering on our
coast. I know you want money, but could not the merchants,
by secret movements, be put in motion to make you a loan ? I
think something of this kind may be done here ; and I should
presume at Philadelphia, &o. The sole ostensible object may be
the Algerines, but the second object may circulate in whispers.
If you conclude on any thing, I will second you.

Perhaps no bad form of the thing may be, to place in the hands
of your agents for building, Treasury bills, from one hundred to

132 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 39

one thousand dollars, payable in a year with interest ; and to let
it be known among the merchants, that they are lodged ex-
clusively to facilitate the equipment of the ships. But a more
direct operation may be attempted, and I should hope with
success, for the sum you may want for the frigates.

WOLCOTT TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, June 17th, 1796.

My Dear Sir:

I have your letters of the 15th and 16th instant; that for the
President will go on by the next mail.

The affair of the capture assumes a more equivocal character
as respects the French government than at first. In a confiden-
tial way from some of our merchants I have reason to believe,
that proposals were made to Mr. Murgatroyd who built the ship,
by Mr. Dunkinson, an English gentleman, not yet naturalized, to
become the purchaser ; that Dunkinson, on finding that he could
not obtain a register in his own name, made a conditional pur-
chase of the vessel, deliverable in England, after which the vessel
was registered in Murgatroyd's name. That the loading, though
in the names of Willings and Francis, is in fact British property,
and that these circumstances were known or strongly suspected
by the owner of the French privateer. If these things are true,
and the sole motives of the capture, the thing, though perhaps
wrong, is not alarming. I do not find that any other captures
have been made.

Mr. Adet, I understand, has written to Colonel Pickering that
the privateer was commissioned by the French government of
St. Domingo {but that he is ignorant what the orders of the privateer
■are), or ivhat orders the French Directory in the West Indies are
authorized to give in respect to neutral vessels.

This answer is neither satisfactory, or the contrary. It is
nothing, except that it leaves ground to suspect, that the West

At. 39.] CORRESPONDENCE. 133

India Directory possess some discretionary power, which may be
used to distress us, if circumstances should make it expedient.
What gives me more concern than the capture is, the complexion
of Bache's paper, which is, I think, calculated to prepare the pub-
lic mind to expect a new course of conduct by the French, con-
trary to our treaty, and distressing to our commerce.

I have been for some time inclined to think, that Mr. Monroe
ought to be recalled ; but as others have doubted, and as the thing-
was not demonstrable, I have not urged it. Every event shows,
however, new reasons for believing that we must stop the channels
by which foreign poison is introduced into our country, or suffer
the government to be overturned. At all hazards, the attempt
must be made.

I have the power of the President to borrow, and have been
making attempts in the manner you have intimated, but without
prospect of success. Bills can only be used in a case of the
utmost emergency, as the discount would be ruinous. I will,
however, carry on the public business this summer some way or
other, though I know that we shall ultimately fail, unless some
miraculous change in public measures shall speedily take place.
I will write you if any thing occurs.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

June, 1796.

Sir:

I have received information this morning of a nature which,
I think, you ought to receive without delay. A Mr. LeGuen, a
Frenchman, a client of mine, and in whom I have inspired confi-
dence, and who is apparently a discreet and decent man, called on
me this morning to consult me on the expediency of his becoming-
naturalized, in order that certain events between France and the
United States might not prejudice him in a suit which I am
directed to bring for him for a value of 160,000 dollars. I asked

134 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 39.

him what the events to which he alluded were. He made me the
following reply under the strictest injunctions of confidence. " I
have seen a letter from St. Thomas to Mr. Labagarde of this city,
informing him that a plan was adopted to seize all American ves-
sels carrying to any English port provisions of any kind, to con-
duct them into some French port ; if found to be British property
to condemn them, if American, to take them on the accountability
of the government — adding, that he must not thence infer that it
was the intention to make war upon the United States — but it
was with a view to retaliate the conduct of Great Britain, to keep
supplies from her, and to obtain them for themselves, and was
also bottomed on some political motives not necessary to be
explained." "That it was also in contemplation when Admiral
Kichery arrived, if the ships could be spared, to send five sail of
the line to this country." Fearing, he said, that this might
produce a rupture between the two countries, he had called to
consult me on the subject, &c.

I asked his permission to make the communication to you.
He gave me leave to do it, but with the absolute condition
that the knowledge of names was on no account to go beyond
you and myself. I must therefore request, sir, that this con-
dition be exactly observed. He has promised me further in-
formation.

I believe the information, as well because the source of it
under all the circumstances engages my confidence, as because the
thing appears in itself probable. France wants supplies and she
has not the means of paying, and our merchants have done
crediting.

It becomes very material that the real situation should, as
soon as possible, be ascertained, and that the merchants should
know on what they have to depend. They expect that the gov-
ernment will ask an explanation of Mr. Adet, and that in some
proper way the result will be made known.

It seems to become more and more urgent that the United
States should have some faithful organ near the French govern-
ment to explain their real views, and ascertain those of the
French. It is all important that the people should be satisfied

,Et. 39.J CORRESPONDENCE. 185

that the government has made every exertion to avert a rupture,
and as early as possible.

Most respectfully and affectionately, &c.

HAMILTON TO WOLCOTT.

June 26th, 1796.

Dear Sir:

I learn from a gentleman of character, that a prize, brought
into Boston, by a French privateer, is about to be sold. This
being in direct breach of our treaty with Great Britain, how does
it happen ? Though no particular law passed, the treaty being
the law of the land, our custom-houses can, and ought to, pre-
vent the entry and sale of prizes, upon executive instruction. If
any thing is wanting to this end, for God's sake, my dear sir, let
it be done, and let us not be disgraced.

Yours,

A. Hamilton.

P. S. — Considering what is going on, and may go on, in the
"West Indies, it appears to me essential, that the President should
be empowered to lay embargoes in the interval between the
present and the next session of Congress.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Mount Vernon, June 26th, 1796.

My Dear Sir:

Your letter without date came to my hands by Wednesday's
post, and by the first post afterwards I communicated the pur-
port of it (withholding the names) to the Secretary of State, with

13G HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 39.

directions to bestow the closest attention to the subject, and, if
the application which had been made to the Minister of France,
consequent on the capture of the ship Mount Vernon, had not
produced such an answer as to supersede the necessity, then to
endeavor to obtain such explanation of the views of the French
government relatively to our commerce with Great Britain, as
the nature of the case appeared to require.

That the fact is as has been represented to you, I have very
little if any doubt. Many, very many circumstances, are contin-
ually happening in confirmation of it ; among which, it is evident,
Bache's paper, which receives and gives the tone, is endeavoring
to prepare the public mind for this event, by representing it as
the predicted and natural consequence of the ratification of the
treaty with Great Britain.

Let me ask, therefore, Do you suppose that the Executive, in
the recess of the Senate, has power, in such a case as the one be-
fore us, especially if the measure should not be avowed by au-
thority, to send a special character to Paris as Envoy Extraordi-
nary, to give and receive explanations? And if there be a
doubt, whether it is not probable, nay, more than probable, that
the French Directory would, in the present state of things, avail
themselves of the unconstitutionality of the measure to decline
receiving him? The policy of delay, to avoid explanations,
would induce them to adopt any pretext to accomplish it. Their
reliance upon a party in this country for support would stimulate
them to this conduct ; and we may be assured they will not be
deficient in the most minute details of every occurrence and
every opinion worthy of communication. If, then, an envoy
cannot be sent to Paris without the agency of the Senate, will
the information you have received, admitting it should be real-
ized, be sufficient ground for convening that body?

These are serious things ; they may be productive of serious
consequences, and therefore require very serious and cool de-
liberation. Admitting, however, that the powers of the Presi-
dent during the recess were adequate to such an appointment,
where is the character who would go, that unites the proper
qualifications for such a mission, and would not be obnoxious to

JEt. 39.] CORRESPONDENCE. 137

one party or the other? And what should be done with Mr.
M in that case ?

As the affairs of this country, in their administration, receive
great embarrassment from the conduct of characters among our-
selves, and as every act of the Executive is misrepresented and
tortured with a view to make it appear odious, the aid of the
friends to government is peculiarly necessary under such circum-
stances and at such a crisis as the present. It is unnecessary,
therefore, to add, that I should be glad, upon the present and all
other important occasions, to receive yours; and as I have great
confidence in the abilities and purity of Mr. Jay's views, as well
as in his experience, I should wish that his sentiments on the
purport of this letter, and other interesting matters as they occur,
may accompany yours ; for, having no other wish than to pro-
mote the true and permanent interests of this country, I am
anxious always to compare the opinions of those in whom I con-
fide with one another, and these again (without being bound by
them) with my own, that I may extract all the good I can.

Having from a variety of reasons (among which a disinclina-
tion to be longer buffeted in the public prints by a set of infamous
scribblers) taken my ultimate determination " to seek the post
of honor in a private station," I regret exceedingly that I did
not publish my valedictory address the day after the adjourn-
ment of Congress. This would have preceeded the canvassing
for electors (which is commencing with warmth in this State).
It would have been announcing publicly, what seems to be very
well understood, and is industriously propagated privately. It
would have removed doubts from the minds of all, and left the
field clear for all. It would, by having preceded any unfavora-
ble change in our foreign relations (if any should happen), ren-
der my retreat less difficult and embarrassing. And it might
have prevented the remarks which, more than probable, will
follow a late annunciation — namely, that I delayed it long
enough to see that the current was turned against me, before I
declared my intention to decline. This is one of the reasons
which makes me a little tenacious of the draught I furnished you
with, to be modified and corrected.

138 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 39.

Having passed, however, what / now conceive would have
been the precise moment to have addressed my constituents, let
me ask your opinion (under a full conviction that nothing will
shake my determination to withdraw) of the next best time, con-
sidering the present, and what may, probably, be the existing
state of things at different periods previous to the election ; or
rather the middle of October, beyond which the promulgation of
my intentions cannot be delayed. Let me hear from you as soon
as it is convenient, and be assured always of the sincere esteem

and affectionate regard of

Gr. Washington.

[The reply of Hamilton, dated July 5, 1796, is among the papers of Washington.]

HAMILTON TO ELISHA BOUDINOT.

July 7th, 1796.

My Dear Sir:

You will oblige me by letting me have an extract from that
part of your mortgage law in New Jersey, which regulates the
mode of cancelling mortgages — also an extract from the regis-
tering book, of the usual manner in which entries for cancelling
were made about the years 1771, 1772, and 1773, and by inform-
ing me whether these entries have been adjudged conclusive —
though the order or certificate of the mortgage is not to to be
found, the mortgage money not paid, and the fact should appear
that the entry was a fraudulent act of the registering officer?

Excuse the trouble I give you, and use me freely in a like case.

How are your election prospects ? Do not let the discontent
with Dayton hazard the main point. 'Tis better by a coalition
with him to secure that, though you make some sacrifice of
opinion, than to produce a dangerous schism.

Our affairs are critical, and we must be dispassionate and
wise.

Yours truly,

A. Hamilton.

^t.39.1 CORRESPONDENCE. 139

PICKERING TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, July lGth, 1796.

Dear Sir :

Mr. Howell, the commissioner for settling the St. Croix bound-
ary, has been here this week, and started the following questions.

1st. " How far will it be proper for Mr. Howell to use his
discretion, in refusing to draw lots for the third commissioner, in
case the British commissioner shall persist in proposing a gentle-
man on his part, who may be, in Mr. Howell's opinion, not an
indifferent person?"

2d. "In case inhabitants of Massachusetts are thought ob-
jectionable on the part of the British, will not all inhabitants of
New Brunswick and Nova Scotia be also if not equally objec-
tionable ?"

3d. " Whether the authority of the commissioners can be
legally executed, unless the three commissioners sign the decla-
ration required of them by the treaty ? In other words, whether,
if any two of the commissioners agree, they can finally decide the
question ?"

I had previously received from Mr. Sullivan (the agent for
the United States) a letter, stating the interview between Mr.
Howell and Mr. Barclay at Boston, in which it appeared that
Mr. Barclay considered the appointment of a commissioner from
Massachusetts would be improper, because there was not one
from New Brunswick. Yet (Judge Sullivan remarks) Nova
Scotia, where Mr. Barclay resides, may be considered as a party,
seeing, he said, that lie could not take any steps towards the ap-
pointment of a third commissioner until he consulted Sir John
We at worth, the governor of that province, on the subject, as
well as the governor of New Brunswick. Judge Sullivan further
remarks, "that the lands in New Brunswick he considers as
owned by proprietors in Nova Scotia, as those in Vermont are
by proprietors in New Hampshire, and that therefore commis-
sioners in New Brunswick would be as eligible as in Nova
Scotia."

140 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [j&r. 39.

But the most unpleasant part of Judge Sullivan's information
is, " that though the third commissioner is to be nominated and
chosen, or drawn by the two original commissioners, Mr. Barclay
does not consider himself as acting judicially in the business, or
as equally responsible to both nations on the point, but considers
the appointment as a matter of negotiation between the parties,
and that any advantages which may be gained will he honorable.'1'1

Mr. Howell also informed me, that Mr. Barclay did avow this
extraordinary opinion, and, if it were a just one, as founded on
the treaty, it had been better to decide the question by the cast
of a dice ; but it is so repugnant to the oath which each commis-
sioner is to take, it is impossible that it should be the true con-
struction of the article. I suppose it was chiefly the avowal of
this principle on the part of Mr. Barclay, that led Mr. Howell to
propose his first query ; for while he should propose for the de-
cision of the choice of the third commissioner by lot, a gentleman
belonging to another State than Massachusetts, in order to obtain
a disinterested judge, it would be with extreme repugnance that he
would admit the name of an inhabitant of New Brunswick or
Nova Scotia, on account of the direct interest of the former, and
the probable interest of the latter, as above suggested by Judge
Sullivan, especially as Nova Scotia already furnishes one of the
commissioners. If, then, it will consist with good faith to refuse
to draw lots on so partial a nomination by Mr. Barclay, it is de-
sirable that it might be done. In a report made to Congress by
Mr. Jay in April, 1785, on the subject, he proposed that his
Britannic Majesty should name his half of the commissioners,
" being inhabitants of any of his dominions except those which
are situated in and to the west and south of the Gulf of St. Law-
rence, and that the United States should name the other half
from any of their countries except Massachusetts." The whole
number of commissioners then contemplated by Mr. Jay was six,
eight, ten, or twelve.

The 3d question asked by Mr. Howell is, in itself, as well as
for the reasons contained in the preceding observations, highly
important. The words in the article are: "The said commis-
sioners shall, by a declaration under their hands and seals, decide

Mr. 39.] CORRESPONDENCE. 141

what river is the river St. Croix intended by the treaty," not the
said commissioners or any two of them agreeing. What is the legal
construction of this article on this point? No such question
arises on the 6th and 7th articles ; any three of the five com-
missioners being competent to a decision, the fifth commissioner
being present. On one hand, if unanimity be necessary, it will
enable either party to counteract any flagrant partiality ; on the
other, it may defeat a great object of the article — putting a final
end to a dispute that might have disagreeable consequences.
Permit me to request your attention to this subject, and that you
would converse with Mr. Jay upon it. In the course of two or
three days I expect Mr. Howell will call on you both at New-
York.

GREENLEAF TO HAMILTON.

New-York, July 27th, 1796.

Dear Sir :

The indispensable necessity of an immediate though short
respite from business, united with motives of interest, and an
unbounded attachment to reputation, induce me to make a pro-
position to you of a pretty extraordinary nature, but which after
due reflection I flatter myself will be deemed not unworthy
your attention. My engagements of every possible nature do
not exceed twelve hundred thousand dollars, and my real and
personal estate may with ease be liquidated and made to pro-
duce five millions of dollars ; say, rather a million dollars annu-
ally for five consecutive years ; but in consequence of some im-
portant and unexpected delinquencies on the part of persons
whose engagements have become due to me, and must be paid
from securities given, my own engagements become due more
rapidly than my means (without having recourse to improper
operations) can be made to answer. If you will now be induced
to aid me with your name, responsibility and talents, in the
liquidation of my concerns and payment of my engagements, in

142 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 39.

such wise that no undue sacrifice of property shall result, and
my name be borne through with the credit and propriety it
deserves, the one-third part of the net residue of my whole
estate, both real and personal, after payment of my engagements,
shall become yours, provided you will consent that the mass
shall remain undivided for ten years, and constitute the capital of
a banking-house, to be established either in this city or at Phila-
delphia, in our joint names and under your sole guidance, and
the profits divided between us in equal portions.

I have reason to believe that, with the aid of your name and
our joint responsibility, accompanied with the names of three
other persons as trustees for deposited property, it will, by a
reputable mode of financing I shall communicate, be practicable
for me to obtain the use of a million of dollars at legal interest
for the average term of five years, and with this sum I should
calculate on being able to pay off all my engagements with due
credit and advantage, as considerable amounts are due at distant
periods, and may be purchased in at a considerable discount.

If these outlines so far meet your approbation as to induce
you to wish my entering into a particular detail, it shall be done
at such time as will best suit your leisure and convenience.

HAMILTON TO GREENLEAF.

New- York, July 30th, 1796.

Dear Sir :

I have carefully reflected upon the subject of your letter of
the 27th instant.

Though the data which it presents authorize an expectation
of large pecuniary advantage, and though I discern nothing in the
affair which an individual differently circumstanced might not
with propriety enter into ; yet, in my peculiar situation, viewed
in all its public as well as personal relations, I think myself bound
to decline the overture.

With great regard, I am, dear Sir,

Your obedient servant.

^t.39.] CORRESPONDENCE. 143

HAMILTON TO WOLCOTT.

August 3d, 1796.

Dear Sir :

I have received your letter of the 1st. I deplore the picture
it gives, and henceforth wish to forget there is a Bank or a Trea-
sury in the United States, though I shall not forget my regard
to individuals.

I do not see one argument in any possible shape of the thing,
for the sale of bank stock, or against that of the other stock,
which does not apply vice versa, and I shall consider it as one
of the most infatuated steps that ever was adopted.

God bless you,

A. Hamilton.

It will be known on Thursday whether any thing is to be
expected here.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Mount Vernon, 10th Aug., 1796.

My Dear Sir :

The principal design of this letter is to inform you that your
favor of the 30th ult., with its inclosure, got safe to my hands by
the last post, and that the latter shall have the most attentive
consideration I am able to give it.

A cursory reading it has had, and the sentiments therein
contained are extremely just, and such as ought to be inculcated.
The doubt that occurs at first view, is the length of it for a news-
paper publication ; and how far the occasion would countenance
its appearing in any other form, without dilating more on the
present state of matters, is questionable. All the columns of a
large gazette would scarcely, I conceive, contain the present
draught.

144 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 39.

But having made no accurate calculation of this matter, I
may be much mistaken.

If any matters should occur to you as fit subjects of commu-
nication at the opening of the next session of Congress, I would
thank you for noting and furnishing me with them. It is my
wish and my custom to provide all the materials for the speech
in time, that it may be formed at leisure.

With sincere esteem and affectionate regard,

I am always yours,

Geo. Washington.

[Hamilton's of Aug. 10th is among the papers of Washington.]

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.
(private.)

Philadelphia, 25th Aug., 1796.

My Dear Sir:

I have given the paper herewith inclosed several serious and
attentive readings, and prefer it greatly to the other draughts,
being more copious on material points, more dignified on the
whole, and with less egotism ; of course, less exposed to criti-
cism, and better calculated to meet the eye of discerning readers
(foreigners particularly, whose curiosity, I have little doubt, will
lead them to inspect it attentively, and to pronounce their opin-
ions on the performance).

When the first draught was made, besides having an eye to
the consideration above mentioned, I thought the occasion was
fair (as I had latterly been the subject of considerable invective),
to say what is there contained of myself; and as the address was
designed in a more especial manner for the yeomanry of this
country, I conceived it was proper they should be informed of
the object of that abuse — the silence with which it had been

Mt. 39.] CORRESPONDENCE. 145

treated, and the consequences which would naturally flow from
such unceasing and virulent attempts to destroy all confidence
in the executive part of the government ; and that it was best
to do it in language that was plain and intelligible to their
understandings.

The draught now sent comprehends the most, if not all these
matters — is better expressed — and, I am persuaded, goes as far
as it ought with respect to any personal mention of myself.

I should have seen no occasion myself for its undergoing a
revision ; but as j^our letter of the 30th ult., which accompanied
it, intimates a wish to do this, and knowing that it can be more
correctly done after a writing has been out of sight for some
time, than while it is in hand, I send it in conformity thereto,
with a request, however, that you would return it as soon as you
have carefully re-examined it ; for it is my intention to hand it to
the public before I leave this city, to which I came for the pur-
pose of meeting General Pinckney, receiving the ministers from
Spain and Holland, and for the dispatch of other business which
could not be so well executed by written communications be-
tween the heads of departments and myself, as by oral confer-
ences. So soon as these are accomplished I shall return ; at any
rate, I expect to do so by, or before, the tenth of next month,
for the purpose of bringing up my family for the winter.

I shall expunge all that is marked in the paper as unim-
portant, &c, &c. ; and as you perceive some marginal notes,
written with a pencil, I pray you to give the sentiments so
noticed mature consideration. After which, and in every other
part, if change or alteration takes place in the draught, let them
be so clearly interlined, erased, or referred to in the margin, a^
that no mistake may happen in copying it for the press.

To what editor in this city do you think it had best be sent
for publication ? Will it be proper to accompany it with a note
to him, expressing (as the principal design of it is to remove
doubts at the next election), that it is hoped, or expected, that
the State printers will give it a place in their gazettes, or prefer-
able to let it be carried by my private secretary to that press
which is destined to usher it to the world, and suffer it to work
F 10

146 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 39.

its way afterwards? If you think the first most eligible, let me
ask you to sketch such a note as you may judge applicable to
the occasion. 1

With affectionate regard,

I am always yours,

Geo. Washington.

Col. A. Hamilton.

KING TO HAMILTON.

London, August 25, 1796.

Dear Sir:

It would have been agreeable to this government, if we could
have agreed to the appointment of Doctor Swaby as the fifth
Commissioner ; he is really a very candid and honorable man.
But for the same reason that we could not satisfy the Commis-
sioners on the part of Great Britain, with the appointment of
our countryman, Colonel Trumbull, an equally candid and honor,
able character, they have been unable to convince us, that under
all circumstances, it would be advisable that we should accept
Doctor Swaby.

The utmost propriety of conduct has been shown on both
sides ; and out of several names proposed by each, the British
Commissioners selected Colonel Trumbull, and our Commission-
ers Doctor Swaby, as the names to be put in the urn. The lot
has decided in our favor, and Colonel Trumbull, who is on the
spot, is the fifth Commissioner. The Board being now complete,
will proceed to business without unnecessary delay.

Knowing the immense importance of this Commission to our
commerce and navigation, I take the earliest opportunity to give
you this information. The surrender of the posts which has
taken place, and the very explicit assurances that I have re-
ceived from the highest authority in this nation, of a resolution
to carry into effect the treaty, with the most scrupulous fidelity,
make me anxious that nothing should take place on our part,

jEt. 39.] correspondence. 147

that would furnish even a pretence, much less a justification, for
arresting the further and complete execution of the treaty. . The
very extraordinary situation of Europe at this moment, should in-
spire us with great caution, and those whose property depends
on the treaties being permitted to go into full effect, should feel
and be influenced by this reflection.

Farewell.
Very sincerely yours,

Rufus King.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.
(private.)

Philadelphia, September 1st, 1796.

Mr Dear Sir:

About the middle of last week I wrote to you ; and that it
might escape the eye of the inquisitive (for some of my letters
have lately been pried into), I took the liberty of putting it under
a cover to Mr. Jay.

Since then, revolving on the paper that was inclosed therein,
on the various matters it contained, and on the just expression
of the advice or recommendation which was given in it, I have
regretted that another subject (which in my estimation is of in-
teresting concern to the well-being of this country) was not
touched upon also ; — I mean education generally, as one of the
surest means of enlightening and giving just ways of thinking to
our citizens, but particularly the establishment of a university ;
where the youth from all parts of the United States might re-
ceive the polish of erudition in the arts, sciences, and belles-let-
tres; and where those who were disposed to run a political
course might not only be instructed in the theory and prin-
ciples, but (this seminary being at the seat of the general govern-
ment) where the legislature would be in session half the year,
and the interests and politics of the nation of course would be

148 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 39.

discussed, they would lay the surest foundation for the practical
part also.

But that which would render it of the highest importance, in
my opinion, is, that the juvenal period of life, when friendships
are formed, and habits established, that will stick by one ; the
youth, or young men from different parts of the United States
would be assembled together, and would by degrees discover
that there was not that cause for those jealousies and prejudices
which one part of the Union had imbibed against another part : —
of course, sentiments of more liberality in the general policy of
the country would result from it. What but the mixing of
people from different parts of the United States during the war
rubbed off these impressions? A century, in the ordinary inter-
course, would not have accomplished what the seven years' asso-
ciation in arms did ; but that ceasing, prejudices are beginning
to revive again, and never will be eradicated so effectually by
any other means as the intimate intercourse of characters in early
life, — who, in all probability, will be at the head of the counsels
of this country in a more advanced stage of it.

To show that this is no new idea of mine, I may appeal to
my early communications to Congress ; and to prove how seriously
I have reflected on it since, and how well disposed I have been,
and still am, to contribute my aid towards carrying the measure
into effect, I inclose you the extract of a letter from me to the
governor of Virginia on this subject, and a copy of the resolves
of the legislature of that State in consequence thereof.

I have not the smallest doubt that this donation (when the
navigation is in complete operation, which it certainly will be in
less than two years, will amount to £1200 or £1500 sterling a
year, and become a rapidly increasing fund. The proprietors
of the federal city have talked of doing something handsome
towards it likewise ; and if Congress would appropriate some of
the western lands to the same uses, funds sufficient, and of the
most permanent and increasing sort, might be so established as to
invite the ablest professors in Europe to conduct it.

Let me pray you, therefore, to introduce a section in the ad-
dress expressive of these sentiments, and recommendatory of the

jEt. 39.] CORRESPONDENCE. 149

measure, without any mention, however, of my proposed per-
sonal contribution to the plan.

Such a section would come in very properly after the one
which relates to our religious obligations, or in a preceding part,
as one of the recommendatory measures to counteract the evils
arising from geographical discriminations.

With affectionate regard,

I am always yours,

Geo. Washington.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, 6th Sept., 1796.

My Dear Sir:

I received yesterday your letter of the 4th instant. If the
promised paper has not been sent before this reaches you, Mr.
Kitt, the bearer of it, who goes to New- York partly on mine and
partly on his own business, will bring it safely. I only await
here now, and shall in a few days do it impatiently, for the ar-
rival of General Pinckney.

If you think the idea of a university had better be reserved
for the speech at the opening of the session, I am content to de-
fer the communication of it until that period ; but, even in tha
case, I would pray you, as soon as convenient, to make a draught
for the occasion, predicated on the ideas with which you have
been furnished ; looking, at the same time, into what was said on
this head in my second speech to the first Congress, merely with a
view to see what was said on the subject at that time ; and this,
you will perceive, was not so much to the point as I want to ex-
press now, though it may, if proper, be glanced at, to show that
the subject had caught my attention early.

But, to be candid, I much question whether a recommenda
tion of this measure to the legislature will have a better effect
now than formerly. It may show, indeed, my sense of its im
portance, and that is a sufficient inducement with me to bring the

150 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 39.

matter before the public, in some shape or another, at the closing
scenes of my political exit. My object for proposing to insert it
where I did (if not improper), was to set the people ruminating
on the importance of the measure, as the most likely means of
bringing it to pass.

With much truth,

I am your affectionate,

Geo. Washington.

KING TO HAMILTON.

London, 10th Sept., 1796.

Dear Sir:

I received this morning a letter from Mr. Monroe, dated
Paris, August 28th, of which the following is an extract:

" As soon as the order of this government, as notified by the
Minister of Foreign Affairs to Barthelemi, the present ambassa-
dor at Basle, appeared in the papers, for it was never notified to
the foreign ministers here, I applied for information whether
orders were issued for the seizure of neutral vessels, stating
equally as the motive of my application a report, apparently well
authenticated, that one of our vessels had been lately taken near
our own coast ; and was informed, that no such order was issued,
and further, that none such would be, in case the British did not
seize our vessels. I am happy to give you this information, be-
cause I flatter myself the knowledge of this fact may be useful in
respect to our commerce with the country in which you reside.
I have in a former letter told you that the British government
deny that any order has been lately issued, or that any order ex-
ists, authorizing the seizure of neutral cargoes bound to the
French ports, as was alleged to be the case in the letter from the
French Minister of Foreign Affairs to Barthelemi."

The foregoing extract is all I know from Mr. Monroe re-
specting the resolution of the French government, communicated

^t. 39.] CORRESPONDENCE. 151

by their Minister of Foreign Affairs to their ambassador at Basle.
You will have seen the letter to Barthelemi, which is undoubtedly
authentic ; and you now have what Mr. Monroe reports as the
result of his application on the subject. I make no comments
nor inferences. You have the materials, and can make your own
interpretations.

Very sincerely yours,

Eufus King.

KING TO HAMILTON.

London, September 11th, 1796.

Immediately after the publication of the letter from the French
government to their minister Barthelemi at Basle, announcing
their determination to seize the cargoes of neutral vessels destin-
ed to the English ports, I wrote to Mr. Monroe, informing him
that the British government disavowed the having issued any
recent order for the capture of neutral cargoes bound to French
ports, as alleged in the letter to Barthelemi — and by a letter that
I received to-day from Mr. Monroe, under date of the 28th of
August, he says, that on application for information whether the
French government have issued an order for the capture of
neutral vessels, he has been informed, that no such order has
been issued, and further, that none will be, in case the British did
not seize our vessels.

I am not quite able to explain this transaction, I therefore
give you such facts as I know you must seek for interpretations.
Yery sincerely and affectionately, &c.

152 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 39.

HAMILTON TO BOND.

New-York, September 15th, 179G.

Sir:

Two days since a letter was delivered to me with a declara-
tion of the bearer that it came from Mr. Lyston. On opening the
cover, I found nothing, except a letter from Captain Cochran
(which, though not addressed, would appear to have been written
to some public agent of Great Britain), and a declaration of David
Wilson and Thomas Marshall respecting the ship Eliza. The
superscription of the packet resembling your handwriting, I
concluded that it might have come from you, and that by some
mistake the letter you had written me had been omitted, and
that on discovery of omission, it would have been forwarded by
another opportunity. Finding after two days' waiting that the
expectation has not been realized, I have determined to write to
you on the subject.

Mr. Charles Wilkes had previously applied to me concerning
this affair, and had submitted to my consideration various papers.
The result was that I discouraged a judicial prosecution. My
reasons are these :

Taking it to be true, as stated, that Captain Huffey brought
from the shore within our territory persons who by force aided him
to rescue the captured vessel, I am of opinion that this circum-
stance would give jurisdiction of the case to our courts on the
application of the capturing party.

But when on such application any of our courts should hold
jurisdiction, it would in my judgment go into the merits and ex-
amine the validity of the capture.

Here these facts occur : that the Eliza, being a transport vessel
in the service of Great Britain, was captured by a French priva-
teer, fitted out of some port of France by Barney an American
citizen, in quality of armateur ; Leveille, probably a Frenchman,
captain by commission ; and was afterwards condemned as prize
by the sentence of a court of admiralty at Dunkirk — and as far
as the direct proof goes, purchased in virtue of that sentence by
an American citizen.

jEt. 39.] CORRESPONDENCE. 153

It is conjectured that two-thirds of the vessel may have be-
longed to a French house, Messrs. De Baques ; because it appears
that Huffey paid two thirds of the purchase-money in a bill
drawn by that house. But this is evidently a mere circumstance
of suspicion, and wholly inconclusive. Why may not the De-
Baques have been factors or agents for Huffey t Why may not
Huffey have purchased their draft towards the payment ? One
or the other of the two latter suppositions would no doubt
prevail with the court, if there was no collateral proof to the
contrary.

It is also conjectured that the Eliza may have continued the
property of Barney. But all the documents now in the power of
the captor speak a contrary language. This suspicion, then,
however just it may be in fact, cannot be supported.

The question then is, would the equipment of the privateer
by Barney be sufficient to invalidate the purchase by a neutral
citizen under the sentence of a court of the capturing power?

No opinion of any theoretic writer, nor, as I believe, any
usage of any nation, nor the decisions of courts of admiralty,
will authorize, in my judgment, an affirmative answer to that
question.

If Mr. Barney comes within the 21st article of our treaty with
Great Britain, it would make him liable, if taken by Great Britain,
to be punished as a pirate. But it will be observed that the
stipulation would not oblige the United States to treat him as
such. And the article being confined to personal punishment,
may be supposed not to contemplate the confiscation of property
captured by such a person.

But it would be to go an unheard of length to pronounce null
the prize made under such circumstances, by a vessel fitted out
of the ports of the belligerent power, and regularly commission-
ed, and after a sentence of condemnation.

Therefore, and as the property in question is of little value,
and as smart damages would be likely to attend a failure of the
prosecution, I advised against it, as I now still do.

Yet if Captain Cochran, or any person acting on his behalf,
shall desire the experiment to be made, however unpromising in my

154 HAMILTON'S WORKS. \Mc, 39.

view, I shall esteem it a professional duty, and due to justice
to a foreign power, to put the affair in a course of judicial
investigation.

WOLCOTT TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, October 17th, 1796.

Permit me to ask your opinion on the following points :

1st. Ought we, or ought we not, to permit sales of prizes to
French national ships of war as formerly, on payments of duties?

2d. In case of an affirmative answer to the first question,
What is to be regarded as evidence of a national ship ? will the
certificate of a French commissioner in the West Indies, or of a
consul or the French minister in the United States, be sufficient,
provided nothing appears in the commission of the vessel contra-
dictory to their certificate?

3d. May we keep an inspector on board a prize during her
continuance in our ports ?

4th. In case a prize requires reparation, may a 'part of her
cargo be sold, sufficient to defray her expenses on payment of
duties ?

5th. In case a prize vessel is condemned as incapable of repa-
ration, may the prize goods be exported in our own or other
neutral vessels, as French property ?

6th. Who is to judge when it is necessary to unlade a vessel
for the purpose of making reparations ? Is the suggestion of a
French prize-master or consul sufficient?

7th. May the cargoes of prizes be sold, or any part of them,
for the reparation of any vessel, or the payment of any expense
not incidental to the identical vessel in which the cargoes ar-
rived ?

8th. Who is to judge of the quantity sufficient for making
reparations, in case any sale is lawful ?

9th. If, after a vessel is condemned as incapable of repara-

JEt. 39.] CORRESPONDENCE. 155

tion, she should be notwithstanding repaired, is she to be per-
mitted to depart?

10th. Is it, or is it not, the right of the collector to treat
French prizes in the same manner as vessels which report them-
selves as bound to a foreign port, or which arrive in distress ?
See section 18th and 38th of the collection law.

The 18th and 38th sections of the collection law appear to
have provided for cases not very dissimilar from those of prizes
to privateers, which, in contemplation of law, must be considered
as coming into our ports merely for refreshment ; the requiring
of a bond on their departure may not, however, be proper.

We shall, on the subject of these prizes, be vexed with every
kind of uncandid ingenuity. There is danger of losing the
revenue, while at the same time sales may not be prevented.
You will see that not only public questions which affect our
neutrality, but revenue questions are concerned ; there are too
many who will not miss a good opportunity of purchasing West
India produce, when it can be had below the market price.

In every point of view the subject is embarrassing. Please
to reply as soon as possible.

HAMILTON TO WOLCOTT.

Albany, October 27th, 1796.

Dear Sir :

Your letter of the 17th instant found me at Albany, attend-
ing the Supreme Court. I have no copy of the treaty with
Great Britain at hand, but I am well satisfied, from memory,
that the true interpretation of that treaty, enforcing, in this re-
spect, the true rule of neutrality, forbids our permitting the sale
of a prize, taken and brought in by a French national ship, equally
as if by a privateer; and that the prize vessel herself with her
cargo, ought to depart our ports. I hasten to give you my opin-
ion thus far. I reserve to consider more at leisure, what excep-

156 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 39.

tions absolute necessity may justify. But this is clear, that as
far as it may admit any, the exception must be measured and
restricted by the necessity, and as soon as possible you must return
into the path of the treaty.

Thus if the prize vessel was absolutely insufficient to proceed
to sea, her cargo ought to be sent out of the country in another
vessel ; and care ought to be taken that it does not go out under
false colors. Our own officers, no doubt, must inspect and ascer-
tain any case of necessity which may be suggested.

Pray, my good friend, let there be no evasions.

HAMILTON TO WOLCOTT.

November 1st, 1796.

Dear Sir:

I wrote you a line from Albany, expressing an opinion from
memory, that our treaty with Great Britain prohibited the sale of
prizes made by French national ships. Being just returned to
town, I have looked into the article which related to the point,
and I fear that opinion was wrong. In a day or two I will
write to you more particularly.

Adet's late communication demands a very careful and well-
managed answer.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.
(private.)

Philadelphia, 2d November, 1796.

My Dear Sir:

On Monday afternoon I arrived in this city, and among the
first things which presented themselves to my view, was Mr.
Adet's letter to the Secretary of State, published by his order at
the moment it was presented.

JEr. 39.J

CORRESPONDENCE. 157

The object in doing this is not difficult of solution; but
whether the publication, in the manner it appears, is by order of
the Directory, or an act of his own, is yet to be learned. If the
first, he has executed a duty only ; if the latter, he has exceeded
it, and is himself responsible for the indignity offered to this go-
vernment by such publication, without allowing it time to reply
— or to take its own mode of announcing the intentions of his
country towards the commerce of these United States.

In the other case, should there be, in your opinion, any dif-
ference in my reception and treatment of that minister in his
visits at the public rooms (I have not seen him yet, nor do not
expect to do it before Tuesday next), and what difference should
be made, if any ?

He complains in his letter, that he has received no answers
to the remonstrances in former communications (the dates of
which are given). The fact is, that one at least of these remon-
strances were accompanied by as indecent charges, and as offen-
sive expressions as the letters of Genet were ever marked with •
and besides, the same things, on former occasions, had been re-
plied to (as the Secretary of State informs me), over and over
again.

That the letter which he has now given to the public will be
answered, and (to a candid mind) I hope satisfactorily, is certain ;
but ought it to be published immediately, or not? This question
has two sides to it, both of which are important. If the answer
does not accompany the letter, the antidote will not keep pace
with the poison — and it may and undoubtedly would be said, it
is because the charges are just, and the consequences had been
predicted. On the other hand, may not the dignity of the gov-
ernment be committed by a newspaper dispute with the minister
of a foreign nation, and an apparent appeal to the people ? And
would it not be said also, that we can bear every thirty from one
of the belligerent powers, but nothing from another of them ? I
could enlarge on this subject, but add nothing, I am certain, that
your own reflections thereon will not furnish. Whether the an-
swer is published now or not, would it be proper, do you con-
ceive, at the ensuing session, which will close the political scene

15S HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 39.

with me, to bring the French affairs, since the controversy with
Grenet, fully before Congress ? In doing this, it is to be noticed
that there is such a connection between them and our transactions
with Great Britain, as to render either imperfect without the
other ; and so much of the latter as relates to the treaty with
that country, has already been refused to that body ; not because
there was any thing contained therein that all the world might
not have seen, but because it was claimed as a matter of right,
and the compliance therewith would have established a danger-
ous precedent.

Since I wrote to you from Mount Yernon, on the eve of my
departure from that place, and on my way hither, I received a
letter from Sir John Sinclair — an extract of which I inclose you —
on the subject of an agricultural establishment. Though not such
an enthusiast as he is, I am nevertheless deeply impressed with
the benefits which would result from such an institution ; and if
you see no impropriety in the measure, I would leave it as a re-
commendatory one in the speech at the opening of the session ;
which probably will be the last I shall ever address to that or
any other public body.

It must be obvious to every man who considers the agricul-
ture of this country (even in the best improved parts of it), and
compares the produce of our lands with those of other countries,
no ways superior to them in natural fertility, how miserably de-
fective we are in the management of them ; and that if we do
not fall on a better mode of treating them, how ruinous it will
prove to the landed interest. Ages will not produce a systematic
change without public attention and encouragement ; but a few
years more of increased sterility will drive the inhabitants of the
Atlantic States westwardly for support ; whereas, if they were
taught how to improve the old, instead of going in pursuit of
new and productive soils, they would make those acres which
now scarcely yield them any thing, turn out beneficial to them-
selves— to the mechanics, by supplying them with the staff of life
on much cheaper terms — to the merchants, by increasing their
commerce and exportation — and to the community generally, by
the influx of wealth resulting therefrom. In a word, it is in my

jEt. 39.] CORRESPONDENCE. 159

estimation, a great national object, and, if stated as fully as the
occasion and circumstances will admit, I think it must appear so.
But whatever may be the reception or fate of the recommenda-
tion, I shall have discharged my duty in submitting it to the con-
sideration of the legislature.

As I have a very high opinion of Mr. Jay's judgment, can-
dor, honor, and discretion (though I am not in the habit of
writing so freely to him as to you), it would be very pleasing to
me if you would show him this letter (although it is a hurried
one, my time having been much occupied since my arrival by
the heads of the departments, and with the papers which have
been laid before me), and let me have, for consideration, your
joint opinions on the several matters herein stated.

You will recollect that the conduct to be observed towards
Mr. Adet, must be decided on before Tuesday next ; that is, if he
comes to the public room, whether he is to be received with the
same cordiality as usual, or with coolness ; and you will do me
the justice to believe, that in this instance, and every other, I
wish it to be such as will promote the true policy and interest of
the country, at the same time that a proper respect for its dignity
is preserved. My own feelings I put out of the question.

There is in the conduct of the French government relative to
this business an inconsistency, a duplicity, a delay, or a some-
thing else, which is unaccountable upon honorable ground. It
appears that the order under which Mr. Adet has acted is dated
in July (early), and yet Mr. Monroe had been led to believe
(though much dissatisfaction he says has appeared), that no such
order had, or would be issued, unless Great Britain set the ex-
ample ; and in a letter of August the 28th, he writes Mr. King
to that effect, as the latter officially informs the Secretary of State.
But I am fatigued with this and other matters which crowd upon
me, and shall only add that I am very affectionately

Yours,

George Washington.

p# g. — I find I have not time before the hour for closing the
mail arrives to take the promised extract from Sir John Sinclair's

160 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 39.

letter, I therefore send the original, with a request that it may-
soon be returned, as I have given it no acknowledgment — the
articles which he requests my acceptance of are not yet come to
hand.

"WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, 3d Nov., 1796.

My Dear Sir:

After my letter of yesterday was dispatched to you, the draft
of the answer to Mr. Adet was presented for my approbation,
with the opinions of the gentlemen about me that it would be
expedient to publish it, and without delay.

It appeared also by information from the Secretary of State,
that as far as public opinion had been expressed on the occasion,
that this measure was looked to and expected. These considera-
tions, and a conviction, if the publication was to take place other-
wise than through the medium of Congress, the sooner it hap-
pened the more likely it would be to obviate the bad impressions
it was calculated to make on the public mind, induced an acqui-
escence on my part. I do not, nevertheless, think it free from
those objections which I mentioned in my last; as it is not proba-
ble that the correspondence will end with the Secretary's letter.

I give you the trouble of this note to account for the publica-
tion which you will find in the gazettes of this morning, and to
rescue my conduct from the imputation of inconsistency.

There are other parts of my letter not involved in this deter-
mination, which await the opinions I have asked, and on which
I should be glad to hear from you (and in the manner which has
been required in preceding letters), as soon as it is convenient.
I am your aifectionate friend,

George Washington.

^t. 39.] CORRESPONDENCE. 161

HAMILTON TO WOLCOTT.

November 3, 1796.

Dear Sir:

I have more carefully examined our treaty with Great Bri-
tain, and I return to the opinion given you from Albany. My
hesitation yesterday arose from the terms of the twenty-fourth
article, which were confined to privateers, a word that has an
appropriate sense, meaning ships of private persons commissioned
to cruise. But the following article contains the equivalent one
to that with France, upon which we refused all bringing in and
sale of prizes by her enemies. The words are, "no refuge," &c,
the major including the minor. And though France, by our treaty
with her, may bring in prizes, yet the treaty gives her no right to
sell. The clause in question, in the English treaty, cannot take
away the right she before had, to bring in her prizes ; but as she
had not a positive right to sell, it will oblige her to depart with
them : in other words, it will preclude her from whatever she
has not a positive right to. This also is Mr. Jay's opinion, and
it is certainly agreeable to the whole spirit of the treaty.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

November 4, 1796.

Sir:

I have lately been honored with two letters from you — one
from Mount Vernon, the other from Philadelphia, which came
to hand yesterday. I immediately sent the last to Mr. Jay, and
conferred with him last night. We settled our opinion on one
point, viz. : That whether Mr. Adet acted with or without in-
struction from his government, in publishing his communication,
he committed a disrespect towards our government, which ought
not to pass unnoticed, and would most properly be noticed to him
F 11

162 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 39.

as the representative or agent. That the manner of noticing it
in the first instance, at least, ought to be negative ; that is, by
the personal conduct of the President towards the minister.
That the true rule on this point would be to receive the minister
at your levees with a dignified reserve, holding an exact medium
between an offensive coldness and cordiality. The point is a nice
one to be hit, but no one will know better how to do it than the
President.

Self-respect, and the necessity of discouraging further insult,
requires thai sensibility should be manifested ; on the other hand,
the importance of not widening a breach, which may end in
rupture, demands great measure and caution in the mode.

Mr. Jay and myself are both agreed also, that no immediate
publication of the reply which may be given, ought to be made,
for this would be like joining in an appeal to the public — would
countenance and imitate the irregularity, and would not be dig-
nified ; nor is it necessary for any present purpose of the govern-
ment. Mr. Jay inclined to think that the reply ought to go
through Mr. Pinckney to the Directory, with only a short note
to Adet acknowledging the reception of his pjaper, and inform-
ing him that this mode will be taken. I am not yet satisfied
that this course will be the best. We are both to consider fur-
ther, and confer. You will shortly be informed of the result.

But whatever be the mode adopted, it is certain that the
reply will be one of the most delicate papers that has proceeded
from our government, in which it will require much care and
nicety to steer between sufficient and too much justification, be-
tween self-respect and the provocation of further insult or injury ;
and that will, at the same time, save a great political interest
which this step of the French government opens to us. Did I
not know how guarded you will yourself be, I should be afraid
of Mr. Pickering's warmth. We must, if possible, avoid rupture
with France, who, if not effectually checked, will, in the insolence
of power, become no less troublesome to us than to the rest of
the world.

I dedicate Sunday to the execution of your commands in pre-
paring certain heads. You will speedily hear again from me.

Most affectionately and respectfully, I have the honor to be, &c.

^Et. 39.] CORRESPONDENCE. 163

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Nov. 5, 1796.

Sir:

Yesterday, after the departure of the post, I received your
letter of the 3d. I have since seen the answer to Adet. I per.
ceive in it nothing intrinsically exceptionable, but something in
the manner a little epigrammatical and sharp. I make this re-
mark freely, because the card now to be played is perhaps the
most delicate that has occurred in your administration ; and na-
tions, like individuals, sometimes get into squabbles from the
manner more than the matter that passes between them. It is
all-important to us — first, if possible, to avoid rupture with
France ; secondly, if that cannot be, to evince to the people that
there has been an unequivocal disposition to avoid it. Our dis-
cussions, therefore, ought to be calm, smooth, inclined to the argu-
mentative ; when remonstrance and complaint are unavoidable,,
carrying upon the face of them a reluctance and regret, mingling a
steady assertion of our. rights and adherence to principle with
the language of moderation, and, as long as it can be done, of
friendship.

I am the more particular in these observations, because I
know that Mr. Pickering, who is a very worthy man, has never-
theless something warm and angular in his temper, and will re-
quire much a vigilant, moderating eye.

I last evening saw Doctor Bailey, our health officer, who tells
me that the French consul here, in conversation with an assistant
of the doctor's, who is a refugee from St. Domingo, expressed a
desire to make arrangements for the sick of a French fleet ex-
pected shortly to arrive at this port. I thought this circumstance
worth communication.

With the most respectful attachment, I have the honor to
be sir, &c.

164 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 39.

WOLCOTT TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, Nov. 6, 1796.

Dear Sir:

I fear that your opinion of Nov. 3d has been founded on a
partial view of the case.

You will remember that it has been all along a received
opinion, that the French had a right by treaty to enjoy an in-
definite asylum in our ports, but that they could not claim the
privilege of selling 'prizes in our ports.

The privilege of an indefinite asylum was also granted to
British ships of war and letters of marque, provided they had not
made prizes of French vessels.

I do not, therefore, see that the 25th article of the British
treaty can be construed to abridge a right which we have ac-
knowledged to be accorded to France under our prior treaty,
especially as this article saves the rights of France expressly.

The right of selling prizes stands on different ground. It
might have been refused to France in all cases. It was, however,
granted by the President in all cases. The British treaty takes
away this privilge from privateers, but it leaves the cases of prizes
to neutral ships as formerly. The United States may pass a law
to take away the privilege of selling prizes to national ships, but
they have passed no law on the subject. The President's de-
cisions now must be consistent with his former decisions, except
where treaties and laws require a change. As before mentioned,
there is no law. The British treaty speaks only of privateers, and
it has been ever held that a stipulation affecting privateers could
not be extended to affect neutral ships.

In short, though I wish your opinion may be found tenable,
yet I do not at present see how it can be maintained. This, you
will see, renders some of the other questions proposed by me
both difficult and important.

There was no inclosure in your letter. Have we done right
with Mr. Adet ? I wish to know, as we may hear further. Must
we, or must we not, publish further in the papers? If so, under
what circumstances?

.Et. 39.] CORRESPONDENCE. 165

The federal ticket is lost here. There are still hopes that Mr.
Adams will be elected, but nothing more. I hope Mr. P. will
be supported, as the next best thing which can be done.

Pray write to our Eastern friends.

HAMILTON TO WOLCOTT.

November 9th, 1796.

My Dear Sir:

I received yesterday your letter of the 6th, and immediately
wrote some additional letters to the eastward, enforcing what I
had before written. Pennsylvania does not surprise me.

I have reconsidered the opinion given to you on the third,
and see no reason to change it. The reasoning which leads me
to the conclusion, has not been sufficiently explained, I will there-
fore be more particular.

The articles in our treaty with France, which respect the sub-
ject, are the seventeenth and twenty-second.

The seventeenth consists of two parts.

Firstly, It grants asylum in our ports for French ships of war
and privateers, with their prizes ; and with liberty to carry them
freely thence to their own ports.

Secondly. It prohibits the giving refuge, in our ports, to such
as shall have made prize of the subjects, or property, of the French. It
grants no right to sell prizes in our ports, neither does the letter
of the article prohibit prizes, made of the French, from coming
into our ports. It only prohibits the instrument of making the
prizes. But the construction justly adopted by the President
was, that the prohibition, in its true spirit, excluded the bringing
in of prizes, whether coming with, or without, the capturing
vessels. 'Tis upon this part of the treaty, alone, that prizes
made by national vessels of Great Britain, were excluded from our
ports. For,

The twenty-second article with France is wholly confined to
privateers ; prohibiting those of other nations to fit or to sell their
prizes in our ports.

166 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 39.

This article, had it stood alone, would have left us as free to
admit British national ships, with their prizes, into our ports, as
our twenty-fourth article with Great Britain leaves us free to
admit French national ships, with their prizes. For these articles
are the exact equivalents of each other. So that, as before re-
marked, the prohibition of the coming in, or sale in, our ports, of
prizes made upon the French by British national ships, was derived,
by construction and implication, from the seventeenth article of our
treaty with France.

It follows, that this article was considered as competent to
prevent the coming in and sale of prizes.

If so, the same, or equivalent, terms in the British treaty,
must be competent to the same thing.

Now the twenty-fifth article of our treaty with Great Britain
has equivalent terms. We there read, that "no shelter or refuge
shall be given in their ports to such as have made a prize upon
the subjects, or citizens, of either of the contracting parties ; but
if forced, by stress of weather or the danger of the sea, to enter
therein, particular care shall be taken to hasten their departure ;
and to cause them to retire as soon as possible." This prohibi-
tion includes here, as in the seventeenth article of our treaty with
France, a prohibition to sell prizes in our ports ; not the prizes of
privateers only, but prizes generally.

But France, it is answered, had a prior right, by the seven-
teenth article of our treaty with her, "to come and bring prizes
into our ports."

True, she had this right, and must have it still, notwithstanding
the twenty-fifth article of our treaty with Great Britain ; but she
had no prior right, by treaty, to sell prizes in our ports ; and con-
sequently, as the twenty-fifth article of our treaty with Great
Britain excludes, as the minor of a major, the selling of prizes in
our ports, the exclusion, so far, is in force, because it contravenes
no prior right of France. As far as the treaty with France gives
a right, inconsistent with the above twenty-fifth article, that
right forms an exception ; but the exception must be only co-
extensive with the right. The conclusion is that France retains
the right of asylum, but is excluded from the right of selling.

jEt. 39.] CORRESPONDENCE. 167

This gives effect to the twenty-fifth article with Great Britain,
far as the treaty-right of France does not require an exception.

And this construction ought to be favored, because it bes
comports with the rule of neutrality.

It will also best agree with the President's former decisions
He permitted France to sell prizes ; not because treaty gave her
a right, but because he did not see clearly any law of the country,
or of nations, that forbid it. But consistency does not require
that this permission shall continue, if there be any thing in the
treaty with Great Britain against it. Consistency, however, does
require that the same latitude of construction should be given to
the twenty-fifth article of our treaty with Great Britain, as was
before given to the seventeenth article of our treaty with France.
The same latitude will, as I apprehend, exclude the sale of prizes,
by France, in the case in question.

I regret extremely the publication of the reply to Adet, other,
wise than through the channel of Congress. The sooner the
Executive gets out of the newspapers the better. What may
now be in its power, will depend on circumstances which are
to occur.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

New-York, November 10, 1796.

Sir:

I have been employed in making, and have actually com-
pleted a rough draft on the following heads: — "National Uni-
versity; Military Academy ; Board of Agriculture ; establishment of
such manufactories on public account as are relative to the equip-
ment of army and navy, to the extent of the public demand for sup-
ply, and excluding all the branches already well established in
the country ; the gradual and successive creation of a navy ; com-
pensations to public officers; reinforcement of provisions for public
debt." I send you this enumeration, that you may see the ob-
jects which I shall prepare for. But I must beg your patience

168 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 39.

till the beginning of the next week for the transmission of the
draft, as I am a good deal pressed for time.

The legislature having appointed Mr. Laurance district judge,
a successor will of course be to be provided. A conviction of his
competency, a high opinion of his worth, and a long-established
personal friendship, induce me to take the liberty of precipitating
a recommendation to you of Mr. Troup, the present clerk of
the District and Circuit Court (the attorney of the district being
known to be disinclined to the office). Mr. Troup is a lawyer,
professionally very respectable, so that his practice is inferior in
productiveness to no other ; but he has by the most unexception-
able means acquired a property sufficient to make it reasonable
in him to withdraw from practice, upon a salary such as that of
the district judge, and latterly his health has somewhat suffered
from a long course of excessive application. His moral character
is without an imputation of any sort ; indeed no man in the State
is better esteemed than this gentleman ; so that, I believe, the
appointment would be considered as altogether lit. I trust, how-
ever, that in expressing myself thus strongly, it will not occasion
to you a moment's embarrassment, if any candidate more agree-
able to you shall occur.

Yery respectfully and affectionately, I have the honor to be,
Sir, &c.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

November 11, 1796.

Sir:

My anxiety for such a course of things as will most promise
a continuance of peace to the country, and in the contrary event
a full justification of the President, has kept my mind dwelling
on the late reply to Mr. Adet; and, though it is a thing that
cannot be undone, yet, if my ideas are correct, the communication
of them may not be wholly useless for the future. The more I
have considered that paper, the less I like it.

Mr. 39.] CORRESPONDENCE. 169

I think it is to be regretted that answers were not given to
the preceding communications of Mr. Adet. For silence com-
monly carries with it the appearance of hauteur and contempt.
And even if the paper to be answered is offensive, 'tis better
and less hazardous to harmony to say so, with calmness and
moderation, than to say nothing. Silence is only then to be
adopted, when things have come to such a state with a minister,
that it is the intention to break with him. And even in this
case, if there is still a disposition to maintain harmony with his
government, a reply ought to go through our own organ to it, so
as to distinguish .between the minister and the government.

The reason given for not having answered the inquiry re-
specting the impressment of our seamen is too broad. When
two nations have relations to each other, and one is at war, the
other at peace; if the one at peace suffers liberties to be taken
with it by the enemy of the one at war, which turns to the detri-
ment of the latter, it is a fair subject of inquiry and discussion.
The questions may be asked, How does this happen ? What meas-
ures are taking to prevent a repetition or continuance ? There is
always possibility of connivance, and this possibility gives a right
to inquire, and imposes an obligation to enter into friendly ex-
planation. 'Tis not a matter of indifference to our friend, what
conduct of its enemy we permit towards ourselves. Much in-
deed in all these cases depends on the manner of the inquiry ;
but I am satisfied the principle is as I state it, and the ground
assumed by Mr. Pickering, in the latitude of the expression, un-
tenable.

These opinions are not confined to me. Though most people
like the air of what is called spirit in Mr. Pickering's letter, yet
some of the best friends of the cause whisper cautiously remarks
similar to the above.

It is a question now well worth considering, whether, if a
handsome opportunity of rectifying should not occur with Mr.
Adet, it may not be expedient specially to instruct Mr. Pinckney
to make the explanations, putting our backwardness here to the
score of the manner of the inquiry, and qualifying the generality
of our principle — without giving up our right of judging of the
measure of our compliance in similar cases.

170 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [,Et. 39.

I know you will so well appreciate the motives to these ob-
servations, that I run no risk in being thought officious, and I
therefore freely transmit them, being always,

With due respect and attachment, &c.

TALLEYRAND TO HAMILTON.

Paris, 12 Nov. 17%.

Mon Cher Colonel Hamilton :

Yous recevez en meme terns que cette lettre une reclamation
de M. de Beaumarchais que je confie avec un entier abandon
a vous pour obtenir de l'Amorique une justice qu'il invoque
infructueusement depuis 20 ans. Vous avez apprecie dans le
terns les services qu'il a rendu a votre pays. II pense qu'un
nouvel examen de son affaire conduisoit encore a des resultats
plus favorables. Je n'ai pas craint de lui promettre votre interet
et vos conseils pour la suite de son affaire, il sera heureux pour
lui d'etre defendu par vous : ce sera le plus sur garant de requite
de sa demande. Beaucoup de personnes s'y interessent ici. Je
partage sincerement cet interet et desire vivement pouvoir vous
l'inspirer. Du reste en reclamant vos lumieres et vos conseils dans
le cours de cette affaire. M. cle Beaumarchais n'a garde de vous
demander les demarches qu'elle pourra entrainer ; c'est de dinger
qu'il vous prie : il doit s'en remettre pour toute la partie active
a M. Sterret qu'il sait que vous estimez, et a qui son intention est
d'offrir un interet proportionne au succes de la reclamation.

Quoique je suis depuis deux mois en France, le pays est encore
bien nouveau pour moi ; je passe mon tems a l'etudier — voila au
vrai ce que j'y fais et pas autre chose. A mon arrivee les papiers
publics francais at anglais se sont amuse's a beaucoup prononcer
mon nom, a me supposer des vues-meme des occupations: de
tout cela il n'y a pas un mot de vrai — il faut savoir la langue
d'un pays, avant d'oser y parler et j'en suis encore bein loin.

On ma beaucoup quustionne" sur l'Amerique au moment de

Mr. 39.] CORRESPONDENCE. 171

raon arrive", j'ai repondu, comme j'y le devais, et en des termes
que, je crois, vous auraient convenu. Je n'ai pas manque sur tout
de dire que je ne croyais point a l'eloignment des Americains pour
les Francois, quand merae cet eloignment 6xisterait il n'y aurait
rien de plus naturel d'apres la conduite folle et audacieuse des
agents de la France qui s'etaient to uj ours montres l'ennemis de
votre gouvernment.

Adieu, — clier Colonel Hamilton. En reclamant vos bons
offices pour M. de Beaumarchais j'use avec toute confiance du
droit que me donne l'amitie que vous m'avez toujours montn'e.
Vous m'avez promis de disposer de moi dans toutes les occasions
■ — je vous sorame de votre promesse pour vous et pour vos amis.

Soyez assez bien pour presenter mes hommages respectueuses
a Madame Hamilton; me s'appeller au souvenir de votre fa-
mille, et faire mes meillieurs compliments a MM. Seton, Nic. Low,
Hammond. Votre petit Jean, a t'il toujours autant de genie?
Vous vous souviendrez toujours, j'espere, que vous m'avez
promis de m'envoyer dans quelques annes votre fils aine pour
lui faire faire son voyage de France.

Je vous renouvelle, cher Colonel Hamilton, l'assurance des
sentiments d'amitie et de respect.

Avec lesquels, j'ai l'honneur d'etre,

Votre, &c.

Ch. Mau. Talleyrand.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, 12th Nov., 1796.

My Dear Sir:

In due time, and in good order, I received your letters dated
the 4th, 5th, and 10th inst., and shall be mindful of their contents.

What construction do you put upon the information received

through the assistant of Dr. B ? and what notice, if any,

should it meet with noiv, or hereafter, if application should be
made for leave, or the event take place without?

172 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 39.

Having some time since called upon the different Secretaries
for such matters (within their respective departments) as required
to be communicated to Congress at the opening of the session,
the inclosed papers are from two of them ; one has given a shape
to the ideas. From the Treasury Department I have received
nothing yet, and presume nothing will come from the Secretary
of it, except such matters as are of the fiscal kind, founded upon
facts and statements.

The Secretary of "War has closed his notes, or draft, with a
communication, a declaration, and an invocation, which I had no
intention of introducing, if such sentiments could be avoided
with that decent respect which is due to such members of both
houses as have been uniform and steady in their support of those
measures of government, which I have thought the interest and
welfare of this country required, and accordingly recommended.

The reasons which have operated a reluctance in my mind to
touch on this subject at the ojjejiing of the session, are two — first,
that it might be supposed it was introduced for the purpose of a
complimentary notice of the event, by those who might feel a
disposition to offer it ; and, secondly, that it might not embarrass
others who had rather be silent ; much less put it in the power
of a third set, to oppose (if it should be attempted) sentiments of
this sort in the answer to the speech.

These being my reasons — judge of their force. If they out-
weigh what may be considered as indifference, slight, or disre-
spectful in me towards the body to whom the address is made,
let them prevail. If not, adopt in whole, or in part, or new-
model altogether to your liking, the sentiments or expressions of
Mr. McHenry.

Among the things noted in my memorandums, and not to be
found in the inclosures, is an intimation to this effect, viz. : that
from the best information I have been able to obtain, and from
the best view I have of the general system of European politics,
and of the state of matters in the Mediterranean in particular,
our commerce in that quarter will always be upon a precarious
establishment, unless a protecting force is given to it. If Con-
gress, in their investigation of the subject, should coincide in this

JEt. 39.] CORRESPONDENCE. 173

opinion, it will rest with their wisdom to decide whether that
trade in particular is of sufficient importance to countenance the
expense of its protection. How much beyond this to extend the
view towards a navy, in the present uncertain state of our fiscal
concerns, merits consideration. My own sentiments lead strongly
to the means of commencement.

This last article, in addition to the several matters contained
in the inclosures, and what will naturally flow from the texts
mentioned in your letter, together with a general reference to
the proper officers for estimates, papers, &c, alluded to in the
speech, will comprehend every thing that has occurred to me, as
necessary to be mentioned at the opening of the session ; and I
would thank you much for letting me have the whole as early in
next week as your convenience will permit — at any rate on
Saturday — with your opinion on the propriety of giving Con-
gress a full statement relatively to the situation of our affairs

with France, as suggested in my letter of the ■ instant.

With affectionate regard,

I am always yours,

Geo. Washington.

P. S. I was in the very act of closing this letter when yours
of yesterday's date came to hand ; due consideration shall be
given to the contents of it.

WOLCOTT TO HAMILTON.
(private.)

Philadelphia, November 17th, 1796.

Dear Sir:

You must feel interested in knowing how our affairs stand
with France ; I give you a summary of them.

The note to Colonel Pickering contains a summary of all the
complaints of France, since the commencement of the present
war. They are as follow.

174 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 39.

That the courts of the United States have taken cognizance
of prizes to French vessels.

That the treaty has been misconstrued by permitting the ad-
mission of British ships which have at some time made prizes of
French vessels. Mr. Adet's construction is, that a British ship,
which at any time or in any place has made a prize, ought to be
denied asylum.

Complaints are made of the proclamation of neutrality, and
of the promptness with which the President requested Congress
to enact laws for preserving our neutrality. The questions pro-
posed by the President before Genet's arrival are recited at
length, and commented on as evidences of unfriendliness to
France.

Lists of almost all the particular cases respecting privateers,
&c, are made out, and the decisions of the Executive censured.

It is said, that the government has manifested partiality
against France, by the alacrity which marked its conduct, in
enforcing the laws against them, and by tardiness in prosecuting
the British.

That the American government deceived France in respect to
Mr. Jay's mission.

That the treaty with Great Britain is a violation of the treaty
with France, is equivalent to a treaty of alliance, and ought not
to have been made during the war.

A fulfilment of the 11th article of our treaty with France is
required, which stipulates that powers granted to other nations
shall become common; this, Mr. Adet says, will justify the
French in taking British property on board American ves-
sels, and in extending contraband as defined by the British
treaty.

For these reasons, the commercial relations founded on treaty
are to be respected until the governmznt returns to itself. Never-
theless the French nation regards the people as its friends.

The people, in a declamatory rhapsody, are directly addressed
in this style, " 0 ye Americans !" An appeal is made to their pas-
sions ; the injuries of the British during the last war are recount-
ed, and the assistance of the French nation extolled. It is said,

JEt. 39.] CORRESPONDENCE. 175

that the suspension of the minister's functions is not to be re-
garded as an act of hostility, but of just resentment against the gov-
ernment. When the government returns to itself, the French will
forget the injury.

France is said to be terrible to its enemies, butvmagnanimous
to its friends, quick to resent injuries, but easily appeased.

The Executive and. Mr. Jay are treated with personal in-
dignity.

On the whole this is by far the most bold attempt to govern
this country which has been made ; it is necessary to come to
issue. Measures to prevent any panic or dissension of the public
opinion are necessary. We have the right of the question, but
whether we shall be overruled by force, will partly depend on
the spirit of the people, partly on the issue of the campaign in*
Italy and Germany.

I am ever yours,

Oliver Wolcott.

WOLCOTT TO HAMILTON.

Dec. 8th, 1796.

Dear Sir :

I have received your letter of December 6th. The warrant
for the sum due to the Bank of New- York was issued punctually.
By some neglect or accident in the Treasurer's office, it remained
undischarged. I have taken measures for the payment.

By a letter from Mr. Wilkes, I find that the bank claim a
payment of interest by way of discount on the 200,000 dollars
continued on loan on the security of a deposit of stock. This
was not understood by me, nor does it appear a reasonable con-
dition. I will, however, take measures to prevent any disadvan-
tage to the bank from the misconception of what was their con-
struction.

The loan of 200,000 dollars has really operated as an advance
by the Branch Bank, and has been no other relief than as it

176 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 39.

enabled me to assist the bank here in a critical moment. These
institutions have all been mismanaged ; I look upon them with
terror. They are at present the curse, and, I fear, they will
prove the ruin of the government. Immense operations depend
on a trifling capital fluctuating between the coffers of the differ-
ent banks. At present business in this city is on the point of
stagnation.

I will thank you to inform the president of the New-York
Bank, or any other confidential person, that they may rest assured
of as full and cordial assistance in any pressure of their affairs,
as shall be in my power.

I think, however, that they must principally rely on sales of
stock, and, in my opinion, any sacrifice ought to be preferred to
a continuance of temporary expedients. In the present state of
the Treasury anticipated payments are not practicable.

It is matter of importance that the proxies for electing direc-
tors, should not be placed in improper hands. Some attention to
this will be useful, if you find it convenient, without exciting
suspicions of treasury influence.

The Treasury of New-York might have a number of votes,
which would be useful.

Perhaps intimations from the Bank of New-York had best to
come through you. They will be confidential.

The President will lay the correspondence with France since
Genet's time, before Congress. A letter is preparing by Colonel
Pickering to Mr. Pinckney, in answer to Adet.

Tom Payne has published a book against the President, con-
taining the most infamous calumnies. It is a systematical mea-
sure of France to destroy the public confidence in the friends of
government, or " Washington Faction."

The question whether our commerce is or is not to be attacked
depends entirely on the military operations in Germany and
Italy.

If you will part with the Reports of the British Commission-
ers of Accounts, I shall be glad to purchase them. The first
volume is with you, the second and third are here. I shall be
glad to have the book soon, with a bill including Gallatin's work.

.Kt. 39.] CORRESPONDENCE. 17?

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Nov. 19th, 1796.

Sir:

I duly received your letter of the 12th instant. My avoca-
tions have not permitted me sooner to comply with your desire.
I have looked over the papers, and suggested alterations and cor-
rections ; and I have also numbered the paragraphs, I., II., III.,
&c, in the order in which it appears to me eligible they should
stand in the speech.

I thought, upon full reflection, you could not avoid an allu-
sion to your retreat, in order to express your sense of the sup-
port of Congress, but that the simplest manner of doing it was to
be preferred. A paragraph is offered accordingly.

I believe the commencement of a navy ought to be contem-
plated. Our fiscal concerns, if Congress please, can easily be
rendered efficient ; if nof, 'tis their fault, and ought not to prevent
any suggestion which the interest of the country may require.

The paragraph in your letter respecting our Mediterranean
commerce may well be incorporated in this part of the commu-
nication.

You will observe a paragraph I have framed contemplates a
full future communication of our situation with France. At
present it seems to me that this will be effected in the following
mode.

Let a full reply to Mr. Adet's last communication be made,
containing a particular review of our conduct and motives from
the commencement of the Revolution. Let this be sent to Mr.
Pinckney, to be imparted to the Directory ; and let a copy of it,
with a short auxiliary statement of facts, it necessary, be sent to
the House of Representatives. As Mr. Adet has suspended his
functions, I presume no reply can be made to him ; but, not
having seen his paper, I cannot judge.

The crisis is immensely important to the glory of the Presi-
dent, and to the honor and interest of the country.

It is all-important that the reply to Adet's last communication.
F 12

178 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Ma. 39.

to whomsoever made, should be managed with the utmost pos-
sible prudence and skill, so that it may be a solid justification —
an inoffensive remonstrance — the expression of a dignified serious-
ness— reluctant to quarrel, but resolved not to be humbled. The
subject excites the greatest anxiety.
I have the honor to be,

Very respectfully and affectionately, Sir,
Your obedient servant,

A. Hamilton.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, November 21st, 1796.

My Dear Sir:

Having written to you on Saturday, the 11th instant (accom-
panying it with inclosures), without hearing any thing from you
in the course of last week, or by the mail of this day, I begin to
have uneasy sensations for the fate of my letter. To this cause,
and to my solicitude to have the papers returned, you must as-
cribe the trouble of receiving this letter.

If my last got safe to your hand, and indisposition, business,
or any other cause should have prevented your looking into the
papers ; I wish, even under these circumstances, that they may
be returned to me immediately ; for I have no copies, and have but
little time to digest, and to put the several matters therein con-
tained into form, that the whole may be revised again and again
before it is presented — among these papers do not forget to place
Sir John Sinclair's letter to me, as I am desirous of giving it an
acknowledgment.

You will perceive by the publication of Mr. Adet's letter to
Colonel Pickering (in Claypool's Gazette of this date), that the
French government are disposed to play a high game. If other
proofs were wanting, the time and indelicate mode and style of the
present attack on the Executive, exhibited in this labored per-
formance, which is as unjust as it is voluminous, would leave no

.Et. 39.] CORRESPONDENCE. 179

doubt as to the primary object it had in view; but what conse-
quences it may ultimately produce is not so accessible to human
foresight, as it may depend upon various contingencies and
events. I have not seen the writer since my return to this city
— nor is it presumable I shall do it under present circumstances,
unless courted on my part.

The letter of Mr. Adet having been committed to the keep-
ing of Mr. Bache, by him — extracts having already been given
to the public — and other parts promised to be eked out (as would
it is presumed, subserve the purposes in view), induced an opin-
ion that it was best to give the entire letter to the public from
authority, and without delay, that the well-informed part of the
community might judge for themselves.

The necessity for bringing the matter fully before Congress
is now rendered indispensable ; and through that medium it is
presumed it will make its way to the public with proper explan-
ations.

I am, as you know me to be always and sincerely,
Your affectionate

Geo. Washington.

P. S. — Since writing the above, your letter of the 19th, with
its inclosures, have been sent to me — accept my thanks for them.
On account of the other matter contained in this letter I forward
it — being written. Your sentiments in this interesting crisis will
always be thankfully received.

HAMILTON TO WOLCOTT.

November 22d, 179G.

Dear Sir:

I thank you for your note, sending me Acid's letter. The
present is, in my opinion, as critical a situation as our govern-
ment has been in ; requiring all its prudence, all its wisdom, all
its moderation, all its firmness.

180 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 39.

Though the thing is now passed, I do not think it useless to
say to you, that I was not well pleased with the Secretary of
State's answer to Adet's note communicating the order respecting
neutral vessels. There was something of hardness, and epigram-
matic sharpness in it. Neither did I think the position true, that
France had no right to inquire respecting the affair of seamen.
I am of opinion, that whenever a neutral power suffers liberties
to be taken with it, by a belligerent one, which turns to the
detriment of the other belligerent party, as the acquiring strength
by impressing our seamen, there is a good ground of inquiry,
demanding candid explanation.

My opinion is, that our communications should be calm,
reasoning, and serious, showing steady resolution more than feel-
ing, having force in the idea rather than in the expression.

I am very anxious that our government should do right on
the present occasion.

My ideas are these :

As Adet has declared his functions suspended, the reply ought
not to be to him, but, through Mr. Pinckney, to the Directory.

It ought to contain a review of our conduct from the begin-
ing ; noticing our first and full acknowledgment of the Eepublic,
and the danger we run by it. Also the dangers we incurred by
other large interpretations of the treaty, in favor of France,
adverting to the sale of prizes.

It should meet all the suggestions of the minister, correct his
misstatements of facts, and meet, argumentatively, his principles.
Where arguments, already used, are repeated, it ought to be in
a new language, or by quotations in the body of the reply ; not
by reference to other communications annexed, or otherwise,
which embarrass the reading and attention.

It should review, calmly, the conduct of France and her
agents ; pointing out, fully and clearly, the violations of our
rights, and the spirit which was manifested ; but in terms the
most cautious and inoffensive.

It should advert to the policy of moderation towards the
enemies of France, which our situation and that of France, espe-
cially as to maritime power, imposed upon us.

^Et. 3M.J CORRESPONDENCE. 181

It should briefly recapitulate the means of obtaining redress
from Great Britain, employed by our government, and the effects
they have produced.

It should explain why the government could not safely adopt
more expeditious modes, why the Executive could not control the
Judiciary, and should show, that, in effect, the opposite party, as
well as France, suffered the inconveniences of delay.

It should make prominent the consequences upon the peace
and friendship of governments, if all accidental infractions from
situation, from the negligences, &c, of particular officers, are to
be imputed, with severity, to the government itself, and should
apply the remark to the case of the injuries we have suffered, in
different ways, from the officers and agents of France.

It should make prominent two ideas : — The situation in
which we were with Great Britain, prior to the last treaty, so as
to show, that, by the laws of nations, as admitted to us, and
declared to France and the world, prior to that treat}7, all the
things complained of, as resulting from that treaty, previously
existed. And it should dwell on the exception, in that treaty,
of prior treaties.

It should point out strongly, the idea that the inconvenience
at particular junctures of particular stipulations, is no reason for
one party superseding them ; but should intimate, that the
President is willing to review the relations between the two
countries ; and, by a new treaty, if the same shall be approved
by the Senate, to readjust the terms of those relations.

The article in the treaty with France, respecting an admission
of the same privileges which are granted to other powers, should
be examined. This plainly means where there is any concession
of a positive privilege, which the United States were free to re-
fuse ; not where there is a mere recognition of the principles of
the laws of nations.

It should be made prominent, that the United States have
always wished, and still wish, to cultivate the most amicable re-
lations : and are still disposed to evince this disposition, by every
method in their power ; that in what they have said, they mean
only to show, that they have acted with sincerity and good faith ;

182 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 39.

and have rather received than given cause to complain ; that they
have been disposed to make a candid construction of circumstances
which might seem inconsistent, with a friendly conduct in France ;
and claim a similar candor, in the estimate of their situation and
conduct.

There should be an animadversion upon the unfitness of look-
ing beyond the government to the citizens.

And there should be these ideas, properly couched : that the
United States cannot admit, that a just cause of resentment has
been given ; that they appeal from the misapprehension which
dictated this sentiment, to the justice and magnanimity of France,
for a retraction of it, and for meeting them freely in the complete
restoration of a friendly intercourse ; that France will not de-
liberately expect, that they could make a sacrifice of self-respect,
since she must be sensible, that a free people ought, in every
event, to cherish it as a sacred duty, and to encounter, with firm-
ness, every danger and calamity which an attempt to make them
forget it, or degrade them from their independent character, may
involve.

This would be the general complexion of the reply which I
would give. The manner should be extremely cautious, smooth,
even friendly, but yet solemn and dignified.

Yours.

A. H.

The alliance, in its future operation, must be against our in-
terest. The door to escape from it is opened. Though we ought
to maintain with good faith our engagements, if the conduct of
the other party releases us, we should not refuse the release, so
far as we may accept without conipromitting our peace. This
idea is very important.

jEt. 39.] CORRESPONDENCE. 183

KING TO HAMILTON".

London, November 30th. 1796.

My Dear Sir:

The archduke having expelled Jourdan and Moreau from
Germany, the parties are in respect to territory in that quarter
where they were when the campaign began. Bonaparte, by the
latest accounts from Italy, is critically circumstanced, and it
seems not improbable, that he likewise will be compelled to re-
tire from Lombardy. The mission of Lord Malmesbury remains
undecided, and though the negotiation is not promising, it does
not appear as desperate as it did a fortnight ago. Paper has en-
tirely ceased as a medium in France ; what their ability is to
prosecute another campaign, you, as well as I can, may conjec-
ture. New projects are to be brought forward in this country, and
if for no other reason than that they are novelties, they will be
hazardous, where the force of habit is stronger than that of rea-
son. The minister's plan is not definitively settled; but enough
is known to authorize a belief that it cannot be approved by the
moneyed men. The 3 per cents are at about 56 per ct. The min-
ister is unwilling to augment the debt, already enormous, by bor-
rowing on such terms. He intends proposing a loan, which is to
be advanced by patriotic capitalists, upon terms more advantage-
ous to the government. What patriotism may do, I cannot say ;
but unless there exists a real conviction in the minds of wealthy
men, that their wealth is in danger, I should suspect that this
virtue, pure and dignified as it is, will in this country prove an
unproductive source when millions are required. It is time to
make peace ; for all sides are weary with the war. We most sin-
cerely desire it, since peace alone will afford us the tranquillity
we wish, and ought to enjoy.

1 do not think it prudent to write my opinions, so far as I
have formed them, concerning certain subjects interesting to our
rights, and respecting which you will naturally wish for informa-
tion from this quarter. The casualties to which letters are liable
require a caution that between friends is unpleasant, and some-

184 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 39.

times inconvenient. You know my opinion respecting this coun-
try. We have often endeavored to explain appearances that we
disliked, and preserve our respect for a nation who have done
much to improve the condition and happiness of mankind. I
still hope that I have not been deceived, and that experience will
prove that the opinions of those from whom we differed were, as
we believed them, partial and erroneous.

"We are anxious to hear the result of the Presidential election
— much, very much will depend upon that event.

Farewell ; yours very sincerely, &c.

HAMILTON TO WOLCOTT.

December 6, 1796.

Dear Sir :

The president of the Bank of New- York called upon me
yesterday, and manifested considerable anxiety about the state
of the bank. It seems the course of things lately, and their large
accommodations to the government, have produced a balance
against them in favor of the office of discount at this place,
which has lately called for $100,000 in specie, and it is appre-
hended may speedily call for more.

The president mentioned this situation generally, with only
this view, to show that the bank would probably be under the
necessity of selling the stock pledged with them, if the govern-
ment should not be punctual. It was at the same time declared
that nothing but necessity would lead to any measure inconve-
nient to the government, yet it was thought advisable to admonish
of the probable necessity.

A director, two or three days since, also mentioned to me
that there was a sum of about 26,000 dollars of interest due to
the bank, of which an account had been rendered, but which
was not paid ; adding, that in the present situation every little
would help. Observations like these are of course confidential.

jEt. 39.] CORRESPONDENCE. 185

But the situation requires, and will make it good policy that, if in
your power, you should come to the aid of the Bank of New-
York. It would be wise, if possible, to anticipate a particular
payment. It will be also useful to arrest for a time too free calls
from the office.

Friendly attention and good offices on your part will inspire
confidence, and embolden the bank to assist in future emergen-
cies, and it is very much the policy of the Treasury not to be
exclusively dependent on one institution.

P. S. Let me hear from you on this subject. What is doing
with Adet ?

WOLCOTT TO HAMILTON.

December 8, 1796.

Dear Sir:

The President will lay the correspondence with France, since
Genet's time, before Congress. A letter is preparing by Col.
Pickering to Mr. Pinckney, in answer to Adet.

Tom Paine has published a book against the President, con-
taining the most infamous calumnies. It is a systematic measure
of France to destroy the public confidence in the friends of
government, or " Washington faction." The question whether
our commerce is or is not to be attacked, depends entirely on
the military operations in Germany and Italy.

HIGGINSON TO HAMILTON.

Boston, Dec. 9th, 1796.

Dear Sir :

Your letter of 28th of last month I received, and communi-
cated its contents to some of our electors ; a majority of them

186 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 38.

were at first inclined to throw away their votes from Mr. Pinck-
ney, lest he should rise above Adams, but your information as
to Vermont, with some observations made to them, showing the
danger of so doing, decided all but three, who were determined,
upon interested and personal motives, to waste theirs. Several
hours were spent in discussion before they voted ; the result
was — 16 for Adams, 18 for Pinckney, 2 for Governor Johnston,
and 1 for Mr. Elsworth. Several of Adams's particular friends
were very busjr to induce those three to stand firm; they are
extremely alarmed for his safety, and not without reason, if the
other N. E. States have been united for Adams and Pinckney ;
as I expect, the latter will probably get sufficient separate votes
in the Middle and Southern States to bring him in, and if Jef-
ferson's friends shall have despaired of his election before the
day, they may give many votes to Pinckney to exclude Adams,
in which case he may have a large majority. What then is to
be done ? Mr. Adams, and many of his friends, will be very
clamorous. They will swear the union of Pinckney with him
was a trick to prevent his election, and many of us here shall
never again be upon terms with him. He will never forgive
our not being willing to hazard all to serve him. His disposition
will not brook the disappointment ; and he may be hurried bv
his temper to break with every one who preferred the public to
him.

Should he fail, which I expect, some attempts should be
made to conciliate and appease him, or serious inconveniences
may result. It may be well for you and Governor Jay, with the
President, &c, to contemplate the event, and arrange for it.

Your Judge Smith sent letters to some of our electors, and, I
believe, to New Hampshire, soliciting votes for Burr very strongly,
and rather pressing for Jefferson. Mr. Holton received one from
him, and I believe Mr. Gerry also; but Holton was so circum
stanced, he could make no attempts in favor of Burr, who will
not have one vote I presume in N. E.

"We have yet no accounts from New Hampshire, Ehode
Island, or Connecticut.

Should Pinckney be ■ elected, care must be taken early to

/Et. 39. 1 CORRESPONDENCE. 187

guard him against Adet, &c, who have strong hopes, I know, of
attaching him to their views and party. This will remain with
you in the Middle States to effect.

HAMILTON TO KING.

New-York, December 1G: 1796.

I have received, my dear sir, your several letters of the 25th
of August, 10th and 11th of September. You know my senti-
ments towards you too well, to ascribe my delay in answering
them to any other cause than the imperiousness of avocations
with which I could not dispense.

Public opinion, taking the country at large, has continued,
since you left us, to travel on in a right direction, and, I trust,
will not easily deviate from it. You will have seen, before this
reaches you, Mr. Adet's communications. We conjecture, as to
the timing of them, that they were intended to influence the
election of President by the apprehension of war with France.
We suppose also they are designed in the same way to give sup-
port to the partisans of France, and that they have for eventual
object, the placing things in just such a state as will leave France
at liberty to slide easily either into a renewal of cordiality, or an
actual or virtual war with the United States. If the war of
Europe continues, the efforts of France will be likely to be
levelled, as a primary object, against the commerce and credit of
Great Britain, and to injure these she may think it advisable to
make war upon our trade ; forgetting perhaps that the conse-
quence may be, to turn it more entirely into the channels of
Great Britain. These reflections will be obvious to you. I onlv
make them, to apprise you of the view which is taken of the
subject here. Thus far, appearances do not indicate that the
purpose of influencing the country has been obtained. I think,
in the main, the effect has been to impress the necessity of ad-
hering more firmly to the government.

188 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [At. 39.

You need not be told that every exertion, not degrading to us,
will be made to preserve peace with France. Many of the op-
posite party, however they may be pleased with appearances of
ill-humor in France, will not wish it to go to the length of war.
And we shall endeavor to avoid it, in pursuance of our general
plan of preserving peace with all the world. Yet you may
depend that we shall not submit to be dictated to, or to be forced
into a departure from our plan of neutrality, unless to repel an
attack upon us.

Our anxiety has been extreme on the subject of the election
for President. If we may trust our information, which we have
every reason to trust, it is now decided that neither Jefferson nor
Burr can be President. It must be either Adams or Pinckney,
the first most probably. By the throwing away of votes in New-
England, lest Pinckney should outrun Adams, it is not unlikely
that Jefferson will be Vice-President. The event will not a little
mortify Burr. Virginia has given him only one vote.

It was expected of course that the Senate's answer to the
President would be flattering to him. But the speech in the
House of Eepresentatives has been better than was expected.
An address, which I have not seen, but stated by our friends to
be a very good one, has passed the House with only twelve dis-
senting, consisting of the most fiery spirits. The address is not
only generally complimentary to the President, but includes, it
is said, an explicit approbation of his administration, which caused
the division. Edward Livingston is in the minority.

After giving you these consolatory accounts, I am now to dash
the cup a little, by telling you that Livingston is in all probabil-
ity re-elected in this city. The principal cause has been an unac-
ceptable candidate on our part, James Watson. There were four
gentlemen who would certainly have succeeded, but none of
them would accept. In Watson we could not unite opinions.
He was more disagreeable than I had supposed to a large body
of our friends, and yet, after the declining of the persons alluded
to, we could not do otherwise than support him. For he had
gotten a strong hold upon most of the leading mechanics who
act with us.

J&.4©.] CORRESPONDENCE. 189

But in the State at large we shall better our representation,
and I hope for a majority in the House of Eepresentatives. As
an omen of this, there are several new members in Congress from
different States, who hitherto vote with our friends.

The favorable change in the conduct of Great Britain towards
us, strengthens the hands of the friends of order and peace. It is
much to be desired that a treatment in all respects unexception
able from that quarter, should obviate all pretext to inflame the
public mind.

We are laboring hard to establish in this country principles
more and more national, and free from all foreign ingredients, so
that we may be neither "Greeks nor Trojans," but truly Ameri-
cans.

HAMILTON TO WM. SMITH.

1797.

My Dfar Sir :

I received your letter of the — . Though I do not like in some
respects the answer of the House to the speech, yet I frankly
own that I had no objection to see it softened down. For I think
there is no use in hard words — and in public proceedings would
almost always unite the suaviter in modo, with the fortiter in re.

But I must regret that there is no prospect of the fortiter in re.
I perceive clearly that your measures will wear upon the whole
the aspect of resentment, without means or energy sufficient to re-
pel injury. Our country will be first ruined, and then we shall
begin to think of defending ourselves.

I will not enter much into detail, but I will observe that in-
stead of three frigates of 32, I would prefer an increase of the
number of cutters. Surely twenty of these cannot embarrass the
most squeamish, and less than this number will be useless.

But from all I can see you will have no revenue. Overdriven
theory every where palsies the operations of our government,
and renders all rational practice impossible.

190 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 40.

My ideas of revenue would be :

A tax on buildings $1,000,000

Stamp tax, including perfumeries — a per centage on

policies of insurance — on collateral successions to

real and personal estate — on hats— say . . 500,000

5 cents for the worst, 10 for the middling, and 20 for

the best saddle horses 150,000

Salt, so as to make the whole 25 per cent. . . 350,000

$2,000,000
I have explained my ideas of the house tax to Wolcott and
Sedgwick.

It is to take certain criteria of different buildings, and annex
to them ratios, not rates. (What I gave to Sedgwick as rates may
serve as ratios.) Then apportion the tax among the States, and
distribute the quota of each among the individuals according to
ratios. The aggregate of the ratios will represent the quota of
the State — then, as that aggregate is to the sum of the quota, so
will be the sum of the ratios of each building to the tax to be paid
by each individual.

I am told an objection will arise from the negro houses in
the South. Surely there is no impracticability in annexing ratios
to them which will be proportional to their taxable value. This
plan will avoid the worst of all inconveniences — the arbitrary of
valuations ; and will avoid the embarrassment for the present of
a land tax, will be also consistent with expedition. I entertain no
doubt it can be adjusted so as to be free from any material ob-
jection. The smallness of the tax will render any material in-
equality impossible. You cannot compute fewer than 600,000
houses, which at an average would be about a dollar and a half
a house. The proportions of the better houses on the proposed
plan would make the tax fall light on the inferior and country
houses, which is desirable for recommending the first essay, nor
would any house I am persuaded have to pay ten dollars. What
room for serious objection? You then lay a foundation for an
annual million on real property, which will become a permanent
accession to your revenue. Whereas you will feel an endless
embarrassment about agreeing upon any tax on lands.

JEt. 40. j CORRESPONDENCE. lUl

HIGGINSON TO HAMILTON.

Boston, January 12th, 1T'.J7.

Deak Sir:

Your letter of the 20th of last month, I have received. The
election of Mr. Adams seems to be secured with an excess only
of one vote, which is close work indeed. This, while it avoids
the point I before stated to you, will involve another, I fear,
more dangerous and difficult. The blind or devoted partisans
of Mr. Adams, instead of being satisfied with his being elected,
seem to be alarmed at the danger he was in of failing ; and they
have the folly to say, that this danger was incurred wholly by
the arrangement of pushing him and Pinckney together. They
go farther and say, that this arrangement was intended to bring
in Pinckney and exclude him. They affect to believe this to
have been the intention, because the character of Adams for dis-
cernment and independence forbid all hope of influencing the
decisions of the Executive, he being the President; but had
Pinckney been introduced, his pliability would have continued
the influence of a few over the measures of the Executive, which
has been too conspicuous during the present administration. At
the head of this junto, as they call it, they place you and Mr.
Jay, and they attribute the design to him and you of excludiug
Mr. Adams from the chair, which the arrangement alluded to
was intended to effect. They affect also to believe that it is for
the interest of the country to have Mr. Jefferson for Vice-Presi-
dent rather than Pinckney ; that he will serve readily under
Mr. Adams, and will be influenced by and coincide with him.

These sentiments, however foolish and impudent they may
appear, are dealt out freely by some of his particular connec-
tions, who seem to consider the country as made for the man,
and not the man for the country ; and it is believed, that Mr.
Adams himself entertains them, perhaps has communicated them.
Those who know the man, will not be much surprised if he
should himself say the same things when his feelings are up;
and it may happen, that believing thus, he may be cool and dis-

192 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.tor. 40

tant towards those whom he ought to be intimate with and con-
sult upon important occasions. With such impressions he may
attach himself to Jefferson, if he conducts with address and
adopts a line of conduct toward his former friends, which will
divide, and may much weaken the federal interest.

I suggest to you this much, perhaps not new, with a view to
prepare you for appearances, which might otherwise alarm some
of our friends who may not expect them ; possibly you may
think of some mode of preventing the inconveniences which
I fear to result from what I apprehend to be Mr. Adams's
feelings.

HAMILTON TO WM. SMITH.

January 19th, 1797.

My Dear Sir:

Mrs. De Neufville, widow of Mr. De Neufville, formerly of
Holland, is on her way to Philadelphia to solicit the kind-
ness of Congress in virtue of services rendered the American
cause by her husband. You probably know their history, as
South Carolina was particularly concerned. From what I have
heard, it seems to me her pretensions, on the score of her hus-
band, to the kindness of this country, are strong ; as a distressed
and amiable woman, she has a claim to every body's kindness.

What are you about in Congress ? Our affairs seem to be at
a very critical point with France. We seem to be brought to
the same point with her as we were with Great Britain when
Mr. Jay was sent there. One last effort of negotiation to pro-
duce accommodation and redress, or measures of self-defence.
Have you any thoughts of an embargo ? There may be ere long
a necessity for it. Are you in earnest about the additional reve-
nue 't this is very necessary.

Yours truly, &c.

JEt. 40.] CORRESPONDENCE. 193

HAMILTON TO SEDGWICK.

January 20, 1797.

Dear Sir:

I received your late letter in due time. You seem to be of
opinion to defer to a future period the commencement of direct
taxation. I acknowledge I am inclined to lay gently hold of it
now. Leaders of the opposite party favor it now, perhaps, with
no good design. But it will be well to take them while in the
humor, and make them share the responsibility. This will be
the more easy as they are inclined to take the lead. Our exter-
nal affairs are so situated, that it seems to me indispensable to
open new springs of revenue, and press forward our little naval
preparation, and be ready for augmenting it. But, on the whole,
I have always leaned to the opinion that half a million from
direct taxes, was enough to begin with, nor should I have pro-
posed more.

What are we to do with regard to our good allies ? Are we
to leave our commerce a free prey to them ? I hope not. It
seems to me we are even beyond the point at which we were with
Great Britain when Mr. Jay was sent thither, and that something
like a similar plan ought to be pursued; that is, we ought to
make a final effort to accommodate, and then resort to measures
of defence. I believe ere long an embargo on our oivn vessels will
be advisable — to last till the conduct of France changes, or till it
is ascertained it will not change. In the last event, the following
system may be adopted : — to grant special letters of marque, with
authority to repel aggressors and capture assailants; to equip our
frigates ; to arm a number of sloo})s of war of existing vessels to
convoy our merchantmen. This may be a middle term to gene-
ral hostility, though it may slide into the latter. Yet, in this
case, it may be well to let France make the progress. But at all
events we must protect our commerce and save our honor.

As to the balance business, the agitation of the question has
been every way unfortunate. There is not an individual in the
State of New-York who is not profoundly convinced that the
f 13

194 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 40.

settlement was wholly artificial, and as it regarded the rule of
quotaing manifestly unjust, and consequently, that there is no
justice in paying it. I never saw but one mode of getting through
the business, which is for Congress to call for a 'certain sum of
each debtor State annually, say a fiftieth part, declaring that if
not paid, each instalment shall bear interest from the time it be-
comes due, but till then the principal to carry no interest. I
believe the State for harmony's sake would yield to such an
arrangement. It may be said this will be only a nominal pay-
ment. I answer true, but an artificial balance ought only to be
nominally paid. The conduct of some gentlemen in the late
question, has pained me much. It is inconsistent with a tacit
pledge of faith. Every New-Yorker who had any thing to do
with our fiscal arrangements has been personally compromised.

Yours truly.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

January 22d, 1797.

Sir:

The sitting of the court and an uncommon pressure of busi-
ness have unavoidably delayed an answer to your last favor. I
have read with attention Mr. Pickering's letter. It is, in the
main, a substantial and satisfactory paper — will, in all proba-
bility, do considerable good in enlightening public opinion at
home ; and I do not know that it contains any thing which will
do harm elsewhere. It wants, however, in various parts, that
management of expression and suaviter in rnodo which a man
more used to diplomatic communication could have given it, and
which would have been happy if united with its other merits.

I have reflected as maturely as time has permitted on the
idea of an extraordinary mission to France, and, notwithstanding
the objections, I rather incline to it under some shape or other.
As an imitation of what was done in the case of Great Britain, it
will argue to the people equal solicitude. To France it will have

.Et. 40.] CORRESPONDENCE. 195

a similar aspect (for Pinckney will be considered there as a mere
substitute in ordinary course to Mr. Monroe), and will in some
degree soothe her pride. The influence on party, if a man in
whom the opposition has confidence is sent, will be considerable,
in the event of non-success ; and it will be to France a bridge
over which she may more easily retreat.

The best form of the thing, in my view, is a commission in-
cluding three persons, who may be called commissioners plenipo-
tentiary and extraordinary. Two of the three should be Mr. Madi-
son and Mr. Pinckney ; a third may be taken from the northern
States, and I know of none better than Mr. Cabot ; who, or any
two of whom, may be empowered to act.

Mr. Madison will have the confidence of the French and of
the opposition. Mr. Pinckney will have something of the same
advantage in an inferior degree. Mr. Cabot, without being able
to prevent their doing what is right, will be a salutary check
upon too much Gallicism, and his real commercial knowledge
will supply their want of it. Besides that, he will enjoy the
confidence of all the friends of the administration. His dispo-
sition to preserve peace is ardent and unqualified.

This plan, too, I think, will consist with all reasonable atten-
tion to Mr. Pinckney's feelings.

Or (which, however, I think less eligible) Mr. Madison and
Mr. Pinckney only may be joint commissioners, without a third
person.

Mr. Cabot, if appointed without being consulted, will, I think,
certainly go. If not, the other two may act without him.

The power to the commissioners will be, to adjust amicably
mutual compensations, and the compensations which may be due
by either party ; and to revise and remodify the political and
commercial relations of the two countries.

In the exercise of their power, they must be restrained by
precise instructions to do nothing inconsistent with our other ex-
isting treaties, or with the principles of construction of those with
France adopted by our executive government, as declared in its
public acts and communications; and nothing to extend our
political relations in respect to alliance, but to endeavor to get rid

196 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 40-

of the mutual guarantee in the treaty, or, if that shall be imprac-
ticable, to stipulate specific succors in lieu of it, as so many troops,
so many ships, so much money, &c. ; strictly confining the casus
foederis to future defensive wars, after a general and complete paci-
fication terminating the present war; and defining offensive war
to be, where there is either a full declaration of war against the
ally, or first commission of actual hostility on the territory or
property of the ally by invasion or capture. As to commerce,
with the above restrictions, there may be full discretion. These
are merely inaccurate outlines.

Unless Mr. Madison will go, there is scarcely another charac-
ter that will afford advantage.

Cogent motives of public utility must prevail over personal
considerations. Mr. Pinckney may be told, in a private letter
from you, that this is an unavoidable concession to the pressure
of public exigency and the state of internal parties.

With true respect and affectionate attachment,

I have the honor to be, &c.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, 22d January, 1797.

My Dear Sir :

Your letter of the 19th inst. was received yesterday. From
the general impression on my mind relative to M. de Neuville's
claim on the justice of this country, a delay or a refusal to ad-
minister it would be hard ; but I must add that I am too little
acquainted with the particulars to form a correct opinion, and
were it otherwise, I do not see how I could, with propriety, ap-
pear directly or indirectly in the business, as I do not recollect
having had any agency therein. The numberless applications of
this sort which are made to me (often in the dernier ressort,) with-
out the means of relief, are very distressing to my feelings.

The conduct of France towards the United States is, accord-

JEt. 40.1 CORRESPONDENCE. 197

J i

ing to my ideas of it, outrageous beyond conception : — not to be
warranted by her treaties with us ; by the law of nations; by any
principle of justice; or even by a regard to decent appearances.

From considerations such as these something might have
been expected ; but on her professions of friendship and loving-
kindness towards us I built no hope ; but rather supposed they
would last as long and no longer than it would accord with their
interest to bestow them ; or found it would not divert us from
the observance of that strict neutrality which we had adopted
and were persevering in.

In a few days there will be published a statement of facts in
a letter, with reference to General Pinckney ; containing full an-
swers to all the charges exhibited in Mr. Adet's notes, against the
conduct of this government. After reading them with attention
I will thank you for your sentiments thereon, fully and frankly
communicated ; and what you think ought further to be attempt-
ed to preserve this country in peace, consistently with the respect
which is due to ourselves ?

In some of the gazettes, and in conversation also, it is sug-
gested that an envoy extraordinary ought to be sent to France ;
but is not General Pinckney gone there already for the express
purpose of explaining matters, and removing inquietudes ? With
what more could another be charged ? What would that gentle-
man think of having a person treading on his heels by the time
he had arrived in Paris, when the arguments used to induce him
to go there are all that could be urged to influence the other ? —
and where is the character to be had — admitting the necessity — in
all respects acceptable and qualified for such a trust ?

The sooner you can give me your sentiments on these queries,
the more pleasing they will be to

Dear sir, your sincere, affectionate

Geo. Washington.

198 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 40.

HAMILTON TO PICKERING.

Jan. 23d, 1707.

Dear Sir:

I remember that very early in the day, and prior to any act
of Great Britain, the French passed a decree violating, with regard
to all the neutral powers, the principle of free ships, free goods,
and I think making provisions liable to seizure. This decree
was afterwards rescinded as to America — then again revived, and
then again revoked. I want copies of these decrees for a particu-
lar purpose useful to the government, and presuming they must
be on the files of your department, you will oblige me much by
letting me have copies as speedily as may be convenient.
With respect and true esteem, &c.

AMES TO HAMILTON.

(in confidence.)

Philadelphia, January,26, 1797.

Dear Sir :

My last was written hastily and under some impressions of
the moment which I had not time to unfold. The close, respect-
ing your taking a seat in the next house (to be elected), would
pass for an awkward compliment, if you did not know me (and
yourself) too well for such an interpretation.

You desire an inside view of our stage, I begin with the out-
side. Our relations with France are serious. All the French
party seem to expect and desire an extra envoy, which is an
objection — as probably they hope thus to soothe the resentments
so tardily roused against France, to exhibit a show of supplication
on our part, and to ground some new delusive connection on the
adjustment of existing complaints. On the other hand, it would
be a literal and exact adherence to the late precedent in regard to

jEt. 40.] CORRESPONDENCE. 199

Great Britain ; it might afford a pretext for the French to relax ;
and in case they should not, animate and unite opinions for the ne-
cessary result. But as Mr. Pinckney is gone instructed on this very
subject, the course adopted is, I believe, to rely on his mission
and to send an extra envoy. I wish you would direct your most
mature thoughts to the subject, and if you should not approve
the negative, you ought (permit me to say) choose }7our own way
of bringing your sentiments into consideration in the proper
place. Should it not be an object to negotiate an abrogation of
the clause which guarantees the West India possessions to France ?
However vague it may be, and valid or urgent as our excuses
might seem, the clause would embarrass government and furnish
a text for partisans to raise clamors in case of a future war (the
United States being at peace), and our noncompliance with a
demand for its execution.

More taxes are necessary ; and when trade is so much dis-
turbed by war, and will be not much less affected by peace, land
taxes seem to be the only safe resource. But my creed is, that
three things ought first to concur — to systematize and perfect the
collection of our internal revenues ; to extend them to the most
eligible and productive new objects ; and to prepare the public
mind for the tax on lands, only to the amount of the deficiency.
Neither of these has been effected. The dread of the latter is at
the same time the best means of getting more indirect taxes, and
of conciliating the people to a land tax. It is necessity, the per-
ception of which will produce salutary efforts in the first instance,
and a reasonable acquiescence in the next. A tax on salt is a
good one, but it would be hard to carry through ; and its foes
would combine with some of its advocates to refuse the draw-
back on salted fish, called a bounty — which is not to be admitted.
Snuff is condemned, as vexatious and trivial ; that on auctions as
bad in principle. The license tax, extended to taverns, and so
arranged as in part to augment with the sales of the retailer,
would be productive. To effect this last idea, how would it
answer to rate licenses for three gallons very low ; for more, and
under twenty, still higher? If a separate license by the same
dealer for Madeira, Sherry, and Port, still higher for each, as he

200 H A M II, T () N ' S W O R K S . [Mr. 40.

must be a dealer of capital? To abolish the distinction in favor
of home-made spirits, and to levy it on the sales of all spirits and
wines ? Equality would not be produced, but inequality, as it
now exists, would be somewhat diminished.

The public should also see a plan or mode of levying a direct
tax pass into a law. The vote for the actual levy of a tax to be
suspended till the next session, and then to be for the deficiency.
The moderation of the tax would, on experiment, destroy and
disappoint the prejudices against it; and the preparation of opin-
ions would be the best possible. The aversion would seem to
have resisted, delayed, and diminished the evil to the utmost.

The anti gents make their calculations, no doubt, that a direct
tax will sharpen popular feelings — augment clamors against the
debt, bank, &c, — enfeeble and discredit the other species of rev-
enue, especially internal — perhaps they expect favoritism in the
assessments.

Our proceedings smell of anarchy. "We rest our hopes on
foolish and fanatical grounds — on the superior morals and self-
supporting theories of our age and country ; on human nature
being different from what it is, and better here than any where
else. We cannot think it possible our government should stop,
or that there is the least occasion to provide the means for it to
go on. Internal revenues demand system and vigor. The col-
lection must be watched and enforced. We want officers, courts,
habits of acquiescence in our country, and the principles in Con-
gress that would begin to form any of these. The western coun-
try scarcely calls itself dependent on the Union. France is ready
to hold Louisiana. The thread of connection is slender, and that
event, I fear, would break it. Yet we disband regiments.

Our trade has spoliations to endure from France and Great
Britain, yet we are not willing to abandon or protect it as others
do, by a naval force. An European would be ready to believe we
were in jest in our politics, or, that newspaper declamation, and
the frothy nonsense of town-meeting speeches, comprise the prin-
ciples of our conduct. For I am obliged to observe, even good
men adopt errors or pursue truth with a spirit not much more
friendly to order and stability in government, than their adver-

AW. 40.] CORRESPONDENCE. 201

saries. Who, for instance, can think without alarm on the fre-
quency and seductive nature of the disgraceful sequestration and
anti-credit motions in the House? Facts of this vile nature do
not occur in other countries, or, if they do, they precede and
create convulsion. Here they are received as civilly as if infamy
did not form an atmosphere about them, contaminating all who
breathe in it. We are formed but of late for independent sove-
reignty. Experience has not laid on her lessons with birch, and
we forget them. Our whole system is little removed from simple
democracy. What we call the government is a phantom, as long
as the democrats prevail in the House. The heads of depart-
ments are head clerks. Instead of being the ministry, the organs
of the executive power, and imparting a kind of momentum to
the operation of the laws, they are precluded of late even from
communicating with the House, by reports. In other countries,
they may speak as well as act. We allow them to do neither.
We forbid even the use of a speaking-trumpet ; or, more prop-
erly, as the Constitution has ordained that they shall be dumb,
we forbid them to explain themselves by signs. Two evils, ob-
vious to you, result from all this. The efficiency of the govern-
ment is reduced to its minimum — the proneness of a popular
body to usurpation is already advancing to its maximum ; com-
mittees already are the ministers ; and while the House indulges
a jealousy of encroachment on its functions, which are properly
deliberative, it does not perceive that these are impaired and
nullified by the monopoly as well as the perversion of informa-
tion, by these very committees. The silly reliance of our coffee-
house and Congress prattlers on the responsibility of members to
the people, &c, &c, is disgraced by every page of the history of
popular bodies. We expect, confidently, that the House of Eep-
resentatives will act out of its proper character — for if it should
act according to it, we are lost.

Our government will be, in fact, a mere democracy, which
has never been tolerable nor long tolerated.

Our proceedings evince the truth of these speculative opin-
ions. No one was furnished with proper information. Nobody
was answerable for what he presumed to give.

202 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 40.

The committee of ways and means has not, I am told, writ-
ten a page these two years. It collects the scraps and fritters of
facts at the Treasury, draws crude hasty results tinctured with
localities. These are not suppported by any formed plan of co-
operation with the members, and the report calls forth the pride
of all the motion-makers. Every subject is suggested in debate,
every popular ground of apprehension is invaded. There is
nothing to enlighten the House or to guide the public opinion.
All this has happened. 1 am now preaching daily to those few
who will hear me rail, and endeavoring to form a common senti-
ment; that something must be done — that it must begin and
be approved at the Treasury — that the Antis will exult in our
shame, if we forbear to arrange an efficient plan, &c. This is
in train, not very far advanced, nor with good omens. It is as
to our projected combination, you will perceive, strictly a secret
My own wishes are to extend our indirect taxes and to pass a
bill prescribing the mode of levying a land tax, holding up the
idea in debate at the time of a small amount only. But the
apathy and inefficiency of our body is no secret to you. We
are generally in a flat calm, and when we are not we are near
sinking in a tempest. When a sovereign convention engrosses
the whole power, it will do nothing or some violence that is
worse. Sooner or later individuals and public bodies will
act out their principles ; ours are, I fear, essentially more
democratic than republican, which latter are alone fit for our
country. We think the executive power is a mere pageant of
the representative body — a custos rotulorum, or master of cere-
monies. We ourselves are but passive instruments, whenever
the sovereign people choose to speak for themselves, instead of
our speaking for them.

The momentum imparted to our political machine is weak
and the resistance strong. Faction appears of course in such a
state of things. This I confess naturally excites a counter influ-
ence, but the power even of party seems to be dissipated. We
are broken to pieces. Some able man of the first order of abili-
ties, and possessing the rare union of qualities that will fit him
to head a party, is wanting. For want of such a leader, many

Mr. 40.] CORRESPONDENCE. 203

who would do good, are useless. My natural temperament unfits
me for a seat where I cannot bear to sit quite inactive. Al-
though such efforts as I can make will be unavailing.

No session of Congress has exhibited such a dissipation of
the party which has been arrayed in support of the government;
this will be some excuse for my forebodings of the decline of our
affairs.

One might have hoped that government would find in party
all the combination and energy that is excluded from its organ-
ization. I see, however, that this auxiliary, unless compacted
together by the violent action of the rival party, will subdivide
or fall into inaction ; and even when roused to the utmost, it is
in need of a clear-sighted guide.

As this is the state of our politics, what is to be done ? The
friends of the government have increased within two or three
years in numbers and zeal ; but few of them know or could
be made to believe that its fair outside conceals such alarming
weakness.

Your truly, &c.

Fisher Ames.

P. S. I understand bank shares have been lately attached by
law process. This strikes my mind as a very anarchical pro-
ceeding.

Porcupine is a writer of smartness, and might do more good
if directed by men of sense and experience. His ideas of an
intimate connection with Great Britain justly offend correct
thinkers, and still more the multitude. He proposes a new daily
paper, a business much overdone. Its circulation out of the city
will not be great. Would not a paper once or twice a week,
exclusively political, answer better ? Please let Webster have
the paragraph for his Minerva.

204 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 40.

PICKERING TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, June 30, 1797.

Dear Sir:

I am sorry to have so long delayed an answer to your letter
of the 23d, but we have been universally occupied, and the de-
crees you referred to, were not readily found. That of the 28th
of May, 1793, I have now discovered in a printed volume of the
proceedings of the Convention for that month ; so I now inclose
you copies.

1st. Of the decree of May 9th, 1793, violating our treaty by
rendering neutral vessels laden with provisions liable to capture,
as well as enemy's property on board neutral vessels.

2d. Of the decree of 23d May, repealing the former in re-
spect to American vessels.

3d. Of the decree of the 28th of May, reversing the last de-
cree.

4th. Of the decree of July 1st, 1793, repealing that of the
28th May.

These appear to be all the decrees referred to in your letter,
but there must have been a subsequent one, alike violating our
treaty, which Mr. Monroe forbore to ask the repeal of; lest, as he
said, the French government should demand a performance of
this guarantee. Yet the many claims in behalf of American
merchants, whose properties had been captured, were to be made
on the principle, that the decree in question was a violation of
our treaty. After this matter was pressed upon him by Ean-
dolph (as well as I recollect), he urged the repeal which was
passed January 4th, 1795. If this decree, and that which it re-
peals, will be useful to you, copies shall be furnished.

It appears probable from the tenor of some of Gouverneur
Morris's letters, that the decree of 9th May, and 28th of the same
month, were passed (at least the latter) to answer the views of
the captors of certain vessels taken before the 9th of May, and
that of May 28th, specially to enable the captors to hold the ship
Lawrence.

I am with great and sincere respect, &e.

jEt. 40.] CORRESPONDENCE. 205

HAMILTON TO PICKERING.

New-York, February 6, 1797.

Dear Sir:

I duly received your letter of the 23d of January, with its
inclosure, for which I am much obliged to you. I have read it
with great pleasure. It is a substantial, satisfactory paper;
will do good in this country ; and as to France, I presume events
will govern there.

Is it not proper to call upon the merchants to furnish your
department with statements and proofs of the spoliations which
we have suffered from the French, as was done when the English
were in their mischievous career ?

Yours with true esteem, &c.

I received your other letter with certain inclosures.

HAMILTON TO PICKERING.

February 10tb, 1797.

Dear Sir:

If I recollect right, Chancellor Livingston, while Secretary of
Foreign Affairs, reported a censure upon our commissioners who
made the peace with Great Britain, for not obeying their instruc-
tions with regard to France. Will you favor me in confidence
with the real state of this business ? I was at the time a member
of Congress. It was immediately on the arrival of the provisional

articles.

I hope, my dear sir, effectual measures are taking to bring us
to some issue with France to ascertain whether her present plan
is to be persisted in or abandoned. For, surely, our commerce
ought not to be thus an undefended prey.

Yours truly, &c.

206 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 40.

HAMILTON TO KING.

February 15th, 1797.

My Dear Sir :

Give me leave to recall to your recollection and acquaintance
Mr. De Galon the bearer of this, who, as he informs me, goes to
Europe on private business. I need not observe that he is an
interesting man, as you know all his titles to the attention which
your situation permits you to afford.

You must not think I forget you, because I do not write (for
this is only my third letter). I am overwhelmed in professional
business, and have scarcely a moment for any thing else.

You will have learned the terrible depredations which the
French have committed upon our trade in the West Indies on the
declared principle of intercepting our whole trade with the ports
of her enemies. This conduct is making the impression which
might be expected, though not with that electric rapidity which
would have attended similar treatment from another power. The
present session of Congress is likely to be very unproductive. That
body is in the situation which we foresaw certain cmfc'-executive
maxims would bring them to.

Mr. Adams is President, Mr. Jefferson Vice-President. Our
Jacobins say, they are well pleased, and that the lion and the
lamb are to lie down together. Mr. Adams's personal friends
talk a little in the same way. "Mr. Jefferson is not half so ill a
man as we have been accustomed to think him. There is to be a
united and a vigorous administration." Skeptics like me quietly
look forward to the event, willing to hope, but not prepared to
believe. If Mr. Adams has vanity 'tis plain a plot has been laid
to take hold of it. "We trust his real good sense and integrity
will be a sufficient shield.

Yours affectionately, &c.

JEt. 40.] CORRESPONDENCE. 207

KING TO HAMILTON.

London, Feb. Gth, 1797.

Dear Sir :

I have had the pleasure to receive your letter of the 16th of
December, and I need not express the satisfaction which the in-
formation that it contained afforded me. The probable termina-
tion of the election of President, the general temper of the coun-
try, and the effect likely to be produced by Mr. Adet's notes, are
such as I had not only hoped but expected. If by prudence and
firmness, which have hitherto kept us out of this extraordinary
and desolating war, we shall be able to maintain the public peace
and national honor, we shall not only increase our reputation as
a wise people, but we shall moreover establish a precedent of in-
estimable worth for future times of trouble and embarrassment.
Nothing can exceed the applause that is here given to our gov-
ernment, and no American who has not been in England can
have a just idea of the admiration expressed among all parties of
General Washington. It is a common observation, that he is not
only the most illustrious, but also the most meritorious character
that has hitherto appeared. The king is without doubt a very
popular character among the people of this nation. It would be
saying very much, to affirm that next to him General Washing-
ton is the most popular character among them ; and yet I verily
believe this to be the fact.

I mention these circumstances, not only because it will give
you, as it has afforded me, much pleasure to hear them men-
tioned, but also because they show a more liberal manner of
thinking and speaking respecting us, and a more rational esti-
mate of our affairs, than formerly existed. Much credit is due
to Mr. Jay on this score, who, we thought, would do honor and
be of advantage to our country, but who has done much more
than I could have imagined, had I not seen the clearest proofs of
his success. He had great difficulties to encounter ; he overcame
many of them; some still exist, and when they will be sur-
mounted I am unable to say. Time and patience are necessary

208 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 40.

to form a satisfactory opinion how far we shall finally be able to
agree. In the main, our affairs here are in a good train. The
treaty, I think, will be fairly and fully executed. You remem-
ber the opinion given by certain gentlemen upon the construc-
tion of the seventh article of the treaty. We have experienced
embarrassments on this subject, and for several weeks the busi-
ness of the commissioners was entirely at a stand, the advocate
of this government having denied the power to examine any
questions that had been decided by the High Court of Appeals.
The question was delicate ; the pride, and, as it was alleged, the
importance of men of rank and influence, were almost enlisted
against our pretensions, and a little imprudence might have
thrown the business into the worst possible situation. This did
not happen. With moderation, caution, and a conciliatory mode
of proceeding, these difficulties have been entirely removed, and
all is now proceeding in a satisfactory manner. The result of
several conferences has been, after the manifestation of much
candor and fairness on the part of this government, a direction to
the British commissioners to unite with ours, and to proceed to
hear and decide every question that shall be brought before them
according to the provisions of the treaty, which, it was added, it
was the duty of the commissioners to consider and interpret.
They have accordingly decided a case of considerable conse-
quence, which is that of the Pattersons of Baltimore. A ship
and cargo belonging to them had been captured and condemned
in the West Indies. This sentence had been affirmed in the
High Court of Appeals, and a memorial in behalf of Pattersons
was preferred to the commissioners for compensation for their
loss and damages. The commissioners have pronounced (Doctor
Nicholl only dissenting of a full board) that they have jurisdic-
tion of the cause, and that upon its merits the Pattersons are en-
titled to full and complete compensation for their loss and dam-
ages, to be paid according to the provisions of the treaty.

By letters received to day from Paris, I learn the unpleasant
information, that Gen. Pinckney was on the 28th ult. ordered by
the Directory to leave Paris, and that he intended to depart for
Holland, where he will wait the orders of our government on the

jEt. 40.] CORRESPONDENCE. 209

31 st. I cannot fully account for this step, after the irresolution
that for some time has existed. Whether it is to be ascribed to
information which has been thought sufficient to satisfy the Direc-
tory of the result of the election for President, or whether it is to
be attributed to the late astonishing victories of Buonaparte,
which have literally destroyed an army of 40,000 Austrians, I am
uncertain ; perhaps both have contributed to this extraordinary
step.

Yours very sincerely,

Eufus King.

HAMILTON TO SEDGWICK.

February 26th, 1797.

My Dear Sir :

The present inimitable course of our public affairs proves me
to be a very bad politician, so that I am afraid to suggest any
idea that occurs to me. Yet I will give over my timidity and
communicate for your consideration a reverie which has struck
me.

It is a fact that the resentment of the French government is
very much levelled at the actual President. A change of the
person (however undesirable in other respects) may give a change
to the passion, and may also furnish a bridge to retreat over.
This is a great advantage to a new President, and the most ought
to be made of it. For it is much our interest to preserve peace,
if we can with honor, and if we cannot, it will be very import-
ant to prove that no endeavor to do it has been omitted.

"Were I Mr. Adams, then I believe I should begin my Presi-
dency by naming an extraordinary commission to the French re-
public, and I think it would consist of three persons : Mr. Madi-
son, Mr. Pinckney, and Mr. Cabot. I should pursue this course
for several reasons, because I would have a man as influential
with the French as Mr. Madison ; yet, I would not trust him
alone, lest his Gallicism should work amiss, — because I would
F U

210 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 40.

not wound Mr. Pinckney, so recently sent in the same spirit ;
thirdly, I think Cabot would mix very useful ingredients in the
cup.

The commission should be charged to make explanations —
to remonstrate, to ask indemnification, and they should be em-
powered to make a new treaty of commerce not inconsistent with
our other treaties, and perhaps to abrogate or remodify the treaty
of alliance.

That treaty can only be inconvenient to us in future. The
guarantee of our sovereignty and independence henceforth is no-
minal. The guarantee of the West India islands of France, as
we advance in strength, will be more and more real. In future,
and in a truly defensive war, I think we shall be bound to com-
ply efficaciously with our guarantee. Nor have I been able to
see that it means less than obligation to take part in such a war
with our whole force. I have no ideas of treaties which are not
executed.

Hence, I want to get rid of that treaty by mutual consent, or
to liquidate its meaning to a treaty of definite succor — in a clear-
ly defensive war ; so many men, so many ships, so much money,
and to be furnished by one ally to the other. This of course
must be so managed as to exclude unequivocally the present war
in all its possible mutations.

Such objects are important enough for three. In executive
matters, I am as little fond as most people of plurality ; but I
think it pedantry to admit no exceptions to any general rule, and
I believe, under the present circumstances of the case, a commis-
sion would be advisable. I give my dream of it as it occurred :
you will do with it what you please.

Yours,

A. H.

JEt. 40.] CORRESPONDENCE. 211

KING TO HAMILTON.

March 8th, 1797.

Dear Sir :

On the 28th ult., the Bank of England stopped payment in
specie, and since every bank in Great Britain has followed its ex-
ample. The directors say that the bank is more than solvent,
exclusive of their capital stock invested in the funds. Commit-
tees of the two houses of Parliament, which have examined the
affairs of the bank, confirm by their report the declaration of the
directors, and associations are forming throughout the kingdom
to receive and circulate bank notes. Many whom I meet profess
to believe that the bank will soon be able to resume their former
course of payments. But I see so few of the causes (if they ex-
ist) which are to effect this restoration, that I am somewhat skep-
tical, and my want of faith is in some measure excused by cir-
cumstances that I think will for the present prevent the return
of the golden age. No nation has supported a more perfect credit
than England. None has been able to substitute in so great a
degree paper in lieu of coin — and in no country, therefore, is the
quantity of specie comparatively so small as in England. This
fact was not practically believed. The bank has now proved it
to the conviction and dismay of the country. Besides, Parlia-
ment have authorized the bank to issue notes under £5, and they
have also repealed the laws prohibiting individuals from making
and circulating their notes payable on demand for sums under
£5. The consequence is, that the banks are throwing into cir-
culation 20s. and 40s. notes, to supply the absence of guineas, and
the manufactories and private bankers are likewise issuing to
their workmen and customers, small bills of every denomination,
which supply the absence of shillings and sixpenny pieces.

Farewell.

Yours sincerely.

P. S. — Since the capture of Mantua, the Austrians have no-
tified this court of their resolution to prosecute the war — relying

212 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [>Et. 40.

on the co-operation of Great Britain. What effect the pecuniary-
state of England may have upon their disposition to persevere, I
will not conjecture. Without moneys the Emperor will not be able
to go on. Thus you see a very interesting subject brought within a
narrow compass. France will harass and waste our commerce
regardless of justice. She makes our treaty with England the
pretence. Had we made no treaty her conduct would be the
same. She has recently required of Hamburgh and Bremen to
suspend and prohibit all commerce with England — and yet she
has not succeeded in her views, though she has recalled her min-
ister from Hamburgh. The demand has likewise been repeated
at Copenhagen, and a refusal to comply has produced a diplo-
matic altercation, as pointed, perhaps, as that between Colonel
Pickering and Mr. Adet.

Our affairs in the Mediterranean are settled or nearly so. Col.
Humphries informs me that we stand well with Algiers. We
have concluded a treaty of peace with Tripoli, and it is probable,
shall soon make a similar treaty with Tunis. The Dey of Al-
giers having invaded the Tunissean territories — principally, says
Col. Humphries, to compel the Bey to conclude a peace with the
United States of America, for the accomplishment of which the
Dey offers to advance the money from his own treasury, and en-
gages to guarantee this treaty as he has done that with Tripoli. —
Strange event.

SCHUYLER TO HAMILTON.

Albany, March 19, 1797.

My Dear Sir:

I shall not fail to call the attention of the Senate to the inse-
cure state of the port of New-York, and to detail the distressing
consequences which must result should the metropolis be laid
under contribution, be conflagrated, or possessed by a hostile
foreign power — but I apprehend nothing more will be done than

jEt. 40.] CORRESPONDENCE. 213

authorizing the Governor to take measures for its security, if a
war with some European power should appear to him inevitable.

It is to be lamented that the most influential characters in the
representation from New- York could not be prevailed on to
remain here. By thus neglecting their duty they have committed
the affairs of their constituents to less able hands, and painful
results must be expected.

If gentlemen of consideration in the public mind continue to
refuse seats in either branch of the legislature, it is certain that
a variety of evils will result to the community, and the metropo-
lis will be most deeply affected. I wish, therefore, that the
necessity in gentlemen to step forward and offer or consent to be
candidates at the ensuing election, may be strongly urged. Mr.
Burr, we are informed, will be a candidate for a seat in the As-
sembly ; his views it is not difficult to appreciate. They alarm me,
and if he prevails, I apprehend a total change of politics in the
next Assembly — attended with other disagreeable consequences.

Mr. Adams's speech to the Senate at taking leave, and expres-
sions on that, at his inauguration, have left very unfavorable
impressions on my mind, and created alarm, but it may not be
prudent to state the reasons. We are all in health, and all join
in love to you and all with you. . .

I am, dear Sir, most sincerely yours,

Ph. Schuyler.

HAMILTON TO PICKERING.

March 22, 1797.

Dear Sir:

It is now ascertained that Mr. Pinckney has been refused, and
with circumstances of indignity. What is to be done ? The
share I have had in the public administration added to my inter-
est as a citizen, make me extremely anxious that at this delicate
crisis a course of conduct exactly proper may be adopted. I

214 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 40.

offer to your consideration, without what appears to me ceremony,
such a course.

First. I would appoint a day of humiliation and prayer. In
such a crisis this appears to me proper in itself, and it will be
politically useful to impress our nation that there is a serious
state of things — to strengthen religious ideas in a contest, which
in its progress may require that our people may consider them-
selves as the defenders of their country against atheism, conquest,
and anarchy. It is far from evident to me that the progress of
the war may not call on us to defend our firesides and our altars.
And any plan which does not look forward to this as possible,
will, in my opinion, be a superficial one.

Second. I would call Congress together at as short a day as a
majority of both houses can assemble.

Third. When assembled, I would appoint a commission ex-
traordinary, to consist of Mr. Jefferson or Mr. Madison, together
with Mr. Cabot and Mr. Pinckney. To be useful it is important
that a man agreeable to the French should go. But neither
Madison nor Jefferson ought to go alone. The three will give
security. It will flatter the French pride. It will engage Ame-
rican confidence, and recommend the people to what shall be
eventually necessary. The commission should be instructed to
explain ; to ask a rescinding of the order under which we suffer,
and reparation for the past — to remodify our treaties under
proper guards. On the last idea I will trouble you hereafter.

Fourth. The Congress should be urged to take defensive
measures, these to be an embargo, unless with convoy by special
license.

Additional revenue for additional expenses.

2. The creation of a naval force — including the prompt pur-
chase and equipment of sloops of war — this force to serve as
convoys to our trade.

3. Commissions to be granted to our merchant vessels, autho-
rizing them to arm to defend themselves ; to capture when
attacked, but not to cruise. The same instructions to our con-
voys.

4. The organization of a provisional army of twenty-five

jEt. 40.] CORRESPONDENCE. 215

thousand men, to be ready to serve if a war breaks out — in the
mean time to receive certain compensations, but not full pay.
The actual increase of our establishment in artillery and cavalry.

The following considerations appear to me weighty. The
Empress of Russia is dead. Successors are too apt to contradict
predecessors. The new Emperor may join Russia. The Em-
peror of Germany by this mean or by the fortune of war may be
compelled to make peace. England may be left alone. America
may be a good outlet for troublesome armies which the govern-
ment is at a loss to manage. The governing passion of the Ruler
of France has been revenge. Their interest is not to be calculat-
ed upon. To punish and humble us — to force us into a greater
dependence, may be the plan of France.

At any rate we shall best guarantee ourselves against calami-
ty by preparing for the work. In this time of general convul-
sion, in a state of things which threatens all civilization, 'tis a
great folly to wrap ourselves up in a cloak of security.

The Executive before Congress meet ought to have a well
digested plan and to co-operate in getting it adopted.

Yours truly, &c.

PICKERING TO HAMILTON".

Philadelphia, March 26th, 1797.

Dear Sir:

On the 25th I was favored with your letter of the 22d. The
first measure of calling Congress together had been determined
on by the President the preceding evening, and I had the
draught of the proclamation inclosed in my hand to present to
him, when I received your letter. Some other of the measures
suggested had been contemplated, and all will receive attention
from me and my colleagues. I beg you to continue to commu-
nicate to me your ideas on public affairs, especially at the present
interesting period.

216 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [At. 40.

You mention the appointing a commission extraordinary.
We more than doubt the propriety of this step. The Directory
have declared " qu'il ne reconnaitra, et ne recevra plus de minis-
tre plcnipotentiaire des Etats Unis jusqu' apres le redressment
des griefs demande au gouvernement Ame'ricaine, et que la Ke-
publique Frangaise est en droit d'en attendre." These "griefs"
are doubtless detailed by citizens Adet and M. Delacroix, as
exhibited in the notes of the former and the summary of the
latter, and which you will see in my letter to General Pinckney,
which I had the pleasure to send you in print. All the important
acts of the government must therefore be reversed before a minister can
be admitted. The former is impossible, and there seems therefore
no opening at present for a new mission. This new mission is
what the enemies of our government wish for, however circum-
stances may oppose it. In suggesting " a commission extraordi-
nary," I presume, you did not know that the refusal to "receive
another minister until," &c, had been so peremptory.

I am going to prepare a state of the information received
from Mr. Pinckney for the press. Anonymously, yet with clear
marks of authenticity, and it will, if approved by the President,
be speedily published. It seems highly important that the
public mind should be enlightened as to facts.

I am very sincerely and affectionately yours, &c.

HAMILTON TO PICKERING.

New-York, March 29th, 1797.

Dear Sir:

The post of yesterday brought me your letter of the day
before.

I regret that the idea of a commission extraordinary appears
of doubtful propriety. For after very mature reflection I am
entirely convinced of its expediency. I do not understand the
passage you cite as excluding the reception of a special extraordi-

jEt.40.] correspondence, 217

nary minister, but of an extraordinary resident minister. It
seems impossible that the Directory can mean to say that they
will shut the door to all explanation, even as to the nature and
measure of the redress of grievances which they require. They
speak too hastily not to authorize a large interpretation of what
they say.

But if I were certain they would not hear the commission, it
would not prevent my having recourse to it. It would be my
policy, if such a temper exists in them, to accumulate the proofs
of it with a view to union at home.

This union (I do not expect to proselyte all the leaders of fac-
tion) appears to me a predominant consideration ; and with re-
gard to France, more than ordinary pains are requisite to at-
tain it.

That the enemies of the government desire the measure, is a
cogent reason with me for adopting it ; because I would meet
them on their own ground and disarm them of the argument,
that all has not been done which might have been done towards
preserving peace.

The estimation of the merit of all our past measures depends
on the final preservation of peace. This, besides the interest of
the country in peace, is a very powerful reason for attempting
every thing. The best friends of the government will expect
it ; and if this expedient be not adopted, it seems to me rupture
will inevitably follow.

There is an opinion industriously inculcated (which nobody
better than myself knows to be false), that the actual administra-
tion are endeavoring to provoke a war. It is all important by
the last possible sacrifice, to confound this charge. I cannot but
add that I have not only a strong wish, but an extreme anxiety,
that the measure in question may be adopted.

To attain the end of it, however, it is very material to engage
in the errand a man who will have the full confidence of the ad-
verse party, and who will be agreeable to France.

This cannot be done without employing others with him.
Hence the idea of a commission, which to me appears capable of
attaining every advantage and obviating every danger.

218 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 40.

I am also desirous of impressing the public mind strongly by
a religious solemnity, to take place about the meeting of Con-
gress. I also think the step intrinsically proper.

HAMILTON TO WOLCOTT.

March 30th, 1797.

My Dear Sir:

Every one who can properly appreciate the situation of our
affairs at this moment, in all the extent of possible circum-
stances, must be extremely anxious for such a course of con-
duct in our government, as will unite the utmost prudence with
energy. It has been a considerable time my wish, that a com-
mission extraordinary* should be constituted to go to France, to
explain, demand, negotiate, &c. I was particularly desirous that
the first measure of the present President's administration should
have been that. But it has not happened. I now continue to
wish earnestly that the same measure may go into effect, and
that the meeting of the Senate may be accelerated for that pur-
pose. Without opening a new channel of negotiation, it seems
to me the door to accommodation is shut, and rupture will fol-
low, if not prevented by a general peace. Who, indeed, can be
certain that a general pacification of Europe may not leave us
alone to receive the law from France ? Will it be wise to omit
any thing to parry, if possible, these great risks ?

Perhaps the Directory have declared they will not receive a
minister till their grievances shall have been redressed.

This can hardly mean more than that they will not receive
a- resident minister. It cannot mean that they will not hear an
extraordinary messenger, who may even be sent to know what
will satisfy.

Suppose they do. It will still be well to convince the peo-

* Madison, Pinckney, Cabot.

iE-r. 40.] correspondence. 219

pie, that the government has done all in its power, and that the
Directory are unreasonable.

But the enemies of the government call for the measure. To
me this is a very strong reason for pursuing it. It will meet
them on their own ground, and disarm them of the plea that
something has been omitted.

I ought, my good friend, to apprise you, for you may learn
it from no other, that a suspicion begins to dawn among the
friends of the government, that the actual administration is not
much averse from war with France. How very important to
obviate this !

The accounts just received, offer a great danger, that the Em-
peror may be compelled to make peace. Paul of Eussia is evi-
dently lukewarm in the cause of the allies. From lukewarm-
ness to enmity, when fortune takes the other side, is but a step.

If England is left to bear the burthen alone, who can say
that France may not venture to sport an army to this country ?
It may get rid of troublesome spirits.

As in the case of England, so now, my opinion is, to exhaust
the expedients of negotiation ; and, at the same time, to prepare
vigorously for the worst. This is sound policy. Any omission
or deficiency either way, will be a great error.

God bless you.

PICKERING TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, March 30th, 1797.

Dear Sir :

I believe I mentioned in my last that I was going to sketch
a state of facts relative to Mr. Pinckney's mission for publication.
I now inclose it. That the facts should be known to our citizens
was deemed important. I thought it highly important that the
representatives should come together, impressed with the senti-
ments of their constituents, on the reprehensible conduct of the
French government, which made loud complaints of wrongs, but

220 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 40.

refused to hear our answer, or to enter on any discussion of the
subjects of complaint, by refusing to acknowledge a special
minister, sent from the United States for the direct purpose of
making explanations, and that demanded of conscious innocence
a confession of offences and redress of injuries never committed,
as the preliminary of receiving our minister. The abominable
depredations on our commerce, their unfounded complaints,
their preposterous refusal to hear our answer, and the indignities
offered to our ambassador, combined, and fully known to the
people of the United States, it might be fairly hoped would so
powerfully operate in removing their ill-founded and ill-requited
attachments to France, and even excite such a spirit of just
resentment and pride, as would effectually control certain men
who have seemed willing to chain us to that republic, and make
us lick the feet of violent and unprincipled rulers.

The statement of facts being prepared, I expected to hand it
yesterday to Mr. Fenno for publication, but some scruples arose
about its expediency. The facts are extracted from General
Pinckney's letters of December 20th and January 6th. The
objections were, that it might be deemed irritating — that it would
be deemed an official publication, though anonymous ; that such
manifestly official publications have not heretofore been made,
except to Congress; and then at their approaching sessions the
letters themselves will be laid before both Houses ; that America
will expect the Executive to use every means of cultivating peace,
and to hazard nothing which can be construed into a tendency
to provoke a war. But the same objections substantially were
made by our French American patriots to my letter to General
Pinckney, though written with extreme moderation, and con-
taining answers and explanations to complaints which the French
minister himself had the impudence to address to the citizens of
the United States, whom those patriots would gladly continue
to keep in the dark, and, in short, prostrate by an unconditional
submission at the feet of the most ambitious and terrible tyrants
that ever cursed the earth.

The publication being thus suspended, I inclose the state-
ment for your information. You need not return it, as I have a

JEt.40.] correspondence. 221

fair copy. I need not have been so minute in the detail ; but
the substance of the facts, I still think, ought to be published,
and without delay, and in such form as to bear evident marks of
authenticity ; without which, they will not gain universal be-
lief, and, therefore, fail of the impression which I wished to have
had produced by the publication. If you can drop me a line,
expressing your opinion on the matter, I shall be much obliged.
I am, with sincere respect, &c.

WOLCOTT TO HAMILTON".

Philadelphia, March 31st, 1707.

Dear Sir:

I have received your letter of March 30th, and I consider it
as a great acquisition. It developes the origin of a circumstance
which came to my knowledge at the close of the last session,
which filled my mind with inexpressible surprise. To you I
will say, but in the most perfect confidence, that the President
had determined on instituting a commission, but it would not have
been composed as you now propose. I believe no one of the heads
of departments knows of the decision except myself. I had
attributed it to Mr. Ames, from a casual expression, and I own,
that by means of my most sincere and urgent expostulations —
nay, supplications — it was postponed.

I am far from believing, that considering General Pinckney's
diplomatic rank, his personal character, and the special objects of
his mission, which were specified in his letters of credence, and com-
municated to the Directory, that there is any just, or even specious
pretext, for his rejection. On the contrary, it appears to me that
France has instantly rejected a fair and equitable proposition for
a discussion, and adjustment of the existing disputes. That the
national indignity is such, that it must be noticed. There is a
point, but where I allow to be uncertain, below which the
government cannot stoop without losing the confidence of the

222 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 40.

people, and producing that despondency, loss of credit, and want
of public concert, which would ruin our affairs. I wish we may
find that our apathy has not been already carried to a fatal ex-
treme. The plan of measures I would propose is as follows : —

1st. That the President should, in his speech to Congress,
take a view of the complaints of France, and of the measures
adopted by his predecessor, particularly in the mission of Mr.
Pinckney, and should give them his decided approbation ; that
he should intimate, but in delicate terms, that France has rejected
an equitable opportunity for discussion, but that this would not
prevent him from persevering in the line of negotiation.

That measures would be accordingly pursued for renewing
proposals to, and entering upon negotiations with the government
of France, whenever its consent can be obtained.

2d. That the President should recommend, and in more than
usual terms of confidence, the adoption of the following measures.
1st. An increase of revenue. 2d. The arming of our vessels for
defence, with the right of capturing the attacking force. 3d. The
equipment of a number of stout merchant ships and galleys, to
defend our coasts. 4th. The fortification of our forts. 5th. The
enrollment of a land force (principally with a view of preventing
insurrections of slaves in the Southern States). 6th. A power in
the Executive to arrest vessels and persons suspected of intending
to cruise against our trade, or nations with whom we are at peace.
3d. A serious and firm call upon Congress for their united
and vigorous support of the Executive, with an appeal to the
heroic generosity and patriotism of the people, in the present
critical state of affairs. My own ideas of the system and inten-
tions of France would lead me further in the defensive and cau-
tionary measures that I have proposed ; but I am sensible of the
impolicy of anticipating public opinion.

On the subject of negotiation, I would ever be ready to meet
France, and keep an agent or agents in Europe, ready for that
purpose ; but I am not willing to admit, that the government has
already done less than the occasion required, or that France is
justifiable in refusing to recognize Mr. Pinckney. I am also free
to declare, that I conceive the claims of France, in any other than

jEt.40.] CORRESPONDENCE. 223

the last and most extreme necessity, utterly inadmissible. They,
in fact, require a surrender of national independence. I would
propose to retract nothing. I would not refuse a modification of
treaties, if desired. The idea of a commission consisting of Mr.
Madison, or any other man like hirn, I must own to you, is one
which I can never adopt without the utmost reluctance. I have
no confidence in Mr. Madison. He has been a frequenter of Mr.
Adet's political meetings. I have been just informed, that Mr.
Adet has suggested the idea of sending this gentleman. We
know that the French count upon the support of a party in this
country, and, so shameless is the faction grown, that positive
proof of a devotion to French views is, with many, no injury to
a man's popularity. If the government suffers France to dictate
what description of men shall be appointed to public trusts, our
country is undone. From that moment the confidence of all the
old-fashioned, honorable, and virtuous men in the interior coun-
try, is irrecoverably lost.

Another consequence of not rejecting the interference of
France is, that it will encourage other nations to interfere, espe-
cially Great Britain, and will, moreover, countenance the calumny
that a British faction exists. The French say that Mr. Jay and
his friends were in the British interest, and that therefore he was
appointed. Will it be safe or proper to appoint a man known
to be of the French party, and thus give to a falsehood the force
of argument? If I know any thing of human nature, this will
be the effect on the minds of thousands.

I have no objection to sending a man of neutral politics, at
least on party questions, if he be a man of sense, firmness, and
integrity. General Pinckney is of this description. If a com-
mission of three is generally preferred, it is a point perhaps not
to be contested, though, I own, it does not strike me agreeably.
Yet, how is the commission to be composed? Must all concur,
or will the concurrence of two suffice? In either case, mutual
confidence will be essential to success. From what was on the
point of being done, I presume Mr. Cabot to be out of the ques-
tion. If a man of his principles were to be associated with Mr.
Madison, either nothing would be done, or something worse than

224 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mi. 40.

nothing. Mr. Madison would insist on a submission to France,
or would obstruct a settlement, and throw the disgrace on the
friends of government. Either result would deliver the country,
bound hand and foot, to French influence. If nothing was done,
the obstinacy of the Federalists would be complained of; if some-
thing was done, however humiliating, the responsibility would
be divided, and all the mischief would be attributed to the des-
perate state of affairs induced by the fatal treaty with Great
Britain.

You know that I am accustomed to respect your opinions ;
and I am not so ignorant of the extent of your influence upon
the friends of government, as not to be sensible, that if you are
known to favor the sending of a commission, so the thing must
and will be. "When the body of both parties concur in a meas-
ure, individual opinion stands for nothing. In this case, what
would be the objection against sending Mr. Ingersoll, of this city,
or some such character, to be united with J. Q. Adams, or Mr.
Murray and General Pinckney, to rendezvous at Amsterdam,
until the consent of France to negotiate can be obtained. Is it
necessary that the mission should proceed directly to France, and
must Mr. Madison be a member ?

I should be sorry, if the friends of the government were to
consider me, or any of the public officers, as desirous of producing
a war with France, because I should consider this as evidence
that our affairs are desperate. If the public pulse does not beat
higher than that of the government, all is over. There ought to
be a zeal for strenuous measures, and this zeal ought to be an
engine in the hands of government for preserving peace. I
think I can assure you, that the motion of our ship cannot be ad-
justed to a minute scale, if the present course is attempted to be
varied ; it will in future be nearly opposite the present.

The present is a moment of apparent tranquillity, but I con-
jecture, that it is a calm, which forebodes a hurricane. The Execu-
tive will either find violent and steady gales from one point, or
be assailed with a tornado, which will throw every thing into
confusion. I predict that no treaty, no compromise, no conces-
sion, will afford security. Eevenue is essential, and there will, I

At. 40.] CORRESPONDENCE. 225

fear, be insuperable objections started by the friends and enemies
of government. Credit lias been abused ; has been exhausted by
senseless speculations.

Having no ambition no gratify, no theory or project to sup-
port, I shall be ready to aid my country with my best exertions,
and shall be happy to receive your opinions, and to know the
state of public opinion. No person can exceed me in sincere
wishes that what is proper may be done.

MIRANDA TO HAMILTON.

A Paris le Ire Avril, 1797.
MON CHER ET RESPECTABLE AMI :

C'est depuis quatre ans que je reprends la plume pour vous
dire que je suis encore du nombre des vivants qui restent en
France depuis la tyrannic Voici un livre qui viens de paraitre
sur la revolution francaise par Desodoards, II contient tous les
faits principaux, et indique les causes, avec connaissance, impar-
tiality et moderation, a mon avis, — et tous ceux qui connaissent
a fonds la revolution, seront, confirrncs dans cette opinion que
j'avais forme' d'abord en le lisant. Ne manquez pas de le lire
immediatement, de le faire passer apres le President, s'il ne
la pas lu encore. MM. Paine et Monroe, qui sont deja partis d'ici
pour se rendre chez vous, ne seront pas, peut-etre du meme
avis; mais je crois qu'ils ont mieux connu le systeme des jacobins
que celui de la Eevolution francaise. Enfin il est certain,
mon ami, que l'ex-President Washington fit une faute bien grave
en envoyant ici pour ambassacleurs M. Morris, et M. Monroe,
tous deux exageres dans un sens contraire. II est vrai que le
premier est un homme infiniment plus instruit, et bien moins
extravagant que l'autre. P — e est devenu un Marat tout a fait.
Dieu veuille qu'il ne fasse pas plus de mal au nouveau monde,
que l'autre n'en a fait a la France.

Adieu, mon cher ami. Continuez a soutenir avec courage la
f 15

226 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEr. 40.

cause dc la liberie que tant de brigands et d' ignorans de'shon-
orent depuis cinq ans, tout en pre*tendant de l'aimer et de la de"
fendre. Je suis reuni ici (et pour cela persecute' encore), avec le
petit nombre de ceux qui la connaissent et qui la defendent sin-
cerement ; veuille la Providence nous accorder du succes pour
le bonheur de ce pays — ci aussi que pour la tranquillite* des autres,
au moins. Donnez moi des nouvelles de nos amis communs,
Knox, et W. Duer — faites leur bien des complimens de ma part
en leur communiquant la partie de cette lettre ce que vous
jugerez a propos, aussi bien que le livre.

Je vous prie de presenter mes respectueux complimens au gdn-
eral Washington — ainsi qu'a tous mes amis a New York, &c. &c.

F. Miranda.

P. S. — Je viens de recevoir dans le moment une lettre de M.
Monroe, par son Secretaire Prevost. Le contenu de cette
lettre me fait soupconner quelque cabale ou. intrigue de Messieur

Paine et M e (avec lesquels je n'ai jamais eu aucune liaison)

ainsi je m'empresse de vous envoy er copie de cette petite cor-
respondance, pour vous mettre a meme de pouvoir repondre aux
calomnies qui sont les armes de la secte Jacobite.

HAMILTON TO PICKERING.

April 1st, 1797.

My Dear Sir:

I have received your letter of the 30th, with the statement in-
closed. I do not believe that its publication would have any
influence upon the question of a rupture with France ; but yet,
as it seems that those who surround the President are not agreed
in the matter — as an opinion is industriously circulated, that too
much fuel has been added by the publications of the government
— as it is important to disarm a certain party of the weapons of

jEt. 40.] CORRESPONDENCE. 227

calumny — as it is in general best to avoid unofficial publications
of official matter — as it may be even useful, for the sake of im-
pression, to reserve the disclosure till the meeting of Congress,
when the accumulation of insult may be the instrument of giving
a strong impulse, — I rather advise the withholding of the state-
ment. When Congress meet, it will be very useful to have a
statement of this kind ready, as the abstract of the communica-
tions, to present to the people a summary view.

Such, my dear sir, is the infatuation of a great part of our
community, that it will be policy in our government to do a
great deal too much to make the idea palpable, that rupture was
inevitable. Adieu.

Yours truly, &c.

If the statement is published, I would close with the words
" January last," in the last paragraph. The residue will make a
good separate newspaper paragraph. Pray, who is the emigrant
alluded to ?

KING TO HAMILTON.

London, April 2d, 1797.

Dear Sir:

As Mr. Church is the bearer, I refer you to him for what it
would take many pages to relate, and will only say, that, not-
withstanding the injuries we continue to receive from France, I
still hope the same policy that has hitherto kept us out of the war
will continue to influence and decide our government.

How the new President will conduct himself in a situation
thorny and embarrassing, remains to be seen ; the first step is
very important, and therefore should be deeply and extensively
considered.

Every thing looks like an active and, to a certain degree, a
vigorous campaign ; yet, with all these appearances of the con--

228 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 40

tinuance of the war, peace may be near. But what will be the
consequence of such a peace as alone can be had at this time ?
A late arret of the Directory gives notice to all French citizens,
that the treaty of February, 1778, between France and the United
States of America, has been (of full right), in virtue of the second
article thereof, modified so as to conform to the stipulations con-
tained in the treaty of 1794 between the United States and Great
Britain. The arret proceeds to specify the modification.

1. All enemy's goods, and all merchandise, " non sumsament
constatee neutre," on board American vessels, shall be lawful
prize, but the vessel shall be released, &c.

2. To the articles of contraband specified in the treaty of
Feb., 1778, shall be added, "les bois de construction," &c, enu-
merating the additional articles of contraband contained in the
treaty between the United States and Great Britain.

3. " D'apres l'article 21 du traite de Londres du 19 Nov.,
1794, tout individu reconnu Americain, porteur d'une commis-
sion donnee par les ennemis de la France, ainsi que tout marin
de cette nation faisants partie des Equipages des navires ou vas-
saux ennemis sera, par ce seul fait, declare pirate, et traite
comme tel, sans qu'il puisse, dans aucun cas, alleguer qu'il y a
e*te force par violence, menaces ou autrement."

4. According to the law of 14th Feb., 1793, the regulations
of that of the 21st Oct., 1744, and of that of the 26th July, 1778,
concerning the trial of neutral ships and cargoes, shall be ob-
served ; and in consequence thereof, every American vessel shall
be a good prize, on board whereof there shall not be found un
Role d'equipage en bonne forme, such as is required by the form
annexed to the treaty of the 6th February, 1778, the execution
of which is hereby required.

5. liespects certain causes of forfeiture by reason of miscon-
duct in destroying prizes, possessing double papers, &c, &c. ; 6
repeals certain former regulations ; 7 directs the insertion of the
arret in the bulletin of the laws, &c.

The third article is a false construction, for obvious purposes,
of the analogous article of our treaty with England. The fourth
will render all our ships liable to capture, and, if acted upon, to

Mt. 40.] CORRESPONDENCE. 229

condemnation, since no American vessel has on board her the
document required. In our printed laws are also the treaties,
and among them those we formed with France ; to the commer-
cial treaty, though the 25th and 27th articles refer to it, there is
no model or form of a passport. Mr. Jefferson has certified that
treaty to be correct, and a perfect copy, as you will see by his
printed certificate in the law book.

I have a copy of the commercial treaty with France, printed
in London in 1783, which has the form of a passport, role d'equi-
page, &c, annexed. A copy of it I have given to Mr. Church,
who will show it to you, by which you will see that none of our
vessels are exempt from capture if this copy is that referred to in
the late arret. Indeed, it seems too absurd in some things to be
genuine, yet I suspect it is the model or form referred to and re-
quired by the fourth article of the arret.

Farewell. Yours, &c,

Eufus King.

HAMILTON TO WOLCOTT.

April 5th, 1797.

Dear Sir:

I have received your letter of March 31st. I hope nothing
in my last was misunderstood. Could it be necessary I would
assure you, that no one has a stronger conviction than myself, of
the purity of the motives which direct your public conduct, or of
the good sense and judgment by which it is guided. If I have a
fear (you will excuse my frankness), it is, lest the strength of your
feelings, the companions of energy of character, should prevent
that pliancy to circumstances which is sometimes indispensable.
I beg you only to watch yourself on this score, and the public
will always find in you an able as well as a faithful servant.

The situation of our countrj', my dear sir, is singularly
critical. The map of Europe is every way discouraging. There
is too much reason to apprehend, that the Emperor of Germany,

230 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 40.

in danger from Eussia and Prussia, perhaps the Porte, as well as
France, may be compelled to yield to the views of the latter.
England, standing alone, may be driven to a similar issue. It is
certain that great consternation, in court and country, attended
the intelligence of Bonaparte's last victories. Either to be in
rupture with France united with England, alone or singly, as is
possible, would be a most unwelcome situation. Divided as we
are, who can say what would be hazarded by it ?

In such a situation it appeared to me, we should rather err
on the side of condescension, than on the opposite side. We
ought to do every thing to avoid rupture, without unworthy sacri-
fices ; and to keep in view, as a primary object, union at home.

No measure can tend more to this, than an extraordinary
mission. And it is certain to fulfil the ends proposed. It ought
to embrace a character in whom France and the opposition have
full credit. What risk can attend sending Madison, if combined,
as I propose, with Pinckney and Cabot, or such a man (two de-
ciding) ? Dej)end on it — Pinckney is a man of honor and loves
his country. Cabot we both know. Besides, there ought to be
certain leading instructions from which they may not deviate.

I agree with you, that we have nothing to retract ; that we
ought to risk every thing before we submit to any dishonorable
terms. But we may remould our treaties. We may agree to
put France on the same footing as Great Britain, by our treaty
with her. We may also liquidate, with a view to future wars,
the import of the mutual guaranty in the treaty of alliance;
substituting specific succors, and defining the casus feeder is. But
this last may or may not be done, though, with me, it is a
favorite object.

Ingersol will not fulfil the object; but I would rather have
him than do nothing.

I am clearly of opinion, with you, that the President shall
come forward to Congress in a manly tone, and that Congress
shall adopt vigorous defensive measures. Those you propose
are proper, and some others on which I may write hereafter.

If Madison is well coupled, I do not think his intrigues can
operate as you imagine. Should he advocate dishonorable con-

2ET.40.] CORRESPONDENCE. 231

cessions to France, the public opinion will not support. His
colleague, by address, and showing a disposition to do enough,
may easily defeat his policy, and maintain the public confidence.
Besides that, it is possible too much may be taken for granted
with regard to Mr. Madison.

Yours very truly,

A. Hamilton.

PICKERING TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, April 5th, 1797.

I received your letter of the and accord with your opinion
that the proposed publication of the intelligence from General
Pinckney should be omitted. The " Emigrant," we conclude to
be Perigord, formerly bishop of Autun. Some time since, I was
informed, that he left this country with signs of enmity towards it,
and the Directory would naturally place great confidence in his
opinion, and yet it is so extravagant we may wonder that it
should gain any credit. But, as Barras said to Monroe, " they
will not stoop to calculate the consequence of our condescension
to our ancient tyrants," nor, it would seem, of their own atrocities.
They are giddy with their successes, and stick at no means which
promise to promote their views of domination and plunder.

I have omitted to answer your letter of 10th February. To-
day I have examined Chancellor Livingston's letter books. On
the 25th of March, 1783, he wrote to the American commission-
ers, Adams, Franklin, Jay, and Laurens, acknowledging the re-
ceipt of their letter, with the " preliminary articles." He tells
them that " the steadiness manifested in not treating without an
express acknowledgment of our independence previous to a
treaty, is approved, and it is not doubted but it accelerated that
declaration" — yet you will recollect, as I have stated in my print-
ed letter to General Pinckney, that Count de Yergennes urged
Mr. Jay's negotiating with Mr. Oswald, without insisting on that
previous acknowledgment, and this concurring with other facts,

232 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 40-

inspired Mr. Jay with suspicions which the Chancellor censures.
The grounds of those suspicions were detailed in Mr. Jay's
letter of September 18th, of which the Chancellor acknowledged
the receipt on the 30th December, 1782.

In the same letter of March 25th, 1783, to the commissioners,
after informing them that the preliminary articles had been laid
before Congress, "that they had met with their warmest appro-
bation, and been generally seen by the people in the most favor-
able point of view," and made some comments on the subject,
and noticed the British debts, which, says he, no honest man
could wish to withhold, he adds: — "But, gentlemen, though
the issue of your treaty has been successful, though I am satis-
fied that we are much indebted to your firmness and persever-
ance, to your accurate knowledge of our situation and of our
wants for this success, yet I feel no little pain at the distrust
manifested in the management of it, particularly in signing the
treaty without communicating it to the court of Versailles, till
after the signature, and in concealing the separate article from it,
even when signed. I have examined with the most minute at-
tention all the reasons assigned in your several letters to justify
these suspicions ; I confess that they do not appear to strike me
so forcibly as they have done you, and it gives me pain that the
character for candor and fidelity to its engagements, which should
always characterize a great people, should have been impeached
thereby. The concealment was, in my opinion, absolutely un-
necessary. For had the court of France disapproved the terms
you had made after they had been agreed upon, they could not
have acted so absurdly as to counteract you at that late day, and
thereby put themselves in the power of an enemy, who would
certainly betray them, and perhaps justify you in making
terms for yourselves. The secret article is no otherwise import-
ant than as it carries in it the seeds of enmity to the court of
Spain, and shows a marked preference for an open enemy." The
Chancellor continues his remarks on the secret article, and ex-
presses his opinion that the same boundary for West Florida
should have been stipulated, into whose hands soever it might
fall at the conclusion of the war. " I feel (says he) for the em-

jEt. 40.] correspondence. 233

barrassment explanations on this subject must subject you to,
when this secret is known to }^our allies." He inclosed to them
his report (or letter) to Congress, on the manner in which the
negotiation had been conducted, in regard to the concealment from
the court of Versailles, and the secret article, and the motions
to which the communication gave rise in Congress. But while
under consideration, letters arrived from Count D'Estaing and
the Marquis de la Fayette, containing accounts that preliminaries
(I suppose of a general peace) were signed, and the whole affair
went over without any decision.

In his report to Congress, he reminds them of their reiterated
expressions of confidence in France, and quotes their public
resolution of the 4th of October, 1782, "That Congress will
not enter into the discussion of any overtures for pacification,
but in confidence and in concert with his most Christian Majesty."
Yet (says he), " it has unfortunately so happened that the ministers
of these States have imagined they had sufficient grounds to sus-
pect the sincerity of the court of France, and have not only
thought it prudent to agree upon and sign preliminaries with
Great Britain, without communicating them till after the signa-
ture to the ministers of his most Christian Majesty, but have
permitted a separate article to be inserted in their treaty, which
they still conceal from the court of France." This he considers
as reducing Congress to a most embarrassing situation, either of
contradicting all their former professions of confidence in their
ally, or of exposing their ministers at the court of France, " and
that too when those ministers have obtained such terms from the
court of London, as does great honor to them, and at least equals
our highest expectations." The preamble to the provisional arti-
cles, he supposes to have been framed in England, and all his
observations manifest his suspicions of insidious designs in that
power. Finally, he submits the following resolutions :

"That the Secretary for Foreign Affairs be directed to com-
municate the separate article in the provisional preliminary treaty
with Great Britain to the minister of his most Christian Majesty,
in such manner as will best tend to remove any unfavorable im-
pression it may make on the court of France of the sincerity of
these States or their ministers.

234 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 40-

"That the ministers for negotiating peace be informed of this
communication, and of the reasons which influenced Congress to
make it. That they be instructed to agree that in whatsoever
hands West Florida may remain at the conclusion of the war,
the United States will be satisfied that the line of north boun-
dary be as described in the said separate article.

" That it is the sense of the United States in Congress that the
articles agreed upon between the ministers of these States and
those of his Britannic Majesty, are not to take place until a peace
shall have been actually signed between their Most Christian and
Britannic Majesties."

Actually signed ! — If you turn to the preamble of the provin-
cial articles you will see that it was declared that the treaty of
peace which the articles were to constitute, was not to be con-
cluded "until terms of a peace shall be agreed upon between
Great Britain and France, and his Britannic Majesty shall be
ready to conclude such treaty accordingly." Now, says the
Chancellor, "this preamble is so expressed as to render it very
doubtful whether our treaty does not take place the moment
France and England have agreed on the terms of their treaty,
though France should refuse to sign till her allies were satisfied."
As you have not mentioned the object of your inquiry on this
subject, this detail may perhaps be deficient or redundant. In
either case you will advise me, and particularly I must request
you to acknowledge the receipt of this letter, that I may be sure
of its having reached your hands.

I am, dear Sir, very truly yours.

HAMILTON TO WM. SMITH.

New-York, April 5, 1797.

I have received, my dear sir, your letter of the 2d of April,
(1797,) with your little work accompanying it, which I shall

,Et. 40.] CORRESPONDENCE. 235

read with the interest I take in the author, the first leisure hour.
I have cast my eye over it, and like very much the plan.

Our affairs are indeed very critical. But I am sorry to find
that I do not agree with several of my friends. I am clearly of
opinion for an extraordinary mission, and as clearly that it should
embrace Madison. I do not think we ought to construe the
declaration of the Directory against receiving a Minister Plenipo-
tentiary, as an extraordinary mission pro hac vice. And if it
does, it would be no reason with me against it. I would accu-
mulate the proofs of French violence, and demonstrate to all our
citizens that nothing possible has been omitted. That a certain
party desires it is with me a strong reason for it — since I would
disarm them of all plea that we have not made every possible
effort for peace. The idea is a plausible one, that as we sent an
Envoy Extraordinary to Britain, so we ought to send one to
France. And plausible ideas are always enough for the multi-
tude.

These and other reasons (and principally to avoid rupture
with a political monster, which seems destined soon to have no
competitor but England), make me even anxious for an extra-
ordinary mission.

And to produce the desired effect, it seems to me essential
that it shall embrace a distinguished character agreeable to France,
and having the confidence of the adverse party. Hence I think
of Madison, but I think of him only as one, because I would not
trust him alone. I would unite with him Pinckney, and some
strong man from the north, Jay, Cabot, and two of the three
should rule. We should then be safe.

I need not tell you that I am disposed to make no sacrifices
to France. I had rather perish myself and family than see the
country disgraced. But I would try hard to avoid rupture, and
if that cannot be, to unite the opinions of all good citizens of
whatever political denomination. This is with me a mighty
object.

I will give you hereafter my ideas of what ought to be done
when Congress meet. My plan ever is to combine energy with
moderation.

Yours affectionately.

236 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JSt. 40.

HAMILTON TO KING.

April 8th, 1797.

I thank you, my dear sir, for your letter of the 6th of Feb-
ruary. The intelligence that the Directory have ordered away
our minister is every way unpleasant. It portends, too, a final
rupture as the only alternative to an ignominious submission.
Much public feeling has been excited; but the government, I
trust and believe, will continue prudent, and do every thing that
honor permits towards accommodation. It is, however, to be
feared that France, successful, will be too violent and imperious
to meet us on any admissible ground.

Congress are called together. I can give you no conjecture
as to what will be done. Opinions are afloat. My idea is,
another attempt to pacify by negotiation, vigorous preparation
for war, and defensive measures with regard to our trade. But
there never was a period of our affairs, in which I could less
foresee the state of things.

I believe there is no danger of want of firmness in the Exec-
utive. If he is not ill-advised, he will not want prudence. I
mean, that he is himself disposed to a, prudently firm course.

You know the mass of our Senate. That of our House of
Eepresentatives is not ascertained. A small majority on the right
side is counted upon. In Virginia it is understood that Morgan
comes in place of Kutherford, and Evans in place of Page. The
whole result of the Virginia election is not known.

The conduct of France has been a very powerful medicine
for the political disease of our country. I think the community
improves in soundness.

Adieu ; God bless you.

JEt.40.] correspondence. 237

HAMILTON TO WILLIAM SMITH.

April 10th. 1797.

Dear Sir:

Since my last to you, I have perused with great satisfaction
your little work on our governments. I like the execution no
less than the plan. If my health and leisure should permit, I
would make some notes ; but you cannot depend on it, as I am
not only extremely occupied, but in feeble health.

I send you my ideas of the course of conduct proper in our
present situation. It is unpleasant to me to know, that I have
for some time differed materially from many of my friends on
public subjects, and I particularly regret, that at the present crit-
ical juncture, there is in my apprehension much danger that sen-
sibility will be an overmatch for policy. We seem now to feel
and reason as the Jacobins did when Great Britain insulted and
injured us, though certainly, we have at least as much need of a
temperate conduct now as we had then. I only say, God grant
that the public interest may not be sacrificed at the shrine of
irritation and mistaken pride. Farewell.

Affectionately yours, &c.

WOLCOTT TO HAMILTON".

Philadelphia, April 12th, 1797.

Dear Sir :

I thank you for your letter of April 5th, and inclose Mr.
King's letter. I presume that the British commissioners under
the 6th article (for Debts) will contend for a similar construction
respecting cases determined in our courts. Is there any ground
on which the principle can be opposed ?

Are we to consider the British credit as at an end. If so,
what effects will it probably produce here ?

Your further opinions respecting the course to be pursued by
France will be very acceptable.

238 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 40.

HAMILTON TO WOLCOTT.

New-York, April 13th, 1797.

My Dear Sir:

The post of to-day brought me a letter from you. I am just
informed that an order is come to the custom-house, not to clear
out any vessels if armed, unless destined for the East Indies.
Under the present circumstances, I very much doubt the expe-
diency of this measure. The excesses of France justify passive-
ness in the government ; and its inability to protect the mer-
chants, requires that it should leave them to protect themselves.
Nor do I fear that it would tend to rupture with France, if such
be not her determination otherwise. The legality of this prohi-
bition cannot be defended ; it must stand on its necessity. It
would, I think, have been enough to require security, that the
vessel is not to be employed to cruise against any of the bellige-
rent powers. Perhaps even now, where vessels have been armed
previous to the receipt of the prohibition, it is safe and advisable
to except them on the condition of such security. Think of this
promptly. The general measure may be further considered at
leisure. Nor am I prepared to say that, having been taken, it
ought to be revoked.

I will send you shortly, some remarks in reply to questions
you propose. Adieu.

Yours, &c.

PICKERING TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, April 29th, 1797.

Dear Sir:

In contemplating the idea suggested by you of arming the
merchant vessels of the United States, for defence only, a diffi-
culty at once presented. This measure is incompatible with

jEt. 40.] CORRESPONDENCE. 239

the right of a belligerent power to visit and examine neutral
vessels, to ascertain whether they have on board contraband
goods ; and where a treaty does not alter the law of nations,
whether they are laden with enemies' goods — to see, indeed,
whether under neutral colors, they are such, or enemies. The
answer suggested to myself is this : — that the power at war who
has discarded treaties and the laws of nations, avowedly and
practically, is not entitled to corresponding rights — rights relat-
ing to the same subject, under such treaties and laws ; and con-
sequently that American vessels, if allowed to be defensively
armed, are not to submit to any such visits. Vessels of a neutral
nation, under convoy of the armed ships of such nation, I take
it, are not subject to such visits, and our armed merchant vessels
would he their own convoy. I do not know where this question
is treated of in books ; you, probably, can inform me. The arming
our merchant vessels, though only for defence, will be zealously
opposed in the House of Eepresentatives, on the above ground?
that as well by treaty as the law of nations, the French have
a right to visit our vessels, and because of the danger of its lead-
ing to open war. On the subject of a commission extraordinary to
the French Eepublic, much difficulty occurs. To give a better
prospect of success to this measure, you observe that a man
agreeable to them should go, and you name two persons, either
of whom you would advise to be joined with Mr. Pinckney, and
another on whose attachment to the system of our government
as established and administered, perfect reliance may be placed.
But in the first place would either of the two you name consent
to go ? You certainly reckon on General Pinckney's inviolable
integrity and federal attachments. Will not the man whom you
name as agreeable to the French, see that his hands will be tied ?
If you place any confidence in either of the two, that if com-
missioned he will faithfully consult and firmly persist in mea-
sures which the rights and neutral condition of our country de-
mand, without suffering his choice, his passions, or his prejudices
in favor of France, and from hatred to Great Britain, to sacri-
fice any of our rights or interests to the former, why name a
third commissioner, of principles directly opposed, to check and

240 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 40.

effectually control him? I should be inclined to think that
neither of the two would, under such a view of the case, accept
the appointment, and one of them would perhaps, from his
present station, deem it improper.

Would not the Directory also see such a commission, consti-
tuted as you propose, in the same point of view ? And would
they not say, that ostensibly there was an intention to manifest
a particular respect and attention to them, while, in reality, we
meant no such thing? Or do you consider General Pinckney
as a neutral character in the politics of our country, and, by
appointing two associates of opposite characters, enable him to
hold the balance ? This is the most favorable light in which I can
view the proposition. But when we consider the asperity of the
parties here, and that the two characters named have been con-
sidered among the leaders, that probably neither has a confidence
in the other, that your friend in particular will perhaps fear
to disclose his sentiments on the most interesting questions, lest
they should be betrayed to the French, — is there a well grounded
hope that the mission would be successful ?

On the organization of a provisional army to receive certain
compensations, but not full pay, I should be glad to receive your
ideas a little in detail. The propriety of increasing our artillery
establishment is clear, and I should imagine not difficult to
obtain. I have my doubts of the cavalry ; the militia corps of
horse are already composed, generally speaking, of the best men
and best horses in the country; but they need discipline. I
much doubt, unless the danger of war should appear more cer-
tain than at present, whether even a provisional army will be
granted. If not, perhaps a much larger army of select militia
might be agreed to ; the corps to be composed of volunteers, or
draughts of young men from the general militia, and completely
organized. The militia system to be improved.

On these several subjects, and any others relating to our
French connections, I shall be happy to receive your communi-
cations as early as your leisure will admit.

I am most sincerely and respectfully yours, &c.

Mt.40.] correspondence. 241

P. S. What if General Pinckney were to be appointed Envoy
Extraordinary 1 or even Ambassador, with fresh instructions rela-
tive to the subjects of complaint ? The Directory have said they
will not receive another minister plenipotentiary until, &c.
They refused to receive the Charge d' Affaires of Sweden, sent to
announce the young king's ascending the throne, because at
other courts the same thing had been done by accredited minis-
ters. [And they have made it a subject of serious complaint, as
J. Q. Adams was well informed at the Hague, against Denmark,
because that court omitted to announce to the Directory the death
of the old Queen Dowager. He remarks, that they are seeking for
pretences of quarrel with all the neutral commercial nations,
their great object being to insist on measures to be adopted, or
suffered by neutrals, to injure or destroy the commerce of Bri-
tain.] If a commission extraordinary should be appointed,
what should you think of Mr. Barlow for a member ? He has
managed the negotiation with Algiers with great ability, address,
and zeal, for the interest of his country. Having been formerly
elected a member by the French Convention, he may be deemed
of sufficient respectability. He is even admitted, I take it, to
French citizenship. His talents are unquestionable. I should
sooner confide in him than in Mr. Madison. The other person
named by you I consider as out of the question, because of his
station. Mr. Barlow has no personal antipathies and resent-
ments to gratify — resentments engendered in the collision of
parties at home.

SMITH TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, May 1st, 1797.

Dear Sir:

I should sooner have acknowledged the receipt of your inter-
esting communication, had I not been informed of your journey
to Albany.

I coincide perfectly in opinion with you as to the expediency
F 16

242 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 40.

of measures of defence and an extraordinary mission. But I see
very considerable difficulty in the measure of a commission, and
still greater in its including Jefferson and Madison. From the
former plan, I foresee embarrassment and increased expense with-
out any benefit. If the majority of the commissioners be Anti-
Gallicans, the party will not be gratified. We place an enemy in
the commission without acquiring their support. If the majority
be Gallicans, we give up the game. There are serious constitu-
tional objections against Jefferson as commissioner, and Madison
has done so much to prostrate this country at the feet of France,
that I fear his appointment would appear humiliating, and give
disgust to our friends. I doubt also whether either of them would
go on this business, unless as sole envoy ; certainly not, unless as
senior commissioner, and this would be harsh to Pinckney, who
has conducted himself well. From these considerations, I have
been induced to think the most dignified and safe mode of doing
this business, would be to send Pinckney a new commission either
as envoy or ambassador extraordinary ; he is near at hand, he is
unexceptionable to all parties. The French have no personal
objections to him, the Jacobins of most of the Southern States
have great confidence in him, and he has made great sacrifices
to go on a mission, which has hitherto been attended with
nothing but mortification.

He is waiting at Amsterdam the orders of the Executive,
probably expecting a commission of envoy extraordinary. It is
not improbable, too, that any thing like slight to him may alienate
more friends than would be acquired by adding to the mission
one of the other party. I have lately met with a report of the
Commissioners of Public Safety, in April '95, which was adopted
by the Convention, on the subject of the different grades of min-
isters, wherein it is stated " that the sending of an ambassador is
peculiarly agreeable to republics, and a particular mark of re-
spect." This report preceded the reception of Be Stael as am-
bassador extraordinary from Sweden. I have shown the Secre-
tary of State the report, and the commission of De Stael. Per-
haps it may be thought expedient to send a commission of
ambassador extraordinary to Gen. Pinckney, and to give weight

JEt.40.] [CORRESPONDENCE. 243

and importance to the mission to add, in the character of secre-
tary to the embassy, some character above the common class of
private secretaries. This last point is, however, only a sugges-
tion of my own. This practice is generally followed in Europe.

I have shown your letter to Tracy, and to Wolcott, and to
McHenry, all of whom applied for the perusal of it, and were
much pleased with every part, except the commission. This
idea does not seem to coincide with the opinions of any of our
friends here.

I leave town to-morrow for a jaunt of a few days to Lancas-
ter, York, &c. On my return I hope to hear from you, and
remain,

Dear Sir,

Yery sincerely yours,

Wm. Smith.

HAMILTON TO HAMILTON.

Albany, State of New- York, May the 2d, 1797.

My Dear Sir:

Some days since I received with great pleasure your letter of
the 10th of March. The mark it affords of your kind attention,
and the particular account it gives me of so many relations in
Scotland, are extremely gratifying to me. You no doubt have
understood that my father's affairs at a very early day went to
wreck ; so as to have rendered his situation during the greatest
part of his life far from eligible. This state of things occasioned
a separation between him and me, when I was very young, and
threw me upon the bounty of my mother's relatives, some of
whom were then wealthy, though by vicissitudes to which
human affairs are so liable, they have been since much reduced
and broken up. Myself at about sixteen came to this country.
Having always had a strong propensity to literary pursuits, by a
course of steady and laborious exertion, I was able, by the age of
nineteen, to qualify myself for the degree of Bachelor of Arts in

244 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 40.

the College of New- York, and to lay the foundation by prepara-
tory study for the future profession of the law.

The American Eevolution supervened. My principles led
me to take part in it ; at nineteen I entered into the American
army as Captain of Artillery. Shortly after I became, by his in-
vitation, aid-de-camp to General Washington, in which station I
served till the commencement of that campaign which ended with
the siege of York in Virginia, and the capture of Cornwallis's
army. The campaign I made at the head of a corps of light in-
fantry, with which I was present at the siege of York, and en-
gaged in some interesting operations.

At the period of the peace with Great Britain, I found myself
a member of Congress by appointment of the legislature of
this State.

After the peace, I settled in the city of New-York, in the
practice of the law ; and was in a very lucrative course of prac-
tice, when the derangement of our public affairs, by the feeble-
ness of the general confederation, drew me again reluctantly into
public life. I became a member of the Convention which framed
the present Constitution of the United States ; and having taken
part in this measure, I conceived myself to be under an obligation
to lend my aid towards putting the machine in some regular
motion. Hence I did not hesitate to accept the offer of President
Washington to undertake the office of Secretary of the Treasury.

In that office, I met with many intrinsic difficulties, and many
artificial ones proceeding from passions, not very worthy, com-
mon to human nature, and which act with peculiar force in re-
publics. The object, however, was effected, of establishing pub-
lic credit, and introducing order in the finances.

Public office in this country has few attractions. The pecu-
niary emolument is so inconsiderable, as to amount to a sacrifice
to any man who can employ his time with advantage in any
liberal profession. The opportunity of doing good, from the
jealousy of power and the spirit of faction, is too small in any
station, to warrant a long continuance of private sacrifices. The
enterprises of party had so far succeeded, as materially to weaken
tile necessary influence and energy of the Executive authority,

jEt. 40.] correspondence. 245

and so far diminish the power of doing good in that department,
as greatly to take away the motives which a virtuous man might
have for making sacrifices. The prospect was even bad for
gratifying in future the love of fame, if that passion was to be
the spring of action.

The union of these motives, with the reflections of prudence
in relation to a growing family, determined me as soon as my
plan had attained a certain maturity, to withdraw from office.
This I did by a resignation about two years since, when I re-
sumed the profession of the law in the city of New- York under
every advantage I could desire.

It is a pleasant reflection to me, that since the commencement
of my connection with General Washington to the present time,
I have possessed a flattering share of his confidence and friend-
ship.

Having given you a brief sketch of my political career, I pro-
ceed to some further family details.

In the year 1780, I married the second daughter of General
Schuyler, a gentleman of one of the best families of this country,
of large fortune, and no less personal and political consequence.
It is impossible to be happier than I am in a wife ; and I have
five children, four sons and a daughter, the eldest a son some-
what passed fifteen, who all promise as well as their years per-
mit, and yield me much satisfaction. Though I have been too
much in public life to be wealthy, my situation is extremely
comfortable, and leaves me nothing to wish but a continuance of
health. With this blessing, the profits of my profession and
other prospects authorize an expectation of such addition to my
resources, as will render the eve of life easy and agreeable ; so
far as may depend on this consideration.

It is now several months since I have heard from my father,
who continued at the island of St. Vincents. My anxiety at this
silence would be greater than it is, were it not for the consider-
able interruption and precariousness of intercourse which is pro-
duced by the war.

I have strongly pressed the old gentleman to come and reside
with me, which would afford him every enjoyment of which his

246 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 40.

advanced age is capable ; but he has declined it on the ground
that the advice of his physicians leads him to fear, that the change
of climate would be fatal to him. The next thing for me is, in
proportion to my means, to endeavor to increase his comforts
where he is.

It will give me the greatest pleasure to receive your son Rob-
ert at my house in New- York, and still more to be of use to him ;
to which end, my recommendation and interest will not be want-
ing, and I hope not unavailing. It is my intention to embrace
the opening which your letter affords me to extend my inter-
course with my relations in your country, which will be a nefa
source of satisfaction to me.

HAMILTON TO PICKERING.

May 11th, 1797.

My Dear Sir:

On my return here I found your letter of the 29th. The sit-
ting of a court of chancery, and important business there, have
unavoidably delayed a reply ; now, it must be much more cursory
than I could wish.

As to the mission, in some shape or other, the more I have
reflected upon it, the more has it appeared to me indispensable.
To accomplish, with certainty, a principal object of it — the
silencing of Jacobin criticism, and promoting union among our-
selves— it is very material to engage in it a person who will have
the Jacobin confidence ; else, if France should still refuse to re-
ceive, or if receiving, the mission should prove unsuccessful, it
will be said that this was because a suitable agent was not em-
ployed. Hence, my mind was led to Jefferson or Madison ; but,
as it would be unsafe to trust either alone, the idea of associates
occurs as an essential part of the plan. This, likewise, is an ex-
pedient for saving Mr. Pinckney's feelings.

But will either of them go on this footing? If offered, and

jEt.40.] correspondence. 247

they refuse, they will put themselves in the wrong ; for on so
great an emergency, they cannot justifiably decline the service
without a good reason ; and it would not be a good reason for
refusal, that there was to be a commission. The refusal, too, if
it happened, would furnish a reply to Jacobin clamor. It was
offered to your leaders, and they would not act.

I confide in Pinckney's integrity and federal attachments;
why, then, name a third? Because, 1st. Two may disagree, and
there may be inaction. 2d. Though I have the confidence I men-
tion, I think Pinckney has had too much French leaning to con-
sider him, in conjunction with Jefferson or Madison, as perfectly
safe. A third on whom perfect reliance could be placed, would
secure Pinckney's co-operation. I do consider him, as in some
sort, a middle character.

As to the two gentlemen named (Jefferson and Madison), it
may be fairly observed to either of them, that the combination of
character is essential to combine the confidence of the country,
and to render the result, whatever it may be, acceptable. It
may also be observed, that delicacy to Mr. Pinckney dictates this
course — not to exclude him after what has happened. To Mr.
Pinckney the state of parties here may also be pleaded.

The French Directory may also be made to understand indi-
rectly that the association has proceeded from a desire in the
Executive to unite confidence in the mission, and secure its
success at home.

I should not despair that in such a crisis men of opposite
politics might agree. I verily believe that Jefferson, Pinckney,
and King, would agree. There might be a joint commission for
action, and a separate commission to Jefferson, as envoy or am-
bassador extraordinary for representation.

I miscalculate if Jefferson will not be anxious for peace. I
only fear that alone he would give too much for it.

If this plan is thought liable to too strong objections — the
next best thing is to send the commission of ambassador extraor-
dinary to Pinckney ; and send him also some clever fellow as sec-
retary of embassy.

But I repeat it with extreme solicitude — another mission is
absolutely indispensable.

248 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 40.

On the subject of permitting our vessels to arm, there is some
difficulty. You are right in the idea that merchant vessels under
the convoy of ships of war, are exempt from search. But I
know no book where it is to be found. Yet, I have so constantly
understood it to be the usage, that I venture to rely upon it.
But I believe the privilege is confined to public ships of war, and
could not, according to usage, be transferred to private armed
vessels. The measure must, therefore, be justified by the extre-
mity.

Moreover, I understand no other consequence as resulting from
the being armed, than that it exposes the vessel to confiscation
for resisting a search. It is no breach of neutrality to permit the
being armed.

But I would avoid the formality of a commission, and would
substitute some permit, perhaps to be signed by the head of a
department. This should be united with great precautions to
prevent abuse by cruising, by driving contraband trade by trans-
fers to foreigners.

At all events our trade must have protection. For our whole
mercantile capital will else be destroyed, our seamen lost, and our
country involved in extreme distress.

As to a provisional army, I reason thus : — no plan of a militia,
which is not the equivalent, in other words, which is not under a
positive engagement to constitute a permanent army in case of
invasion, will be worth any thing. For we want a stable force
created beforehand to oppose to the first torrent, which, with
mere militia, would involve incalculable dangers and calamities.
Hence, as a substitute for a standing army, I offer a provisional
one. It would be composed thus : — the officers to be appointed by
the United States and rank with those of the establishment, to re-
ceive some pay till called into actual service, say half, a third, or
a fourth ; those employed to recruit to be fully paid.

The men to be regularly enlisted, upon condition not to be
called into actual service, except in case of invasion, and then to
serve during the war ; to receive a uniform coat, and a dollar,
perhaps two dollars per month when not in the field — to be obliged
to assemble for exercise so many days in the year, and then to

jEt.40.] correspondence. 249

have full pay and rations. When called into actual service to
have the same compensations, &c., with the establishment; in
short, to become part of it. To be armed by the United States ;
to be liable from the beginning to the articles of war.

I think such a corps, from the certainty of advantage, and the
uncertainty of service, might be engaged sooner than a standing
force, and, with precautions in the enlistment, would be a solid
resource in case of need.

I am much attached to the idea of a large corps of efficient
cavalry ; and I cannot allow this character to militia. It is all
important to an undisciplined against a disciplined army. It is
a species of force not easy to be brought by an invader — by
which his supplies may be cut off, and his activity extremely
checked. Were I to command an undisciplined army, I should
prefer half the force with a good corps of cavalry to twice the
force without one.

Yours truly.

HAMILTON TO PICKERING.

Saturday, May 13, 1797.

My Dear Sir:

Mr. Goodhue takes on with him a Boston paper, the printer
of which states that he has obtained, by a ship just arrived, a
London paper of March 24th ; mentioning in positive terms an
account just received from the Emperor, that in consequence of
a combination between Prussia and France, he is driven to the
necessity of making an immediate peace for the safety of the empire ;
that in consequence of this, the king, who was at Windsor, had
been sent for, &c, &c.

The manner of announcing it is too positive to allow much
doubt that the thing is substantially true.

This intelligence confirms the expediency of a further at-
tempt to negotiate, but I hope it will not carry us too far. A firm
and erect countenance must be maintained, and the vigor of pre-

250 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 40.

paration increased. Safety can only be found in uniting energy
with moderation. Honor certainly is only to be found there ;
and either as a man or citizen, I, for one, had rather perish than
Bubmit to disgrace.

Yours, &c.

A. Hamilton.

MCHENRY TO HAMILTON".

Philadelphia, 14th May, 1797.

My Dear Hamilton:

I received your letters and papers. I added to them, but
changed nothing, for the train of ideas in both ran in the same
channel, and embraced the same objects.

The speech extenuates nought — recommends proper mea-
sures, promises a fresh attempt at negotiation, and declares the
principles by which administration mean to be governed — in
other words, that the President will follow the principles of the
late administration.

It is not perhaps precisely such a speech as you would have
written — a little too plain. It may, however, be better fitted on
that account for the occasion.

Your affectionate, &c.

MCHENRY TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, 15th May, 1797.

My Dear Hamilton:

I wrote you a line yesterday, acknowledging the receipt of
your two letters from Albany.

I expect that there will be a quorum of both branches to-day.

It appears that the news of the Emperor of Germany having

jEt.40.] correspondence. 251

signified his intention to make peace, was unfounded. Had it
even been so, it ought to have augmented our endeavors to
meet hostility.

It is probable that a new character will be given to Pinckney,
and a secretary to the mission.

Yours, &c.

HAMILTON TO WOLCOTT.

June 5, 1797.

Dear Sir:

The answer from the President to the Commander in Chief,
&c, contains in the close a very indifferent passage. The senti-
ment is intemperate and revolutionary. It is not for us, particu-
larly for the government, to breathe an irregular or violent
spirit. Hitherto I have much liked the President's answers, as
in the main within proper bounds, and calculated to animate
and raise the public mind. But there are limits which must not
be passed ; and, from my knowledge of the ardor of the Presi-
dent's mind, and this specimen of the effects of that ardor, I
begin to be apprehensive that he may run into indiscretion.
This will do harm to the government, to the cause, and to himself.
Some hint must be given, for we must make no mistakes.

Inclosed is a sketch of some ideas which have run through
my mind ; they are perhaps none of them new, but they are
offered as the evidence of my opinion on the points. As yet,
we are far short of the point of vigor.

252 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [At. 40.

HAMILTON TO KING.

June 6, 1797.

I thank you, my dear sir, for two letters lately received from
you, the last by Mr. Church. I feel very guilty for my negli-
gence. But how can I help it?

The public prints will inform you of the course of public
proceedings hitherto. You will perceive that the general plan
is analogous to what was done in the case of Great Britain,
though there are faults in the detail. Some people cannot learn
that the only force which befits a government is in the thought
and action, not in the words, and many reverse the golden rule.
I fear we shall do ourselves no honor in the result, and we shall
remain at the mercy of events, without those efficient prepara-
tions which are demanded by so precarious situation; and
which, not provoking war, would put us in condition to meet
it. All the consolation I can give is, that the public temper of
this country mends daily, and that there is no final danger of
our submitting tamely to the yoke of France.

Yours affectionately, &c.

HAMILTON TO WOLCOTT.

June 6th, 1797.

My Dear Sir :

You some time ago put a question to me which through
hurry I never answered, viz. — whether there can be any dis-
tinction between the provision in the treaty with Great Britain
respecting British debts and that respecting spoliations as to the
power of the commissioners to rejudge the decisions of the courts.
I answer that I can discover none.

I am of opinion, however, that in the exercise of this power
two principles ought to be strenuously insisted upon. One — that

^t.40.] CORRESPONDENCE. 253

the commissioners ought not to intermeddle but -when it is un-
equivocally ascertained that justice cannot be obtained through
our courts. The other — that there ought to be no revision of
the question of interest when abatements were made by juries
undirected by any special statute. For it is certain that interest
is capable of being affected by circumstances, and that the law
leaves a considerable discretion on this point with juries. I take
for granted also, that, where compromises were made between
creditor and debtor without the intervention of courts, or the in-
junctions of positive law, there will be no revision. This is all a
very delicate subject, one upon which great moderation on the
part of the British commissioners is very important to future
harmony.

I like very well the course of Executive conduct in regard to
the controversy with France, and I like the answer of the Senate
in regard to the President's speech.

But I confess, I have not been well satisfied with the answer
reported in the House. It contains too many hard expressions ;
and hard words are very rarely useful in public proceedings.
Mr. Jay and other friends here have been struck in the same
manner with myself. "We shall not regret to see the answer
softened down. Real firmness is good for every thing. Strut is
good for nothing.

Last session I sent Sedgwick, with request to communicate
to you, my proposal of a building tax. Inclosed is the rough
sketch. I do not know if there was any alteration in the copy
sent to him.

But the more I reflect, the more I become convinced that
some such plan ought to be adopted, and the idea of valuation
dropped, and I have also become convinced that the idea of a
tax on land ought to be deferred. The building tax can be
accommodated to the quota-rule. For what were intended as
rates may be considered as ratios of each individual tax, and then,
as the aggregate of these ratios on a particular building, so will
the sum to be raised by the State be the sum to be paid by the
owner of that building, and so the very bad business of valua-
tions may be avoided in general. In regard to stores, if they are

254 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 40.

comprehended, rents or valuations may be adopted, and these
rents may be represented by ratios equivalent to the proportion
of the specific ratios to the rents of houses to be estimated in the
law.

If these ideas are not clear I will on your advice give a
further explanation.

My plan of ways and means then for the present would be :
A tax on buildings equal to .... $1,000,000

On stamps, including a small percentage
on policies of insurance and a percentage
on collateral successions, . . . 500,000

A duty on hats, say 5 per cent, for the commonest
kind, 10 per cent, for the middling, and 20
for the best, to be decided by the materials.

On saddle horses dollars per horse, . 150,000

On salt, so much as will make the whole

duty 25 cents — suppose, . . . 350,000

$2,000,000

I should like also a remodification of the duties on licenses
to sell spirituous liquors by multiplying discriminations.

I would then open a loan for 5,000,000 of dollars, to be repaid
absolutely within five years, upon which I would allow a high
interest, say 8 per cent., payable quarterly, and redeemable at
pleasure by paying off, and I would accept subscriptions as low
as $100. In case of pressure, Treasury bills having a like inter-
est may be used.

If unfortunately war break out, then every practicable object
of taxation should at once be seized hold of, so as to carry our
revenue in the first instance to the extent of our ability. Nor is
the field narrow.

I give you my ideas full gallop and without management of
expression. I hope you always understand me right, as they
are intended in the spirit of friendly frankness.

Yours very truly,

A. Hamilton.

jEt. 40.] CORRESPONDENCE. 255

A million of dollars per annum on buildings and lands on the
following plan.

1st. Upon inhabited dwelling-houses thus : —

Upon every such house of the denomination and description
of a log house, at the rate of 20 cents for each room or apartment
thereof, exclusive of garret and cellar.

Upon every other inhabited dwelling-house of two rooms or
apartments, exclusive of halls or entries, garrets and cellars, at
the rate of 25 cents for each room or apartment.

Upon every such house of three rooms or apartments, ex-
clusive as before, at the rate of 33 1 cents for each room or
apartment.

Upon every such house of four rooms, exclusive as before, at
the rate of 40 cents for each room or apartment.

Upon every such house of five rooms, exclusive as before, at
the rate of 60 cents for each room or apartment.

Upon every such house of six rooms, exclusive as before, at
the rate of 75 cents for each room or apartment thereof.

Upon every such house of seven rooms and upwards, at the
rate of 100 cents for each room, &c.

Remarks. — These rates have been adjusted by applying their
operation to a number of houses, from which it appears that
they find a sufficiently exact proportion to the rent, and they
avoid the expense and uncertainty of valuation. Other circum-
stances of discrimination, if thought advised, may be added.

Upon every room in a garret or cellar of a house of the fore-
going descriptions, having a fireplace, and upon any kitchen,
whether in a cellar or adjacent building, at the rate of 20 cents
for each room or kitchen.

Upon each room or apartment of every such house painted
inside, the further sum of 25 cents.

Upon each room or apartment of such house papered inside,
or painted and bordered with paper, the further sum of 50 cents.

Upon every chimney, faced with tiles or cut stone other than
marble, the further sum of 50 cents.

Upon every chimney faced wTith marble, the further sum of
100 cents.

256 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 40.

Upon every stair-case of cedar or ebony wood, the further
sum of 50 cents.

Upon every stair-case of mahogany wood, the further sum of
100 cents.

Upon every room or apartment with stucco cornices, the fur-
ther sum of 100 cents.

Upon every room with a stucco ceiling, the further sum of
200 cents ; but the same room shall not also be rated for cornices
of such work.

Upon every such house with pillars or pilasters outside in
front, the further sum of 100 cents.

Upon every such house faced outside and in front, in whole
or in part with marble, the further sum of 200 cents.

These rates to be paid by the occupiers of the house, whether
owners or tenants. When a house is let by parcels the landlord
to be deemed the occupier.

Upon all stone houses not being parts of dwelling houses in
use, at the rate of one-fortieth part of the yearly value, to be de-
termined by the actual rent if rented, and if not by an estimate
or valuation thereof.

Upon all grist-mills, at the rate of 125 cents for each run of
stone therein.

Upon all saw-mills, at the rate of 50 cents for each saw usu-
ally worked therein, not exceeding three, and for each saw above
that number 25 cents.

Upon all wharves in the cities and towns of Portsmouth, Bos-
ton, &c, (enumerating the principal towns,) at the rate of 12=
cents for each foot in front thereof.

Upon all wharves in any other city or town at the rate of
6 cents.

Remarks. — Or this may be thrown into classes.

Upon all lumber yards in the cities or towns of Portsmouth,
Boston, &c. (enumerating the principal towns,) at the rate of 2|
cents for each hundred square feet.

Cottages inhabited by paupers to be excepted, to be judged
of and ascertained by the assessors hereinafter described.

jEt. 40.] CORRESPONDENCE. 257

The amount of the foregoing taxes in each State, to be ascer-
tained within a time to be limited by law for that purpose by the
assessors, and a report thereof to be made to the Treasury, which
shall then proceed to apportion, according to the prescribed quota,
the sum remaining to make up the million of dollars to be
levied.

For example, suppose there were five States, and the product
of the house-tax of each as follows :

A.

$100,000.

B.

150,000.

C.

200,000.

D.

50,000.

E.

100.000.

$600,000.
There would then remain towards the million to be levied on
lands $400,000. Let there be then assigned to each State so
much in land-tax as together with its house-tax will equal the *

Remarks. — The mode of ascertaining to be by an actual calling
at each house, and receiving of the occupiers a list of the par-
ticulars which are criterions of the tax; the officer to have power
to administer an oath.

A proper penalty to be annexed to misrepresentation, and a
power to be given upon cause of suspicion testified on oath, to
issue a warrant to inspect the house for ascertaining the fact.
This will reconcile the idea of the sanctity oi the castle with the
security of the revenue.

* The paper is incomplete.
F 17

258 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 40.

WILLIAMS TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, 7tli June, 1797.

Sir:

We shall be this day engaged on the subject of regulating the
arming of merchantmen. A difficulty ariseth with me respect-
ing the construction of our treaty with France. Our vessels will
claim a right as the treaty with France expresseth. The French
will exact the decree of 2d March last. Hence, both will be au-
thorized by their respective nations, and which will be diametri-
cally opposite each other.

Again, Victor Hugo has declared all American vessels taken
armed shall be treated as pirates.

Thus, while on the one hand our commerce suffers, and on
the other it is susceptible of commencing a misunderstanding
which will probably lead to a war — which ought to be avoided —
no talk of embargo — only giving the Executive the power in case
of emergency.

We shall direct the completion of fortifications, but believe
will only order the frigates finished, and probably manned.

Do not believe we shall purchase vessels for war, or order
convoys.

As it (in my opinion) behoves us to act with caution, till we
learn the event of the negotiation, I am at present for pursuing
the same measures as in the year 1794.

Should the negotiation fail, and France not be satisfied with
being put on an equal footing with other nations — we shall be
unanimous in our opposition.

Any remarks on these subjects, or any other, will be thank-
fully received by your humble servant,

John Williams.

^t. 40.] CORRESPONDENCE. 259

HAMILTON TO WOLCOTT.

June 8, 179 .

Dear Sir:

I have received your two letters of the sixth and seventh.
The last announced to me no more than I feared. Nor do I
believe any sufficient external impulse can be given to save us
from disgrace. This, however, will be thought of.

I regret that you appear remote from the idea of a house tax
simply, without combining the land. I do not differ from your
general principle. The truth is, a solid one, that the sound state
of the political economy depends, in a great degree, on a general
repartition of taxes on taxable property, by some equal rule.
But it is very important to relax in theory, so as to accomplish
as much as may be practicable. I despair of a general land tax,
without actual war. I fear the idea of it ; it keeps men back
from the augmentation of revenue by other means which they
might be willing to adopt. The idea of a house tax alone, is not
so formidable. If placed upon a footing which would evince
practicability and moderation in the sum, I think it might suc-
ceed. Now one million of dollars, computing the number of
houses at six hundred thousand, would be an average of about a
dollar and a half. The tax would be very low on the worst
houses, and could not be high on the best. This idea would
smooth a great deal.

As to the circumstance of the habitations of the southern
negroes, I see no improbable difficulty in applying ratios to them,
which would tend to individual equity. As between the States,
the quota principle would make this point unimportant.

As to the inequality in certain States, I believe, on the plan
suggested, there could be no general tax which in fact would
operate more equally. The idea of equalization by embracing
lands, does not much engage my confidence. Besides that, this
may be an after-object, and we are to gain points successively.

As to the productiveness of the stamp tax, with the items I
suggest, it is difficult, in the first instance, to judge. But I am

260 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 40.

persuaded it would go far towards the point aimed at. There
cannot be much fewer than three millions of hats consumed in a
year in this country. At an average of eight cents per hat, this
would be two hundred and forty thousand dollars ; a large pro-
portion of the five hundred thousand dollars. If law proceedings
can be included, directly or indirectly, the produce will be very
considerable. I think you mistake when you say these taxes in
England are inconsiderable in proportion. According to my
recollection, the reverse is the truth.

Adieu.

KING TO HAMILTON.

London, June 27, 1797.

Dear Sir:

Lord Malmesbury will leave London in three or four days for
Lisle, where the conferences between this country and France are
to be held. Opinions fluctuate concerning the probability of
peace. A struggle evidently exists in France between the Direc-
tory and the Legislature ; in the latter of which bodies, it is
supposed, there is a sincere desire of peace.

Some late proceedings in the Legislature, or rather in the
Council of Five Hundred, give occasion to hope that our affairs
are in train to assume a more friendly appearance.

If, as many assert, the public opinion is friendly to America,
it will be employed by the Legislature against the Directory,
which at this moment is viewed as a rival power. We have just
received the President's speech ; it has arrived at a critical hour.
You will perceive by the newspapers that all Italy will be over-
turned. Venice is no more; and Genoa has been completely
revolutionized by citizen Faypoult, the minister of France.

Portugal sees, but seems unable to escape her fate.

Though these are days of wonder, still one dares not be-
lieve all we hear. The march already made by France has
astonished and confounded almost every beholder — and we are

JEt. 40.] CORRESPONDENCE. 261

told that she meditates and will attempt projects still more gigan-
tic than those she has executed — plans which will operate a
change in the whole face of Europe, and which extend to every
other quarter of the globe. Eussia may be able to preserve her
dominions from the fire that is passing over the neighboring
countries. This nation has lately renewed her commercial treaty
with Eussia, and by an arrangement of their mutual interests
may strengthen their common defence. It may be worth remark-
ing, that during this negotiation Eussia never even proposed the
project of the armed neutrality, so that the omission of the
requisite provisions on that subject may be considered as an
abandonment of the system by Eussia.

Eussia is to be treated in the British ports upon the same
footing as the most favored European nation. Farewell.

Yours, etc.

CHURCH TO HAMILTON".

July 13th, 1797.
Frauncis told me that Giles, Madison, and Findley, had fre-
quent meetings at his brother's house, and that they used a
variety of persuasions to prevail on him to accuse you of being
concerned with Eeynolds in speculation of certificates. I sup-
pose Munroe will be at Philadelphia to-morrow, and I think,
from what I observed yesterday, that he is inclined to be very
gentle, and that he is much embarrassed how to get out of the
scrape in which he has involved himself.

John Barker Church.

262 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 40.

KING TO HAMILTON.

Londok, August Gth, 1797.

Dear Sir:

No satisfactory opinion can yet be formed concerning the
termination of the negotiations for peace. Even those who are
supposed to have the best information are without confidence.
On the one hand, peace may be concluded sooner than any one
thinks probable ; on the other, the negotiations at Lisle and at
Montebello, may be suddenly broken off, and France again en-
gaged with Austria, as well as England. A great struggle, in
which all Europe think themselves interested, exists between
the two Councils and a majority of the Directory, for it is well
understood that almost every question is decided in this latter
body by three against two. If the Councils prevail, peace is
believed to be more probable ; if the war continues, Denmark
and the neighboring free cities, Portugal, perhaps Switzerland,
and even Greece, as well as the whole of Italy, will be revolu-
tionized. I wish I could write to you with the same freedom
as we could converse. How far the new order of things is to
extend, which are still to be overturned, and who are to be
spared, is a subject concerning which we may amuse ourselves
with conjectures. It would be a consolation could we any
where discover a mind of adequate foresight and authority, to
influence, combine, and apply to their proper and legitimate
uses, the disposition and the means which unquestionably exist
to resist and baffle the monstrous force which overturns, and will
continue to lay waste every country against which it bends its
energies. Paradoxical as it may appear, the people are less
wrong than their governments, which, every where, seem to be
destitute of both wisdom and courage. I cannot except even
the government of this country, which possessing the command
of the resources of the richest nation in Europe, with a clear and
distinct view of the total insecurity of any compromise with
their enemy, still dismounts and lowers the national spirit and
courage by fruitless and repeated efforts to restore peace. Men

iEx.40.] CORRESPONDENCE. 263

are mortal, and by a law to which they are subject can exist but
for a limited time. Societies are exempt from this law, and
there is nothing in their nature that limits their improvement, in
duration ; still the analogy is but too strict, and we seem to be
doomed to witness, if not to suffer, in the dissolution of the pre-
sent social organization.

Farewell. When I am able to give you a gayer prospect I
will write you again.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Mount Vernon, August 21st, 1797.

My Dear Sir:

Not for any intrinsic value the thing possesses, but as a token
of my sincere regard and friendship for you, and as a remem-
brance of me, I pray you to accept a wine cooler for four bot-
tles, which Colonel Biddle is directed to forward from Philadel-
phia, (where with other articles it was left,) together with this
letter to your address. It is one of four which I imported in the
early part of my late administration of the government; two
only of which were ever used.

I pray you to present my best wishes, in which Mrs. Wash-
ington joins me, to Mrs. Hamilton and the family; and that you
would be persuaded, that with every sentiment of the highest
regard,

I remain your sincere friend,

And affectionate humble servant,

Geo. Washington.

264 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 40.

HAMILTON TO PICKERING.

August 27, 1797.

Deae Sir :

Some time since I received the inclosed, being directions con-
cerning measures requisite to be pursued to obtain indemnifica-
tion in cases of capture by British cruisers. I laid it by in haste,
and have since overlooked it. I do not recollect to have seen it
in the newspapers, and yet it appeared to me necessary that it
should be so. As it came to me from some one of our public
characters in London, I presume you must have received the
equivalent. I am curious to know if this has been the case, and
if any thing has been done upon it.

After perusal, and making such use as you

may think proper, you will oblige me by returning it.

Yours truly, &c.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

New-York, August 28, 1797.

My Dear Sir :

The receipt two days since of your letter of the 21st inst.,
gave me sincere pleasure. The token of your .regard which it
announces, is very precious to me, and will always be remem-
bered as it ought to be.

Mrs. Hamilton has lately added another boy to our stock ;
she and the child are both well. She desires to be affectionately
remembered to Mrs. Washington and yourself.

We have nothing new here more than our papers contain,
but are anxiously looking forward to a further development of
the negotiations in Europe, with an ardent desire for general
accommodation. It is at the same time agreeable to observe,
that the public mind is adopting, more and more, sentiments
truly American, and free from foreign tincture.

Mt. 40.] CORRESPONDENCE. 265

I beg my best respects to Mrs. Washington, and that you
will always be assured of the most respectful and affectionate
attachment of, dear Sir, &c.

KING TO HAMILTON".

London, September 9th, 1797.

Dear Sir:

We have this day accounts from Paris, which, though very
important and interesting, are not unexpected. The breach
between the Councils and the Directory has for some time de-
stroyed all prospect of a reconciliation between them ; and either
an organized oivil war, in consequence of the different sides
adopted by the several armies, or a measure like that which has
happened, had become inevitable. The march of a considerable
division of the army into the interior, the removals of generals
in whom they did not confide, the various messages in the style
of manifestoes addressed to the Councils, and the sending for
General Jourdan, who commanded the army of the Ehine, to
Paris, and putting his army in the interim of his absence under
Hoche, are now explained.

Augereau, who had been called from Italy for the purpose,
upon the alarm-cannon being fired on the morning of the 4th
instant, marched his troops, and surrounded, without opposition,
the place of sitting of the Council of 500. He then proceeded to
arrest Pichegru, and a considerable number of the other most
influential members of that Council, on the charge of a royalist
conspiracy ; having for its object the massacre of three of the
Directory, to make way for successors who would place Louis
XVIII. on the throne of France. Carnot, say the same advices,
has fled ; and Barthelemy, say others, is also arrested. I do not
give you this account as authentic, though I have little doubt
that it is so, as far, at least, as it states an attack of the Directory
upon the Council of 500.

266 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 40.

If the consequence of this proceeding was confined to France,
it would be less the subject of regret, though all must deplore
the sanguinary scenes so frequently there exhibited ; but in
reference to the pending negotiations and the return of peace,
this transaction is very important. The two Councils, who, in
this respect, are supposed to have faithfully represented their
constituents, desired peace with sincerity ; the Directory most
certainly differed from them in their inclinations on this subject.
If the Directory overwhelm the Councils, the war must, and
will continue. But how will the armies — how will the nations
conduct on this occasion ? I fear there is little consolation to
the friends of humanity from the doubt, which for a moment
exists on these points — the nations are nothing, the armies are
most probably secured, and the Directory will triumph. Adieu.

Yours, &c.

P. S. If I do not forget names, a majority of the committee to
whom Pastoret's speech on our affairs was referred, are among
the members now arrested. You will readily see how mis-
chievous to us this success of the Directory may and probably
will be.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Mount Vernon, 8th October, 1797.

My Dear Sir :

The ardent desire which Mr. La Fayette feels to embrace his
parents and sisters in the first moments of their liberation, in-
duces him to set out for New- York, or further eastward, in search
of a passage to France.

It was my opinion, that he had better have awaited authentic
accounts of this event ; but his eagerness to see his friends — the
fear of a winter passage, and a conviction that he is under no
predicament that would render his reception in France at all

JEt. 41.] CORRESPONDENCE. 267

embarrassing to him, even if he should be disappointed in meet-
ing his friends there, has prevailed.

I am sure it is unnecessary that I should recommend him and
Mr. Frestel to your civilities, while they may be detained in
New-York, or to your aid in procuring them a passage to
France ; but I will request, if circumstances should call for
greater pecuniary means than they possess, that you would be so
good as to furnish them, and draw upon me for the amount, and
it shall be paid at sight.

Present Mrs. Washington and myself in the most affectionate
manner to Mrs. Hamilton, and be assured always of the very
high esteem and regard with which I am yours,

George Washington.

HAMILTON TO MHENRY.

February 13, 1798.

My Dear Sir:

Yours of yesterday, with its inclosure, are come to hand, and
will be attended to as speedily as possible.

I take the liberty to trouble you with the inclosed to receive
the amount (which, though the accumulated interest on all my
stock from the beginning of the funding system, will be short
of 200 dollars). When received pay yourself one hundred ; our
friend Lewis, seven ; and deliver the rest to Wolcott, who has
lately been paying for some books for me.

This idea draws my attention to this little object, as the sum
is not worth retaining, it has induced me to make sale of the prin-
cipal to Le Eoy Bayard and McEvers. While at the notary's, and
not having previously consulted them, I put your name in the
power to transfer the stock. This power they will send you.
Pray, comply with it, and excuse the almost indecorum on my
part.

Yours truly, &c.

268 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 41.

SMITH TO HAMILTON.

February 14, 1798.

Sir:

The New- York Society for promoting the Manumission of
Slaves, at their stated meeting in January last, directed the refer-
ence of the two following articles (of a report then made to them
by their committee on the circular address of the last conven-
tion) to the counsellors of the society.

" Article 1st. To transmit copies to the ensuing convention,
of any laws relative to slaves, which may be enacted by the legis-
lature of this State, previous to the session of the said convention,
and since the convention of 1797."

Article 5th (of the report). " To give information to the
convention of the exertions, and of their issue, which have been
made by this society, to obtain a repeal or amelioration of the
laws relative to slaves."

The report represents these as duties to be fulfilled by the
society ; which they have accordingly determined to execute,
and for this purpose have ordered this reference to their coun-
sellors, who are further directed " to prepare their report
thereon, with all convenient dispatch ; and, when prepared, to
deliver it over to such persons as may hereafter be chosen to
represent the society in the convention, to be held in June,
1798."

The other members of the counsel of the society, of which
you are first named, are Peter Jay Munro, William Johnson, and
Martin S. Wilkins, Esquires.

I am respectfully yours,

E. H. Smith, Secretary.

jEt.41.] correspondence. 269

HAMILTON TO KING.

[Probably March, 1798.]
It is a great while, my dear friend, since I have written to
you a line. You will not, I am sure, impute my silence to any
cause impeaching my friendship, for that must be always cordial
and entire. The truth is, that my professional avocations occupy
me to the extent of the exertions my health permit, and I have
been unwilling to sit down to write you without leisure to say
something interesting. But I now depart from the rule, that my
persevering silence may not make me sin beyond redemption. I
have, however, only time to tell you that your friends are gener-
ally well, and as much attached to you as ever ; and that I hear
of no cabals against you.

Being just returned from Albany, I would say nothing about
the political juncture as it is affected by the unpleasant advices
from our commissioners in France. I will only say, that the
public mind is much sounder than that of our representatives in
the national council, and that there is no danger of our entirely
disgracing ourselves — that is, by any unworthy compliances with
the exorbitant pretensions of " The Great Monster."*

Yours affectionately, &c.

HAMILTON TO PICKERING.

New-York, March 17th, 1798.

Dear Sir:

I make no apology for offering you my opinion on the present
state of our affairs.

I look upon the question before the public as nothing less
than whether we shall maintain our independence; and I am

* Soi-disaat, " The Great Nation."

270 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 41.

prepared to do it in every event, and at every hazard. I am
therefore of opinion, that our Executive should come forth on
this basis.

I wish to see a temperate, but grave, solemn, and firm commu-
nication from the President to the two Houses on the result of
the advices from our commissioners ; this communication to re-
view summarily the course of our affairs with France from the
beginning to the present moment ; to advert to her conduct
towards the neutral powers generally, dwelling emphatically on
the last decree respecting vessels carrying British manufactures,
as an unequivocal act of hostility against all of them ; to allude
to the dangerous and vast projects of the French government;
to consider her refusal to receive our ministers as a virtual denial
of our independence, and as evidence that, if circumstances favor
the plan, we shall be called to defend that independence, our
political institutions, and our liberty, against her enterprises ; to
conclude, that leaving still the door to accommodation open, and
not proceeding to final rupture, our duty, our honor, and safety,
require that we shall take vigorous and comprehensive measures
of defence, adequate to the immediate protection of our commerce,
to the security of our ports, and to our eventual defence in case of
invasion, and with a view to these great objects, calling forth and
organizing all the resources of the country. I would, at the same
time, have the President to recommend a day of fasting, humilia-
tion, and prayer. The occasion renders it proper, and religious
ideas will be useful. I have this last measure at heart.

The measures to be advocated by our friends in Congress to
be these :

I. Permission to our merchant vessels to arm and to capture
those which may attack them.

II. The completion of our frigates, and the provision of a con-
siderable number of sloops-of-war not exceeding twenty guns.
Authority to capture all attacking, and privateers found within
twenty leagues of our coast.

III. Power to the President, in general terms, to provide
and equip ten ships of the line in case of open rupture with any
foreign power.

jEt.4L] correspondence. 271

IY. The increase of our military establishment to twenty
thousand, and a provisional army of thirty thousand, besides the
militia.

Y. The efficacious fortification of our principal ports, say,
Portsmouth, Boston, Newport, New London, New- York, Phila-
delphia, Norfolk, Baltimore, Wilmington, N. C, Charleston, Sa-
vannah. It is waste of money to be more diffusive.

VI. The extension of our revenue to all the principal objects
of taxation, and a loan commensurate with the contemplated ex-
penditures.

VII. The suspension of our treaties with France till a basis of
connection shall be re-established by treaty.

In my opinion, bold language and bold measures are indis-
pensable. The attitude of calm defiance suits us. It is vain to
talk of peace with a power with which we are actually in hos-
tility. The election is between a tame surrender of our rights or
a state of mitigated hostility. Neither do I think that this state
will lead to general rupture, if France is unsuccessful ; and if
successful, there is no doubt in my mind, that she will endeavor
to impose her yoke upon us.

Yours, with true esteem,

A. Hamilton.

P. S. If Eobert Troup resigns his office of district judge,
the President cannot make a better choice than of Samuel
Jones, Esq., the present Comptroller of the State. I understand
he will accept.

HAMILTON TO PICKERING.

[Post-marked March 23, 1798.]

My Dear Sir:

I understand that the Senate have called upon the President
for papers. Nothing certainly can be more proper ; and such is

272 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [>Et. 41.

the universal opinion here ; and it appears to me essential that so
much as possibly can, be communicated. Confidence will other-
wise be wanting, and criticism will ensue which it will be diffi-
cult to repel. The observation is, that Congress are called upon
to discharge the most important of all their functions, and that it
is too much to expect that they will rely on the influence of the
Executive from materials which may be put before them. The
recent examples of the British King are cited. Pray let all that
is possible be done.

Yours truly, &c.

PICKERING TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, March 25th, 1798.

Dear Sir:

The inclosed I wrote last evening for your information. This
morning I received your open letter of the 23d. As soon as a
vessel shall be dispatched for France with letters of recall to our
envoys, I presume the President will communicate their letters
to Congress, whether demanded or not. If the envoys, or any of
them, should be found in France (of which there is a bare possi-
bility), they are to demand their passports and return, unless
they shall have concluded a treaty, or are actually in treaty with
persons vested with equal powers, and that the treaty proceeds
with candor on the part of the French government.

This vessel will probably sail the ensuing Thursday.

What shall we say to the British government? You hint at
nothing. The opposition party have often insinuted that a treaty,
offensive and defensive, has doubtless been already concluded
with Great Britain. A friend of mine yesterday told me that he
was asked if such a treaty had not arrived. The truth is, that
not one syllable has been written to Mr. King, or any one else
upon the subject. I confess it to have been for some time my
opinion, that provisional orders should be sent to Mr. King. Mr.

jEt.4L] correspondence. 273

King, in one of his latest letters, desires to be particularly in-
structed. The dispatch boat may be directed to go from France
to England with such instructions (which will be in cypher), or
may go directly to Falmouth, and there may ascertain whether
our envoys are or are not in France. Your ideas communicated
to me on this subject, and on the facts stated in the inclosed,
will be highly acceptable to me. I wish to receive them on
Wednesday.

Very truly and respectfully yours, &c.

PICKERING TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, March 25th, 1798.

Dear Sir:

I duly received your' letter of the 17th. No apology will be
necessary for a communication of your opinion at any time, and
at the present crisis your opinion is particularly acceptable.

Prior to the receipt of your letter, the President had deter-
mined to recommend the observance of a general fast, and had
desired one or both the chaplains of Congress to prepare the
draft of a proclamation. This has since been issued.

The idea of a solemn and firm communication from the Presi-
dent to the two Houses of Congress on the state of our affairs
with France, had occurred to me, with this addition, that it
might be more impressive if delivered personally by the Presi-
dent himself from the speaker's chair, as at the opening of a ses-
sion ; that this speech should comprehend as brief a statement of
our relations to France as would consist with an adequate repre-
sentation of our good faith, and of her perfidy and hostile acts from
the commencement of the French Eevolution to the present mo-
ment. This paper should be prepared by me. I wish I were
able to do full justice to the subject. A proper time to deliver
this communication would be when the letters from our envoys
should be laid before Congress ; for a motion has been made in
p 18

274 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEr. 41.

the Senate for that purpose, and it is expected a like motion will
be made in the House ; but, independently of these motions, it is
really desirable that not Congress only, but the people at large,
should know the conduct of the French government towards our
envoys, and the abominable corruption of that government, to-
gether with their enormous demands for money. These are so
monstrous as to shock every reasonable man when he shall know
them. It was pretended that the Directory was rashly exasper-
ated against the American government for some expressions in
the President's speech to Congress on the 16th of May last, and
that those expressions, or their application to the government of
France, must be disavowed. This, however, was a bold pretence,
only as the means of extorting money. Yes ; for after it had
been said, that the Directory, for its own honor and the honor of the
Republic, would insist on this reparation, our envoys were plainly
told that there was a practicable substitute, more valuable than
both. They asked what? Money! money! was the answer.
This reparation, when it should be made, was only paving the
way for new, and, I may say, unlimited demands for more money,
— a sum equal to all the spoliations of the French on our com-
merce. To enable the Republic to pay our merchants ? No ! for
the present use of the Eepublic. Then a mode might be agreed
on for the liquidation of the merchant claims, to be compensated
at some future period; and in the mean time, until the treaty
should be concluded (which that government might procrastinate
indefinitely), their depredations were not to be restrained. Be-
sides this, we must purchase promptly thirty-two millions of
Dutch inscriptions (12,800,000 dollars) at par, and rely on the
existence and ability of the Batavian Republic to redeem them.
The sum of all was, in the words of the agent, " II faut de l'argent,
il faut beaucoup d' argent ;" and, without this, our envoys were
explicitly told by the secret but unofficial agents, that, if they
remained in Paris six months longer, they would not advance
one step.

You will be aware that I communicate these important facts
to you in perfect confidence, for as you interest yourself so deeply in
public affairs, and are so obliging as to communicate your opinions,

jEt. 41.] CORRESPONDENCE. 275

I thought you should be possessed of facts. I communicate them
of myself without the privity of any one.

Yet after all these inadmissible demands, and the peremptory
declaration with which I closed the above detail, the envoys
meant to make one more formal application by letter to Talley-
rand on the 10th of January, two days after their last letter to me,
which you have seen was communicated to Congress, and in which
they say "there existed no hope of their being officially received
or in any way accomplishing the object of their mission." These
objects they meant to state, and discuss, as if they had been
formally received. There is but one solution of this measure of
the envoys, and of their long suffering patience in their mortify-
ing situation : to convince all their countrymen that it was not
possible to adjust our differences with the present government of
France. "We do not know the result of this intended application,
nor whether the envoys have left France ; and it is these uncer-
tainties which prevented the President's displaying this scene of
insults, extortion, ambition, and iniquity, by communicating the
envoys' letters before Congress and the country.

I must assure you further, that Portugal purchased her peace,
that the very money paid by her in hand enabled the triumvirs,
in the Directory, to march troops and effect the Ee volution of
September 4th ; and yet, the day after they received their in-
telligence of the peace finally concluded with the Emperor, these
same villains declared the Portuguese treaty void. Doubtless,
they now demand more money to renew it than Portugal can
conveniently muster, and probably nothing would satisfy the
monsters short of the riches of Lisbon and the pillage of the
churches, and the subversion of the kingdom. Then will come
the turn of Spain, of whom they have demanded the cession of
Louisiana, and pressed their demand until the Prince of Peace
knows not how any longer to resist it ; and in order to plunder
Spain and subvert the monarchy — unprincipled men will not
want pretences — perhaps this will be sufficient — that Spain has
not contributed as she ought to the common warfare as an ally
bound by a league offensive as well as defensive.

What ought we to do in respect to Louisiana? A letter

276 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 41.

this day received from Colonel Humphreys, dated at Madrid the
4th of January, renders it probable that the information we have
had from New Orleans is true, that Gayoso has received order to
evacuate the posts. His information (Colonel Humphreys's),
was from a man employed in a public office conversant in
American affairs, and Colonel Humphreys considered it almost
certain. Perhaps these orders may have resulted from Spain's
seeing or fearing the necessity of ceding Louisiana to France,
and hence concluding that she might as well do a grateful thing
to us before the surrender. Louisiana is easy to be defended
by a force commanding the Mississippi at its mouth, another at
the English turn (half way between New Orleans and the mouth
of the river), and at the entrance from the sea into the lake
Pontchartrain. The Spanish force in all Louisiana is small,
probably not rising to a thousand men, from the Balize to the
Missouri. The deepest channel of the three mouths of the
Mississippi does not exceed fifteen feet of water, and it requires
a pretty strong breeze to advance against the current.

I have one more important fact to mention. That since Lord
Malmesbury's negotiation was broken off by the French, that gov-
ernment has offered more advantageous terms to the British
administration than Lord Malmesbury demanded, on the single
condition of a douceur of one million sterling ^ to be divided
among the Directory and the ministers. Talleyrand's share was
to be one hundred thousand pounds sterling for his department.
I might have mentioned that these miscreants had the modesty
to ask of our envoys a douceur of but fifty thousand pounds
sterling. Merlin was to have no part of the fifty thousand, be-
cause the privateersmen had paid him liberally for his opinions
against our vessels and those of other neutrals. This reminds
me of another very important omission in my preceding details.
In regard to the adjustment of our claims for spoliations, all the
vessels condemned for want of the role d'equipage were not to
be brought into view. Their condemnations were to be admit-
ted as irrevocable, because Merlin had written a treatise to jus-
tify their condemnation. Were there ever such devils out of
pandemonium? There was afterwards some relaxation on

JEt. 41.] CORRESPONDENCE. 277

this point. Claims might be made for such vessels, and if Citizen
Merlin could be convinced they were just, why then they might
be considered.

Of the measures you recommend.

1st. Permission to arm merchant vessels is given by the Pre-
sident's withdrawing his restrictions ; but there should be a
law to regulate them. The opposition are very angry with the
President's act on this point.

2d. The frigates are to be completed ; but the providing of a
number of sloops of war will be vehemently opposed.

3d. To authorize the President to provide ten ships of the
line would be still more opposed. I have supposed they might
easily be obtained of Great Britain, and that even for the bare
act of victualing such a fleet by us, the British would keep one
on our coast; and perhaps subject them to our orders, the Bri-
tish minister concurring, but to command them fully, they must
be our own.

4th. There would be equal opposition to increase of our
military establishment.

5th. There would perhaps be little opposition to a better,
perhaps to a formidable fortifying of our principal forts. Where
are the engineers? The Frenchmen in general employed in
1794, only wasted our money. Almost any artillery officer of
our revolutionary army would probably do better. Colonel
Vincent's plans at New- York are probably a fortunate exception.

6th. The revenue will not be extended but on the adoption
of the defensive measures, that will make additional revenues
indispensable.

7th. Instead of a suspension, I have for some time thought
we should declare the annihilation of all our treaties with France.
The repeated infractions of them on her part would justify us
in making void the whole.

A disclosure of our actual situation with France by commu-
nicating the envoys' letters, would, I presume, detach so many
of the adherents to opposition leaders, as to enable the real
friends to their country to take promptly all the requisite mea-
sures. On these details favor me with your opinions.

Truly and respectfully yours, &c.

278 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mi. 41.

HAMILTON TO PICKERING.

10 o'clock, Tuesday, March 27, 1798.

My Dear Sir:

I have this moment received your two favors of the 25th. I
am delighted with their contents ; but it is impossible for me to
reply particularly to them so as to reach you to-morrow, as you
desire. I will, therefore, confine myself to one point. I am
against going immediately into alliance with Great Britain. It
is my opinion that her interests will insure us her cooperation
to the extent of her power, and that a treaty will not secure her
further. On the other hand, a treaty might entangle us. Public
opinion is not prepared for it. It would not fail to be repre-
sented as to the point to which our previous conduct was directed;
and, in case of offers from France, satisfactory to us, the public
faith might be embarrassed by the calls of the people for accom-
modation and peace.

The desideratum is, that Britain could be engaged to lodge
with her minister here, powers commensurate with such arrange-
ments as exigencies may require, and the progress of opinion
permit. I see no good objection on her part to this plan.

It would be good policy in her to send to this country a
dozen frigates, to pursue the directions of this government.

If Spain would cede Louisiana to the United States, I would
accept it absolutely, if obtainable absolutely ; or with an engage-
ment to restore, if it cannot be obtained absolutely. I shall write

again to-morrow.

Yours truly, &c.

WOLCOTT TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, April 5th, 1798.

The papers relative to the negotiation which has been at-
tempted with France have been laid before Congress. Many in

Mr. 41.] CORRESPONDENCE. 279

both Houses, I believe, find that the gratification of their curi-
osity has made them responsible for the management of a pretty
difficult subject. The disclosure was, I suppose, necessary,
though I regret the necessity. The dose will kill or cure, and I
wish I was not uncertain which ; not that I doubt the expedi-
ency of what the government has done or attempted, but because
I believe faction and Jacobinism to be the natural and immortal
enemies of our system. It is some satisfaction, however, to
know that the instructions and the conduct of the President
generally in this affair, have extorted the reluctant approbation
of our most inveterate opposers. A few days will determine
whether our Legislature can act with that decision and energy
which the crisis demands. Nothing further by way of impres-
sion can be done, except recourse is had to the desperate and
doubtful remedy of a popular appeal.

The revenue does not decline so much as I expected ; but
the management of the Treasury becomes more and more diffi-
cult. The Legislature will not pass laws in gross. Their appro-
priations are minute. Gallatin, to whom they yield, is evidently
intending to break down this department, by charging it with an
impracticable detail.

PICKERING TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, April 9, 1798.

Dear Sir:

This morning the dispatches from our envoys are published,
and I inclose a copy.

In your letter of March 27th, in answer to mine of the 25th,
just then received, you say, " I shall write again to-morrow." I
have received no letter from you since that of the 27th, which I
mention on the presumption that you may have written, and be-
cause, if you have, it is important on every account that it should
be known.

280 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 41.

You will readily imagine what apologies our internal enemies
make for the French government. Jefferson says that the Di-
rectory are not implicated in the villany and corruption displayed
in these dispatches, or, at least, that these offer no proof against
them. Bache's paper of last Saturday says, " that M. Talleyrand
is notoriously anti-republican, that he was the intimate friend of
Mr. Hamilton, Mr. King, and other great federalists, and that it
is probably owing to the determined hostility which he discov-
ered in them towards France, that the government of that
country consider us only as objects of plunder."

I am very truly yours, &c.

JAY TO HAMILTON.

Albany, 19th April, 1796.

Dear Sir :

I have this instant received a letter dated the 14th instant,
from Judge Hobart, resigning his seat in the Senate of the United
States ; and as our Legislature is not now in session, it hath be-
come my duty to appoint a Senator to succeed him, and take
his place, until the next meeting of the Legislature.

The present delicate state of our public affairs, and the evi-
dent expediency of filling this vacancy without delay, induce
me, without requesting your permission and waiting for your
answer to determine, to send you a commission to fill that place
by the next post.

I can say nothing that will not occur to you. Adieu.

Yours sincerely,

John Jay.

&t. 41.] CORRESPONDENCE. 281

JAY TO HAMILTON.

Albany, 19th April, 1798.

Dear Sir:

I wrote a few lines this morning, informing you that Judge
Hobart had resigned his seat in the Senate, and that by the next
post I should send you a commission to fill his place. On further
reflection, I doubt the propriety of appointing you without your
previous permission, and therefore shall postpone it until I re-
ceive your answer.

If, after well considering the subject, you should decline an
appointment, be so good as to consult with some of our most
judicious friends, and advise me as to the person most proper to
appoint, and at the same time likely to accept.

Yours sincerely.

HAMILTON TO JAY.

New-York, April 24, 1798.

Dear Sir :

I have received your two favors of the 19th instant. I feel
as I ought the mark of confidence they announce. But I am
obliged by my situation to decline the appointment. This situa-
tion you are too well acquainted with to render it necessary for
me to enter into explanation. There may arrive a crisis when I
may conceive myself bound once more to sacrifice the interests
of my family to public call. But I must defer the change as
long as possible.

I do not at present think of a person to recommend adapted
to the emergency. I shall reflect, and consult, and write you by
the next post. This, the first day, is not decisive of our election
here, but there is as yet nothing to discourage.
"With respect and attachment,

I remain, dear Sir, &c.

Governor Jay.

282 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 41.

ROBERT G. HARPER TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, April 27, 1798.

My Dear Sir:

Could any thing prevail on you to take trie War Department ?
Reflect on the importance of the station at this moment. Consi-
der how much more important a war minister is than a general,
and how much more difficult to be found.

We shall have an army of twenty thousand men, with the
power to receive voluntary enlistments ad libitum in addition to
it — the volunteers to be armed and clothed at their own expense.
This, under proper direction, will give us the flower of the coun-
try ; and put arms into the hands of all our friends. But every
thing will depend on the name of the general and the talents of
the minister.

I write this without any authority, but I have good reason to
believe from late conversations with the President, that if he
were to understand your willingness to come forward, the ar-
rangement would immediately take place. In that case Mr.
McHenry would give way, and there is no difference of opinion
among the federal party on the absolute necessity of his doing so.

General Pinckney and Carrington, of Virginia, have been
thought of among our friends, if you cannot be got : but the
first is absent, and the second wants the weight of character re-
quisite at this time. Besides, he may be more fit for the marine,
where also will be wanted a man of authority and detail.

MCHENRY TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, 12th May, 1798.

My Dear Hamilton :

I shall in a short time be able to get to sea one or two of our
frigates, and perhaps, in less than six or seven days, Capt. Dale,

jEt. 41.] CORRESPONDENCE. 283

in the Ganges, a lately purchased vessel. Can you spare an
hour or two to help me to the instructions that it will be pro-
per to give to their Captains. Our ships of war, it is probable,
will meet with French privateers, who may be in possession of
our merchantmen, or with our merchant vessels having French
prize-masters on board ; or, with French privateers cruising upon
our coast to capture American vessels. They may also, when
acting as convoys, be obliged to employ force to protect their
convoys, and may even be obliged to board a French ship of war
to terminate a contest, and insure its safety. What instructions
ouo-ht to be given to meet such cases, or enable them to afford
competent protection to our merchantmen, and preserve the Ex-
ecutive from any future accusation of having, by its orders, in-
volved the country in war ? I foresee these instructions will fall
to my lot, there being no chance that we shall have a Secretary
of the Navy in time to frame them, or release me from the re-
sponsibility. Neither the President has mentioned the subject
yet to me, or any other gentleman. You will easily conceive
how necessary it is I should be assisted with your ideas, and a
sketch of such instructions, as in your opinion, will comport with
the existing state of things and profound reserve of Congress.
Yours sincerely and affectionately.

KING TO HAMILTON.

London, May 12th, 1798.

Dear Sir:

It will not surprise you to hear that an open schism, accom-
panied by mutual reproaches, took place between our envoys be-
fore they separated. Mr. Gerry remains at Paris, and there is a
strong opinion that great pains will be taken to persuade him to
consent to a public reception, in order to deceive and mock his
country with overtures of an insidious negotiation. Marshall
and Pinckney left Paris about the middle of April. The former.

284 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 41.

I liope, is on his passage to Philadelphia ; the latter will embark
early in June.

You will be at no loss to understand this state of things.
Nothing but vigor and energy will save our country. Unanimi-
ty cannot be expected. Moderation and forbearance, with all the
virtues that meekly follow in their train, have been faithfully em-
ployed, and without success. It is now time, and the wretched
picture exhibited by the countries where France has introduced
her detestable principles, should admonish us to give up half-way
measures with half-way men. They do not belong to the times
in which we live. The people of America will support their
government, if that government acts with decision ; if it appeals
to the pride, the patriotism, and the honor of the nation ! But
if it temporizes, if it wastes itself in words, if it stops short of
the only course that remains for its adoption, consistently with
the public safety, the next election will convulse the country,
and may, as the directory intend, and expect it shall, give the
government to those who will deliver us up to the same ruin that
continues to desolate Europe. There is a slight appearance that
things are mending upon the continent ; but little interests, little
jealousies, and little men, whose united influence is opposed to
the only effectual remedy for the mischief, forbid us to expect it
until the evil has spread still wider ; for so wretched are the gov-
vernments on the continent, not yet subverted, that the best hope
is from the people, who are cured when the fire has passed over
them.

I received a short letter from you a few days since without
date, which gave me great satisfaction, as it authorized the hopes
that the public opinion was sounder than that of its represent-
atives. War will increase the public taxes. These are unpleasant
subjects for meditation; the passions must be attended to, they
must have an object — there is a great one. I can't explain my-
self. I have had no occasion for reserve with the Secretary of
State, because I write to him in cipher.

jEt. 41.] CORRESPONDENCE. 285

HAMILTON TO MCHENRY.

May 17th, 1798.

My Dear Sir :

I have received your letter of instant. Not having

seen the law which provides the naval armament, I cannot tell
whether it gives any new power to the President, that is, any
power whatever with regard to the employment of the ships. If
not, and he is left at the foot of the constitution, as I understand
to be the case, -I am not ready to say that he has any other power
than merely to employ the ships as convoys, with authority to
repel force by force, (but not to capture,) and to repress hostilities
within our waters, including a marine league from our coasts.

Any thing beyond this must fall under the idea of reprisals,
and requires the sanction of that department which is to declare
or make war.

In so delicate a case, in one which involves so important a
consequence as that of war, my opinion is, that no doubtful
authority ought to be exercised by the President ; but, that as
different opinions about his power have been expressed in the
House of Representatives, and no special power has been given
by the law, it will be expedient for him, and his duty, and the
true policy of the conjuncture, to come forward by a message to
the two Houses of Congress, declaring that "so far and no far-
ther''1 he feels himself confident of his authority to go in the em-
ployment of the naval force ; that, as, in his opinion, the depre-
dations on our trade demand a more extensive protection, he has
thought it his duty to bring the subject under the review of Con-
gress by a communication of his opinion of his own powers, hav-
ing no desire to exceed the constitutional limits.

This course will remove all clouds as to what the President
will do, will gain him credit for frankness and an unwillingness
to chicane the constitution, and will return upon Congress the
question in a shape which cannot be eluded.

I presume you will have heard before this reaches you, that
a French privateer has made captures at the mouth of our harbor.
This is too much humiliation after all that has passed.

286 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 41.

Our merchants are very indignant; our government very
prostrate in the view of every man of energy.

TRACY TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, May 17th, 1798.

Sir:

Our envoys continuing so long in Paris is not only a morti-
fying circumstance, but will probably prevent any energy of
government, even in the Senate. A committee of the Senate to
take into consideration the subject was together this morning,
consisting of five members. I laid before them the following
bill, viz. :

" A Bill declaring the treaties between the United States and
the republic of France to be void, and more effectually to protect
the commerce and the coast of the United States."

Whereas, the government of the French republic has repeat-
edly violated the treaties subsisting between the United States
and the French nation ; and whereas, under the authority of the
said government, armed vessels belonging to the French republic
and citizens thereof have repeatedly captured the ships and prop-
erty of the citizens of the United States on the coasts thereof,
while engaged in commerce authorized by said treaties, and the
law of nations : Therefore, be it enacted,

That the treaties of alliance, and of amity and commerce, now
subsisting between the United States and the French nation,
which were agreed upon and signed at Paris on the 6th day of
February, 1798, by the authority of the United States and the
then king of France, and the stipulations contained therein, be,
and they are hereby declared to be void and of no effect ; and
the United States, and every citizen thereof, are hereby declared
to be released and discharged from all and singular the obliga-
tions and stipulations contained in said treaties, or either of them.
And be it further enacted, "That the President of the United

jEt.41.] correspondence. 287

States be, and he hereby is authorized to instruct the command-
ers of all armed vessels of the United States to take and bring
into port all armed vessels belonging to the republic of France,
or of any citizen thereof, which may be found within forty leagues
of any part of the coast of the United States ; and further, to in-
struct said commanders, who are employed to convoy any mer-
chant vessel or vessels of the United States, not to permit search
to be made on board of such vessel or vessels by officers or crews
of a French cruiser or armed vessel on any pretense whatever."

This bill, you will see, is a rough draft ; but the ideas were
too strong for our committee. We may, possibly, with immense
labor, drive through the Senate a bill authorizing instructions to
capture a cruiser that has unjustifiably taken one of our vessels
on our own coast — but the treaty must remain intangible until
our envoys are out of Paris. I never permit myself to despair
of the commonwealth ; but I am sometimes exhausted and dis-
couraged, and think the United States must succumb under the
intrigues of the Great Nation. Our best men are so timid, and
our worst so active and profligate, that nothing is done but with
excessive fatigue and industry. Confidence in one another is
lost — and among ourselves, I mean Federalists, there is a look
out to secure against possible events ; and protections from the
French, who may invade us, are now thought of; and qualifica-
tions for friendship from French clemency are now in calculation.

Pardon me, sir, for troubling you so long. I wish for your
assistance, and that of all good men, to excite our friends. Our
enemies I fear not, if our friends will be faithful to themselves.

Yours respectfully,

Uriah Tracy.

HAMILTON TO KING.

May, 1798.

My Dear Sir:

It is a great while since I received a line from you, nor in-
deed have I deserved one ; the vortex of business in which I

288 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [J3t. 41.

have been, having kept me from writing to yon. At this mo-
ment, I presume, you will not be sorry to know my opinion as
to the course of our public affairs.

In Congress a good spirit is gaining ground, and, though
measures march slowly, there is reason to expect that almost
every thing which the exigency requires will be done. The plan
is, present defence against depredations by sea, and preparations
for eventual danger by land. In the community, indignation
against the French government, and a firm resolution to support
our own, discover themselves daily by unequivocal symptoms.
The appearances are thus far highly consoling.

But, in this posture of things, how unfortunate is it that the
new instructions offered by Great Britain, which appear, accord-
ing to the reports of the day, to be giving rise to many abusive
captures of our vessels, are likely to produce a counter-current,
and to distract the public dissatisfaction between two powers,
who, it will be said, are equally disposed to plunder and oppress.
In vain will it be urged, that the British government cannot be
so absurd as at such a juncture to intend us injury. The effects
will be alone considered, and they will make the worst possible
impression. By what fatality has the British cabinet been led to
spring any new mine, by new regulations, at such a crisis of
affairs ? What can be gained to counteract the mischievous ten-
dency of abuses ? Why are weapons to be furnished to our
Jacobins ?

It seems, the captured vessels are carried to the Mole, where
there is a virtuous judge, of the name of Cambault, disposed to
give sanction to plunder in every shape. Events are not yet
sufficiently unfolded to enable us to judge of the extent of the
mischief, but nothing can be more unlucky than that the door
has been opened. The recency of the thing may prevent your
hearing any thing about it from the government by this oppor-
tunity.

Yours affectionately, &c.

P. S. It is said, privateers are fitting out at Antigua and
St. Kitts.

/Et. 41.] CORRESPONDENCE. 289

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

New- York, May 19, 1798.

My Dear Sir:

At the present dangerous crisis of public affairs, I make no
apology for troubling you with a political letter. Your impres-
sions of our situation, I am persuaded, are not different from
mine. There is certainly great probability that we may have to
enter into a very serious struggle with France ; and it is more
and more evident that the powerful faction which has for years
opposed the government, is determined to go every length with
France. I am sincere in declaring my full conviction, as the re-
sult of a long course of observation, that they are ready to new
model our constitution under the influence or coercion of France ;
to form with her a perpetual alliance, offensive and defensive, and
to give her a monopoly of our trade by peculiar and exclusive
privileges. This would be in substance, whatever it might be in
name, to make this country a province of France. Neither do I
doubt that her standard, displayed in this country, would be di-
rectly or indirectly seconded by them, in pursuance of the pro-
ject I have mentioned.

It is painful and alarming to remark, that the opposition fac-
tion assumes so much a geographical complexion. As yet, from
the south of Maryland nothing has been heard but accounts of
disapprobation of our government, and approbation of or apology
for France. This is a most portentous symptom, and demands
every human effort to change it.

In such a state of public affairs, it is impossible not to look
up to you, and to wish that your influence could in some proper
mode be brought into direct action. Among the ideas which
have passed through my mind for this purpose, I have asked my-
self whether it might not be expedient for you to make a circuit
through Virginia and North Carolina, under some pretence of
health, &c. This would call forth addresses, public dinners, &c,
which would give an opportunity of expressing sentiments in
answers, toasts, &c, which would throw the weight of your

F 19

290 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 41.

character into the scale of the government, and revive an enthu-
siasm for your person, that may be turned into the right channel.

I am aware that the step is delicate, and ought to be well
considered before it is taken. I have even not settled my own
opinion as to its propriety, but I have concluded to bring the
general idea under your view, confident that your judgment will
make a right choice ; and that you will take no step which is
not well calculated. The conjuncture, however, is extraor-
dinary, and now, or very soon, will demand extraordinary
measures.

You ought also to be aware, my dear sir, that in the event
of an open rupture with France, the public voice will again call
you to command the armies of your country ; and, though all
who are attached to you will, from attachment, as well as public
considerations, deplore an occasion which should once more tear
you from that repose to which you have so good a right, yet it
is the opinion of all those with whom I converse, that you will be
compelled to make the sacrifice. All your past labor may de-
mand to give it efficacy this further, — this very great sacrifice.
Adieu, my dear Sir,

Respectfully and affectionately, &c.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

M nt V ryon, 27 -h of May, 1798.

My Dear Sir :

Yesterday brought me your letter of the 19th instant.

You may rest assured that my mind is deeply impressed with
the present situation of our public affairs, and not a little agi-
tated by the outrageous conduct of France towards the United
States ; and at the inimical conduct of its partisans among our-
selves, who aid and abet their measures. You may believe fur-
ther, from assurances equally sincere, that if there was any thing
in my power which could be done with consistency to avert or

jEt. 41.] CORRESPONDENCE. 291

lessen the danger of the crisis, it should be rendered with hand
and heart.

The expedient, however, which has been suggested by you,
would not, in my opinion, answer the end which is proposed.
The object of such a tour could not be veiled by the ostensible
cover to be given to it; because it would not apply to the state
of my health, which never was better; and as the measure
would be susceptible of two interpretations, the enemies to it,
always more active and industrious than friends, would endea-
vor, as much as in them lay, to turn it to their own advantage
by malicious insinuations, unless they should discover that the
current against themselves was setting too strong, and of too
serious a nature for them to stem ; in which case the journey
would be unnecessary, and in either case, the reception might
not be such as you have supposed.

But, my dear sir, dark as matters appear at present, and ex-
pedient as it is to be prepared at all points for the worst that can
happen (and no one is more disposed to this measure than I am),
I cannot make up my mind, yet, for the expectation of open war;
or, in other words, for a formidable invasion by France. I can-
not believe, although I think them capable of any thing bad, that
they will attempt to do more than they have done; that when
they perceive the spirit and policy of this country rising into
resistance ; and that they have falsely calculated upon support
from a large part of the people thereof, to promote their views
and influence in it, that they will desist, even from those practices ;
unless unexpected events in Europe, or their possession of Loui-
siana and the Floridas, should induce them to continue the mea-
sure. And I believe further, that although the leaders of their
party, in this country, will not change their sentiments, that
they will be obliged, nevertheless, to change their plan, or the
mode of carrying it on, from the effervescence which is appear-
ing in all quarters, and the desertion of their followers, which
must frown them into silence, at least for a while.

If I did not view things in this light, my mind would be
infinitely more disquieted than it is ; for if a crisis should arrive,
when a sense of duty, or a call from my country, should become

2(J2 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 41.

so imperious as to leave me no choice, I should prepare for the
relinquishment, and go with as much reluctance from my pre-
sent peaceful abode, as I should do to the tombs of my an-
cestors.

To say at this time, determinately, what I should do under
such circumstances, might be improper, having once before de-
parted from a similar resolution ; but I may declare to you, that
as there is no conviction in my breast that I could serve my
country with more efficiency in the command of the armies it
might levy, than many others, an expression of its wish that I
should do it, must, somehow or other, be unequivocally known
to satisfy my mind, that, notwithstanding the respect in which I
may be held on account of former services, that a preference
might not be given to a man more in his prime. And it may
well be supposed too, that I should like, previously, to know
who would be my coadjutors, and whether you would be dis-
posed to take an active part, if arms are to be resorted to.

Before this letter can get to your hands, you will have seen
the resolutions and proposed address from the citizens of Charles-
ton, in South Carolina. Their proceedings will, I am per-
suaded, give the tone to other parts of that State. Two or three
very good addresses have already appeared from North Caro-
lina ; one with the signature of a late governor thereof, Spaight.
All the upper, most populous, and hardy yeomanry of this State,
have come, and are coming forward with their addresses to the
Executive, and assurances of support. The address from Nor-
folk (I do not mean the impertinent one from Magnier's grena-
dier company) is a good one. The middle counties of this
State, with two or three exceptions, have hitherto been silent ;
they want leaders ; but I shall be much mistaken if a large ma-
jority of them do not forsake, if they have heretofore been with,
those who have pretended to speak their sentiments. As to the
resolutions which were entered into at Fredericksburgh, it is
only necessary to point to the manager of them, and add that
the meeting was partial. From Georgia, no development of the
public sentiment has yet made its appearance ; but I have learnt
.from a very intelligent gentleman just returned from thence,

jEt. 41.] correspondence. 293

where he has been some time for the benefit of his health, travel-
ling, going and returning slowly, and making considerable halts,
that the people of that State, as also those of South and North
Carolina, seem to be actuated by one spirit, and that a very
friendly one to the general government. I have likewise heard,
that the present governor of the first (Georgia), professes to be
strongly attached to it. These disclosures, with what may yet
be expected, will, I conceive, give a different impression of the
sentiments of our people to the Directory of France, than what
they have been taught to believe ; while it must serve to abash
the partisans of it for their wicked and presumptive infor-
mation.

Your free communication on these political topics, is so far
from needing an apology, that I shall be much gratified and
thankful to you for the continuation of them ; and I would wish
you to believe that with great truth and sincerity, I am always
your affectionate friend and obedient servant,

Geo. Washington.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

New-York, June 2d, 1798.

My Dear Sir:

I have before me your favor of the 27th of May. The
suggestion in my last was an indigested thought, begotten by
my anxiety. I have no doubt that your view of it is accurate
and well founded.

It is a great satisfaction to me to ascertain what I had antici-
pated in hope, that you are not determined in an adequate emer-
gency against affording once more your military services. There
is no one but yourself that would unite the public confidence in
such an emergency, independent of other considerations, and it
is of the last importance that this confidence should be full and
complete. As to the wish of the country, it is certain that it will

294 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 41.

be ardent and universal. You intimate a desire to be informed
what would be my part in such an event as to entering into mili-
tary service. I have no scruple about opening myself to you on
this point. If I am invited to a station in which the service I
may render may be proportionate to the sacrifice I am to make,
I shall be willing to go into the army. If you command, the
place in which I should hope to be most useful is that of
Inspector-General, with a command in the line. This I would
accept. The public must judge for itself as to whom it will
employ, but every individual must judge for himself as to the
terms on which he will serve, and consequently must estimate
his own pretensions.

I have no knowledge of any arrangement contemplated, but
I take it for granted the service of all the former officers worth
having may be commanded, and that your choice would regulate
the Executive. With decision and care in the selection an ex-
cellent army may be formed.

The view you give of the prospects in the South is very con-
soling. The public temper seems every where to be travelling to a
right point. This promises security to the country in every event.
I have the honor to remain, my dear Sir,

Your faithful and affectionate servant, &c.

HAMILTON TO WOLCOTT.

New-York, June 5th, 1798.

Dear Sir :

The answer from the President to the Commander in Chief,
&c., of New Jersey, contains in the close a very indifferent pas-
sage. The sentiment is intemperate and revolutionary. It is not
for us, particularly for the government, to breathe an irregular
or violent spirit. Hitherto I have much liked the President's
answers, as, in the main, within proper bounds, and calculated to
animate and raise the public mind. But there are limits which

Mr. 41.] CORRESPONDENCE. 295

must not be passed, and from my knowledge of the ardor of the
President's mind, and this specimen of the effects of that ardor,
I begin to be apprehensive that he may run into indiscretion.
This will do harm to the government, to the cause, and to him-
self. Some hint must be given, for we must make no mistakes.

Inclosed is a sketch of some ideas which have run through
my mind. They are perhaps none of them new, but they are
offered as the evidence of my opinion on the point. As yet we
are far short of the point of vigor.

Yours truly,

A. Hamilton.

Further measures advisable to be taken without delay.

I. To authorize the President to proceed, forthwith, to raise
the 10,000 men already ordered.

II. To establish an academy for military and naval instruc-
tion. This is a very important measure, and ought to be
permanent.

III. To provide for the immediate raising of a corps of non-
commissioned officers, viz. — sergeants and corporals, sufficient
with the present establishment for an army of 50,000 men. The
having these men prepared and disciplined will accelerate ex-
tremely the disciplining of an additional force.

IV. To provide, before Congress rise, that in case it shall
appear that an invasion of this country by a large army is actu-
ally on foot, there shall be a draft from the militia to be classed,
of a number sufficient to complete the army of 30,000 men.
Provision for volunteers in lieu of drafts. A bounty to be
given.

V. To authorize the President to provide a further naval
force of six ships of the line and twelve frigates, with twenty
small vessels not exceeding sixteen guns. It is possible the
ships of the line and frigates may be purchased of Great Britain
to be paid for in stock. We ought to be ready to cut up all the
small privateers and gunboats in the West Indies, so as at the

296 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 4V

same time to distress the French islands as much as possible, and
protect our own trade.

YI. Is not the independence of the French colonies, under
the guaranty of the United States, to be aimed at? If it is, there
cannot be too much promptness in opening negotiations for the
purpose. Victor Hughes is probably an excellent subject. This
idea, however, deserves mature consideration.

VII. It is essential the Executive should have half a million
of secret service money. If the measure cannot be carried with-
out it, the expenditure may be with the approbation of three
members of each house of Congress. But it were better with-
out this incumbrance.

VIII. Eevenue in addition to the $2,000,000 of land-tax, say
A stamp-duty on hats, as well manufactured at home

as imported, distributed in three classes : 10, 15,

25 cents, $500,000

Saddle horses one dollar each, excluding those en-
gaged in agriculture, 100,000

Salt so as to raise the present duty to 25 cents per
bushel.

Male servants of these capacities, by whatever name,
maitre d'hotel, house steward, valet de chamber,
butler, under butler, confectioner, cook, house
porter, waiter, footman, coachman, groom, pos-
tilion, stable boy.*

For one such servant, . . . $1.

For two servants and not more, . . 2 each.

For three servants and not more, . . 3 each.

Above three, 4 each. 500,000

(One dollar additional by bachelors.)

New modification, with greater diversity of licenses

for sale of wines, 100,000

One per cent on all successions by descent or devise, 100,000

IX. A loan of $10,000,000. The interest to be such as will
insure the loan at par. It is better to give high interest redeema-

* In lieu of tax of slaves which is liable to much objection.

JSt.4!.] correspondence. 297

ble at pleasure, than low interest with accumulation of capital, as
in England.

KING TO HAMILTON.

London, June 6th. 1798.

My Dear Sir:

We have certain intelligence that the Toulon expedition has
sailed. The number of troops, of transports, and of men of war,
are variously stated, but it is known, that Bonaparte commands,
and that the fleet is a very great one. Its destination is the sub-
ject of inquietude and of conjecture. A few days will bring us
more perfect accounts, and from the force and position of the
British fleet under Lord St. Vincent, the public are in daily,
not to say hourly expectation, of hearing that he has discovered
and destroyed this boasted armada.

If Ireland is the object, the insurrection has been ill judged
and premature. In almost every instance, the insurgents have
been dispersed and killed, and the quarter round Dublin is now
nearly restored to the king's peace. Still however, if a moderate
French force, with a supply of arms, could now be thrown into
Ireland, the issue would be dubious, so deep and general is the
desertion. Great Britain is unquestionably in a better and more
secure, as well as more united state, than she has been since the
commencement of the war. With her the question with France
is at issue, and so far as regards Europe, upon her alone must it
essentially depend. For upon the continent, French principles
and French influence seem still to extend themselves in every
direction. Though it is more than a fortnight since the publica-
tion of the instructions and dispatches of our envoys must have
been received at Paris, neither their papers nor letters from
France take any notice of them. Gerry is still there, but about
to return home, and, if I mistake not, will be the bearer of a
soothing and treacherous message from the Directory. Be upon
your guard. France will not declare war against us. No. Her

298 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 41.

policy will be to pursue with us the same course she already has
done, and which has served her purpose in Italy, and among the
honest, but devoted and ruined Swiss.

I will say, if after all that has occurred among ourselves, and
in other countries, we are content to be duped, and cajoled, and
betrayed, we shall deserve the fate which they are preparing for
us.

Yours affectionately, &c.

HAMILTON TO KINO.

June 6th, 1798.

My Dear Sir :

Official information and the public papers, will give you all
the information I could give of the measures going on in this
country. You will have observed with pleasure a spirit of patri-
otism kindling every where. And you will not be sorry to know
that it is my opinion, that there will shortly be national unan-
imity, as far as that idea can ever exist. Many of the leaders of
faction will persist, and take ultimately a station in the public
estimation like that of the tories of our revolution.

Our chief embarrassment now is, the want of energy among
some of our friends, and our councils containing too strong an
infusion of those characters who cannot reform, and who, though
a minority, are numerous enough, and artful enough, to perplex
and relax. We do far less than we ought towards organizing
and maturing for the wrorst the resources of the country. But I
count that there is a progress of opinion which will probably
shortly overcome this obstacle.

How vexatious that at such a juncture there should be offi-
cers of Great Britain, who, actuated by a spirit of plunder, are
doing the most violent things, calculated to check the proper
amount of popular feeling, and to furnish weapons to the ene-
mies of government. Combauld at the Mole is acting a part quite

jEt. 41.] correspondence. 299

as bad as the Directory and their instruments. I have seen sev-
eral of his condemnations. They are wanton beyond measure.
It is not enough that his acts are disavowed, and a late and de-
fective redress given through the channels of the regular courts.
Justice, and the policy of the crisis, demand that he be decisively
punished and disgraced. I think it probable you will be in-
structed to require this. It would be happy if the government
where you are would anticipate.

It is unlucky too that Cochrane, of the Thetis, appears to be
doing some ill things. The southern papers announce a number
of captures lately made by him, and in some instances, if they
say true, on very frivolous pretexts. The character of that
gentleman would lead me to hope that there is in this some mis-
representation, but the present appearances against him are
strong.

There seems a fatality in all this. It cannot be doubted that
the British cabinet must at this time desire to conciliate this
country. It is to be hoped they will not want vigor to do it
with effect, by punishing those who contravene the object.
Yours affectionately, &c.

HAMILTON TO PICKERING.

June 7th, 1798.

My Dear Sir :

As McHenry will probably have left Philadelphia before this
reaches that place, I take the liberty to address the subject of
it to you.

I have received a letter from Capt. Yan Eensselaer, in which
he informs me that he is a candidate for a commission on board
of our navy, and requests my recommendation of it. As a con-
nection of our family I cannot refuse it, as far as truth and pro-
priety will warrant.

When he first began his career, the young man did things

300 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [vEt. 41.

which were not pretty; but he has since that retrieved his char-
acter by a conduct which has rapidly raised him to the command
of a ship, which he has had of several. I have particularly in-
quired concerning him, and my inquiries have been satisfactorily
answered — so that I really conclude he is a deserving man. But
of this you can be better ascertained from persons in Philadel-
phia, in whose employ I believe he has sailed.

My only intention is to request attention to his pretensions, as
far as they may appear to be good, and in the proportion which
they bear to those of other candidates. I owe this to him as a
family connection, and I may add that he is of a brave blood.

What do the British mean ? What are these stories of the
Thetis, &c? In my opinion, our country is now to act in every
direction with spirit. Will it not be well to order one of our
frigates to Charleston, to protect effectually our commerce in that
quarter, and if necessary control the Thetis f This conduct will
unite and animate.

Yours truly.

P. S. — If an alien bill passes, I would like to know what
policy, in execution, is likely to govern the Executive. My opin-
ion is, that while the mass ought to be obliged to leave the coun-
try, the provisions in our treaties in favor of merchants ought to
be observed, and there ought to be guarded exceptions of char-
acters whose situations would expose them too much if sent away,
and whose demeanor amongst us has been unexceptionable.
There are a few such. Let us not be cruel or violent.

A. H.

KING TO HAMILTON.

London, June 8, 1798.

My Dear Sir:

Since writing you a day or two .past I have had the pleasure
to receive your letters by the packet, and am rejoiced to find my

JEt. 41.] CORRESPONDENCE. 301

hopes confirmed by your opinions that we shall not be wanting
to ourselves in our conduct towards France.

Immediately on hearing of the proceedings of the Admiralty
Judge of St. Domingo, I remonstrated to this government against
them, and was without delay answered that General Simcoe had
no power to erect the court, that the appointment of Judge
Cambauld was illegal, and all his decrees void ; and that those
who had unfortunately suffered by them must, as in the Mar-
tinique cases, apply for satisfaction to the High Court of Admi-
ralty in England. I expected, and so it was determined, that
orders should have been instantly dispatched to suppress the
court ; this was omitted from the negligence of the officer to
whom the duty belonged in the admiralty, hence the continuation
of the court of St. Domingo. Orders have, however, at length
been sent to suppress the court.

The instructions of the 25th of January, 1793, a copy of
which was, on the 7th of February, sent to the Secretary of
State, have been misrepresented or not understood. Instead of
enlarging, the effect of them will, as it was intended it should, be
to contract the description of cases in which the trade of neutrals,
will be liable to interruption. The order, as it is called, of the
6th November, 1793, authorized the capture of all vessels carry-
ing supplies to, or laden with the produce of the French West
Indies. The instruction of the 8th of January, 1794, revoked
this order, and substituted another in which the bona fide neutral
trade between the United States and the French West Indies was
considered as legal — while that between the French West Indies
and Europe was liable to interruption by the vessels being sent
in for adjudication. The late instruction of the 25th of January,
which I have thought a point gained, enlarges the rights and
security of the trade of neutrals, for instead of former restraints,
it is now admitted, that a direct trade by neutrals between their
respective countries and the French, Dutch and Spanish West
Indies, out and home, and likewise the direct voyage from those
colonies to any port in Great Britain are lawful, and not liable to
interruption.

That the naval officers will often exercise their authority,

302 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 41.

however limited, in abuse, will continue to be the case so long as
the military profession is disgraced by a sordid love of gain, and
so long as the system of the Admiralty Courts of England shall
be so little satisfactory as they really are. We are, as you will
naturally suppose, extremely impatient to receive information
from the Mediterranean. It appears certain that the Toulon ex-
pedition sailed about the 19th of May. The force is variously
reported. Buonaparte is supposed to be with the fleet, which is
said to be thirteen ships of the line, as many frigates, and nearly
four hundred transports — all the naval characters agree, that it is
next to impossible that they can reach Ireland without discovery.
Indeed, from the prevalence of the winds from the west, a single
ship would, it is said, be at this season perhaps two months
in making the voyage from Toulon to Ireland. The opinion that
has the most advocates is, that the expedition is against Portu-
gal— that the troops will be disembarked at Carthagena or Malaga
in Spain, and that they will cross the mountains to Portugal. It
is well understood that from the want of subsistence they could
not have marched through Spain. But Portugal has no money,
and all the plunder that would be obtained would not defray the
expenses of the expedition. The enterprise would reduce Spain
under the more complete control of France. Cadiz would become
a French port. The English would be expelled from the Tagus.
The Spanish fleet would be relieved as soon as the windy season
arrives, and from the Tagus and Cadiz the expedition may go
against the Brazils, and the treasure of South America may be
at the disposal of the Directory. Besides, that country may be
revolutionized on the French model, and this may prepare the
way for the measures to be adopted towards us. Letters from
Lord St. Vincent, of the 19th May, (when his fleet off Cadiz con-
sisted of twenty-five sail of the line, in excellent condition,)
induce the belief that Sir Eoger Curtis would join him from the
Greek station by the 22d or 23d, with ten sail of the line. His
orders are to leave a force to block up Cadiz and watch the fleet,
and to proceed with the residue of the fleet to search for and
fight the Toulon fleet ; and, according to every thing that we
know, there is great reason to expect that he will be in season

^Et. 41.1 CORRESPONDENCE. 303

to intercept them, even should their object be Carthagena or
Malaga.

'Tis against every probability that the Toulon expedition can
pass the Gut without discovery !

PICKERING TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, June 9th, 1798.

Dear Sir :

I dropped you a hasty line to-day, acknowledging the receipt
of your letters of the 7th and 8th. I now inclose to you a copy
of the new British instructions, with Mr. King's remark upon
them. These, I have not the least doubt, are the instructions
which the American captains from the West Indies, by miscon-
ceptions, have represented to be so injurious to our commerce. —
Mr. Liston knows of no other, nor has Mr. King mentioned any
besides these ; and you will observe that Mr. King considers them
as extending the right or the privilege of neutral commerce be-
yond the former instructions, and the long avowed claim of a
right on her part (Britain) to interrupt and prevent any com-
merce of neutrals with the colonies, of her enemies, which was
not permitted in time of peace.

The alien bills, introduced into both Houses of Congress, have
undergone such alterations, I do not know their present form. Of
one thing, however, you may rest assured, that they will not err
on the' side of severity, much less of cruelty. I wish they may
really provide for the public safety.

Mr. Stoddart has accepted the office of Secretary of the Navy,
and I expected him to arrive by this day at farthest. As soon as
he comes to town, I will communicate what you say of Capt. Van
Rensselaer.

In your letter of the 8th, you renew the subject of the cap-
tures by the Thetis, Captain Cochrane. Suspecting that the

304 HAMILTON'S WORKS. (>Et. 41.

Charleston complaints were the clamors of interested men en-
gaged in illicit commerce, I mean with contraband goods, or
covering the property of enemies to Great Britain, I mentioned
the matter to Mr. Eeed, of the Senate, who confirmed my suspi-
cions. In short, in order to favor the French, and acquire great
profits in trade, many American merchants have prostituted
every fair principle of commerce, and put their captains on tak-
ing such deceitful oaths, as to render suspicious the papers of in-
nocent merchants, to their vast injury. Nobody has been more
noisy about British depredations than General Smith, of Balti-
more. He particularly complained to me, ten months ago, of
the loss of several of his vessels, captured, and sent into Mole
St. Nicholas. I represented his complaints to Mr. Liston, who
wrote to the admiral or commanding officer at St. Domingo. The
answer returned showed, that one of Smith's vessels, on her voy-
ago outward, had carried and delivered to the French adminis-
tration eighteen hogsheads of gunpowder, cleared out as merchan-
dise of calicoes, &c. I communicated this to General Smith, who
wrote me a long letter upon the subject, but without denying the
fact as to the gunpowder. I do not mention this as though it
justified the judge, one Cambauld, a corrupt villain, in condem-
ning the vessel captured on her return voyage ; but the gunpowder
having been delivered to the French government, the judge was
disposed to suspect the produce received in return also belonged
to the French; and that judge is so utterly unprincipled, a sus-
picion alone would induce him to condemn, unless handsomely
bribed to acquit. His character and conduct I have long since
described to Mr. King, who has conferred with Lord Grenville,
who pronounces the court itself (appointed by Simcoe) illegal,
like that erected by Admiral Jervis formerly at Martinico. In
the mean time our fair merchants are suffering by its illegal acts-
It is the shameful and often detected frauds in the documents
furnished to our merchant vessels, that have induced the British
naval officers to disregard their papers, and to rest satisfied with
nothing short of an actual examination of their cargoes, and this
vexation will doubtless continue more or less until the honest
merchants come forward and expose their fraudulent neighbors.

/Et. 41. J CORRESPONDENCE. 305

I do not like the provisional army act. I do not believe gen-
tlemen's expectations from volunteers will be verified. Many
small corps will be formed', but not in numbers to supply the
place of an army, especially as the bill was so altered as to sub-
ject them to march not only to an adjoining State, but to the re-
motest State in the Union. It is true, the President will not thus
harass them, but they will be under apprehensions of it, and many
will be discouraged. If they have spirit enough to disregard
this, so would they march, when requested in time of invasion,
into any State, although by law they might remain in their own,
or an adjoining State. Instead of waiting an actual invasion, I
think the raising of the army ought now to be commenced. It
would take many months to form and bring it into a state of
discipline, in which we could place anjr confidence. Small pre-
datory incursions of the French, though they might occasion
great destruction of property, would not be dangerous, and the
militia might be sufficient to repel them, but what we have to
guard against, is an invasion by a powerful army of veterans ;
and I do not know any body of militia adequate to stop their
progress, and a fatal panic might be the consequence. They
would hold out their lures to entice, and they would entice mul-
titudes not to resist, at least if they did not join their standard, as
has happened in every republic in Europe, which they have pa-
tronized. I have indeed a confidence in the populous, well
armed, and unanimous northern States ; but is there any 40,000
of that militia who could encounter, with any chance of success,
20,000 veterans? You know the militia cannot be moved at the
order of the ablest commander. They are unmanageable, and the
greater the number, the greater the mass of confusion. Gentle-
men in Congress boast of the exploits of the militia in the Ame-
rican war, but where did they fight in a body of even five thou-
sand men? where did they fight successfully alone, without
regular troops, except in small corps of a few hundred men,
which might be put in motion without much hazard of disorder ?
And excepting at Bunker Hill (which was a wonderful action),
the militia victories against regulars were after the war had raged
several years, during which the men had been frequently called
F ' 20

306 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 41.

into actual service, and their minds and bodies were gradually pre-
pared to meet dangers and hardships ; and in the southern States
the militiamen, whose prowess is now 'panegyrized (not unjustly),
were rendered desperate by their situation. But all these advan-
tageous circumstances would be wanting in case of such an inva-
sion as that against which we have to provide. Why is a provi-
sional army thought of, if an invasion is not to be apprehended?
To propose a provisional army, to depend for its formation on
an actual invasion, is to me the height of absurdity. Multitudes,
who would now enroll themselves, would, at the moment when
an invasion should find them unarmed and defenceless, shrink
into abject submission to the foe. But the President may also
commence the raising this army in case of " imminent danger of
invasion, discovered, in his opinion, to exist." At the same time,
it is understood such danger does not now exist ; and what cir-
cumstances will render the danger imminent? The successful
invasion of England, or even of Ireland (for in- either case, if not
wholly subdued, England would be fully employed), would put
us in jeopardy. If England still struggles, France might be in-
duced to keep all her force in Europe until the conquest was
complete ; but, considering that she has a redundancy of soldiers,
and a natural expectation would be presented of an easy con-
quest and submission here, if she made a sudden and unlooked-
for invasion, I own that the danger would then appear to me
imminent; and I think it so imminent, even now, that the army
ought forthwith to be raised. But, admitting that she fails in her
projects against England, she may be induced to make peace with
her — and her alone — for such has been the uniform policy of the
French rulers in all their successes. They will then renew their
demands upon us, and we must yield or make war alone. Bri-
tain, certainly, will not recommence the war for our sakes ; and
though she would regret our submission to France, and therefore
might be willing, in her negotiations of peace with France, to
stipulate for us also, yet, have we any right to expect it? With
so many marks of aversion and repulsion towards her, could we
have the face to ask it ? I know there are some who deem her
profligate enough, if France should propose a division of the States

tEt.41.] CORRESPONDENCE. 307

between herself and England, that the latter would agree to it ;
but I am not disposed to believe it. I think the animosities and
hatred engendered in the American revolution towards England
exist yet, in some breasts, in greater force than our interest or
our safety admit ; and these passions will keep us aloof till any
co-operation may become impracticable. We cannot expect over-
tures from England. I very much suspect she is waiting to re-
ceive them from us. I wish you were in a situation not only
"to see all the cards," but to play them. With all my soul I
would give you my hand, and engage in any other game, in which
I might best co-operate on the same side, to win the stakes.

HAMILTON TO WOLCOTT.

June 29th, 1798.

Dear Sir :

I have this moment seen a bill brought into the Senate, en-
titled " A Bill to define more particularly the crime of Treason,
etc." There are provisions in this bill, which, according to a
cursory view, appear to me highly exceptionable, and such as,
more than any thing else, may endanger civil war. I have not
time to point out my objections by this post ; but I will do it to-
morrow. I hope, sincerely, the thing may not be hurried through.
Let us not establish a tyranny. Energy is a very different
thing from violence. If we make no false step, we shall be essen-
tially united ; but if we push things to an extreme, we shall then
give to faction body and solidity.

308 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 41.

KING TO HAMILTON.

London, July 2d. 1798.

Dear Sir:

France will pursue with us the plan that she has elsewhere
found successful. She will endeavor to overthrow us by the
divisions among ourselves, which she will excite and support by
all the means of which she is mistress. The Paris papers of the
18th ult. say, "Le Citoyen Eoziers est nomme Consul General
aux Etats Unis, Gamier (en conventional de Santes) consul, et
Boseg vice-consul a Wilmington, Quillet, consul a Tangers-passe
a Norfolk, Bosc a New- York, et le Citoyen Sottin, ambassadeur
pres la Kepublique Ligurienne (and I presume the former minister
'of police), vient d'etre nomme consul a New-York"

If any thing could exceed the past insolence of France, it
would be this attempt to plant in our chief towns a corps of
revolutionary agents under the mask of public characters, and
whom she expects, I hope falsely, that our government will
receive and permit to reside among us, after having herself re-
peatedly refused and expelled from her territories our public
ministers.

Another arret of the Directory has added Havre to the ports
into which our vessels are forbid an entry ; so that we cannot
now enter the ports of Toulon, Rochefort, L'Orient, Brest, Dun-
kerque, or Havre. Cadiz and the Texel are closed by the British
squadrons, and I apprehend that the Meuse will likewise be
blockaded, as the British North Sea fleet is by this time rein-
forced by the Russian squadron.

We are still at a loss where Buonaparte is bound. He sailed
irom Toulon the 19th of May. My opinion has been that Ireland
was his object. At present, it seems to be the general opinion
that he never intended to leave the Mediterranean. In a few
days we must hear of him. The English confidently believe
that he will fall into the hands of Admiral Nelson, who is in
pursuit of him. In Ireland, though for some months there will
be partial and unimportant risings, the force of the insurrection

Mr. 41.] CORRESPONDENCE. 309

is broken, and the danger nearly over. The chiefs have been
without much character and without any intellect. There is no
indication that they have received a single musket from France,
and in general they are without arms, except pikes. There is
but one remedy for Ireland, and it is that which has proved so
successful with Scotland. Ireland, like Scotland, must become
an integral part of the British empire, or she will continue ignor-
ant, ill-governed, oppressed, and wretched.

MCHENRY TO WASHINGTON.

Philadelphia, July 2d, 1798.
Dear Sir :

The crisis, and the almost universal wish of the people to see you at the head
of the armies of the United States, has been too strong to be resisted. The Pre-
sident has yielded to causes so powerful and nominated you accordingly, which
has been unanimously confirmed to-day by the Senate.

Thus you are again called upon by all voices to fill a station which all think
yon alone qualified for at this moment. I know what must be your feelings, and
how many motives you must have for preferring the privacy you are in the en-
joyment of, to the troubles and perplexities of a commander of an army. This,
however, is the crowning sacrifice, which I pray to God you may agree to make
for the sake of vour country, and give the last finish to a fame nothing short of
such a call and the present occasion could have been capable of increasing.

I think it probable that the President will request me to be the bearer of his
letter to you. I shall, in that case, have an opportunity to converse with you at
large on several subjects relative to the army, and to agree with you upon such
arrangements as may leave you as long as possible at Mount Vernon. Perhaps
I may set out on Friday, or at the furthest Monday next.

Present me to Mrs. Washington and Miss Custis, and accept of my sincere
attachment and unchangeable affection.

olO HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 41.

WASHINGTON TO MCHENRY.
(private )

Mount Vernon, 5th July, 1798.

My Dear Sir :

I am perfectly satisfied that the duties of your office were not diminished by
the duties thrown upon it in the course of the present session of Congress, and
far was it from my wish to add to the trouble of them. I expected no more than
a simple acknowledgment of my letters; and, with respect to the proposed arsenal
at the confluence of the Potomac and Shanandoah, that you would have said that
it had, or had not been forgotten, according to the fact.

I am well satisfied with your reply to my last; better, perhaps, than you will
be with reading the lengthy scrawl herewith inclosed, to which it has given rise,
and which, if you please, as from yourself, may be shown to the President, to
whom I have expressed tantamount sentiments in more concise terms. If you
are at liberty, and deem it expedient, communicate the response which shall be
made to it to me.

The President's letter to me, though not so expressed in terms, is, neverthe-
less, strongly indicative of a wish that I should take charge of the military force
of this country ; and, if I take his meaning right, to aid also in the selection of
the general officers. The appointment of these are important — but those of the
General Staff are all important; insomuch that if I am looked to as the com-
mander-in-chief, I must be allowed to choose such as will be agreeable to me.
To say more, at present, would be unnecessary ; first, because an army may
not be wanted, — and, secondly, because I might not be indulged in this choice if
it was.

You will readily perceive that a main difficulty with me, in this business, pro-
ceeds from the different epochs at which the army may be formed, and at which
it would be proper for me to take the command of it (in case the preliminaries
mentioned in my other letter are solved to my satisfaction). The President,
knowing that 10,000 men cannot be raised by the blowing of a trump, might
deem it expedient, from such appearances or information as would justify him
under the act, to prepare for the worst. I, on the other hand, have no disposition,
and think it would be bad policy to come forward before the emergency becomes
evident, farther than that it might be known that I will step forward, when it does
appear so, unequivocally ; and if the matters for which I have stipulated as previ-
ously necessary, are ascertained and accommodated, I shall have no objection to
the annunciation (if good would result from it) of this determination. But what
is to be done in the interval ? I see but two ways to overcome the difficulty, if it
is an object to accommodate my wishes ; first, to delay the appointment of the
General Staff to the latter epoch, if no inconvenience would result from it — or, if
this cannot be, then to advise with me on the appointment of them. I mention

JEt. 41.] CORRESPONDENCE. 311

the matter now, and in this manner, because I have some reason to believe that
there are very fit men who would be coadjutors with me, whose services without
could not be commanded.

Although I have made my stand at the General Staff", I conceive that much
will depend upon active and spirited officers for the divisions and brigades of the
army ; and (under the rose) I shall candidly declare that I do not, from my pre-
sent recollection of them, conceive that a desirable set could be formed from the
old generals ; some on account of their age and infirmities — some from never
having displayed any talents for enterprise — and others from their general opposi-
tion to the government, or their predilection to French measures, be their present
conduct what it may ; for those who will come up with a flowing tide, will descend
with the ebb ; and there can be no dependence upon them in moments of difficulty.
If circumstances would allow a choice of field officers, the service would be much
benefited by it. With my two letters I must have tired you sufficiently, and,
therefore, I shall only add what you knew before, and that is, that

I am your affectionate

Geo. Washington.

P. S. I have already been applied to by one gentleman, to recommend him
for director of the Hospital, which I have refused ; as well on general grounds,
as because, if I should ever have occasion for physician or surgeon, I should pre-
fer my old surgeon, Doctor Craik, who, from 40 years' experience, is better
qualified than a dozen of them put together.

KING TO HAMILTON.

London, July 7th, 1798.
Buonaparte has made the dtbut of the campaign by the easy
though important conquest of Malta. This island has been sup-
posed impregnable, and therefore was the depository of great
wealth, removed thither from Italy. It contained likewise an
excellent arsenal, two or three ships of the line, and as many as
6,000 excellent seamen. It was the Maltese seamen who made
the fine campaign under Suffrein in the East Indies, during the
American war. Sicily is near, and from thence the French will
obtain provisions, should Admiral Nelson attempt to blockade
the fleet in the harbor of Malta. Buonaparte may perhaps take

312 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jHt.41.

possession of Sicily, after which Naples would almost fall of
course. We are left to conjecture what are his ulterior plans.
I don't perceive that it is believed that the English squadron can,
owing to the tempests of those seas, maintain a long blockade.
At Kastadt procrastination is the game. The French journalists
amused themselves with calling it "the Eternal Congress." I
see no likelihood of a concert upon the Continent against France.
The struggle is left to England, who certainly maintains it with
increased zeal and resolution. For some months past we have
not a word about peace. No one appears to think that peace
would bring safety. The affair of Ireland is nearly finished.
Cornwallis has requested that no more troops should be sent him,
and that those on their way should be countermanded. In -this
state of things, we are (for so I consider our situation) forced into
a war of defence. Have you received a former letter of mine on
this subject? It is of infinite importance that we are not de-
ceived by ourselves or others. We must do more than merely
defend. I still think that the object that I have before suggested,
demands all our consideration, wisdom and energy. Don't sup-
pose that I would combine our fortunes with those of others.
On the contrary, whatever our interest may require in regard to
a co-operation with others, I am averse to indissoluble engage-
ments with any one. The Continent of Europe cannot be saved,
but this is no reason why America should likewise perish.
France is the onlj' nation that projects enterprises, or succeeds in
putting them into execution ; all others are puzzled in a per-
petual effort to find out and defeat the plans of France, without
concerting and attempting to execute one that might give to
France the disadvantage of defence. If we follow this course, I
dread the issue.

Farewell. Yours, &c.

I am mortified with the probable result of the elections of
New-York. Mr. Jay, according to probabilities, is re-elected,
but how very considerable has been the opposition. Besides,
what is to become of us if we return such members to Congress
as I think it likely will compose a majority of our next dele-
gation ?

JEt. 41.] CORRESPONDENCE. 313

KING TO HAMILTON.

London, July 14. 1798.

Dear Sir:

I send you inclosed an interesting little piece addressed to
Gallatin by a former citizen of Geneva. If translated and pub-
lished, it may do good. We have no news from the Mediter-
ranean since the capture of Malta, nor can we do more than con-
jecture the future destination of Buonaparte. Turin, with its
arsenals, is possessed by a French army ; so that Sardinia is at
the feet of the Directory. The Emperor continues to recruit his
armies, and is now laying up magazines in the Tyrol. His ex-
penses are said to be equal to those of an open war, and his re-
sources unequal to his present expenditures. Prussia manifests
no inclination to enter into a new coalition against France, and
there are who suspect a most intimate connection between these
powers. In short, the fate of Europe is as uncertain and difficult
to understand as at any period of the war. It is at least ten days
since the spirited measures pursued in America must have been
known at Paris. "We are, therefore, anxious to learn the effect
they have produced. They will be entirely disappointed, and
my conjecture is, that, contrary to their wishes, their pride will
drive them to declare war against us. On the 13th of June, Gen.
Pinckney was still at Lyons ; his daughter was much better, and
he flattered himself with the expectation of being able to reach
Bourdeaux and to embark by the middle of this month. On the
26th of June, Mr. Gerry was at Paris, waiting, say letters from
Americans who are about him, for the ultimatum of the Directory.
Letters are sent in every direction by the Americans in Paris,
which say that the Directory hold a conciliatory language, and
that Mr. Gerry is in hopes to procure terms which will be honor-
able and satisfactory to his country. I thought it impossible
that any future step of Mr. G. could exceed in and

what had passed when he decided to separate from his colleagues
and remain at Paris, but I was mistaken. His answer to Talley-
rand's demands of the names of X. Y. and Z. place him in a

314 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 41.

more degraded light than I ever believed it possible that he or
any other American could be exhibited.

I send you Bellamy's address. It, as well as all that has been
published, serves to confirm the public detestation against the Di-
rectory. The American dispatches have been circulated through-
out Europe, and have every where done much good, and in-
creased the reputation of our government.

KING TO HAMILTON.

London. 31st July, 1798.
You will believe that I have been much gratified by the late
intelligence from home. France has calculated all her plans on
our decisions, and the expectation that her friends, if not more
numerous, would be more active, and possess greater energy, than
the friends of our government, — or rather, she has believed that
our government, like that of every country that she has suc-
ceeded to overturn and enslave, would act with such timidity,
and in so qualified a manner, that the affections and support of
the people would be easily withdrawn from, and even turned
against it. If the government continue to speak and act with de-
cision, the people will become more and more united, and still
better inclined to execute its purposes. This opinion should be
taken in connection with an observation (the importance of
which appears to me the greater the oftener I consider it) that I
have suggested in more than one of my late letters. The com-
position of addresses, and the forming of volunteer associations>
who will have nothing to do, are for the present well ; but they
will cease to be novelties, and soon become tiresome, and to be
secure, you must have some sufficient object that "will interest
and employ the passions of the nation. The mere defensive sys-
tem of the enemies of France has been a principal cause of her
success, and if we adopt the error, we shall be exposed to
greater risques, than by a bold and active system, which, ex-

jEt. 41.] correspondence. 315

elusive of being the most certain means of safety, would promise
the acquisition of great and lasting advantages. The destiny of
the new world, and I have a full and firm persuasion that it will
be both happy and glorious, is in our hands. We have a right,
and it is our duty, to deliberate and to act, not as secondaries, but
as principals. The object and the occasion are such as we ought
not, in respect to ourselves or others, to suffer to pass un-
improved.

I have nothing to observe in reference to the subject of regret
and complaint mentioned in your last letter. You will not
doubt that all the means in my power have been employed to
correct the mischief. They have served only to convince me
that it is incorrigible. It is an evil too deeply rooted, and too
powerfully protected, to be cured ; and it is something gained to
know that it is so. If we are wise, we shall hasten the events
that will place the remedy in our own hands. A frigate return-
ing from Malta to Toulon with dispatches, and a general officer?
has been captured by an English frigate, and we are told that
Buonaparte had sailed on his expedition two days before the
English fleet that pursues him arrived there. If so, the French
fleet is in great danger. Many persons think that great events
depend on the success or failure of Buonaparte's expedition. All
the late accounts from Paris say a new storm is at hand, but none
express a hope that the changes it may effect will make the con-
dition of France or of others better. Gerry still hangs about
the Directory ! ! At Bastadt the Congress continues, and the jeal-
ousies between Austria and Prussia, artfully kept alive by the com-
mon enemy, prevent that hearty union, without which no suc-
cessful co-operation will take place against France.

In Ireland the rebellion is suppressed, and our government
will, I hope, have the power and inclination to exclude those
disaffected characters, who will be suffered to seek any asylum
among us. England is more than ever united, and resolves, with
confidence in the superiority of her resources, to prosecute the
war. There is no talk of peace, nor is there any appearance
which would lead to an opinion, that new overtures for that pur-
pose are likely soon to be made.

316 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 41.

On the other hand, France is undoubtedly extremely embar-
rassed any longer to find the money necessary to maintain her
arms, and carry on the war.

Be so kind as to present my affectionate respects and con-
gratulations to the governor. I ought to write to him ; but I
consider a letter to him or you, as nearly the same.
With great truth and attachment I am,
Dear Sir, yours, &c.

P. S. — We have just heard that Gerry has received his pass-
port. At the close of Talleyrand's letter, sending it, he says,
though the Directory, as a measure of precaution, has laid an
embargo upon all American vessels, "telle est la repugnance du
Directoire a, considerer les Etats Unis comme ennemis, qui malgre
leurs demonstrations hostiles, il veut attendre, qu'il y voitirresisti-
bilement force pas des hostilites reelles."

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Philadelphia, July 8th, 1798.

Dear Sir :

I was much surprised on my arrival here to discover that
your nomination had been without any previous consultation of
you. Convinced of the goodness of the motives, it would be use-
less to scan the propriety of the step. It is taken, and the ques-
tion is, what, under the circumstances, ought to be done ? I use
the liberty which my attachment to you and to the public au-
thorizes, to offer my opinion that you should not decline the ap-
pointment. It is evident that the public satisfaction at it is lively
and universal. It is not to be doubted that the circumstance will
give an additional spring to the public mind — will tend much to
unite, and will facilitate the measures which the conjuncture re-
quires. On the other hand, your declining would certainly pro-
duce the opposite effects, would throw a great damp upon the

jEt.4L] correspondence. 317

ardor of the country, inspiring the idea that the crisis was not
really serious or alarming. At least, then, let me entreat you,
and in this all your friends, indeed all good citizens will unite,
that if you do not give an unqualified acceptance, that you ac-
cept provisionally, making your entering upon the duties to depend
on future events, so that the community may look up to you as
their certain commander. But I prefer a simple acceptance.

It may be well, however, to apprise you, that the arrange-
ment of the army may demand your particular attention. The
President has no relative ideas, and his prepossessions on military
subjects in reference to such a point are of the wrong sort. It
is easy for us to have a good army, but the selection requires
care. It is necessary to inspire confidence in the efficient part of
those who may incline to military service. Much adherence to
routine would do great harm. Men of capacity and exertion in
the higher stations are indispensable. It deserves consideration,
whether your presence at the seat of government is not neces-
sary. If you accept, it will be conceived that the arrangement
is yours, and you will be responsible for it in reputation. This,
and the influence of a right arrangement upon future success,
seem to require that you should, in one mode or another, see effi-
caciously that the arrangement is such as you would approve.
I remain dear Sir,

Your affectionate and obedient servant.

JAY TO PICKERING.

New- York, July 10th; 1798.

Dear Sir:

I this morning received the two copies you was so obliging
as to send me of the state papers, published in pursuance of the
resolution of Congress, of the 22d June. They shall be laid be-
fore our legislature at the approaching session. Every true
American here rejoices that General Washington has accepted

318 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 41.

the command of the army. It is an auspicious event. Being of
the number of those who expect a severe war with France, the
moment she makes peace with Britain, I feel great anxiety that
nothing may be omitted to prepare for it. At the commence-
ment, and indeed during the course of our revolutionary war,
we suffered from the inefficiency of too many of our military of-
ficers. Great care should be taken to avoid the like mistakes.
Form and rank cannot compensate for the want of essential qual-
ifications. To pass by certain characters cannot but be unpleas-
ant; and yet, in my opinion, public good forbids their being
called to the field. We shall probably have very different Gen-
erals to contend with from those which Britain sent here last
war ; and we should have very different ones to oppose them
from several of those who then led our troops. I cannot conceal
from you my solicitude, that the late Secretary of the Treasury
may be brought forward in a manner corresponding with his
talents and services.

It appears to me that his former military station and char-
acter, taken in connection with his late important place in the
administration, would justify measuring his rank by his merit
and value. Pardon these hints ; I know that these matters are
not within my department, but they occupy my mind continu-
ally. It is an agreeable circumstance that our President, not-
withstanding the diplomatic skill of France, stands high in the
pubiic estimation and confidence, and that the utmost reliance
may be reposed in his patriotism. He has much to think of and
to do; but while his measures are well matured, deliberately
adopted, and vigorously executed, his administration will be ren-
dered more and more glorious by successive difficulties.

Yours sincerely,

John Jay.

jEt.41.] correspondence. 319

WASHINGTON TO PICKERING.

Mount Vkrnon, 11th Jnly, 1798.

Dear Sir :

As I never get letters by the mail until the morning after they arrive in Alex-
andria, and frequently not for several days, as I am not regular in sending thither,
your favor of the 6th instant did not reach my hands until yesterday. Of the
fitness and abilities of the gentleman you have named for a high command in the
provisional army, I think as you do ; and that his services ought to be secured at
almost any price. What the difficulties are that present themselves to the mind
of the President, in opposition to this measure, I am entirely ignorant ; but in
confidence, and with the frankness you have disclosed your own sentiments on this
occasion, I will unfold mine, under the view I have taken of the prospect before
us; and shall do it concisely. If the French should be so mad as openly and
formidably to invade these United States, in expectation of subjugating the gov-
ernment, laying them under contribution, or in hope of dissolving the Union, I con-
ceive there can hardly be two opinions respecting their plan, and that their opera-
tions will commence in the southern quarter. 1. Because it is the weakest.
2. Because they will expect, from the tenor of the debates in Congress, to find
more friends there. 3. Because there can be no doubt of their arming our own
negroes against us ; and 4. Because they will be more contiguous to their islands,
and to Louisiana, if they should be possessed thereof; which they will be, if they
can. If these premises are just, the inference I am going to draw, from placing
Colonel Hamilton over General Pinckney, is natural and obvious. The latter is
an officer of high military reputation — fond of the profession, spirited, active, and
judicious ; and much advanced in the estimation of the public by his late conduct
as Minister and Envoy at Paris. With these pretensions, and being senior to
Colonel Hamiltion, he would not, I am morally certain, accept a junior appoint-
ment. Disgust would follow, and its influence would spread, where most to be
deprecated, as his connections are numerous, powerful, and more influential than
any other in the three southern States. Under this view of the subject I think it
would be impolitic, and might be dangerous, to sow the seeds of discontent at
so important a crisis. To this may be added, that impediments to the return of
General Pinckney, and causes unforeseen, might place Colonel Hamilton in the
situation you wish to see him. Inspector-General, with a command in the line,
would, I hope and trust," satisfy him. You already perceive that the difficulty in
my mind arises from thorough conviction that, if an invasion is attempted, it will
commence south of Maryland, and from the importance of so influential a charac-
ter as Pinckney (if among us) being heartily engaged in repelling it. But not
having the laws at hand to resort to, or knowing precisely what general officers
are authorized by them, I am speaking much at random, and request, for that
reason, that nothing which I have here said may be considered definitive. What

320 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 41.

arrangements the Secretary of War is empowered by the President to make with
me. I know not. In the letter of the former to me, he has not touched npon
them. He is not yet arrived, but the bearer of this to the post-office in Alexan-
dria, carries up my carriage in order to accommodate him down ; this being the
afternoon on which the mail stage is expected at that place. I regret, however,
that lie should have left Philadelphia before a letter which I had written him could
have reached that place. This letter went from hence on Friday last, before I
knew or had the most distant suspicion of the President's intention of nominating
me (without previous notice) to the trust he has done, but was written in conse-
quence of a wish expressed in a letter from the Secretary to me, that the crisis
might overcome my reluctance to appear again on the public theatre. Upon this
occasion I thought it expedient before matters proceeded further, to be candid and
explicit, and accordingly wrote him my sentiments in detail, the substance of
which was — that if an actual invasion by a formidable force, or such demonstra-
tions of the intention as could not be mistaken, I conceived it to be a duty which
I owed to my country, and to my own reputation, to step forward with my best
endeavors to repel it, however painful the measure might be to a person of my
time of life, and under the circumstances I am ; but for the satisfaction of my
own mind I should like to know, from the best evidence the case was susceptible
of, that my services as Commander-in-Chief would be preferred to th'ose of a man
of more juvenile years, in the prime and vigor of life. And that as neither ambi
tion, interest, or personal gratification of any sort, could induce me to engage
again in the turmoils and hazards of war, — as I had every thing to risk, and
hardly any thing to gain, (the vicissitudes of war being in the hands of the
Supreme Director, where no control is,) and as the army was about to be formed,
and every thing in a manner depending upon the arrangement and organization,
it could not be expected that I would take the command of it without previously
knowing who my coadjutors were to be, and having the assistance of those in
whom I could place confidence. I mentioned no names, for at that time I knew
nothing of my own appointment, and thought the matter too much in embryo to
go further, and to allow him, if a fit occasion occurred, to let these, as my senti-
ments, be known to the President. I shall conclude with sincere esteem and
legard,

Dear Sir,

Your obedient and affectionate servant,

George Washington.

.1t.41.] CORRESPONDENCE. 321

KING TO HAMILTON.

(private.)

London, July 14th, 1798.

Dear Sir:

I send you inclosed an interesting little piece, addressed to
Gallatin, by a former citizen of Geneva — if translated and pub-
lished, it may do good. We have no news from the Mediterra-
nean since the capture of Malta, nor can we do more than con-
jecture the future destination of Bonaparte. Turin, with its
arsenals, is possessed by a French army, so that Sardinia is at the
feet of the Directory. The Emperor continues to recruit his
armies, and is now laying up magazines in the Tyrol. His ex-
penses are said to be equal to those of an open war, and his re-
sources unequal to his present expenditures. Prussia manifests
no inclination to enter into a new coalition against France ; and
there are who suspect a most intimate connection between these
powers. In short, the fate of Europe is as uncertain and difficult
to understand as at any period of the war.

It is at least ten days since the spirited measures pursued in
America must have been known at Paris ; we are therefore anx-
ious to learn the effect they have produced. They will be en-
tirely disappointed; and my conjecture is, that, contrary to their
wishes, their pride will drive them to declare war against us.
On the 13th of June General Pinckney was still at Lyons ; his
daughter was much better ; and he flattered himself with the ex-
pectation of being able to reach Bourdeaux, and to embark by
the middle of this month.

On the 26th of June Mr. Gerry was at Paris, waiting, say let-
ters from Americans who are about him, for the ultimatum of the
Directory. Letters are sent in every direction by the Americans
at Paris, which say, that the Directory hold a conciliatory lan-
guage, and that Mr. Gerry is in hopes to procure terms which will
be honorable and satisfactory to his country. I thought it im-
possible that any future step of Mr. G could exceed in

and ■ what had passed, when he decided to separate from his

f 21

322 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 41

colleagues and remain at Paris ; but I was mistaken. His an-
swer to Talleyrand's demands of the names of X, Y, and Z, place
him in a more degraded light than I ever believed it possible
that he or any other American could be exhibited.

I send you Bellamy's address. It, as well as all that has
been published, serves to confirm the public detestation against
the Directory. The American dispatches have been circulated
throughout Europe, and have every where done much good, and
increased the reputation of our government.

WASHINGTON" TO HAMILTON.
(private and confidential.)

Mount Vernon, July 14th, 1798.

My Dear Sir:

Your letter of the 8th instant was presented to me by the
Secretary of War on the 11th, and I have consented to embark
once more on a boundless field of responsibility and trouble,
with two reservations. First, that the principal officers in the
line and of the staff shall be such as I can place confidence in ;
and that I shall not be called into the field until the army is in a
situation to require my presence, or it becomes indispensable by
the urgency of circumstances; contributing, in the meanwhile,
every thing in my power to its efficiency and organization, but
nothing to the public expense, until I am in a situation to incur
expense myself.

It will be needless, after giving you this information, and
having indelibly engraved on my mind, the assurance contained
in your letter of the 2d of June, to add, that I rely upon you as
a coadjutor and assistant in the turmoils I have consented to
encounter.

I have communicated very fully with the Secretary of War
on the several matters contained in the powers vested in him by

^Et. 41.] CORRESPONDENCE. 323

the President ; who, as far as it appears by them, is well dis-
posed to accommodate. But I must confess that besides nomi-
nating me to the command of the armies without any previous
consultation or notice, the whole of that business seems to me to
stand upon such ground, as may render the Secretary's journey
and our consultation of no avail.

Congress, it is said, would rise this week. What then has
been done, or can the President do, with respect to appointments
under that bill, if it has been enacted ? Be his inclinations what
they may, unless the law could and has passed, enabling him in
the recess of the Senate to make appointments conformable
thereto, the nominations must have been made, and the business
done here with the Secretary is rendered nugatory.

By the pending bill^if it passes to a law, two Major-Generals,
and an Inspector-General with the rank of Major- General, and
three Brigadiers, are to be appointed. Presuming on its pass-
ing, I have given the following as my sentiment respecting the
characters fit and proper to be employed ; in which the Secre-
tary concurs.

Alexander Hamilton, Inspector, ~]

Charles C. Pinckney, I

Henry Knox, or if either of the last } Major-General,
mentioned refuses,

Henry Lee, of Virginia,

Henry Lee, (if not Major-General,)

John Brooks, Massachusetts, I .

William S. Smith, New- York, or f^g^rs.

John E. Howard, Maryland, J

Either Edward Hand, Pen. 1

Jonathan Dayton, jr., New Jersey, or ^Adjutant-General.

William S. Smith, to be J

Edward Carrington, Quartermaster-General.

James Craik, Director of Hospitals.
And I have enumerated the most prominent characters that
have occurred to my mind, from whom to select field officers for
the regiments of infantry, and that of cavalry, which are pro-
posed to be raised.

324 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 41.

And now, my dear sir, with that candor which you always
have, and I trust ever will experience from me, I shall express to
von a difficulty which has arisen in my mind, relative to senior-
ity between you and General Pinckney ; for with respect to my
friend General Knox, whom I love and esteem, I have ranked
him below }^ou both. That you may know from whence this
difficulty proceeds, it is proper I should observe, and give it as
my decided opinion, that if the French should be so mad as to
invade this country in expectation of making a serious impres-
sion, that their operations will commence in the States south of
Maryland; 1st, because they are the weakest; 2d, because they
will expect from the tenor of the debates in Congress, to find more
friends there ; 3d, because there can be no doubt of their arming
the negroes against us ; and 4th, because they would be more
contiguous to their islands, and to Louisiana and the Floridas,
if they can obtain possession of them ; and that this will be the
case, if they are able to accomplish it, is, to my mind, a matter
that admits of no doubt.

If these premises are just, the inference is obvious, that the
services and influence of General Pinckney in the southern
States would be of the highest and most interesting importance.
Will he serve, then, under one whom he will consider his junior
officer? and what would be the consequence if he should refuse,
and his numerous and powerful connections and acquaintances
in those parts get disgusted ? You have, no doubt, heard that
his military reputation stands high in the southern States ; that
he is viewed as a brave, intelligent, and enterprising officer ; and,
if report be true, that no officer in the late American army
made tactics and the art of war so much his study. To this
account of him may be added, that his character has received
much celebrity by his conduct as minister and envoy at Paris.

Under this view of the subject, my wish to put you first, and
my fear of losing him, is not a little embarrassing. But why?
for after all it rests with the President to use his pleasure. I
shall only add, therefore, that as the welfare of the country is
the object I persuade myself we all have in view, I shall san«
guinely hope that smaller matters will yield to measures which

jEt.^1.] correspondence. 325

have a tendency to promote it. I wish devoutly that either of
you or any other fit character had been nominated in my place ;
for no one can make a greater sacrifice, at least of inclination,
than your ever affectionate

Geo. Washington.

PICKERING TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, July 16, 1798.

Dear Sir :

I have just received from General Washington an answer to
my letter which I showed you.

The General appears to have contemplated attentively the
nature of the impending war with France, and that the Southern
States (if any part of the Union) will be invaded. Admitting
this idea to be correct, the General says :

" The inference I am going to draw from placing Col. Hamil-
ton over General Pinckney is natural and obvious. The latter
is an officer of high military reputation, fond of the profession,
spirited, active and judicious, and much advanced in the estima-
tion of the public by his late conduct as minister and envoy
at Paris. With these pretensions, and being senior to Colonel
Hamilton, he would not, I am morally certain, accept a junior
appointment ; and its influence* would spread where most to be
deprecated, as his connections are numerous, powerful, and more
influential than any other in the three Southern States. Under
this view of the subject, it would be impolitic, and might be dan-
gerous, to sow the seed of discontent at so important a crisis. To
this may be added, that impediments to the return of General
Pinckney, and causes unforeseen, might place Col. Hamilton in
the situation }^ou wish to see him. You will readily perceive
that the difficulty in my mind arises from a thorough conviction
that, if an invasion is attempted, it will commence South of Ma-

* I suppose, of General Piuckney's non-acceptance.

326 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [M* 41.

ryland; and from the importance of so influential a character as
Pinckney (if among us) being heartily engaged in repelling it.'.'

The General concludes, from this reasoning, with hoping that
the office of Inspector-General, with a command in the line,
will prove satisfactory to you. I ought to have first quoted the
General's preliminary observation : " Of the abilities and fitness
of the gentleman you have named for a high command in the
provisional army, I think as you do, and that his services ought
to be secured at almost any price."

These communications from the General to me are "in confi-
dence," and as such you will receive them. I presume there
is some understanding between you on the subject. At all
events, I trust that the same genuine patriotism which deter-
mined you and some others to encounter the perils of the Amer-
ican Eevolution, and by your talents and active labors to swell
another's glory, will prompt you again to come forth in a situa-
tion, if not at the height of my wishes and of those of your
friends, certainly in a situation in which you can render invalu-
able services, and as certainly obtain a large share of honor and
military fame.

HAMILTON TO PICKERING.

New-York, July 17, 1798.

My Dear Sir:

I thank you for your friendly letter by the post. I had not
contemplated the possibility that Knox might come into service,
and was content to be second to him, if thought indispensable.
Pinckney, if placed over me, puts me a grade lower. I don't be-
lieve it to be necessary. I am far from certain that he will not
be content to serve under me, but I am willing that the affair
should be so managed as that the relative ranks may remain
open to future settlement, to ascertain the effect of the arrange-
ment which has been contemplated.

Mt.U.] CORRESPONDENCE. 327

I am not, however, ready to say, that I shall be satisfied with
the appointment of Inspector-General, with the rank and com-
mand of Major-General, on the principle that every officer of
higher rank in the late army, who may be appointed, is to be
above me.

I am frank to own that this will not accord with my opinion
of my own pretensions, and I have every reason to believe that
it will fall far short of public opinion.

Few have made so many sacrifices as myself. To few would
a change of situation for a military appointment be so injurious
as myself. If, with this sacrifice, I am to be degraded below my
just claim in public opinion, ought I to acquiesce?

Yours affectionately, &c.

PICKERING TO HAMILTON.
(confidential.)

Philadelphia, July 18th, 1798.

Dear Sir:

I have before me yours of yesterday. In the morning of yes-
terday, McHenry returned with General Washington's accept-
ance of the command of the armies, and a list in the General's
own handwriting, in which the names of the inspector-general
and major-generals stand thus :

Inspector-General, Alexander Hamilton.
Major-General, Charles C. Pinckney.

Ditto, Henry Knox.

Ditto, Henry Lee, ) For the Pro-

Ditto, Edward Hand, $ visional Army.

Then follow the names of old officers from whom to select-
brigadiers, &c, and unfortunately among those for brigadiers was
that of William S. Smith, the President's son in-law. It was
concluded yesterday to nominate Mr. Dayton (the Speaker of the

328 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [>Et. 41

House) adjutant-general, with the rank of brigadier-general, but
I believe the President has changed his mind, and will appoint
Dayton 3d brigadier, and Smith 4th, with the office of adjutant-
general. Your nomination stands first as above, — thus: — A.
Hamilton of New-York, inspector-general, with the rank of
major-general. I deprecate the appointment of Smith, which will
injure the President in two ways ; 1st, because he is the Presi-
dent's son-in-law, for this will be contrasted with General Wash-
ington's caution to steer clear of his relations ; 2d, because
Smith is a bankrupt ; and if I am rightly informed, with a ruined
reputation.

I have not time now to add, but that I am as ever, sincerely
yours, &c.

P. S. — I wish the Senate, after passing on the inspector-general
and major-general, may postpone all the brigadiers till next ses-
sion in autumn. Then perhaps a better arrangement may be
made. Pardon me for repudiating exceedingly the idea of your
being made subordinate to Knox. Nobody ever thought of such
a thing.

HAMILTON TO DUPORTAIL.

New-Yokk, July 23, 1798.

My Dear General:

Though it is a great while since I have heard from you, I have
not ceased to inquire after you, and I shall never cease to in-
terest myself in your welfare.

You have seen the progress of things between this country
and France ; and you must have made reflections on your own
situation. I am aware that the idea of your entering in any way
into the military service of this country, on such an occasion, is
one of great delicacy, and opposed by many motives. But know-
ing your opinion, as to the revolution and revolutionary leaders
of your country, I have thought it not wholly impossible, that

Mt.41.] correspondence. 329

such an idea would not be entirely disagreeable to you ; and I
am desirous of ascertaining, in the most scrupulous confidence,
the state of your mind on this point. The subject may divide
itself into employment in the field, and employment out of the
field.

When I take the liberty to sound you on this head, I ought
to assure you, as is truly the case, that the step is wholly from
the suggestion of my own mind, and that I am altogether at a
loss to conjecture, whether those who must decide the matter
would be at all disposed to avail themselves of your services.

I pray you nevertheless to open to me freely* your heart on
this point, in the fullest reliance upon my prudence, honor, and
delicacy. If it were not to intrude too much upon you, I would
recpiiest you to favor me with a digested plan of an establishment
for a military school. This is an object I have extremely at
heart.

Yours with true esteem and regard, &c.

PICKERING TO JAY.

Philadelphia, Jnly 28, 1793.

Dear Sir :

I have this moment received your letter of the 18th. By the newspapers
which go hence this morning, you will see your wishes respecting Colonel
Hamilton gratified. At the head of the appointments he is inspector-genera
with the rank of major-general. This was intended to place him next in com-
mand to Gen. Washington, yet I feel some solicitude about the effect. Under
circumstances not dissimilar in the American war, I believe some staff officers,
not taken from the line, were resisted in their claims to command officers of in-
ferior rank in the line. I wish, therefore, that the act of Congress, authorizing
the appointment of an " inspector-general with the rank of major-general," had
been explicit ; that the inspector-general might be appointed from among those
who should be major-generals, or that some mode had been devised to remove all
doubt of Colonel Hamilton's right to command all the major-generals under the
law as it stands. I take very kindly the communication of your sentiments in
this matter, and shall feel my obligations increased with the future communica-
tion of your ideas and opinions on every subject involving the safety, the interest,

330 HAMILTON'S WORKS. |>Et. 41.

ami the happiness of our country. But, although I deem so lowly of my own
discernment in such weighty concerns as to render such communications from you
and other eminent citizens peculiarly grateful, yet, on the present occasion, I can-
not withhold the pleasure of showing you the perfect coincidence of our thoughts,
by presenting you with a copy of my letter of the 6th instant, to Gen. Washington.
Colonel Hamilton arrived here the next morning, and in the freedom and confi-
dence with which we conversed, I handed it to him to peruse. General Wash-
ington's answer of the 11th, I received the 16th, and sent to Colonel Hamilton
extracts, to show the current of the General's reasoning; concluding with an
expression of my hopes, that as he (Colonel Hamilton) had in the war for our
independence devoted his talents to enhance another's glory, so he would not
withhold them now that the preservation of that independence demanded their
fullest exertions. After that, Mr. McHenry returned, and informed me that
Gen. Washington was some time balancing between the priority of Col. Hamilton
and General Pinckney ; weighing the high respectability and importance of the
latter in the three Southern States, against the superior talents of the former;
the latter finally preponderating. Perhaps the observations in my letter of the
6th, which I perceive General Washington did not communicate to McHenry,
might have turned the scale. I send you herein the General's answer, which I
will thank you to return. 1 was rejoiced that the Senate had the fortitude to put
a decided negative on the President's nomination of his son-in-law, Will am S.
Smith, to be adjutant-general with the rank of brigadier. When I saw that the
President was invincibly bent on the nomination, I did not hesitate to inform a
number of Senators of it, and to urge their negative for the honor, and even for
the safety, of the army. The President did not know that Colonel S. was
* * * * * * an(j that he had totally mistaken his military talents. I
spoke to so many, and with so little reserve, that I thought it not probable that
my interference would eventually be known to the President ; but I chose to
hazard his displeasure, rather than the approbation of that nomination. Unfor-
tunately, General Washington had arranged the name of Colonel Smith among
the candidates for the office of a brigadier. I am aware the step I took was a
delicate one, and even its propriety may perhaps be questioned. If the candidate
in question had not been so nearly connected with the President, and if the latter
had not so peremptorily pronounced the eulogium of the former as a great mili-
tary character, and in a tone to forbid any reply, it would have become me to
have frankly stated my opinion of his true character, and total unworthiness and
unfitness to fill that important place. If, in taking the other course, I have done
wrong, my motives I hope will make my apology with you, and some others,
whose good opinions are peculiarly dear to me.

With true respect, I am, dear Sir,

Your obedient servant, &c.

Mt. 41.] CORRESPONDENCE. 331

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

July 29th, 1798.

My Dear Sir:

Your letter of the 14th inst. did not reach me till after the
appointments mentioned in it were made.

I see clearly, in what has been done, a new mark of your
confidence, which I value as I ought to do.

With regard to the delicate subject of the relative rank of the
major-generals, it is very natural for me to be a partial judge,
and it is not very easy for me to speak upon it. If I know my-
self, however, this at least I may say, that were I convinced of
injustice being done to others in my favor, I should not hesitate
even to volunteer a correction of it, as far as my consent would
avail. But, in a case like this, am I not to take the opinion of
others as my guide ? If I am, the conclusion is that the gentle-
men concerned ought to acquiesce. It is a fact, of which there
is a flood of evidence, that a real majority of leading federal men
were of opinion that, in the event of your declining the command
of the army, it ought to devolve upon me, and that in ease of
your acceptance, which every body ardently desired, the place of
second in command ought to be mine.

It is not for me to examine the justness of this opinion. The
illusions of self-love might be expected too easily to give it credit
with me. But, finding it to exist, am I at liberty to seek to post-
pone myself to others, in whose hands, according to that opinion,
the public interests would be less well confided ? Such are the
reflections which would have determined me to let the business
take its course.

My own opinion at the same time is, that of the two gentle-
men postponed to me, the cause of complaint, if any, applies em-
phatically to General Knox. His rank in the army was much
higher than that either of Pinckney or myself. Pinckney's pre-
tensions, on the score of real service, are not extensive ; those of
Knox are far greater. Pinckney has, no doubt, studied tactics
with great care and assiduity, but it is not presumable that he is
as well versed in the tactics of a general as Knox.

332 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mi. Ah

Pinckncy's rank, at the close of the war, was nominally greater
than mine ; it was, indeed, of more ancient date. But when, in
the year 1777, the regiments of artillery were multiplied, I had
good reason to expect that the command of one of them would
have fallen to me, had I not changed my situation ; and this, in
all probability, would have led farther. I am aware, at the same
time, that there were accidental impediments to Pinckney's pro-
gress in preferment; but an accurate comparison would, I imagine,
show, that on the score of rank merely, the claim of superiority
on his part is not strongly marked. As to military service, I
venture to believe, that the general understanding of the late
army would allow a considerable balance to me.

As to. civil services since the war, I am extremely mistaken
if in the minds of federal men there is any comparison between
us. The circumstances of the moment, it is true, gave him a cer-
tain eclat; but judicious men reduce the merit to the two points
of prudent forbearance, and the firmness not to sacrifice his coun-
try by base compliances. In all this, it is very far from my in-
clination to detract from General Pinckney. I have a sincere
regard for him, and hold him in high estimation. At the same
time, endeavoring to view the matter with all the impartiality
my situation permits, I must conclude that General Pinckney, on
a fair estimate of all circumstances, ought to be well satisfied with
the arrangement.

After saying thus much, I will add, that regard to the public
interest is ever predominant with me — that if the gentlemen con-
cerned are dissatisfied, and the service destined to suffer by the
preference given to me, I stand ready to submit our relative pre-
tensions to an impartial decision, and to waive the preference.
It shall never be said, with any color of truth, that my ambition
or interest has stood in the way of public good.

Thus, sir, have I opened my heart to you with as little re-
serve as to myself, willing, rather, that its weaknesses should ap-
pear, than that I should be deficient in frankness. I will only
add, that I do not think it necessary to make public beforehand
the ultimate intention I have now disclosed.

It is possible the difficulties anticipated may not arise. But,

yEr. 41.] CORRESPONDENCE. 333

my clear sir, there is a matter of far greater moment than all this,
which I must do violence to my friendship, by stating to you,
but of which it is essential you should be apprised. It is, that
my friend McHenry is wholly insufficient for his place, with the
additional misfortune, of not having the least suspicion of the
fact. This, generally, will not surprise you, when you take into
view the large scale upon which he is now to act. But you, per-
haps, may not be aware of the whole extent of the insufficiency.
It is so great as to leave no probability that the business of the
War Department can make any tolerable progress in his hands.
This has been long observed, and has been more than mentioned
to the President by members of Congress.

He is not insensible, I believe, that the execution of the de-
partment does not produce the expected results ; but the case is,
of course, delicate and embarrassing.

My real friendship for McHenry concurring with my zeal for
the service, predisposed me to aid him in all that he could prop-
erly throw upon me, and I thought that he would have been glad
in the organization of the army, and in the conduct of the recruit-
ing service, to make me useful to him. With this view, I came
to this city ; and I previously opened the way, as far as I could
with the least decency. But the idea has thus far been very par-
tially embraced, and to-morrow or next day I shall return to
New- York without much fruit of my journey. I mention this
purely to apprise you of the course of things, and the probable
results.

It is to be regretted, that the supposition of co-operation be-
tween the Secretary of War and the principal military officers
will unavoidably throw upon the latter a part of the blame which
the ill success of the operations of the War Department may be
expected to produce. Thus, you perceive, sir, your perplexities
are begun.

Most respectfully and affectionately,

I have the honor to remain, Sir, &c.

General Washington.

P. S. Since writing the above, I have concluded to write a

334 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 41.

letter, of which the inclosed is the copy. This effort to save a man
I value, and promote the service, has, under the circumstances,
cost something tp my delicacy.

Mr. Harper, of the House of Eepresentatives, is desirous of
being in your family. He is a man of very considerable talents,
and has the temper of a soldier. The shade to his useful quali-
ties is vanity ; but I think the good much outweighs the ill.
Pardon this liberty in a point so delicate.

New-York, August 1st, 1798.

The above was written at Philadelphia ; but a pressing call
to this place, added to occupation there, prevented my being able
to copy and forward it till now.

Give me leave to suggest the expediency of your asking of
McHenry a statement of all the military supplies, cannon, arms,
&c, which are already provided, and of the means and measures
provided and in execution for augmenting the quantity. This
will give you necessary information, and prompt to exertion.

HAMILTON TO WOLCOTT.

August 6th, 1798.

My Dear Sir:

You are probably apprised, that in announcing to the general
officers their appointments, they are told that the emoluments are
to be suspended until called into actual service, and that, as a
consequence of this plan, they are to remain inactive.

This project suits admirably my private arrangements, by
leaving me to pursue, in full extent, my profession. But I be-
lieve it accords neither with the intention of the individuals who
framed the laws, nor with the good of the service. It is impos-
sible for McHenry to get through all that is now upon his hands
in a manner honorable to himself, satisfactory to the public, or
proportioned to the energy of the conjuncture. You will see by

.F/r. 41.] CORRESPONDENCE. 535

the inclosed, that I have sacrificed my delicacy to my friendship
and public zeal. I have heard nothing in reply. I thought it
expedient that you and Colonel Pickering should understand, in
confidence, the situation of things. Without a change of plan,
they will not go, and the government, and all concerned, will be
discredited.

HAMILTON TO GEN. DAYTON.

New-York, August 6th, 1798.

My Dear Sir:

I received, at Philadelphia, your letter of the 27th July, the
answer to which has been delayed by excessive occupation.

You know I trust sufficiently my sentiments of you, not to
need being told how much pleasure your appointment gave me,
and how highly I value the confidence you express in me.

It will probably be unexpected to you to be told that I am
not yet in the exercise of the functions of my military office, and
that my participation in the preliminary arrangements is only oc-
casional, and very limited.

Such, however, is the course of the plan which has been
adopted by the Executive.

But I have, notwithstanding, had conversations with the Sec-
retary at War on the points you mention, and to the extent.of
my opportunity have endeavored to promote a right direction.
You no doubt have before this received a letter from the Secre-
tary on the subject of proper characters for officers. It seems to
be determined, in his mind, to appoint Col. Aaron Ogden to the
command of a regiment.

Every body must consider him as a great acquisition in this
station. The part of your letter which respects him, announcing
the certainty of his acceptance, was particularly grateful to me.

Inclosed you will receive instructions for the recruiting service,
which were previously prepared by the Secretary at War. I made
such remarks upon them as hastily occurred. Examine them

336 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 41.

carefully, and suggest to me whatever amendments or additions
may present themselves to you. You will oblige me by free
communications at all times.

HAMILTON TO SECRETARY OF THE NAVY.

New-York, August 7th, 1798.

Dear Sir:

Capt. Kobert Hamilton, a first cousin of mine, is desirous of
employment in this country in the line of his profession. He is
regularly bred to the sea, which he has followed since he was
fourteen years old, and has had the best opportunities of improve-
ment— among others that of voyages to the East Indies. He has
also commanded a ship, and has acted as supercargo. I venture
with confidence to recommend him as well qualified, and every
way worthy ; adding to skill in his profession, the sentiments
of a gentleman, good morals, intelligence and prudence. I in-
terest myself very much in his success, and shall esteem it as a
personal favor to myself whatever may be done for his interest.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.
(private.)

Mount Vernon, 9th August, 1798.

My Dear Sir:

By the same post which brought me your favor, began in
Philadelphia and ended in New- York the 1st instant, I received
a letter from General Knox, dated the 29th ult., in answer to one
I had written him on the 16th of that month. In confidence,
and as a proof of my frankness and friendship, I send both of

/Et. 41.] correspondence. 337

them to you, together with my reply of this date ; which, after
reading, be so good as to return to me.

Giving you the perusal of this correspondence, supersedes the
necessity of my going into further details on the subject of rela-
tive rank ; except, if the commissions are yet to issue, and it be
practicable at this time, and consistent also, I should not be indis-
posed (so far as my agency in the business extends), if that would
satisfy General Knox, to make him the senior of General Pinck-
ney. But, as the President is absent — and it might have been
the understanding of the Senate that the latter should be first —
the propriety of the change, unless it could be effected with the
consent of General Pinckney, might at least be questioned.
Though, upon more mature reflection, I do not see upon what
principle he could object. I have a high opinion of General
Pinckney's qualifications as an officer, and his integrity as a man,
but under the impression I am that the southern hemisphere will
be the grand theatre of action, I shall honestly confess that my
primary object in gratifying hjni, is, that he may come forward
with all his force.

Your opinion respecting the unfitness of a certain gentleman
for the office he holds, accords with mine, and it is to be regretted,
sorely, at this time, that these opinions are so well founded. I
early discovered after he entered upon the duties of his office,
that his talents were unequal to great exertions or deep resources.
In truth they were not expected ; for the fact is, it was a Hobson's
choice. But such is the case, and what is to be done ?

I am held in the most profound ignorance of every step that
has been taken since he left this place ; and but for other letters
which I have been obliged to have ready for this day's post, I
should have written very seriously to him on several matters
highly interesting to me, if I am to be called to the field ; and
that which you have mentioned among the rest. I am not at this
moment made acquainted with a single step that is taken to ap-
point an officer, or recruit a man, or where the rendezvouses are.
Numberless applications have been made to me to recommend
for commissions, and such as appeared to have merit I forwarded,
but know nothing of the result.
F 22

338 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 41.

Let mc hope that you will be able to devote a good deal of
your time to the business of recruiting good men — and the choice
of good officers. It is all important. I will endeavor to impress
him with the propriety of requiring your assistance in these mat-
ters ; and of the necessity of making you the full allowance of
pay, &c, for these services. By bringing you thus in contact a
thousand other matters will fall in of course. Delicacy, if mat-
ters become serious, must yield to expediency. The stake we
play for is too great to be trifled with.

Mr. Harper has been presented to my consideration before, as
an aid-de-camp — but as I have no use for my military family un-
til matters are more matured, I am unwilling to be embarrassed
by engagements. My aids, as you well know, must be men of
business, and ought to be officers of experience. Many, very
many young gentlemen of the first families in the country, have
offered their services ; and all have received one answer to the
above effect. Indeed, in the choice of my aids, a variety of con-
siderations must combine — political, geographical, &c.-, as well as
experience.

What is become of Walker? Colonel Heth has offered,
and stands well in my estimation without a promise. No
foreigner will be admitted as a member of my family, while I
retain my present ideas ; nor do I think they ought to be in any
situation where they can come at secrets and betray a trust.

Write me as often as you can conveniently ; and believe me
to be, what I really am,

Your sincere and affectionate friend,

George Washington.

HAMILTON TO MCHENRY.

(private.)

New-York, August 19, 1798.

My Dear Sir:

I. write you herewith an official letter. Your private one of
the 14th is before me. I regret that you have been unwell, and
rejoice that you are better.

jEt.41.J correspondence. 339

The affair of Gen. Knox perplexes me. I wish him to serve.
I am pained to occasion to him pain, for I have truly a warm
side for him, and a high value for his merits; but my judgment
tells me, and all I consult confirms it, that I cannot reasonably
postpone myself in a case in which a preference so important to
the public in its present and future consequences, has been given
me. In denominating the preference important, I do not intend
to judge whether it will be well or ill founded ; in either case, its
tendency is so important, I am willing to confer, to adjust ami-
cably, with the advice of mutual friends. But how can I aban-
don my pretension ?

At foot, my dear sir, I transmit you the draft of such a reply
as it seems to me proper for you to make to General Knox. It
may also be well for you, in a private letter, to advise him to ac-
cept, with a reservation of his claim ad referendum, upon the
ground of the rule he quotes, and with the understanding that it
will not be understood to engage him to continue, if the matter
be not finally settled according to his claim.

Adieu, my dear Sir.

Yours very truly, &c.

Draft above referred to.

Sir:

An answer to your letter of the 5th inst. has been delayed by some degree of
ill health on my part.

The general disposition it marks, accords well with the patriotic sentiments
you have so constantly manifested. It is extremely regretted that any circum-
stance should induce you to hesitate about the acceptance of an appointment in
whicli it is not to be doubted your services would be eminently useful.

The paragraph of my former letter which you quote, explains to you my con-
ception of the relative rank of the generals in question, as resulting from the order
of the nominations and appointments This conception, however, cannot affect
the claim of either, if there be any subsisting, binding rule in our military code,
which will arrange the priority of rank between officers nominated on the same
day, according to their relative stations in the late army. This will naturally be
the subject of some future decision, in some proper mode. It is not understood
that tnere has been any formal repeal of the rule to which you allude.

340 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 41.

It remains, then, for yon to determine whether you will or not accept the
appointment, with the reservation of a claim to the benefit of that rule.
With great consideration and esteem,

I have the honor to remain, Sir,

Your very obedient servant.

HAMILTON TO MCHENRY.

Nkw-York, August .19, 1798.

Sir:

An absence from the city, upon some urgent avocations, pre-
vented my receiving till yesterday your letters of the 10th and
11th instant.

I observe the suggestion which you have made to the Presi-
dent towards calling General Knox and myself into immediate
service. If he shall approve, I stand ready to execute, in the
best manner I shall be able, whatever business may be confided
to me ; but I must earnestly hope that it will not be attended
with the necessity of an immediate change of residence. The
nature of my arrangements would render this absolutely ruinous
to me, and I trust I shall not be reduced to such an alternative,
unless events portending public danger shall ripen faster than,
according to present appearances, they are likely to do. I do
not object to a frequent attendance at the seat of government, for
this can be reconciled with my other engagements, till they can
be gradually prepared for a total relinquishment and a new po-
sition. With this, I am satisfied, every desirable end can be ob-
tained, especially when the promptness of communication be-
tween this place and the seat of government is considered. Be
assured that none but very imperious motives could induce this
hesitation on my part. In accepting the appointment, I did not
contemplate as probable a speedy dislocation of residence.

The tenor of General Knox's letter, transmitted by you and
now returned, occasions to me no small regret and embarrass-
ment. My esteem and friendship for that gentleman would lead

JEt. 41.]

CORRESPONDENCE. 341

me far, but there is a very great difficulty in waiving a station to
which, I am well convinced, I have been called no less by the
public voice of this country than by the acts of the Commander-
in-Chief and of the President and Senate. The intention as to
the relative grades of the officers appointed is presumed to be un-
equivocal. It is believed that the rule to which General Knox
refers can have no application to the case of the formation of a
new army at a new epoch,, embracing officers not previously in
actual service.

It was not a permanent provision of law, but a regulation
adapted to the peculiar circumstances of the late army, and gov-
erning, as far as I recollect, only in the cases of promotions from
lower subsisting grades to higher ones. At the same time, it is
very delicate for me to give an opinion in a matter in which I
am so personally interested.

I send you back the list of applications which you transmitted
to me, with remarks, and with the addition of names. It has
been in my power to do little as to candidates in any State but
New- York. I have supposed that you have had recourse to bet-
ter sources of information as to others.

With great respect and esteem,

I have the honor to be, Sir,

Your verv obedient servant, &c.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

New-York, August 20tli; 17

My Dear Sir:

A necessary absence from this city prevented the receipt of
your letter of the 9th instant, till yesterday.

It is very grateful to me to discover in each succeeding oc-
currence a new mark of your friendship towards me. Time will
evince that it makes the impression it ought on my mind.

The effect which the course of the late military appointments

342 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 41.

has produced in General Knox, though not very unexpected, is
very painful to me. I have a respectful sense of his pretensions
as an officer, and I have a warm personal regard for him. My
embarrassment is not inconsiderable between these sentiments,
and what I owe to a reasonable conduct on my own part, both in
respect to myself and to the public. It is a fact, that a number
of the most influential men in our affairs would think that in
waiving the preference given to me I acted a weak part, in a
personal view, and an unwarrantable one, in a public view ;
and General Knox is much mistaken if he does not believe that
this sentiment would emphatically prevail in that region to
which he supposes his character most interesting. I mean New
England.

Yet, my dear sir, I can never consent to see you seriously
compromitted or embarrassed. I shall cheerfully place myself in
your disposal, and facilitate any arrangement you may think for
the general good. It does not, however, seem necessary to pre-
cipitate any thing. It DQiy be well to see first what part Gen.
Pinckney will act when he arrives.

The Secretary at War has sent me a copy of General Knox's
letter to him on the subject of his appointment. It does not ab-
solutely decline, but implies the intention to do it, unless a rule
of the late army, giving, in cases of promotion on the same day,
priority according to the former relative rank, is understood to
govern. I have addressed a reply of which a copy is inclosed.

The commissions have issued, so that no alteration can now
be made as between Generals Knox and Pinckney, if there were
not the serious difficulties in the way which you seem to have
anticipated.

The Secretary of War has proposed to the President a-.-
change of the plan announced in the first instance — which may
bring into immediate activity the Inspector-General and Gen.
Knox. In this case you may depend on the best efforts in my
power, with a peculiar attention to the objects you mention, and
you shall be carefully and fully advised of whatever it interests
you to know.

Col. Walker resides at present in the western part of this

^Et. 41.] CORRESPONDENCE. 343

State. He is occupied in some important agencies for persons
abroad, which renders it doubtful whether he would now accept
military employ ment. He has been written to, and will be pro-
posed for the command of a regiment.

Heth is, in many respects, very desirable, in the capacity you
mention. But you are aware, I presume, of the impracticability
of his temper.

With the most respectful and affectionate attachment, I have
the honor to remain, &c.

The papers sent by you are now returned.

PICKERING TO HAMILTON.

(confidential.)

Trenton, August 21st, 1798.

Dear Sir :

Not to miss the mail, I wrote you one line to-day, and in-
closed a letter from, I suppose, General Miranda. If its contents
give rise to any questions which it will be prudent for you to
ask, and for me to answer by the mail, it may be done ; other-
wise, the information may be suspended till we meet. Just
before I left Philadelphia, I received a letter from General Knox,
in answer to one I had written at the request of Captain Mitchell,
of the artillery, who wished to be one of his aids-de-camp.
Mitchell, you will have observed, is since dead. But my object
in noticing this matter is to inform you that General Knox
manifests pretty strongly his dissatisfaction at your being ap-
pointed in a manner to precede him in the military line. I con-
clude he will not serve. Although I should have been well
pleased with his accepting his commission, I do not by any
means deem his loss irreparable. Although by the delay of the
nominations one day, I received your letter, expressing your
willingness to serve under Knox, yet I concealed it, in order

344 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt.41.

that the arrangement of nominations of major-generals, which I
had seen as formed by General Washington, and which I saw
would govern, might leave you where you ought to be. In the
first place, in General Washington's answer to my letter, of
which I sent you some extracts, there is not, as I recollect, the
most distant idea of General Knox:s making any difficulty in
acting subordinately to you. His apprehensions arose wholly
on General Pinckney's account. I think it right to add, that
from the first moment that a commander-in-chief was thought of,
no name was mentioned but yours; for, until the nomination
was actually made, I had no suspicion that General Washington
would ever again enter the field of war. I know, also, that not
only all your friends, but your political enemies, have the highest
respect for your abilities; while the latter, the political enemies
also of General Knox, estimate his talents by a very moderate
scale, and some persons have, in my hearing, called him a weak
man. I think him neither iveah nor great, but with pretty good
abilities, possessing an imposing manner that impresses an idea
of mental faculties beyond what reallj exist. I am certain that
if he had been second to General Washington, and of course
likely to command in chief, great dissatisfaction would have
been excited. I much doubt, even, whether the nomination
would have been confirmed by the Senate. I write this letter in
the confidence of friendship for the public good, which I con-
ceive to be involved in your holding your present superior sta-
tion. I have always supposed you and General Knox to be
cordial friends. I wish you to continue such. I persuade my-
self he is too good a patriot to suffer the present disappointment
to actuate him to any improper conduct, and that he will at last
positively acquiesce. I think he will gainno honor by declining
to serve under you. I rather think his refusal will detract from
the reputation he now possesses. Mr. Wolcott showed me (as you
requested) your letter to him, suggesting the expediency of
calling you and General Knox into immediate service, to aid the
arrangements and operations of the department of war. I was
so well pleased with the idea, and thought it so important, or
rather so essential to the formation of an army in time to afford

tEt. 41.] CORRESPONDENCE. 345

some security to our country, that I told Mr. "Wolcott I would
write to the President and urge the measure. Mr. Wolcott
approved ; I have yet no answer. The Secretary of War was at
the time indisposed ; but inquiring of his chief clerk, I found that
he also had written for the same purpose. It is since this that I
received General Knox's letter before mentioned, and that gave
rise to a new thought, — that as he manifestly intended to decline
accepting his commission, and the President would be on the
spot to converse with him, the taking charge of the war depart-
ment again might be proposed to him ; for the President, I have
seen, has been informed of a very general dissatisfaction in its
present direction. After the appointments of general officers
were made, but before they were known beyond Philadelphia, I
received a letter from Mr. Jay, expressing the same opinion
respecting you, which I had done to General Washington, and
the same reasons (the nature of the war in which we were to be
engaged) why superior talents should be sought for without
regard to rank in a former war. I therefore made Mr. Jay
acquainted with my conduct in the business.

P. S. August 22ri. Since writing the inclosed, I have turned
to Mr. Jay's letter ; his words are, "I cannot conceal from you
my solicitude that the late Secretary of the Treasury may be
brought forward in a manner corresponding with his talents and
services. It appears to me that his former military station and
character, tak,en in connection with his late important place in
the administration, would justify measuring his rank by his merit
and value." The reason of Mr. Jay's solicitude is thus express-
ed: " We shall probably have very different generals to contend
with from those which Britain sent here last war,/ and we should
have very different ones to oppose them from several of those
who then led our troops." This, you may recollect, is the same
sentiment which I expressed in my letter to General Washing-
ton which I showed you. In a subsequent letter Mr. Jay joined
me in regretting that the terms of the nomination and appoint-
ment left any room to question your right of precedence ; I men-
tioned 'he point to you, but you answered that it had been set-

340 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 41.

tied in the case of Baron Steuben. No doubt you have seen
some paragraphs in the Columbian Centinel (B. Russell's fulsome
paper), in which it is said that General Knox is next in com-
mand to General Washington. And a letter from the President
to the Secretary of "War (in answer, I suppose, to his for calling
you and Knox into service) expresses that to be his opinion ;
and consequently, " that Pinckney must rank before Hamilton ;"
but that is not the only consequence ; Lee and Hand were on the
same clay named, and approved as major-generals ; and if Knox
and Pinckney precede you, so will the other two, for I cannot
see that their being named for the provisional army can make
any difference when that army shall be raised ; and are you pre-
pared for a station so much in the rear ? God forbid that such
an arrangement should be adopted. But the matter will rest
on " General Washington's opinion and consent," and it is for
this reason principally that I have added this postscript, that
you may take Q1ich steps with the General, as you may think
p*~pcsr, t? £tc you in the station which the essential interests of
our country require ; the station in which I conceive the General
meant to place you, according to the list which he sent by
McHenry to the President, and in conformity with which you,
Pinckney, and Knox, were named. I have just read the Gene-
ral's answer to my letter about you ; he does not hint an idea of
any competition save with Pinckney. I inclose* it for your pe-
rusal, and to be returned. If North declines, the President is
" prepared to appoint another and a better." Js this Harry
Jackson, or Cobb ? Colonel William Heth of Virginia would
joyfully take that office. But the appointment of A W. White
has grievously offended him.

Sincerely adieu,

T. Pickering.

JEt. 41.] CORRESPONDENCE. 347

HAMILTON TO KING.

New-York, August 22d, 1798.

My Dear Sir :

Your several letters of May 12th, June the 6th and 8th, have
regularly come to hand.

You will be, no doubt, fully instructed of the measures
which have taken place on the part of our government, and you
will have seen in the numerous addresses to the President a con-
firmation of the opinion I gave you respecting the disposition of
the country. From both you will have derived satisfaction,
though you should not think we are yet where we ought now to
be. But console yourself with the assurance that we are pro-
gressing in good. The indications are to my mind conclusive,
that we are approaching fast to as great unanimity as any country
ever experienced, and that our energies will be displayed in pro-
portion to whatever exigencies shall arise.

I have received several letters from General Miranda. I have
written an answer to some of them, which I send you to deliver
or not, according to your estimate of what is passing in the scene
where you are. Should you deem it expedient to suppress my
letter, you may do it, and say as much as you think fit on my
part in the nature of a communication through you.

With regard to the enterprise in question, I wish it much to be
undertaken, but I should be glad that the principal agency was in
the United States, they to furnish the whole land force if neces-
sary. The command in this case would very naturally fall upon
me ; and I hope I should disappoint no favorable anticipations.
The independency of the separate territory under a moderate
government, with the joint guarantee of the co-operating pow-
ers, stipulating equal privileges in commerce, would be the sum
of the results to be accomplished.

Are we yet ready for this undertaking? Not quite. But
we ripen fast, and it may, I think, be rapidly brought to matu-
rity, if an efficient negotiation for the purpose is at once set on

348 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 41.

foot upon this ground. Great Britain cannot alone insure the
accomplishment of the object. I have some time since advised
certain preliminary steps to prepare the way consistently with
national character and justice. I was told they would be pur-
sued, but I am not informed whether they have been or not.

Yours affectionately, &c.

HAMILTON TO MIRANDA.

Nkw-York, August 22d. 1798-

Sir:

I have lately received by duplicates your letter of the 6th of
April, with the postscript of the 9th of June. The gentleman
you mention in it has not made his appearance to me, nor do I
know of his arrival in this country ; so that I can only divine the
object from the limits in your letter.

The sentiments I entertain with regard to that object, have
been long since in your knowledge, but I could personally have
no participation in it, unless patronized by the government of
this country. It was my wish that matters had been ripened for
a co-operation in the course of this fall on the part of this
country.

But this can now scarcely be the case. The winter, however,
may mature the project, and an effectual co-operation by the United
States may take place. In this case I shall be happy, in my
official station, to be an instrument of so good a work.

The plan in my opinion ought to be — a fleet of Great Britain,
an army of the United States, a government for the liberated
territory agreeable to both the co-operators, about which there
will be no difficulty. To arrange the plan a competent authority
from Great Britain to some person here, is the best expedient.
Your presence here will, in this case, be extremely essential.

We are raising an army of about twelve thousand men.

JEt. 41.] CORRESPONDENCE. 349

General "Washington has resumed his station at the head of our
armies. I am appointed second in command.
With esteem and regard,

I remain, dear Sir, &c.

HAMILTON TO WOLCOTT.

New-York, August 22, 1798.

My Dear Sir:

No one knows better than }rourself, how difficult and op-
pressive is the collection even of taxes very moderate in their
amount, if there be a defective circulation. According to all the
phenomena which fall under my notice, this is our case in the
interior parts of the county.

Again; individual capitalists, and consequently the facility
of direct loans, are not very extensive in the United States. The
banks can only go a certain length, and not be forced. Yet
government will stand in need of large anticipations.

For these and other reasons, which I have thought well of, I
have come to a conclusion, that our Treasury ought to raise up a
circulation of its own. I mean by the issuing of Treasury notes
payable, some on demand, others at different periods, from very
short to pretty considerable, — at first having but little time to
run.

This appears to me an expedient, equally necessary to keep
the circulation full, and to facilitate the anticipations which gov-
ernment will certainly need. By beginning early, the public eye
will be familiarized, and as emergencies press, it will be easy to
enlarge without hazard to credit.

Think well of this suggestion, and do not discard it without
perceiving well a better substitute.

Adieu.

3-r>0 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 41.

PICKERING TO HAMILTON.

August 22, 1798.

Dear Sir:

In writing freely as I have done yesterday and to-day in the
inclosed letter to you, disclosing what is contemplated respecting
your military station, far from being apprehensive of justly incur-
ring blame, I consider myself as performing a hazardous duty ;
but I am not conscious that the risk of incurring the displeasure
of any man ever deterred me from doing' what I conceived to be
my duty. My anxiety to see you fixed second in command, has
arisen from the opinion which for twenty years I have enter-
tained of your superior genius and talents combined with integ-
rity. The integrity of your competitors, I trust, is also un-
impeachable. General Pinckney's character I believe to be
eminently pure, and were their other qualifications equal, my soli-
citude would cease. Nay, there would be an evident propriety
in their preceding you.

My interference has not proceeded from any claims you have
on my friendship ; for though we were never, to my knowledge,
for one moment at enmity, our acquaintance was never so inti-
mate as in the proper strict sense of the word to make us friends.
My respect, esteem and attachment have been founded on the
qualities of your head and heart as above suggested ; and all the
return I expected was, the regard due simply to an honest man.
Viewing me as entitled to this character, you will not, nor would
any one who knew as well as you my frank, downright disposi-
tion, ascribe to flattery the sentiments I have expressed of you
in our correspondence. It was impossible to reason the subject
without expressing them. Thus much I have thought proper to
add in justification, and as an apology for the inclosed, and for
any similar sentiments in former letters.

P. S. — I postpone sending General Washington's letter. I
may want it in conversing with my colleagues before the question
of rank shall be referred to the General.

i&r. 41.J CORRESPONDENCE. 351

PICKERING TO HAMILTON.
(private and confidential.)

Trenton, August 23d, 1798.

Dear Sir:

Mr. McHenry lias just handed to Mr. Wolcott and me his
letter to the President on the subject of calling you and Gen-
eral Knox into immediate service, together with General Knox's
letter to him in answer to the one inclosing his commission.
General Knox's letter claiming the first rank, I see has been
transmitted to you ; and I was glad to see you, in your answer to
the Secretary of War, tenacious of the station in which the Com-
mander-in-Chief, the President and Senate, and the public voice
have placed you. I did not know till now, that General Wash-
ington had so explicitly written you respecting your taking rank
of General Knox, whom he loved, although I had formed the same
conclusion from his silence concerning him in his letter to me,
which I now inclose, and which Mr. Wolcott only, of my col-
leagues, has seen. The original letter from General Washington
to you, McHenry now informs us, was by him shown to the Presi-
dent ; notwithstanding which you have seen where you would
have been placed. McHenry said also, that General Washington
made your appointment to be the sine qua non of his accepting the
chief command. The weight of these facts seems to have escaped
the President's recollection, or he would not desire that General
Knox should take rank of you. It is plain that General Knox
has conversed with him, referred to the rule of the former war
to determine the relative rank of officers of the same grade, ap-
pointed on the same day, and the President has thence concluded
Knox is " legally" entitled to the precedency. But, as I yester-
day informed you, the change proposed to gratify General Knox
and the President, is by the latter put on General Washington's
" opinion and consent," and such consent, surely, can never be
given after the General's letter to you, in which, as McHenry
says, he explicitly told you, that he passed by Knox whom he

352 HAMILTON'S WORKS. L<Et. 41.

loved, to give you the priority of rank. Upon the principle men-
tioned by General Knox, Hand must clearly precede you as well
as Knox and Pinckney. Lee, I presume, must follow you, as he
was only a captain of horse when you, as aid to the Commander-
in-Chief, had the rank of lieutenant-colonel. I see in your letter to
McHen/y, you refer to the public voice in your favor — and justly,
as I yesterday mentioned. Yet the President imagines that " the
Jive New England States" would be offended at your preceding
Knox. He is most egregiously mistaken ; it was among New
England members of Congress that I heard you, and you only,
mentioned as the Commander-in-Chief, until General Washington
Avas nominated ; and I dare to say, that if among the New Eng-
land delegates a vote were taken, nine in ten, if not the whole,
would place you before I£nox.

McHenry is to write you to-day on the subject. He is utterly
uninformed of my correspondence with General Washington and
you concerning it. The reference of the matter to General Wash-
ington is suspended. You will consider whether it should not
be made ; for he must decide in your favor. McHenry had
thought of not so referring it, but of taking the course which he
said he would state to you to-day — that is, to propose to General
Knox to accept with a reservation of his claim under the old rule
appealed to by him ; at the same time, McHenry says that rule is
not now. in force, nor ought to govern. Why, then, urge General
Knox's acceptance on that ground ? It would be a delusive pro-
position to General Knox — and if it did not eventually prove so
to him, you would be in a predicament to excite the extreme re-
gret of the great body of your fellow-citizens, who would the
more deeply deplore the arrangement from the very possible fall
or other inevitable loss of the present Commander-in-Chief.

iET. 41.] CORRESPONDENCE. 353

STODDART TO HAMILTON.

Trknton, August 24th, 1798.

Dear Sir:

I should have replied to your letter of the 8th instant, before
this time, had it not mentioned your intention of setting out on
a journey. I am since honored with yours of the 21st.

I have no motive but truth in saying that there is no man,
known to me by character only, to whose wishes I would pay so
much respect as yours. That I think you have such claims on
this country, and this government, that to insure the appoint-
ment of a gentleman to be a lieutenant in our navy, it should be
sufficient to know it would oblige you. Anticipating that objec-
tions might be made in New- York to Capt. Hamilton, on the
score of his being a foreigner, I had turned my attention to the
Southward, for an appointment for him, and I lamented that a
lieutenant had already been mentioned to the President for the
Montezuma, of 20 guns, at Baltimore. Two more vessels are pre-
paring there of 18 9-pounders, and one of larger size at Charles-
ton. To one of these, I suppose, there would be no difficulty in
appointing him first lieutenant. To the South there are but few
qualified men for the navy, of course less competition. The
middle and eastern States are able — at least it seems to be
thought so — to furnish officers for our navy. If, however, you
prefer that Captain Hamilton should be mentioned to the Presi-
dent, for the frigate at New- York, I will, with the utmost plea-
sure, exert my influence for his appointment. In this case, pre-
suming you know Capt. Talbot, it might obviate objections, if he
also would desire it.

I have the honor to be, with real respect and esteem, &c.
354 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 41.

HAMILTON TO MeHENRY.

New York, August 25th, 1798.

Dear Sir:

I perceive it would be agreeable to the Commander-in-Chief
to receive frequent communications from you, and particularly to
understand the state of public supplies, that is, the quantities on
hand, and the measures in execution to procure others.

I give you this hint as a guide, and would advise to have a
full statement made out, with notes of what is further doing, and
send it to him.

HAMILTON TO SEDGWICK.

New-York, August 29th, 1798.

My Dear Sir:

Your letter of the 3d instant, came seasonably to hand. Bu-
siness and absence from this place have delayed the acknow-
ledgment.

The persons you mention have been correspondently placed
before the Secretary of War.

As to military affairs, they lag not a little — no appointments
of regimental officers yet made. McHenry, as you know, is
loaded beyond his strength. It was an obvious idea to derive
aid from among general officers. But instead of embracing this
recourse, they have all been told that the President hoped they
would think it proper to waive the emoluments of their offices
till called into actual service.

Steps have been taken towards the correction of this obvious
mistake, the success of which now depends on the President,
and on that success the alternative of some or no energy.
Adieu, my dear Sir.

JEt. 41.] CORRESPONDENCE. 355

HAMILTON TO PICKERING.

New-York, August 29, 1798.

My Dear Sir:

Your friendly letters of 21st, 22d, and 23d of August, have
been duly received. I feel myself at once much flattered and
truly indebted for the very favorable opinion of me which you
manifest. The good estimation of men of sense and virtue is an
ample consolation for the censure and malice of those of a differ-
ent character; while the expression of your sentiments have all
the value which a well-known sincerity and integrity of dispo-
sition can give. Be assured that I shall be happy to be ranked
by you in the number of your friends. The course of the thing
in a particular quarter does not surprise. Besides the direct in-
fluence which would be exerted, I am aware that the circum-
stances of the late election for President have made some unfor-
tunate impressions.

The Commander-in-Chief, I am authorized by his own com-
munications to me to believe, will not easily relinquish the
original spirit of the primitive arrangement ; but, in the last re-
sort, I shall be inclined to have much deference for his wishes.
It is important he should well understand, what I verily believe
to be an undoubted fact, that New England would rather see
high command in my hands than in those of Gen. Knox.

With very cordial regard and esteem, &c.

HAMILTON TO MCHENRY.

New-York, September 8th, 17S

My Dear Sir :

Yours, dated by mistake August 6th, I received yesterday.
I postponed a reply till to-day, because I wished first to reflect
maturely. My mind is unalterably made up. I shall certainly

356 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 41.

not hold the commission on the plan proposed, and only wait an
official communication to say so.

I return you the inclosures in your letter. You may depend
on my fidelity to your friendly confidence. I shall regret what-
ever of inconvenience may attend you. You doubtless will
take care that you retain in your own power all the evidences of
this transaction.

Adieu.

MCHENRY TO HAMILTON.

Trenton, September 10th, 1798.

My Dear Sir:

I received your letter of the 8th this morning ; mine to you,
to which it was an answer, ought to have been dated the 6th
instant.

I do not, I cannot blame you for your determination. Mr.
Pickering, Mr. Wolcott, and Mr. Stoddart, have agreed to make
a respectful representation on the subject to the President.
You will not, of course, hear from me relative to the commands
of the President, till the result is known to me.

Yours affectionately, &c.

KING TO HAMILTON.

London, September 17th, 1798.
I am charmed with the military appointments. In the main
they are quite what they should be. Such chiefs ought to give
glory as well as security to their country, and they will do both
if the occasions offer. You see that I relapse into my former
strain. I know not what you and others, whose sentiments I

jEt. 41.] CORRESPONDENCE. 357

respect, may think, but I must unsettle all that is best settled in
my opinions of the character of the present extraordinary crisis,
or I cannot agree with an unimpassioned, phlegmatic, cautious,
inactive, and merely defensive war, even under the highest
toned and most vigorous form of government, is capable of af-
fording a tolerable chance of security against such an adversary
as France.

I do not entirely comprehend the views and proceedings of
Congress, who appear to have done too much, or not enough.
But I have been too long acquainted with the temper and com-
position of that body, not to be able to conjecture the difficulties
that arise from the vanities of some, and the obstinacy of others ;
and which have given the appearance of inconsistency to their
measures.

Congress has adjourned, and it is of the highest importance
that we should form a correct opinion of the course that France
is likely to pursue. It is plain, that discovering our union and
firmness, France instantly decided upon relinquishment of her
demands of apologies and loans, and resolved to recede as far
as should be necessary to regain her standing ; and, if possi-
ble, her influence among our people. But she has had no inten-
tion of doing us justice for the past, nor of performing what she
might be induced to promise in respect to the future. The cor-
respondence between Talleyrand and Gerry, inclusive of other
extemporaneous and subsequent measures of the same charac-
ter, should convince us of the justice of this opinion. Logan,
who, as we hear, was provided with letters from Jefferson and
others, has been presented to Merlin as the envoy of the patri-
otic party in America. He has been closeted with Talleyrand,
and speaks openly of his success with the French government.
Since his arrival at Paris, the American seamen have been re-
leased, who, on the laying of the embargo, were conducted to
prison, and the Directory have ordered the embargo to be raised.
The preamble of this arret merits attention.

29 Thermidor. Le Directoire executif, conside'rant que mal-
gre la manifestation hostile du gouvernement des Etats Unis, qui
avait determine un embargo momentane sur leurs batimens, il

358 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 41

doit croire qu'a moins d'etre livre aux passions du cabinet
Britanique, ce gouvernement fidele aux interets de ia Nation
Americaine, prendra des mesures analogues aux dispositions
pacifiques de la republique Francaise des qu'il en recevra la
confirmation, et voulant suivre les habitudes amicales et fra-
ernelles de la France, envers un peuple dont elle a defendu la
liberty, arrete ce qui suit, &c. &c." These proceedings should be
compared with the treatment and language received by our en-
voys, and we shall from hence be able perhaps to fathom the
views, and to discover the meaning of France. It is analogous
to what has been done in other countries. Difficulties and em-
barrassments, complained of by the proper agents of such coun-
tries have been aggravated and increased, and in order to divide
the people from their government, promises of redress and satis-
faction have been given to the popular agents of such countries
which had been refused to the envoys of their governments.

But we know nothing certain of the views of France since it
has been known at Paris that our treaties are dissolved. The
measures above referred to were of antecedent date. I still
think they will not declare war, but endeavor to gain their ob-
ject by humiliation and intrigue.

The war is on the eve of recommencing between France and
Austria. Prussia will remain neuter ; Germany will suffer her-
self to be incorporated with France in preference to being again
at war with her. Naples will be engaged, aud Russia, accord-
ing to appearances, will also become active.

WOLCOTT TO HAMILTON.

(private.)

Trenton, Sept. 19, 1798.

Dear Sir :

I am acqainted with the state of a delicate question in which
you personally, but the government and country are more

Mt. 41.] CORRESPONDENCE. 359

interested. Measures have been taken to bring all right, if the
thing be at all practicable. The present embarrassment might,
I am persuaded, have been entirely avoided, and I do not despair
of having it corrected. As a friend to your fame, and the in-
terests of the country, I request you to say nothing, and do
nothing, until you hear from me, which will be ten days or a
fortnight hence.

Your advice respecting the use of credit has been, and will
continue to be, regarded. The finances will not fail before the
other departments, but the government will lose all confidence,
and will deserve none, if things are not managed with some por-
tion of good sense. There is now no object, system, or design ;
all is hurry, passion, and imbecility.

Yours.

KING TO HAMILTON.

London, September 23, 1798.

You will have no war ! France will propose to renew the
negotiation upon the basis laid down in the President's instruc-
tions to the envoys — at least, so I conjecture.

If the negotiation is recommenced, the most obvious precau-
tion suggests the expediency of confiding it to hands above all
suspicion.

We see that we have nothing to fear from the arms of France ;
all her skill and energy, and ■ resentment, will nevertheless be
employed to attain her ends.

A treaty, liberal in terms and stipulations, though neither
should be performed nor observed, would gain time, and go a
great way to restore her injured credit

The election of President would return before the efficacy
and sincerity of the new stipulations and engagements would be
experimentally ascertained. To give them any chance of success,
they must be liberal to the utmost bounds of our expectations.

?>60 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 41.

Bonaparte reached Grand Cairo on the 22d July, but we are
quite ignorant whether he was opposed by the Beys. It does
not yet appear whether he will remain some time in Egypt, in
order to consolidate his conquest and authority over that coun-
try, or proceed immediately by the Red Sea for India. We are
without details or confirmation of the victory which the French
papers of the 15th and 16th instant state to have been gained
over the French fleet by Nelson. The news is on the whole
highly probable, and the victory has, according to these reports,
been very decisive and glorious. The war is about to re-
commence.

WASHINGTON TO ADAMS.

Extract of a letter from General Washington to the President of the United States,
dated Mount Vernon, 25th of September, 1798.

. It is an invidious task, at all times, to draw comparisons, and I shall avoid it as
much as possible ; but I have no hesitation in declaring, that if the public is to be
deprived of the service of Colonel Hamilton in the military line, that the post he
was destined to fill will not be easily supplied ; and that this is the sentiment of
the public, I think I can venture to pronounce. Although Colonel Hamilton has
never acted in the capacity of a general officer, yet his opportunities, as the prin-
cipal and most confidential aid of the commander-in-chief, afforded him the means
of viewing every thing on a larger scale than those who had only divisions and
brigades to attend to — who knew nothing of the correspondencies of the com-
mander-in-chief, or of the various orders to, or transactions with, the general staff
of the army. These advantages, and his having served with usefulness in the old
Congress, in the general Convention, and having filled one of the most important
departments of government with acknowledged abilities and integrity, has placed
him on high ground, and made him a conspicuous character in the United States,
and even in Europe. To these, as matters of no small consideration, may be
added, that as a lucrative practice of his profession, his most certain depend-
ence, the inducement lo relinquish it, must, in some degree, be commensurate.

By some he is considered as an ambitious man, and, therefore, a dangerous
one. That he is ambitious, I shall readily grant ; but it is of that laudable kind
which prompts a man to excel in whatever he takes in hand. He is enterprising,

jEt. 41.] correspondence. 361

quick in his perceptions, and his judgment intuitively great ; qualities essential
to a great military character ; and, therefore, I repeat, that his loss will be ir-
reparable.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

New-York, September 30, 1798.

My Dear Sir:

Your obliging favor of the 24th instant, has duly come to
hand. I see in it a new proof of sentiments towards me which
are truly gratifying. But permit me to add my request to the
suggestions of your own prudence, that no personal considera-
tions for me may induce more on your part than on mature
reflection you may think due to public motives. It is extremely
foreign to my wish to create to you the least embarrassment,,
especially in times like the present, when it is more than ever
necessary that the interests of the whole should be paramounily
consulted.

I shall strictly comply with the recommendation in the close
of your letter, remaining always

Your very respectful and affectionate servant.

WASHINGTON TO PICKERING.

(confidential.)

Mount Vernon, 1st October, 1798.

Dear Sir :

This letter will contain very little more than an acknowledgment of the
receipts of your letters of the 13th and 18th of last month, which came safe to
hand. The letter written by Mr. Wolcott to the President of the United States
and the representation made by me to him, so soon as I received official informa-
tion of the change intended by him, in the relative rank of the major-generals,
and of his departure in almost every other instance from what I considered a

362 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 41.

solemn compact : and the only terms on which I would, by an acceptance of the
commission, hazard every thing dear and valuable to me, will soon b"ing matters
to a close so far as it respects myself. But until the final result of them is known,
the less there is said on the subject the better.

With great truth and sincerity, lam always

Your sincere and obedient servant,

George Washington.

HAMILTON TO KING.

New-York, October 2, 1798.

My Dear Sir :

Mr. R. delivered me your letter of tlie 31st of July. The
opinion in that and other of your letters concerning a very
important point, has been acted upon by me from the very
moment that it became unequivocal that we must have a decisive
rupture with France. In some things my efforts succeeded, in
others they were disappointed : — in others I have had promises
of conformity to lay the foundation of future proceeding ; the
performance and effect of which promises are not certainly known
to me. The effect, indeed, cannot yet be known.

The public mind of this country continues to progress in the
right direction. That must influence favorably the present Con-
gress at the ensuing session. The next will be in all appearance
intrinsically better.

Of the executive I need say little ; you know its excellent dis-
positions, its general character, and the composition of its parts.
You know also how widely different the business of government
is from the speculation of it, and the energy of the imagination
dealing in general propositions from that of execution in detail.

There are causes from which delay and feebleness are expe-
rienced. But difficulty will be surmounted, and I anticipate with
you that this country will ere long assume an attitude correspond-
ent with its great destinies — majestic, efficient, and operative of
great things. A noble career lies before it.

Why does not Gouverneur Morris come home ? His talents

JEt. 41.] CORRESPONDENCE. 363

are wanted. Men like him do not superabound. Indeed I wish
that you were here rather than where you are, though I think
your position an important one at the present juncture. But we
want to infuse more abilities into the management of our in-
ternal affairs.

Governor Jay is well. He and all your friends continue to
take a lively interest in all that concerns you.

Adieu. Yours affectionately.

HAMILTON TO THE COUNT LATOUR DUPIN GOUVION.

New-York, October 3d, 1798.

I had yesterday, my dear sir, the pleasure of receiving your
letter of the 15th of July, accompanied by two others, one for
Messrs. Le Eoy and Bayard, the other for Mr. Olive, which will
be sent to them in the country, where they now continue, in con-
sequence of the sickness in this city. The letters which you
mention to have before written, have also been received. To
mine I replied shortly after, nor can I imagine how it has hap-
pened that you have received no answer from either of the
parties.

On the subject of the sale of your farm, Mr. Bayard and my-
self had a conference, and we agreed that a sale at this time
was inexpedient, as it could not be hoped that the farm would
bring near its value, owing to the embarrassments in pecuniary
operations produced by the prospect of war. I shall, however, now
advise that an experiment be made. The offers received, if any,
will determine whether a sale can take place without an impru-
dent sacrifice for you, and the result can be regulated accord-
ingly.

Be assured, my dear sir, that I shall be happy to be useful to
you in this or any other matter. In doing so, I shall ecpaally
gratify the esteem and friendship with which you have inspired
me for yourself, and that lively and affecting interest in whatever

364 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 41.

concerns Madame de Gouvion, which cannot but be felt by all
who have had an opportunity to know her value.

If it shall conduce to her and your happiness to return to this
country, it will certainly add to ours ; and if you will, beforehand,
apprise me of your resolution, when taken, and your general
plan, you will find me zealous to co-operate in giving it effect.

I would invite you to return with the more confidence, from
the assurance in the stability of affairs in this country, which is
derived from the late happy course of the public mind. An ex-
traordinary union among the people in the support of their own
government, and in resistance to all foreign encroachments, leaves
nothing to be feared for our future security and prosperity. The
most reasonable ideas in every respect prevail.

Accept, whenever you shall come, under the roof of Mrs.
Hamilton and myself, an asylum where you may be perfectly at
home, until you shall have completed your arrangements for
your future establishment. She joins me in cordial remembrance
to Madame de Gouvion and yourself.

Believe me always very truly, dear Sir, &c.

ADAMS TO WASHINGTON.

Quincy, October 9th, 1798.

Sir:

I received yesterday the letter you did me the honor to write
me on the 28th September.

You request to be informed whether my determination to re-
verse the order of the three Major-Generals is final, and whether
I mean to appoint another Adjutant-General without your con-
currence. I presume that before this day you have received in-
formation from the Secretary at War, that I some time ago
signed the three commissions, and dated them on the same day,
in hopes, similar to yours, that an amicable adjustment or acqui-
escence might take place among themselves ; but if these hopes

At. 41.] CORRESPONDENCE. 365

should be disappointed, and controversies should arise, they will
of course be submitted to you as Commander-in-Chief, and if,
after all, any one should be so obstinate as to appeal to me from
the judgment of the Commander-in-Chief, I was determined to
confirm that judgment; because, whatever construction may be
put upon the resolutions of the ancient Congress which have
been applied to this case, and whether they are at all applicable
to it or not, there is no doubt to be made, that by the present
Constitution of the United States the President has authority to
determine the rank of officers.

I have been for some time prepared in my own mindt to
nominate Mr. Dayton to be Adjutant-General in case of the re-
fusal of Mr. North. Several others have occurred and been sug-
gested to me, but none who in point of science or literature,
political and military merit or energy of character, appear to be
equal to him. I have no exclusive attachment to him or any
other. If you have any other in contemplation, I pray you to
mention him to the Secretary of War, who may fill up his com-
mission immediately, in case Mr. North declines.

I hope your own health and that of Mrs. Washington are
perfect. Mine is very indifferent, and Mrs. Adams's extremely
low ; confined to the bed of sickness for two months, her destiny
is still very precarious, and mine in consequence of it.

With great respect, I have the honor to be, Sir,

Your most obedient servant,

John Adams.

WOLCOTT TO HAMILTON.
(private.)

Trenton, October 10th, 1798.

Dear Sir :

At the close of the last week, or on Monday of this, a letter
was received by the Secretary of War from the President, cover-
ing the commissions of the Major-Generals, dated on one day.

3()6 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 41.

This circumstance, taken in connection with others which pre-
ceded, fully justify an opinion, that the rank may be considered
as settled in the order in which the appointments were made.
Of course that you are established in the rank of first Major-
General.

I supposed till yesterday that the commissions had been trans,
mitted by Mr. McHenry, with an official letter, settling the grade-
I find, however, that our friend McHenry still hesitates ; I will,
however, prevail on him to do his duty if I can. In the mean
time, permit me to say to you with confidence, that the affair
which has caused so much doubt, delay, and perplexity, ought
not, in justice, to be attributed entirely to the President. I will
admit that he has been, in my opinion, greatly mistaken. The
affair was, however, unfortunately managed, and General Wash-
ington and the President have not been understood by each other.

The question of rank being settled, I sincerely hope that Gen-
eral Knox will decline service. His pecuniary affairs are, I be-
lieve, so embarrassed, that there is no prospect of his preserving
his independence, and I much fear, that the fortune of modern
speculators (some loss of character) awaits him.

As a friend to your fame and the public interest, I cannot
omit to request, that no conversation will take place respecting
the question of rank. Even your personal feelings will be much
alleviated by such an explanation as I will give you when we
have the fortune to meet.

In the next place let me request, that as little may be done as
possible relative to the organization of the army before there can
be a deliberate consultation upon the state of our affairs. Depend
upon it, that the arrangements of the "War Department are all de-
fective, and that nothing will succeed without a thorough reform.
Besides, do not countenance the plan for makmg appointments
in the great sections of our country, on the recommendations of
individual officers. Though you may feel confidence in your
own judgment, yet it will be well to remember that the same
power will be exercised by others who may not be equally well
informed. If a few more mistakes are made, the service will be
irretrievably ruined.

Mt.4\.] CORRESPONDENCE. 367

If I can do it without danger* I will call on you, as I go on
to Connecticut at the close of this month, when I will explain, &c.

WASHINGTON TO

Mount Vernon, 15th October, 1798.

Dear Sir :

The information contained in your letter of the 3d instant
was highly grateful to me. Such communications are not only
satisfactory to me, but are really useful ; for while I hold myself
in readiness to obey the call of my country, it is expedient that I
should have more authentic information than newspaper incon-
sistencies, of the approaching or receding storm, that I may reg-
ulate my private concerns accordingly. So far then, as you can
give this, with propriety, would be received with thankfulness ;
and if under the seal of confidence, will be locked up in my own
breast. It is pleasing to hear, that we had so few ships in
France when the Directory thereof were pleased to lay an em-
bargo thereon. I wish, on many accounts, that General Finck-
ney was as safely landed in his own country as I hear Mr. Gerry
is, after his terrible fright. I hope so soon as he is relieved from
the panic with which he was struck, and which must have con-
tinued whilst he remained on the watery element, he will come
forward in stronger language than his last letter to Mr. Talley-
rand contains, and with such explanations as his own character
requires, and his country has a right to demand. We have
nothing new in this quarter ; an excessive drought, which still
prevails, has been hurtful to our crops, and presses sorely upon
the winter grain and grass seeds which have been sown this
autumn. Maryland, instead of acquiring strength in her federal
representation, by the last election, has lost ground. What will
be the result of the elections in this State (in March next) is
more, I believe, than any one can foretell at present. No stone

* The prevalence of an epidemic fever.

368 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 41.

is left unturned, that can affect the federal interest by the demo-
crats.

With great esteem and regard, I am, dear Sir,
Your obedient humble servant,

George Washington.

KING TO HAMILTON.

London, October 20, 1798,

My Dear Sir:

I have received your letter of the 22d August, with the in-
closure that has been delivered as directed. On that subject
things are here as we could desire. There will be precisely such
a co-operation as we wish the moment we are ready. The Sec-
retary of State will show you my communication on this subject.
Though I have not a word from him respecting it, your outline
corresponds with what has been suggested by me, and approved
by this government. Fortunately some months past I obtained
a fac simile of the latest map of the country. It has been now
two months in the hands of an engraver, who has engaged to de-
liver the copies in January. This government has considerable
information respecting the interior, as well as concerning the
condition and dispositions of the inhabitants, though I apprehend
it is not of a recent date. What we know is favorable ; but if
we are to be betrayed by France, the glorious opportunity will
be lost. I am gratified on receiving your opinion of the good
condition of our public affairs, but I do not feel confident that
we are as safe as you appear to think we are. It is fraud, not
force, that I fear. A Paris paper of the 8th instant, which is the
latest that takes any notice of the United States, says : Les
dernieres lettres de Bourdeaux assurent qu'il y est arrive' un
courrier extraordinaire porteur d'ordres pour remettre l'embargo
sur les navires Americaines. Yoila done la guerre inevitable
avec ce peuple, du moins toutes nos correspondances coinci-
dent avec ce bruit.

/ET.41.J . CORRESPONDENCE. 369

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Mount Vernon, 21st October, 1798.

My Dear Sir:

The last mail to Alexandria, brought me a letter from the
President of the United States, in which I am informed, that
he had signed and given the commissions to yourself, Generals
Pinckney and Knox, the same date, in hopes that an amicable
adjustment or acquiescence might take place among you. But
if these hopes should be disappointed, and controversies should
arise, they will of course be submitted to me, as Commander-in-
Chief, and if, after all, any one should be so obstinate as to ap-
peal to him from the judgment of the Commander-in-Chief, he
was determined to confirm that judgment.

General Knox is fully acquainted with my sentiments on this
subject; and I hope no fresh difficulties will arise with General
Pinckney. Let me entreat you, therefore, to give, without any
delay, your full aid to the Secretary of War.

At present I will only add, that I am always and affection-
ately yours,

Geo. Washington.

JAY TO HAMILTON.

Albany, 24th October, 1798.

Dear Sir :

I subjoin for your information a letter of the 17th instant,
which I received this morning from the President of the United
States, in answer to mine of the 26th ult, by which he consents
to authorize you to concert with me the plan of laying out the
money in question to the best advantage, and to appoint you to
superintend the execution of it.

Will it not be proper immediately to form an accurate sur-
F 24

370 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 41.

vey of such parts of the shores and waters of the port, as
from their situation or other circumstances it may be desirable
to fortify? Col. Burr informs me that this has already been par-
tially done by Mr. Coles ; and I submit to your consideration,
whether it would not be advisable to confer with them respect-
ing, and perhaps obtain their aid in executing, the measures pro-
per to be taken to perfect that necessary work.

That being done, I perceive the next object of inquiry will
be, the manner in which the port is capable of being the most
effectually fortified. The result, I think, should then be laid be-
fore the President, through the Secretary of War; and our
future operations will necessarily depend greatty on what he
may direct to be communicated to us on the subject. I wish all
this may be done and ascertained before the next session of our
legislature ; that my communications to them may be full and
early. The expenses incident to the orders which you may give
for these purposes will, of course, be paid ; for it gives me pleas-
ure now to consider you as being perfectly authorized to superin-
tend the fortifications contemplated by the act.

I purpose to be in town next month, and am with great
esteem and regard, &c.

HAMILTON TO ADAMS.

New-York, October 29th, 1798.

Sir:

I shall with pleasure obey the command contained in your
letter of the 17th instant, and shall accordingly inform the Gov-
ernor that I am ready to proceed in the execution of the
measure.

jEt. 41.] CORRESPONDENCE. 371

A. HAMILTON TO HAMILTON.

Edinbi rgh, 29th Oct., 1798.

My Dear Cousin:

I received a few days ago a letter from my brother Robert,
overflowing with the warmest sensibility of the many important
obligations for which he is indebted to both you and Mrs. Hamil-
ton. Since you take a pleasure in conferring happiness, it will no
doubt afford you satisfaction to learn the joy which your friendly
reception and endeavor to effect my brother's appointment into
the American navy has communicated to his family in this coun-
try. The result of your application for the first-lieutenancy of
one of the new frigates was still uncertain when he wrote ; but,
without anticipating the event, I may truly assure you that the
endeavor has impressed the most indelible gratitude on our
minds, and that we view with sensations of no common kind the
excellent portrait which ornaments our chimney-piece. By the
way, father has been informed by an American gentleman Avho
visited Edinburgh lately, that it is a striking though not a flat-
tering likeness of the original. In addition to the pleasure I re-
ceived from the fair prospect of a permanent provision for my
brother, I was not a little pleased that it removed him from the
mercantile line into one for which he is much better qualified.
A jjerfect knowledge of seamanship, and the routine of the naval
duty, he has acquired both from long and various experience,
and from the natural bent of his disposition, which early pointed
to the sea. To amass a fortune by traffic requires talents of a
different kind. "Without affecting to undervalue these talents, it
may be granted that eminent success in the mercantile line fre-
quently depends on artful schemes and devices, which certainly
confer no claim to respect, however necessary to success; and
with these poor Robert can boast but little acquaintance. In the
navy I consider him as in his element. Courage, attention and
naval skill constitute the excellence of a sea officer; and of these
qualities (unless my partiality deceive me) he is eminently pos-
sessed. With these impressions, you will conceive of what im-

372 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 41.

portance his admission into the American navy as first lieutenant
appears to me. To a mind like yours the pleasure of doing good
is, I am sensible, a sufficient impulse ; yet, as my brother resides
under your roof, I am willing to hope that the unaffected sim-
plicity, candor and urbanity of his manner will in time produce
a still more cogent motive in personal friendship. I hope you
will forgive my talking in this manner of my own brother, yet I
must add (even at the risk of having Mr. Shandy's oddities im-
puted to myself) that, excepting in the want of professional
pedantry, Sterne's character of Uncle Toby seems to me more ap-
plicable to my brother than to any I have ever conversed with.

In reply to your account of my acquaintance, Mr. Thomas
Law, I am almost tempted to exclaim in the words of a states-
man, to whom a manuscript plan of the famous projector Law
had been submitted for his consideration, Oh la ! Oh la ! I
am seriously concerned, however, to learn the embarrassed state
of his affairs ; though what could induce a man of his fortune to
embark in such extensive speculations is not easily imagined.
Your letter affords us some hope, though but a distant one, of
seeing some of our young cousins in this country ; wherever they
are they will be followed by our kindest wishes for their pros-
perity.

I do not pretend to transmit you information on political sub-
jects, yet they occupy at present so considerable a portion of the
thoughts and conversation of the world, that they are not easily
avoided. I anticipate the pleasure our late glorious victories
must have communicated to the true friends of the present Ame-
rican Constitution. The destruction nearly total of the Toulon
and Brest squadron, the former destined for Egypt, and the latter
for Ireland, must have given the death-wound to the French
navy. The rebellion, too, which lately appeared so formidable
in Ireland, utterly extinguished, and only revived occasionally in
predatory attacks on the lives and properties of individuals, will
enable the ministry to open the parliament with unusual eclat.
The party of opposition has lately fallen into considerable dis-
credit from their conduct at the trial of O'Connor, for whose
principles they vouched in the most unqualified manner. Yetr

Mr. 41.] CORRESPONDENCE. 373

notwithstanding these high attestations, O'Connor proves to be a
traitor, actually conspiring to introduce a foreign enemy into his
native country, at the very time in which our patriots were so
loud in his praises. If it be admitted that they were unacquainted
with O'Connor's insidious designs, the vehemence of the protes-
tations must show how open they are to deception, and argues
little in favor of their understandings. Whether Buonaparte has
reached his ultimate destination, or intends to prosecute his
expedition to India, must soon appear ; as the change of mon-
soon, which happens in the month of September, will prevent
his traversing the Indian Ocean, unless he has previously effected
his passage. There are no authentic accounts of his having left
Cairo. I beg to offer my best compliments to Mrs. Hamilton,
and that you will ever believe me, my dear cousin,

Faithfully yours,

A. Hamilton.

PINCKNEY TO MCHENRY.

Trenton, October 31, 1793.

Dear Sir :

Agreeably to your desire expressed in your favor of yesterday, I shall en-
deavor to be with you either at this place or Philadelphia, on the tenth of next
month. I am sorry that General Knox has declined his appointment. A few
hours after the ship in which I came, had cast anchor in the North River, it was
intimated to me, that it had been doubted whether T would accept my appointment,
as General Hamilton, who was of inferior rank to me in the last war, was ranked
before me in the new arrangement. I declared then, and still declare, it was with
the greatest pleasure I saw his name at the head of the list of the major-generals,
and applauded the discrimination which had placed him there. I knew that
his talents in war were great ; that he had a genius capable of forming an exten-
sive military plan, and a spiiit courageous and enterprising equal to the execution
of it I therefore, without any hesitation, immediately sent him word by Major
Rutledge, that I rejoiced at his appointment, and would with pleasure serve under
him.

It was not until about ten days ago, that I was informed by my friend, Major
Haskell, that General Knox was dissatisfied, that General Hamilton and myself
were placed before him. As I considered General Knox to be a very valuable

374 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 41.

officer, though I do not estimate ln> talents in a degree equal to those of General
Hamilton, I told the Major that rather than the feelings of General Knox should
be hurt, at my being ranked before him, he might take my place in the arrange-
ment ; and I desired him, when he wrote to the General, to intimate this to him.
General Knox's absolute refusal to serve, because I am phced before him, would
make the same offer from me now, improper. I do not, therefore, renew it-
But if the authority which appointed me to the rank of second major-general in
the army, will review the arrangement, and place General Knox before me, I will
neither quit the service, nor be dissatisfied.

I have the honor to be with great respect and regard,
Your most obedient humble servant,

Charles Cotesworth Pinckney.

MCHENRY TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, 18th December, 1798.

My Dear Sir :

I have received this moment your two letters of the 16th and
17th instant, and have read them over cursorily, though not
without fully understanding them.

I intend that the recruiting service be wholly confided to
you, and shall send you the printed instructions and a copy of
the English system on which they are founded. It cannot, how-
ever, be entered upon immediately, or until our clothing is in
more forwardness.

It is certain that you must have been a loser in the way you
mention, by accepting the office you now hold, and as certain
that justice requires that none of the pay or emoluments annexed
to it should be refused. I shall, as early as possible, obtain a
proper decision.

I am preparing a report to the President, who has seen the
two letters and all other papers and letters communicated to me
by General Washington. I shall acid some matters to the sub-
jects for congressional provisions which they embrace, when it
will be transferred to Congress by message.

The idea of two companies of hussars is judicious.
Yours affectionately.

JEix. 41.] CORRESPONDENCE. 3 7 5

KING TO HAMILTON.

London, Nov. 9, 1798.

Dear Sir:

The same uncertainty continues respecting the recommence-
ment of the war. Both Austria and Prussia are bolder than
before the late naval success of this country ; but the conduct of
the Emperor is rather calculated to show that he may be pur-
chased by further acquisitions in Italy. Naples will not decline
a war. Her existence perhaps depends upon her provoking it.

The casus foederis with Austria is a defensive war; but the
Emperor has said he should not be critical on that head. The
news of the capitulation of Buonaparte, and the destruction of the
transports at Alexandria, is not confirmed, though they are
events which must take place. The expeditions against Ireland
are annihilated. Of the nine ships that sailed from Brest, seven,
including the Hoche, are in the English ports ; the two frigates
that escaped from the Texel have both been taken ; and of three
that sailed from Eochefort, and appeared off Ireland soon after
the defeat of the Brest squadron, two are said to be taken.

The Dutch frigates were probably bound to Demerara,
though the soldiers were told they were to go to Ireland.

Parliament meets on the 20th. Mr. Pitt will have a good
account to give of the extension of their commerce, and of the
increase of the revenue. The assessed taxes, which have been
shamefully evaded, will be given up, and a tax upon the income
of the nation substituted. There will be great difliculties in the
details, as well as strong prejudices to overcome, but I hear that
the body of merchants in London are to support the plan. The
late naval success has excited a high degree of animation
throughout the nation ; and the government will be generally
and cordially supported in such measures as it shall adopt to
prosecute the war. The funds have got up to 57 per cent.,
which is a great rise, and in a short time. You will see that I
have prevented the sending to you of about fifty Irish state pri-
soners, who were at the head of the rebellion in Ireland, and

376 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEi. 41.

closely connected with the Directory at Paris. Probably our
patriots will think my conduct presumptuous. In the present
posture of our affairs, I could have no hesitation ! We have an
account that the Constellation, Capt. Truxton, has taken a French
frigate on our coast. This news is brought by Capt. Cochrane, of
the Thetis, who will not be permitted to return to the American
station.

Yours very truly, &c.

P. S. The Hamburgh mail, just arrived, informs us that very
great resistance is made to the requisition of 200,000 men in
Belgium ; 12,000 young men are embodied, and the spirit of
revolt extends itself every where. The scene is too near the
army of the Rhine.

KING TO HAMILTON.

London, Dec. 19th, 1798.

Dear Sir :

The same uncertainty continues to perplex us concerning the
recommencement of the war. One day we are told that Naples
has really begun, and that Austria is on the way to support her ;
the next, that Naples is kept back by Austria, to whom the
Directory have made the most advantageous offers. It is certain
that France feels the change that has, within the last six months,
taken place in Europe, and is extremely anxious to defeat the
projected coalition. Prussia observes, and seems inclined to
adhere to the same cautious policy that for some time has gov-
erned her administration. Poor Spain is completely under the
influence of the Directory, and, however strange it may seem,
the king, who most cordially hates England, shed tears, and was
inconsolable on the news of Nelson's victory. Portugal is
threatened with a war with Spain, unless she concludes a peace
on the terms of the Directory. There is great discontent in
many of the French departments, but still the levy of the new

JEt. 41.] CORRESPONDENCE. 377

requisition proceeds. The insurrection of Brabant extends itself:
but though it will give the Directory some trouble, cannot prove
successful unless the war soon recommences. Mr. Grenville, an
elder brother of the minister, has gone on a special mission to
Berlin. He is said to be very clever, and has heretofore refused
to go into the diplomatic course. Unless favorable circumstances
of success exist, one would scarcely believe that the minister
would just now have employed his brother. The French will
lose all their islands, trade, and influence in the Mediterranean.
Minorca has been taken by the English. Malta must fall. Cor-
sica will probably expel the French, though England will not
again accept of their capricious allegiance. Zante, Cerego, and
Cephalonia, and probably Corfu, have fallen into the hands of
the Turks and Russians.

A report from Constantinople states that Buonaparte has
been assassinated; though probable, it wants confirmation. Mr.
Pitt will be supported in the tax of 10 per cent, on the income
of the nation ; indeed, the people appear firm and resolved to
support the government, and the prosperity of their manufac-
tures and trade enable them to do so. Adieu.

Yours truly, &c.

P. S. I make you my hearty congratulations on the settle-
ment of the question of rank.

OTIS TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, Dec. 21, 1798.

Sir:

I was very solicitous while you were in the city for the in-
dulgence of an interview with you, that would have enabled me
to learn your opinion in relation to such defensive measures as
ought now to be adopted by Congress ; and I called upon you
once with that view; but being then disappointed, and perceiving

3*78 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEr. 4l\

afterwards the pressing nature of your immediate avocations, I
chose rather to forego the advantage of your sentiments, than in-
vade the little leisure you appeared able to command. Being
since appointed chairman of a committee to consider the policy
of extending our internal means of defence, the great confidence
which I feel in the correctness of your political opinions, and
your permission on a former occasion to avail myself of them,
induce me to request that I may be honored with your general
ideas upon this subject, if you can without inconvenience devote
an hour to my instruction. In particular, is it advisable to
augment the present permanent army under all circumstances ?
If not, would it be eligible to reduce the number of men in each
regiment, with a view to economy, and to an application of the
money saved to the extension of the naval armament? or are
there any prominent defects in the military establishments which
demand a reform ?

Will there be any utility, in reviving the section of the act
which establishes the provisional army, or the act for providing
for the draft of 80,000 militia?

Does good policy require very liberal grants of money for
fortifications ?

Is it expedient to continue the act prohibiting intercourse
with France and her acknowledged dominions ? If so, as the act
now stands, may commerce be carried on between the United
States and any part of the French dominions that shall withdraw
from its allegiance to the parent country ? or, if this be doubtful,
would it be politic to grant an express commission to the Presi-
dent to open the trade with any part of the French dominions,
when, in his opinion, the public good would admit or require it?

Shall the President be authorized to attack, capture, and
hold all or any of the French West India islands as an indemnity
for the spoliations committed on our trade?

If on this, or any other subjects, you see fit to gratify me
with your opinions, they will be cherished and respected by me
without a disclosure of the source from which they are derived ;
and if, on the other hand, you think this liberty is not warranted
by the duration or intimacy of my personal acquaintance, you

Mi. 41.] CORRESPONDENCE. 379

will, I hope, excuse and impute it to an habitual and profound
respect for your character and talents.
I am, Sir,

Your most obedient servant,

H. G. Otis.

WOLCOTT TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, December 21st, 1798.

Dear Sir:

I have received your favor of the 20th> with twenty dollars ;
the sum I lent you was thirty dollars ; yesterday I sent you a
small bill which you forgot to pay. No consul can be received
at present.

The result of all the inquiries which I have been able to make
is, that a small sum might be raised by the gradual sale of 1\ per
cent, stock at par, but that there can be no certainty, that a loan
would immediately be filled for the sum we want under 8 per cent.

If among your acquaintances you discover any circumstances
to alter this opinion, be pleased to inform me soon.

HAMILTON" TO OTIS.

New-York, December 27tli, 1798.

Dear Sir :

I did not receive till yesterday your letter dated 21st inst.
No apology was necessary for so gratifying a remark of your
good opinion, upon which I set the high value it so justly de-
serves.

In the inclosed extract of a letter to another of the govern-
ment, you will find my ideas generally on the subject of your
letter. I adopt this method of communication as equally effec-

380 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 41.

tual and best adapted to the multiplicity of my avocations.
Some additional remarks in direct reference to your particular
questions, may perhaps be requisite to fulfil your object.

Any reduction of the actual force appears to me inexpedient.
It will argue to our enemy that we are either very narrow in
our resources, or that our jealousy of his designs are abated.
Besides, that with a view to the possibility of internal disorders
alone, the force authorized is not too considerable. The efficacy
of militia for suppressing such disorders is not too much to be
relied upon. The experience of the western expedition ought
not to be forgotten. That was a very uphill business. There
were more than once appearances to excite alarm as to the per-
severance of the troops, and it is not easy to foresee what might
have been the result had there been serious resistance. The re-
petition of similar exertions may be found very difficult, inso-
much as to render it extremely needful, in these precarious times,
to have the government armed with the whole of the force which
has been voted.

There are several defects in the military establishment which
demand reform as well for economy as efficiency. On these
there has been an ample communication from the Commander-in-
Chief to the Department of War. I cannot conceive why nothing
has yet gone to progress. Certainly this cannot be much longer
delayed. Will it be amiss informally to interrogate the minis-
ter? If the silence is persisted in, you shall know from me the
objects.

The extract answers your question as to the provisional army.
I think the act respecting the eighty thousand militia ought like-
wise to be revived. The effect abroad will be good, and it will
likewise be so at home, as the evidence of a reliance of the gov-
ernment on the militia.

Good policy does not appear to me to require extensive ap-
propriations for fortifications at the present juncture. Money can
be more usefully employed in other ways. A good deal of pre-
vious examination ought to lead to a plan for fortifying three or
four cardinal points. More than this will be a misapplication of
money. Secure positions for arsenals and dock-yards are in
this view a primary object.

jEt. 41.] CORRESPONDENCE. 381

Your last question respecting the West India Islands, I shall
reserve for a future communication.

HAMILTON TO WOLCOTT.

New-York, December 28th, 1798.

Dear Sir:

I have embraced every opportunity since the receipt of yours
of the 21st to obtain light on the subject of the loan ; but my
research has been essentially fruitless. Opinions are as various
as they are vague. You must therefore conjecture, and you
ought to act on the sure side for selling the loan.

For my part, I retain the opinion that the loan ought to be
upon eight per cent interest, the capital to be fixed for ten years,
and then to become redeemable at pleasure, one per cent to be
appropriated cotemporarily as a purchasing fund for sinking the
principal, and the loan to be open for competition for the entire
or any less sum ; time enough to let in European bidders.

The true principle is to get as good terms as possible for the
United States, exclusive of local considerations, which can only
have a temporary and illusory operation. The stock will find its
way to its proper market, wherever it may be first sold.

HAMILTON TO SEDGWICK.

1798.

Dear Sir:

I have been reading the report of the Secretary of «the Treas-
ury on the subject of direct taxes. I think it does him credit.
The general principles and objects are certainly good, nor am I
sure that any thing better can be done.

I remember, however, that I once promised you to put in

382 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 41.

writing my ideas on the subject. I intended to have done it, and
communicated them to the Secretary. My hurry and press of
business prevented me ; but I concluded lately to devote an even-
ing to a rude sketch, and to send it to you. You may show it to
the Secretary, and confer. If, in the course of the thing, it can
be applied to the general end we all have in view, it will give me
pleasure ; if not, there will have been but little time misspent.
Of course, no use will be made of it in contradiction to the views
of the Treasury Department.

As to the part which relates to land, I do not feel any strong
preference of my plan to that in the report; for this, in my opin-
ion, ought to be considered only as an auxiliary, and not as the
pith of the tax. But I own, I have a strong preference of my
plan of a house-tax to that in the report. These are my reasons.

It is more comprehensive, embracing all houses, and will be
proportionably more productive. It is more certain, avoiding
the evasions and partialities to which valuations will be for ever
liable, and I think it for that reason likely to be at least as equal.
I entertain no doubt that the rule of rates, adapted as they are to
characteristic circumstances, will in fact be more favorable to
equality than appraisements. I think the idea of taxing only
houses of above a certain annual value will be dissatisfactory.
The comparison of the proprietors of houses immediately above
with those immediately below the line will beget discontent, and
the errors of valuations will increase it.

I think there will be a great advantage in throwing the weight
of the tax on houses, as well because lands are more difficult to
manage as because it will fall in a manner less dissatisfactory.

My plan as to houses can be easily combined with that in
the report as to land.

Some years ago I proposed a similar plan in the legislature
of this State. It went through three readings and had a great
majority in its favor, but as it was essentially different from
what had always before obtained in the State it was thought best
to postpone, to feel the sense of constituents. — I left the legisla-
ture— changes in our political situation rendered the plan of
State taxation less important, and the business shrunk out of

JEt. 42.] CORRESPONDENCE. 383

sight. But there was every appearance that the plan would have
been popular in this State.

You observe I confine myself to a million. I would not bear
hard in this way. 1 would add, as aid, the taxes contemplated
last session— on stamps, collateral successions, new modifications
of some articles of in ports, and let me add, saddle-horses. The
idea of taxing slaves generally will not work well. If confined
to all menial servants Tor luxury, as coachmen, footmen, cooks,
&c, it would be eligible.

HAMILTON TO DAYTON.

1799.

An accurate view of the internal situation of the United
States presents many discouraging reflections to the enlightened
friends of our government and country. Notwithstanding the
unexampled success of our public measures at home and abroad,
— notwithstanding the instructive comments afforded by the dis-
astrous and disgusting scenes of the French Revolution — public
opinion has not been ameliorated ; sentiments dangerous to social
happiness have not been diminished : on the contrary, there are
symptoms which warrant the apprehension that among the most
numerous class of citizens, errors of a very pernicious tendency
have not only preserved but have extended their empire. Though
something may have been gained on the side of men of informa-
tion and property, more has probably been lost on that of per-
sons of a different description. An extraordinary exertion of
the friends of government, aided by circumstances of momentary
impression, gave, in the last election for members of Congress, a
more favorable countenance to some States than they had before
worn ; yet it is the belief of well-informed men, that no real or
desirable change has been wrought in those States. On the other
hand, it is admitted by close observers, that some of the parts of
the Union which, in time past, have been the soundest, have of
late exhibited signs of a gangrene begun and progressive.

384 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEr. 42.

It is likewise apparent that opposition to the government has
acquired more system than formerly, is bolder in the avowal of
its designs, less solicitous than it was to discriminate between the
Constitution and the administration, and more open and more
enterprising in its projects. The late attempt of Virginia and
Kentucky to unite the State legislatures in a direct resistance to
certain laws of the Union, can be considered in no other light
than as an attempt to change the government.

It is stated, in addition, that the opposition party in Vir-
ginia, the head-quarters of the faction, have followed up the hos-
tile declarations which are to be found in the resolutions of their
General Assembly by an actual preparation of the means of sup-
porting them by force ; that they have taken measures to put
their militia on a more efficient footing — are preparing consider-
able arsenals and magazines, and (which is an unequivocal proof
how much they are in earnest) have gone so far as to lay new
taxes on their citizens. Amidst such serious indications of hos-
tility, the safety and the duty of the supporters of the govern*'
ment call upon them to adopt vigorous measures of counteraction.
It will be wise in them to act upon the hypothesis, that the op-
posers of the government are resolved, if it shall be practicable,
to make its existence a question of force. Possessing as they
now do all the constitutional powers, it will be an unpardonable
mistake on their part if they do not exert them to surround the
Constitution with more ramparts, and to disconcert the schemes
of its enemies.

The measures proper to be adopted may be classed under
heads.

First. — Establishments which will extend the influence and
promote the popularity of the Government. Under this head
three important expedients occur. First. The extension of the
Judiciary system. Second. The improvement of the great com-
munications, as well interiorly as coastwise by turnpike roads.
Third. The institution of a society with funds to be employed
in premiums for new inventions, discoveries and improvements
in agriculture and in the arts.

The extension of the Judiciary system ought to embrace two

/Et. 42.] CORRESPONDENCE. 38b

objects: — one, the subdivision of each State into small districts
(suppose Connecticut into four, and so on in proportion), assign-
ing to each a judge with a moderate salary — the other, the ap-
pointment in each county of conservators or justices of the
peace, with only ministerial functions, and with no other com-
pensation than fees for the services they shall perform. This
measure is necessary to give efficacy to the laws, the execution
of which is obstructed by the want of similar organs and by the
indisposition of the local magistrates in some States. The Con-
stitution requires that judges shall have fixed salaries ; but this
does not apply to mere justices of the peace without judicial
powers. Both those descriptions of persons are essential, as well
to the energetic execution of the laws as to the purposes of salu-
tary patronage.

The thing no doubt would be a subject of clamor, but it
would carry with it its own antidote, and when once established,
would bring a very powerful support to the government.

The improvement of the roads would be a measure universally
popular. None can be more so. For this purpose a regular plan
should be adopted coextensive with the Union, to be successively
executed, and a fund should be appropriated sufficient for the
basis of a loan of a million of dollars. The revenue of the post-
office naturally offers itself. The future revenue from tolls would
more than reimburse the expense, and public utility would be
promoted in every direction. The institution of a society, with
the aid of proper funds, to encourage agriculture and the arts,
besides being productive of general advantage, will speak power-
fully to the feelings and interests of those classes of men to whom
the benefits derived from the government have been heretofore
the least manifest.

Second : Provision for augmenting the means and consoli-
dating the strength of the government. A million of dollars
may without difficulty be added to the revenue, by increasing the
rates of some existing indirect taxes, and by the addition of some
new items of a similar character.

The direct taxes ought neither to be increased nor diminished.
Our naval force ought to be completed to six ships of the line,
f 25

386 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 42

twelve frigates, and twenty-four sloops of war. More at this
juncture would be disproportioned to our resources; less would
be inadequate to the ends to be accomplished. Our military
force should, for the present, be kept upon its actual footing;
making provision for a re-enlistment of the men for five years in
the event of a settlement of differences with France, — with this
condition, that in case of peace between Great Britain, France,
and Spain, the United States being then also at peace, all the
privates of the twelve additional regiments of infantry, and of
the regiment of dragoons, not exceeding twenty to a company,
shall be disbanded. The corps of artillerists may be left to retain
the numbers which it shall happen to have, but without being re-
cruited until the number of officers and privates shall fall below
the standard of the infantry and dragoons. A power ought to
be given to the President to augment the four old regiments to
their war establishment.

The laws respecting volunteer companies, and the eventual
army, should be rendered permanent, and the executive should
proceed without delay to organize the latter. Some modifications
of the discretion of the President will however be proper in a
permanent law. And it will be a great improvement of the
plan, if it shall be thought expedient to allow the enlistment, for
the purpose of instruction, of a corps of sergeants equal to the
number requisite for the eventual army. The institution of a
Military Academy will be an auxiliary of great importance.
Manufactories of every article, the woollen parts of clothing in-
cluded, which are essential to the supply of the army, ought to
be established.

Third : Arrangements for confirming and enlarging the legal
powers of the government. There are several temporary laws
which, in this view, ought to be rendered permanent, particularly
that which authorizes the calling out of the militia to suppress
unlawful combinations and insurrections.

An article ought to be proposed to be added to the Constitu-
tion, for empowering Congress to open canals in all cases in
which it may be necessary to conduct them through the territory
of two or more States, or through the territory of a State and

A 0.42.] CORRESPONDENCE. 387

that of the United States. The power is very desirable for the
purpose of improving the prodigious facilities for inland naviga-
tion with which nature has favored this country. It will also as-
sist commerce and agriculture, by rendering the transportation of
commodities more cheap and expeditious. It will tend to secure
the connection, by facilitating the communication between distant
portions of the Union, and it will be a useful source of influence
to the government. Happy would it be, if a clause could be
added to the Constitution, enabling Congress, on the application
of any considerable portion of a State, containing not less than
a hundred thousand persons, to erect it into a separate State, on
the condition of fixing the quota of contributions which it shall
make towards antecedent debts, if any there shall be, reserving
to Congress the authority to levy within such State the taxes
necessary to the payment of such quota, in case of neglect on the
part of the State. The subdivision of the great States is indispensa-
ble to the security of the general government, and with it of the Union.
Great States will always feel a rivalship with the common head,
will often be supposed to machinate against it, and in certain situa-
tions will be able to do it with decisive effect. The subdivision of such
States ought to be a cardinal point in the federal policy ; and small
States are doubtless best adapted to the purposes of heal regulation and
to the preservation of the republican spirit. This suggestion, however,
is merely thrown out for consideration. It is feared that it would
be inexpedient and even dangerous to propose, at this time, an
amendment of the kind.

Fourth : Laws for restraining and punishing incendiary and
seditious practices. It will be useful to declare that all such
writings, &c., which at common law are libels, if levelled against
any officer whatsoever of the United States, shall be cognizable
in the courts of the United States. To preserve confidence in the
officers of the general government, by preserving their reputations
from malicious and unfounded slanders, is essential, to enable them
to fulfil the ends of their appointment. It is therefore both consti-
tutional and politic to place their reputations under the guardian-
ship of the courts of the United States. They ought not to be left
to the cold and reluctant protection of State courts, always tempo-

388 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 42

rizing and sometimes disaffected. But what avail laws which are
not executed ? Eenegade aliens conduct more than one of the
most incendiary presses in the United States — and yet, in open
contempt and defiance of the laws, they are permitted to con-
tinue their destructive labors. Why are they not sent away?
Are laws of this kind passed merely to excite odium and remain
a dead letter? Vigor in the executive is at least as necessary as
in the legislative branch ; if the President requires to be stim-
ulated those who can approach him ought to do it.

HAMILTON TO LA FAYETTE.

New-York, January 6th, 1799.

Dear Sir:

I have been made happy, my dear friend, by the receipt of your
letter of the 12th of August last. No explanation of your polit-
ical principles was necessary to satisfy me of the perfect consist-
ency and purity of your conduct. The interpretation may al-
ways be left to my attachment for you. Whatever difference of
opinion may on any occasion exist between us, can never lessen
my conviction of the goodness both of your head and heart. I
expect from you a return of this sentiment so far as concerns the
heart. "lis needless to detail to you my political tenets. I
shall only say that I hold with Montesquieu, that a government
must be fitted to a nation, as much as a coat to the individual ;
and, consequently, that what may be good at Philadelphia, may
be bad at Paris, and ridiculous at Petersburgh.

I join with you in regretting the misunderstanding between
our two countries. You will have seen by the President's speech
that a door is again opened for terminating them amicably. And
you may be assured that we are sincere, and that it is in the
power of France, by reparation to our merchants for past injury,
and the stipulation of justice in future, to put an end to the con-
troversy.

But I do not much like the idea of your being any way im-

JEt.42.] correspondence. 389

plicated in the affair, lest you should be compromitted in the
opinion of one or the other of the parties. It is my opinion that
it is best for you to stand aloof. Neither have I abandoned the
idea that it is most advisable for you to remain in Europe till the
difference is adjusted. It would be very difficult for you here to
steer a course which would not place you in a party, and not re-
move you from the broad ground which you now occupy in the
hearts of all. It is a favorite point with me that you shall find
in the universal regard of this country all the consolations which
the loss of your own (for so I consider it) may render requisite.
Mrs. Church and Mrs. Hamilton unite in assurance of their
affectionate remembrance.

Believe me always

Your very cordial and faithful friend,

A. H.

Marquis De La Fayette.

KING TO HAMILTON.

London, January 21st, 1790.

Dear Sir:

We have the New-York papers to the 15th ult. These con-
tain the speeches as well as the answers of the two Houses. All
seems intended for the best, but it gives me an ill idea abroad of
our zeal, to find that our army decreed so many months since
remained to be raised. The difficulty and time necessary to find
suitable officers, reminds one of the like impediments which pre-
ceded the appointment of' Monroe to Paris. I hope the results
will differ.

I am entirely disposed, indeed resolved, to treat the subject as
the good principles of all concerned merit, but I can't conceal from
you my very great apprehension that too much is left to the chance
and influence of intrigue and diplomatic skill. In the light in
which I alone can see the views of France, there seems to be no
secure alternative, and the sooner we so say and act, the less
will be our danger.

390 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 42.

For God's sake attend to the very interesting subject treated
of in my ciphered dispatches to the Secretary of State of the 10th,
18th, and 19th, instant. Connect it as it should be, with the main
object, the time to accomplish which has arrived. "Without su-
perstition, Providence seems to have prepared the way, and to
have pointed out the instruments of its will. Our children will
reproach us if we neglect our duty, and humanity will escape
many scourges if we act with wisdom and decision. I am more
confirmed than before, that an efficient force will be confederated
to act against France. The combination is not yet completed, but,
as I have reason to believe, will soon be.

That will be the moment for us to settle upon immutable
foundations the extensive system of the American nation. Who
can hinder us ? One nation alone has the power ; and she will
co-operate in the accomplishment in South America of what has
so well been done in North.

P. S. — Mr. Church knows very well Col. Maitland.

HAMILTON TO H. G. OTIS.

New-York, January 26th, 1799.

Dear Sir:

You will recollect that I reserved for a future answer part of
a letter which I had the pleasure of receiving from you some
time since. These are my ideas on that subject.

I should be glad to see, before the close of the session, a law
empowering the President, at his discretion, in case a negotiation
between the United States and France should not be on foot by
the first of August next, or being on foot should terminate with-
out an adjustment of differences, to declare that a state of war
exists between the two countries, and thereupon to employ the
land and naval forces of the United States in such manner as

JEt.43.] correspondence. 391

shall appear to him most effectual for annoying the enemy, and
for preventing and frustrating hostile designs of France, either
directly or indirectly through any of her allies.

This course of proceeding, by postponing the event, and giv-
ing time for the intervention of negotiation, would be a further
proof of moderation in the government, and would tend to
reconcile our citizens to the last extremity, if it shall ensue,
gradually accustoming their minds to look forward to it.

If France be really desirous of accommodation, this plan will
accelerate her measures to bring it about. If she have not that
desire, it is best to anticipate her final vengeance, and to throw
whatever weight we have into the scale opposed to her. This
conduct may contribute to disable her to do the mischief which
she may meditate.

As it is every moment possible that the project of taking-
possession of the Floridas and Louisiana long since attributed to
France, may be attempted to be put in execution, it is very im-
portant that the Executive should be clothed with power to meet
and defeat so dangerous an enterprise. Indeed, if it is the policy
of France to leave us in a state of semi-hostility, 'tis preferable
to terminate it, and by taking possession of those countries for
ourselves, to obviate the mischief of their falling into the hands
of an acti ve foreign power, and at the same time to secure to the
United States the advantage of keeping the key of the western
country. I have been long in the habit of considering the ac-
quisition of those countries as essential to the permanency of
the Union, which I consider as very important to the welfare of
the whole.

If universal empire is still to be the pursuit of France, what
can tend to defeat the purpose better than to detach South Ame-
rica from Spain, which is only the channel through which the
riches of Mexico and Peru are conveyed to France ? The execu-
tive ought to be put in a situation to embrace favorable conjunc-
tures for effecting that separation. 'Tis to be regretted that the
preparation of an adequate military force does not advance more
rapidly. There is some sad nonsense on this subject in some
good heads. The reveries of some of the friends of the govern-

392 HAMILTON'S .WORKS. [JEt. 42.

iuent are more injurious to it than the attacks of its declared
enemies.

When will men learn to profit by experience ?

SEDGWICK TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia. February 7th, 1799.

I had the pleasure, my dear sir, the day before yesterday, to
receive your favor of the 2d.

With regard to the conduct of Virginia and Kentucky, the
moment I came into town, I applied to the apparent leaders in
the House of Kepresentatives, and stated to them my opinion of
the measures which to me seemed expedient to be adopted. That
it was necessary to preoccupy the ground ; that for this purpose,
it would be expedient to appoint an able committee, to refer the
addresses on the subject with an intention of making a report,
which should have all the properties of an address. I had two
reasons for preferring this being done by the House, because we
had before the Senate no address on the subject, and because,
for obvious reasons, the conduct of the House would excite more
attention, and make a deeper impression. I spoke to no gentle-
man who did not explicitly concur with me in opinion, but
nothing has been done, because, as I understand the gentlemen
cannot agree on the precise mode in which it is to be done.
They still say, and I have this day had conversation with them
on the subject, that the business will yet be done. Had it not
been believed that the House would have before this time exe-
cuted this important object, it would have long since been in
progress in the Senate. It is not yet, perhaps, too late, though
I regret as much as any one the delay.

You have seen, I presume, the address of the minority of the
House of Representatives of Virginia to their constituents. It is
said to have been drawn by Marshall. It is able, and elegant,
and eloquent ; but the eloquence is of a kind not to make a

JEt. 42.] CORRESPONDENCE. 393

deep impression on the gross materials to which it is addressed.
It shows that its author believes their situation critical, and the
danger imminent. It was, perhaps, incompatible with the rela-
tion of the addressers, as a minority, to employ the instrument
of denunciation, and yet I am persuaded, no procedure of this
kind can be effectual without it.

Under the present circumstances, is it expedient that this
subject should be undertaken by the Senate?

The delays in the military department are as unaccountable as
they are injurious. Immediately after receiving your letter, I
called on the Secretary at War ; he told me that the delay had
originated principally from a disappointment in obtaining cloth-
ing,— that the contracts had failed. I replied that if such was
the case, that by an immediate employment of all the tailors in
the great towns, clothes might be procured faster than they
would be wanted by the recruits ; that this was the season to
enlist ; that it would soon be passed ; and that if this opportunity
was neglected, no one could foresee the evil consequences which
might result. It would give encouragement to all those who
had already erected the standard of opposition. It would dis-
hearten the friends of the government, and render the govern-
ment itself unpopular.

He said that the business of enlistment would be put under
t jur immediate direction ; that the orders for that purpose were
.n forwardness, and would that day be completed, and submitted
to the President for his approbation ; and that the next day they
would be forwarded to you by the mail. Before this time, there-
fore, you have them ; but if they are not impracticable, I shall
be agreeably disappointed. Is there no remedy for this evil ?
Will it be possible to get on in a state of war or insurrection ?

I need not say I write to you in the most perfect confidence.
I last evening called to pay my respects to the President. He
was alone, and, as I hoped, soon introduced the subject of our
military. I gave him my view of the subject, and somewhat at
large. He replied, and nearly in the following words : — " As to
the. Virginians, sir, it is weakness to apprehend any thing from
them ; but, if you must have an army, I will give it to you ; but,

394 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 49.

remember, it will make the government more unpopular than all
their other acts. They have submitted with more patience than
any people ever did to the burden of taxes, which has been
liberally laid on, but their patience will not last always." This
was the text on which he dilated extensively. I cannot say that
I was astonished. Astonishment is a sentiment which he has
for some time lost the power to excite.

During- the time that I was with him, the bill before the
Senate for the organization of the army was mentioned. He
asked me what additional authority it was proposed to give the
commander-in-chief? I answered none ; that all that was pro-
posed was to give him a new title — that of general. " What,"
said he, " are you going to appoint him general over the Presi-
dent? I have not been so blind but I have seen a combined
effort among those who call themselves the friends of govern-
ment, to annihilate the essential powers given to the President.
This, sir, (raising his voice,) my understanding has perceived, and
my heart felt." After an expression of surprise, and a declara-
tion of belief that he was mistaken, with all humility I prayed
him to mention the facts from which he had made this inference.
He answered, that if I had not seen it, it was improper for him
to go into the detail.

This shows that we are afflicted with an evil for which cer-
tainly no complete remedy can be applied ; but it might be pal-
liated, perhaps, by bringing into the administration a man of
talents, and of that peculiar kind which gives an ascendency
without its being perceived. This never was in any country
more important. Nor if the right character could be found, is
it an object unattainable? With all his good qualities, however,
our friend C n is not the man. In official details and execu-
tion, he has perhaps no superior ; but in the other, and more
essential characteristic, to my mind, he is wholly deficient. But
can a vacancy be made ? While I have been continuing writing,
amidst the chit-chat of senatorial debate, the mail is closed.
Will you permit me to close this without revision? I have
written I know not what, but I hope it is intelligible. This I do
know, that I am

Yours sincerely, &c.

JEt. 42.] CORRESPONDENCE. 395

HAMILTON TO PICKERING.

New- York, Feb. 9, 1799.

Dear Sir:

I am this moment favored with your letter of the 9th instant.
I shall immediately reflect on the most important point, and to-
morrow give you the result.

The provision in the law is ample. But in this, my dear sir,
as in every thing else, we must unite caution with decision. The
United States must not be committed on the independence of St.
Domingo. No guaranty — no formal treaty — nothing that can
rise up in judgment. It will be enough to let Touissant be as-
sured verbally, but explicitly, that upon his declaration of inde-
pendence a commercial intercourse will be opened, and continue
while he maintains it, and gives due protection to our vessels
and property. I incline to think the declaration of independ-
ence ought to precede.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

(private.)

New-York, February 1G, 1799.

Dear Sir:

Different reasons have conspired to prevent my writing to
you since my return to New-York — the multiplicity of my avo-
cations, an imperfect state of health, and the want of something
material to communicate.

The official letter herewith transmitted, will inform you of
the disposition of our military affairs which has been recently
adopted by the department of war. There shall be no want of
exertion on my part to promote the branches of the service con-
fided to my care.

But I more and more discover cause to apprehend that obsta-

396 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 42.

cles of a very peculiar kind stand in the way of an efficient and
successful management of our military concerns. These it would
be unsafe at present to explain.

It may be useful that I should be able to write to you here-
after some confidential matters relating to our administration
without the mention of names — when this happens, I shall desig-
nate the President as X, the Secretary of State by V, of the
Treasury by I, and of the Department of War by C.

Every thing in the northern quarter, as far as I can learn,
continues favorable to the Government.

Very affectionately and truly, 1 remain, &c.

SEDGWICK TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, February 19, 1799.

My Dear Sir:

The President, yesterday, sent the Senate a nomination of
Mr. Murray to be appointed Minister Plenipotentiary to the
French Republic ; accompanied by a letter from Talleyrand to
the Secretary of the French legation at Amsterdam. By this
letter it appears that for some time communications have been
made to Mr. Murray of the friendly dispositions of the French
government towards this country, and it contains assurances that
any minister from America will be received and treated with the
respect due to the representative of a great, powerful, and independ-
ent nation. I have neither time nor inclination to detail all the
false and insidious declarations it contains. This measure, im-
portant and mischievous as it is, was the result of Presidential
wisdom, without the knowledge of, or any intimation to any one
of the administration. Had the foulest heart and the ablest head
in the world have been permitted to select the most embarrass-
ing and ruinous measure, perhaps it would have been precisely
the one which has been adopted. In the dilemma to which we
are reduced, whether we approve or reject the nomination, evils

/Et. 42.] CORRESPONDENCE. 597

only, certain, great, but in extent incalculable, present them-
selves. This would be true was Mr. Murray the ablest negotiator
in Christendom ; but with all his virtues, he is feeble, unguarded,
credulous, and unimpressive. I have not yet decided ulti-
mately what I shall do. At present the nomination must be
postponed. I am much obliged to you for the copy you sent me
of the Eeport. It is excellent. I have made the best use of it
in my power.

I am, with sincerity, your friend.

HAMILTON TO SEDGWICK.

New-York, February 21, 1799.

The step announced in your letter just received, in all its
circumstances, would astonish, if any thing from that quarter
could astonish.

But as it has happened, my present impression is, that the
measure must go into effect with the additional idea of a Com-
mission of Three.

The mode must be accommodated with the President. Murray
is certainly not strong enough for so immensely important a
mission.

Yours truly,

A. H.

I will write to-morrow if my impression varies.

398 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 42.

PICKERING TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, February 20. 1799.

Dear Sir:

Since I wrote you on the 9th, (which you acknowledge in a
short letter, promising further communications,) Dr. Stevens has
been appointed Consul-General of St. Domingo, and will proba-
bly embark before the close of next week. If you have written
further to me in answer to my letter of the 9th, the letter has
miscarried, for I have received nothing. I must frame Dr.
Stevens's instructions in a few days, and wish to furnish him with
ideas on the point I stated. This cannot be done officially, but he
will know how to use it.

PICKERING TO HAMILTON.
(confidential.)

Philadelphia, February 25th, 1799.

My Dear Sir:

This morning I have received your favor of the 21st. We
have all been shocked and grieved at the nomination of a min-
ister to negotiate with France. There is but one sentiment on
the subject among the friends of their country and the real sup-
porters of the President's administration. Pains have been taken
to ameliorate the measure by throwing it into a commission. But
the President is fixed. The Senate must approve or negative the
nomination. In the latter event, perhaps he will name commis-
sioners. I beg you to be assured, that it is wholly his own act,
without any participation or communication with any of us. It
is utterly inconsistent with his late nominations of Mr. King to
negotiate a commercial treaty with Russia, and of Mr. Smith to
negotiate a like treaty with the Porte. Both these objects will
now be defeated. It was by the proffered aid of Russia and Great

JEt. 42.] CORRESPONDENCE. 399

Britain, that we were induced to propose to negotiate with the
Porte. With respect to St. Domingo, the President will certainly
do no act to encourage Touissaint to declare the island independ-
ent ; but he will doubtless open the commercial intercourse, when
Dr. Stevens (Consul-General) shall certify that privateering is at
an end ; so that, agreeably to the 4th section of the act, the Pres-
ident may consider it safe and for the interest of the United
States to do it.

The foundation of this fatal nomination of Mr. Murray was
laid in the President's speech at the opening of Congress. He
peremptorily determined (against our unanimous opinions) to
leave open the door for the degrading and mischievous measure
of sending another minister to France, even without waiting for
direct overtures from her.

»

SEDGWICK TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, February 25th, 1799.

Dear Sir:

The committee to whom was referred the President's message
nominating Mr. Murray, had a free conversation with him on
Saturday evening, under the protestation that it should not be
mentioned in the report, nor considered as a precedent. During
the conversation he declared repeatedly, that to defend the exec-
utive against oligarchic influence, it was indispensable that he
should insist on a decision on the nomination ; and he added :
" I have, on mature reflection, made up my mind, and I will
neither withdraw nor modify the nomination." He was, how-
ever, pleased to let us know, that if Murray was negatived, he
would then propose a commission, two of the members of which
should be gentlemen within the United States ; that the com-
mission should be joint ; but that by instructions, any two should
be authorized to act, and that in no case should the gentlemen be
m permitted to leave the country until the positive assurances men-

*

400 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mi. 42.

tioned in his message of the 21st June shall have been given.
In consequence of these declarations, at a meeting of the federal
members, it was agreed to reject the nomination. I had already
framed a report, and was ready to make it, when I was privately
informed that he wished I would postpone the report, as he was
preparing a message on the subject.

That is this moment delivered — is on the principles he had
mentioned, and the persons named are the Chief Justice, Patrick
Henry, and Mr. Murray. This is every thing which, under the
circumstances, could be done. I have written the above during
debate ; I hope it is intelligible.

General Hamilton.

"WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.
(private.)

Mount Vernon, Feb. 25, 1799.

My Dear Sir:

Your private letter of the 16th inst., came duly to hand, and
safe ; and I wish you at all times, and upon all occasions, to com-
municate interesting occurrences, with your opinions thereon (in
the manner you have designated), with the utmost unreserved-
ness to me.

If the augmented force was not intended as an in terrorem
measure, the delay in recruiting it is unaccountable, and baffles
all conjecture on reasonable grounds. The zeal and enthusiasm
which were excited by the publication of the dispatches from our
commissioners at Paris (which gave birth to the law authorizing
the raising of twelve regiments, &c.) are evaporated — and if this
dull season, when men are idle from want of employment, and
from that cause might be induced to enlist, is suffered to pass
away also, we shall, by and by, when the business of agriculture
and other avocations call for the labor of them, set out as a for-
lorn hope to execute this business.

Had the formation of the army followed closely the passage .

Mr. 42.] CORRESPONDENCE. 401

of this act, and recruiting orders had trod on the heels of that,
the men which might have been raised at that time, would, in
point of numbers, have been equal to any in the world ; inas-
much as the most reputable yeomanry of the country were ready
to have stepped forward with alacrity.

Now the measure is not only viewed with indifference, but
deemed unnecessary by that class of people whose attentions
being turned to other matters, the officers who, in August and
September, could, with ease, have enlisted whole companies of
them, will find it difficult to recruit any ; and if this idle and
dissipated season is spent in inactivity, none but the riff-raff of
the country and the scape-gallowses of the large cities will be to
be had.

Far removed from the scene, I might ascribe these delays to
wrong causes, and therefore will hazard no opinion respecting
them; but I have no hesitation in pronouncing that, unless a
material change takes place, our military theatre affords but a
gloomy prospect to those who are to perform the principal parts
in the drama. Sincerely and affectionately,

I am always yours,

Geo. Washington.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

(private.)

Mount Vernon, Feb. 26, 1799.

My Dear Sir :

I received your letter of the 18th inst. yesterday. You refer
me to inclosed letters for information on the subject therein men-
tioned. One letter only came, and that under a seal to General
Lee, which I shall forward, unopened, to-morrow by my nephew,
Mr. Bushrod Washington, who is a neighbor of his.

Having written to you yesterday both an official and private
F 26

402 HAMILTON'S WORKS. \JEt. 42.

letter, I have only to add in this, that with sincere esteem and
affectionate regard,

I am, my dear Sir, always yours,

Geo. Washington.

General Hamilton.

KING TO HAMILTON.

London, March 4, 1799.
Our opinions do not differ upon a very important subject that
has more than once been mentioned in our correspondence. I
am entirely ignorant of the sentiments of the President, though
I have again and again treated of it, and sometimes with earnest-
ness, in my dispatches. This silence gives me some inquietude.
Mr. G. will send you the reflections that have occurred to him,
and will also explain the motives for putting them into your
hands. I cannot at this distance decide upon the expediency of
publishing these reflections, but I am much inclined to recom-
mend it, as all our conjectures, explained and confirmed by every
thing we see, enjoin upon us to look for safety only in our own
courage and upon our own continent.

With perfect regard and attachment, &c.

HAMILTON TO KNOX.

New-York, March 14, 1799.

My Bear Sir :

The inclosed letters, as I concluded from others which ac-
companied them, have been a long time getting to hand. There
was a moment when their object seemed to present itself as one
not entirely chimerical ; but the probability has diminished. 'Tis
however a thing on which the mind may still speculate as in the

jEt. 42.] CORRESPONDENCE. 403

chapter of extraordinary events which characterize the present
wonderful epoch.

My j udgment tells me I ought to be silent on a certain sub-
ject ; but my heart advises otherwise, and my heart has always
been the master of my judgment. Believe me I have felt much
pain at the idea, that any circumstance personal to me should
have deprived the public of your services or occasioned to you the
smallest dissatisfaction. Be persuaded, also, that the views of
others, not my own, have given shape to what has taken place —
and that there has been a serious struggle between my respect
and attachment for you and the impression of duty. This
sounds, I know, like affectation, but it is nevertheless the truth.
In a case in which such great public interests were concerned, it
seemed to me the dictate of reason and propriety, not to exercise
an opinion of my own, but to leave that of others, who could in-
fluence the issue, to take a free course. In saying this much,
my only motive is to preserve, if I may, a claim on your friendly
disposition towards me, and to give you some evidence that my
regard for you is unabated. Adieu, my dear Sir.

Very much yours.

ST. CLAIR TO HAMILTON.

Cincinnati, March 14th, 1799.

Dear Sir:

Under the same cover with this I have taken the liberty to
inclose to you some observations of mine on a letter from George
Nicholas, of Kentucky, to his friend in Virginia. You will per-
ceive that I have treated you very familiarly, but I am under no
apprehension that the purpose will be mistaken. It was a morti-
fication that I could not get them out in proper time, when I had
the vanity to suppose they might have done some good further
abroad than Kentucky. The severity of the winter, which dis-
appointed the printer in paper, was the cause. It will not now

404 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 42.

miss entirely of effect in the country for which it was chiefly
intended.

Be that as it may, it has afforded me an opportunity, which I
embrace with great pleasure, of assuring you of the great regard
with which I ever am,

Dear Sir, &c.

VAN EENSSELAER TO HAMILTON.

Albany, March 15th, 1799.

Dear Sir:

The Assembly have a bill for electing electors of President
and Vice-President. It will pass. Are you of opinion that it
would be proper for the Senate to concur ? Unless New- York
gives us a different representation, the Federalists are lost. —
Whether we have any object now since the late conduct of the
President, you are a better judge than we. If it is, however,
necessary, that we should still persevere, pray let me hear from
you. Our friends are extremely pressing that I should write to
you on this subject. Mr. Sedgwick called on me for papers
which you was to transmit to my care.

Yours affectionately,

Stephen Van Eensselaer.

HAMILTON TO WOLCOTT.

New-York, March 21st, 1799.

Dear Sir:

It is a good principle for the United States to employ directly
its own means, only do not let this be carried so far as to confine
it to the use of inadequate means, or to embarrass the auxiliary
means which circumstances may require.

Mt. 42.] CORRESPONDENCE. 405

The idea of the late President's administration of consider-
ing the Governor of each State as the first general of the militia,
and its immediate organ in acting upon the militia, was wisely
considered, and in my opinion, wisely adopted, and well to be
adhered to. In its final operation, it will obviate many difficul-
ties and collisions, and by enhancing their importance, tend to
draw the State Executives to the general government. Take
good care that in the present instance the force be not in-
adequate.

STEUBEN TO HAMILTON.

New-York, March 27th, 1799.

Dear Sir:

At the request of the Marquis de Eouvrai, I forward to you
the inclosed memoir relatif to the emigrancls of the French
islands, now in this country.

It appears to me that this object will become as interesting
to the United States as it is to these unhappy refugees, to be
reinstated in their possessions and property. How far the pro-
positions of the Marquis may be practicable in the execution, I
will not venture to say. But I believe we should endeavor to
get rid of these guests as soon as possible.

The plan of the harbor, with the proposed fortifications at
the Narrows, shall be forwarded to you in the beginning of the
next week.

You will oblige me, my dear sir, by a line in answer to the
receipt of the inclosed memoir.

406 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 42.

t

WOLCOTT TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, April 1st, 1799.

Dear Sir:

* * * * General McPherson, it is said, will march on Wed-
nesday. I am grieved when I think of the situation of the gov-
ernment. An affair which ought to have been settled at once,
will cost much time, and perhaps be so managed as to encourage
other and formidable rebellions. We have no President here,
and the appearances of languor and indecision are discouraging
to the friends of government. Mr. McHenry does ' the best in
his power, yet his operations are such as to confirm more and
more a belief of utter unfitness for the situation.

The President has been informed of the disorders in that de-
partment, yet there appears no disposition to apply any correc-
tion. Expense, discord, and a general loss of influence, will, I
fear, be the only traits of the regulations adopted by Congress,
for the interior defence of the country.

In this State, affairs bear an unpleasant aspect. The Gov-
ernor is habitually intoxicated every day, and most commonly
every forenoon. Dallas and Judge McKean possess the efficient
powers of the government. The former has written to several
magistrates, that setting up liberty posts, as they are called, is no
crime, if done peaceably. The judge is in pretty open collision
with the mayor, who is a good man. On Saturday night,
Brown, &c, were attacked in a most violent and cruel manner
in their houses. The mayor ordered the men to prison, but on
Saturday morning they were enlarged by Judge McKean. In
short, McKean and Dallas mean to have it understood, that they
are determined to support all the turbulent and flagitious of the
community. I am not without hopes that this violent conduct
will open the eyes of the people. If it does not, we shall soon
have serious trouble in Pennsylvania.

You know the state of things in the country, the public opin-
ion, the disposition of the President ; if any thing can and ought
to be done, and I can be of any service, I will do it, however
unpleasant.

Mi.m.] CORRESPONDENCE. 407

I received the inclosed this morning, and have shown it to
Mr. McHenry. He says that the men are under your orders,
and will leave Windsor immediately.

When you have read this, be pleased to burn it, to prevent
accident.

HAMILTON TO PICKERING.

New-York, April 4th. 1799.

Sir:

I observe, by the Boston papers, that some dispatches have
been lately found on board a vessel from this port which was
carried into Gibraltar. The late consul here, Mr. Rosier, has
just been with me, and suggested that the dispatches are proba-
bly from him, and allude (but without naming me) to some con-
versations with me relating to his being received as consul-gen-
eral some time last winter. Being so much engaged as not to
have been able conveniently to call upon you, I mentioned the
subject while in Philadelphia to Mr. Wolcott, and was informed
by him that Mr. Rosier could not then be received. In the in-
terviews respecting this object, some general conversation took
place about the state of things between the two countries. Mr.
Rosier will write to you offering the means of deciphering his
dispatches, which he assures me, with every appearance of can-
dor, will be found to contain nothing unfriendly to this country.
It is his wish, in the mean time, that no idea may circulate of his
being a conspirator.

KING TO HAMILTON.

London, May 22, 1799.

Dear Sir:

War is again declared by France against the temporizing
'cabinet of Vienna, and this has been the signal for Prussia to re-
sume her former system of insecure neutrality.

408 HAMILTON'S WORKS [jEt. 42.

We may every hour expect the result of a battle between
Jourdan and the Archduke, who, according to our last accounts,
were respectively advancing upon each other. The first blow
has been unfortunate for the allies. The whole of the Austrian
corps, 5000, at Coire, in the country of the Gascons, having fallen
into the hands of the French, commanded by Massena. I wish
that I felt more confident that this first success would not be fol-
lowed by more important victories. The 25,000 Eussians, who
were some time in the neighborhood of Vienna, are on their
march for Italy, where Suwarrow, an old Eussian officer, is to
command the combined armies.

If Prussia, with the north of Germany, which together have
an army of more than 300,000 men, had joined heartily and
honestly in the league against France, the Directory might have
been shaken ; but my hopes are weaker than my fears with re-
gard to the partial and ill-joined confederacy with which it is at
present engaged.

The publication of the treaty of Campo Formio, so disgraceful
to the court of Vienna, will prove hurtful to the Directory, by
confirming the jealousy of Prussia, and exciting distrust of the
Emperor throughout Germany, the interest and safety of which
was sacrificed by that treaty.

MCHENEY TO HAMILTON.

(private and confidential.)

June 26th, 1799.

My Dear Sir :

I find, from frequent and repeated conversations, that we have
not been able to remove any one of the prejudices entertained by
the Secretary of the Treasury against the augmentation of the
army ; that he thinks, or seems to think, that the means or
measures of the United States, which can be called forth without
annual loans, are inadequate to the expenditures required for the'

At. 42.] CORRESPONDENCE. 409

support of the army and navy, consequently that some part of
the one or the other must soon be suspended or dropped, and
that he even contemplates a statement of facts relative to our
means to the President. I regret all this from the bottom of my
soul, feeling as I do how much our peace, honor, and respect at
home and abroad depends upon the permanency of our little
army. I continue in the course which I had prescribed to my-
self, determined to intermit or suspend indispensable measures*
only when officially informed of its being no longer in the com-
petency of the Treasury means to support them, or answer the
requisite demands. The Secretary tells me, that notwithstand-
ing his opinion about the army, he will not do any thing to pre-
judice his friends or the public against it; — I reason in all the
forms I can think of, and I have thought it proper to keep
throwing into form paragraphs tending to show the necessity of
an army.

I know not how all this is to end. It will be mortifying, if
we have to retrograde, although under an act of Congress. I
consider it necessary to apprise you of the state of opinions here,
and to request your aid to the eastward, to keep up a due sense
of the propriety of the measure among our friends in that
quarter. The Secretary of State thinks right ; at least I have
seen no indications to the contrary. Mr. Goodrich has the fol-
lowing paragraph in a letter I received from him this morning.
" The recruiting service is proceeding successfully in this State
The sooner the troops can be withdrawn from the towns, em-
bodied, disciplined, and employed, the less speculation will be
excited about the army."

I think the plan heretofore recommended ought to be at-
tended to. I mean to hasten the recruits to their respective
regimental rendezvous.

Yours, &c.

410 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 42.

KING TO HAMILTON.

London, July 15, 1799.

Dear Sir:

The French still maintain themselves in Switzerland, and
though unless soon and strongly reinforced, they will be driven
out of it. The success of the allies has been almost uninter-
rupted in Italy, from whence, according to present appearances,
the enemy must in a short time be totally expelled. Thus far,
the coalition has performed prodigies ; but the confederates are
not without mutual jealousies, which will increase with their
success, and which already has had the effect of preventing an
agreement upon a precise and ultimate object. Between Eng-
land and Russia the greatest union and confidence exist ; and
these powers do not disagree in what ought to be the end to be
aimed at and avowed. An uncommon coldness, and even more
than coldness, exists between Austria and England ; and between
the former and Russia there is less cordiality than could be
wished and expected. The issue of the campaign, for these
reasons, is less certain than it would be were the allies heartily
and disinterestedly engaged in the only species of war that can
give peace and security to the different nations of Europe.

It is extremely difficult yet to understand the late changes at
Paris. There are persons who see in them the death-blow of
French republicanism. I doubt very much this opinion, and am
inclined to consider the last in the same light as I have done the
former revolutions. I did expect that the changes would be
followed by measures of more energy than have been adopted.
There seems to be no reason to suppose that we are likely to
be benefited by the revolution. Seiyes' opinions concerning
America are no secret, and they give us no room to expect a
treatment different from that we have so long and so patiently
endured. The inclosure relates to a subject that I cease to write
or talk of, for reasons that you will be at no loss to conjecture.

Mr. 42.J CORRESPONDENCE. 411

KING TO HAMILTON.

July 31st, 1799.

Dear Sir:

You will believe that I have been much gratified with the
late intelligence from home. France has calculated all her plans
on our disunion, and the expectation that her friends, if not more
numerous, would be more active, and possess greater energy,
than the friends of our government ; or rather, she has believed
that our government, like that of every country that she has
succeeded to overturn and enslave, would act with such timidity,
and in so qualified a manner, that the affections and support of
the people would be easily withdrawn from, and even turned
against it. If the government continue to speak and act with
decision, the people will become more and more united, and still
better inclined to execute its purposes. This opinion should be
taken in connection with an observation (the importance of
which appears to me the greater the oftener I consider it) that I
have suggested in more than one of my late letters. The com-
position of addresses, and the forming of volunteer associations,
who will have nothing to do, are for the present well, but they
will cease to be novelties, and soon become tiresome ; and, to be
secure, you must have some sufficient object that will interest
and employ the passions of the nation. The mere defensive
system of the enemies of France has been a principal cause of
her success, and if we adopt the error, we shall be exposed to
greater risks than by a bold and active system, which, exclusive
of being the most certain means of safety, would promise the
acquisition of great and lasting advantages.

The destiny of the new world, and I have a full and firm
persuasion that it will be both happy and glorious, is in our
hands. We have a right, and it is our duty, to deliberate, and
to act not as secondaries, but as principals. The object and the
occasion are such as we ought not, in respect to ourselves or
others, to suffer to pass unimproved.

412 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 42.

I have nothing to observe in reference to the subject of regret
and complaint mentioned in your last letters. You will not
doubt that all the means in my power have been employed to
correct the mischief — they have served only to convince me that
it is incorrigible. It is an evil too deeply rooted, and too power-
fully protected to be cured : and it is something gained to know
that it is so. If we are wise, we shall hasten the events that will
place the remedy in our own hands.

A frigate returning from Malta to Toulon with dispatches and
a general officer, has been captured by an English frigate, and
we are told that Buonaparte had sailed on his expedition two
days before the English fleet that pursues him arrived there. If
so, the French fleet is in great danger. Many persons think that
great events depend on the success or failure of Buonaparte's
expedition. All the late accounts from Paris say, a new storm
is at hand, but none express a hope that the changes it may
effect will make the condition of France or of others better.
Gerry still hangs about the Directory ! At Eastadt the Congress
continues, and the jealousies between Austria and Prussia, art-
fully kept alive by the common enemy, prevents that hearty
union, without which no successful co-operation will take place
against France.

In Ireland the rebellion is suppressed, and our government
will, I hope, have the power and the inclination to exclude those
disaffected characters who will be suffered to seek an asylum
among us. England is more than ever united, and resolves, with
confidence in the superiority of her resources, to prosecute the
war. There is no talk of peace — nor is there any appearance
which would lead to an opinion that new overtures for that pur-
pose are likely soon to be made.

On the other hand, France is undoubtedly extremely embar-
rassed any longer to find the money necessary to maintain her
army, and carry on the war.

Be so kind as to present my affectionate respects and congratu-
lations to the Governor. I ought to write to him, but I consider
a letter to him or you as nearly the same.

With great truth and attachment, &c.

Mr. 42.] CORRESPONDENCE. 413

P. S. — We have just heard that Gerry has received his pass-
port. At the close of Talleyrand's letter sending it, he says,
though the Directory, as a measure of precaution, had laid an
embargo on all American vessels, telle est la repugnance du
directoire a considerer les Etats Unis comme ennemis, qui malgre
leurs demonstrations hostiles, il veut attendre qu'il y voit irresis-
tiblement force par des hostilites reelles !

HAMILTON TO HOFFMAN.

1799.

Sir:

" Greenleaf 's New Daily Advertiser" of this morning contains
a publication entitled " Extract of a Letter from Philadelphia,
dated September 20th," which charges me with being at the " bot-
tom of an effort recently made to suppress the Aurora11 (a news-
paper of that city) by pecuniary means.

It is well known that I have long been the object of the most
malignant calumnies of the faction opposed to our government
through the medium of the papers devoted to their views. Hith-
erto, I have forborne to resort to the laws for the punishment ot
the authors or abettors, and were I to consult personal consider-
ations alone, I should continue in this course, repaying hatred
with contempt.

But public motives now compel me to a different conduct.
The designs of that faction to overturn our government, and with
it the great pillars of social security and happiness in this coun-
try, become every day more manifest ; and have of late acquired
a system which renders them formidable.

One principal engine for effecting the scheme is, by audacious
falsehoods to destroy the confidence of the people in all those
who are in any degree conspicuous among the supporters of the
government — an engine which has been employed in time past
with too much success, and which, unless counteracted in future,
is likely to be attended with very fatal consequences.

414 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [/Ex. 42.

To counteract it is therefore a duty to the community. Among
the specimens of this contrivance, that which is the subject of the
present letter demands peculiar atfention. A bolder calumny,
one more absolutely destitute of foundation, was never propa-
gated ; and its dangerous tendency needs no comment, being cal-
culated to inspire the belief that the independence and liberty of
the press are endangered by the intrigues of ambitious citizens
aided by foreign gold. In so flagrant a case the force of the laws
must be tried.

I therefore request, that you will take immediate measures
towards the prosecution of the persons who conduct the inclosed
paper.

With great confidence, I am, Sir,

Your obedient servant, &c.
Josiah O. Hoffman, Esq., Attorney-General.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

New-York, October 21st, 1799.

Dear Sir:

On my return from Trenton the day before yesterday, I found
your private letter of the 13th, as well as your public letter of
the 15th instt

The newspapers have probably informed you that poor Avery
is dead of the yellow fever.

The President has resolved to send the commissioners to
France, notwithstanding the change of affairs there. He is not
understood to have consulted either of his ministers ; certainly
not the Secretary of War or Finance ; all my calculations lead
me to regret the measure. I hope that it may not in its conse-
quences involve the United States in a war on the side of France
with her enemies.

My trust in Providence, which has so often interposed in our
favor, is my only consolation.

With great respect, &c.

jEt. 41.] CORRESPONDENCE. 415

HAMILTON TO LEAR.

New-York, January 2d, 1800.

Dear Sir:

Your letter of the 15th of December last, was delayed in
getting to hand by the circumstance of its having gone to New-
York, while I was at Philadelphia, and of its having arrived at
Philadelphia after I had set out on my return to New-York.

The very painful event which it announces had, previous to
the receipt of it, filled my heart with bitterness. Perhaps no
man in this community has equal cause with myself to deplore
the loss. I have been much indebted to the kindness of the
General, and he was an AUgis very essential to me. But regrets are
unavailing. For great misfortunes it is the business of reason to
seek consolation. The friends of General Washington have very
noble ones. If virtue can secure happiness in another world, he
is happy. In this, the seal is now put upon his glory. It is no
longer in jeopardy from the fickleness of fortune.

Adieu, &c.

P. S. — In whose hands are his papers gone ? Our very con-
fidential situation will not permit this to be a point of indiffer-
ence to me.

HAMILTON TO KING.

New-York, January 5, 1800.

It is indeed a long time, my dear sir, since I have written to
you, and I feel my obligation to you for the continuance of your
correspondence, notwithstanding my delinquency.

Had it been true that I had left every thing else to follow the
drum, my delinquency would not have been so great. But our
military establishment offers too little inducement, and is too pre-

416 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Jftr. 42.

carious to have permitted a total dereliction of professional pur-
suits. The double occupation occasioned by these added military
duties, and the attention which circumstanees call me to pay to
collateral objects, engage my time more than ever, and leave me
less leisure to communicate with distant friends.

If the projected cipher was established, I should now have
very much to say to you. But for this the arrangement is not
yet mature. Soon, however, I hope to make it so, by forward-
ing to you the counterpart, which is in preparation. I must, how-
ever, give you some sketch of our affairs.

At home every thing is in the main well ; except as to the
perverseness and capriciousness of one, and the spirit of faction
of many.

Our measures from the first cause are too much the effect of
momentary impulse. Vanity and jealousy exclude all counsel.
Passion wrests the helm from reason.

The irreparable loss of an inestimable man removes a con-
trol which was felt, and was very salutary.

The leading friends of the government are in a sad dilemma.
Shall they risk a serious schism by an attempt to change ? Or
shall they annihilate themselves and hazard their cause by con-
tinuing to uphold those who suspect or hate them, and who are
likely to pursue a course for no better reason than because it is
contrary to that which they approve ?

The spirit of faction is abated nowhere. In Virginia it is
more violent than ever. It seems demonstrated that the leaders
there, who possess completely all the powers of the local govern-
ment, are resolved to possess those of the national, by the most
dangerous combinations ; and, if they cannot effect this, to resort
to the employment of physical force. The want of disposition in
the people to second them, will be the only preventive. It is
believed that it will be an effectual one.

In the two houses of Congress we have a decided majority.
But the dread of unpopularity is likely to paralyze it, and to pre-
vent the erection of additional buttresses to the Constitution, a
fabric which can hardly be stationary, and which will retrograde
if it cannot be made to advance.

jEt. 42.] CORRESPONDENCE. 417

In the mass of the people the dispositions are not bad. An
attachment to the system of peace continues. No project con-
trary to it could easily conciliate favor. Good-will towards the
government, in my opinion, predominates ; though a numerous
party is still actuated by an opposite sentiment, and some vague
discontents have a more diffused influence. Sympathy with the
French Revolution acts in a much narrower circle than formerly,
but the jealousy of monarchy, which is as actual as ever, still
furnishes a handle by which the factions mislead well meaning
persons.

In our councils there is no fixed plan. Some are for preserv-
ing and invigorating the navy and destroying the army. Some
among the friends of government for diminishing both on pecu-
niary considerations.

My plan is to complete the navy to the contemplated extent ;
say six ships of the line, twelve frigates, and twenty-four sloops
of war ; to make no alteration for the present as to the military
force ; and finally, to preserve the organs of the existing force,
reducing the men to a very moderate number. For this plan
there are various reasons that appear to me solid. I must doubt,
however, that it will finally prevail.

The recent depredations of British cruisers, sanctioned in vari-
ous instances by the courts, have rekindled in many hearts an
animosity which was fast being extinguished. Such persons think
they see in this circumstance a new proof that friendship towards
this country on the part of Great Britain, will always be mea-
sured by the scale of her success. A very perplexing conflict of
sensations is the result of this impression.

I must hasten to a conclusion. It was unnecessary for me to
have told you that for the loss of our illustrious friend every
heart is in mourning. Adieu.

God bless you.

P. S. "Who is to be Commander-in Chief?
Not the next in command. The appointment will probably
be deferred.
F 27

418 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 42.

HAMILTON TO MRS. WASHINGTON.

January 12, 1800.

I did not think it proper, madam, to intrude amidst the first
effusions of your grief; but I can no longer restrain my sensibility
from conveying to you an imperfect expression of my affection-
ate sympathy in the sorrows you experience. No one better
than myself knows the greatness of your loss ; or how much
your excellent heart is formed to feel it in all its extent. Satis-
fied that you cannot receive consolation, I will attempt to offer
none. Resignation to the will of Heaven, which the practice
of your life insures, can alone alleviate the sufferings of so heart-
rending an affliction.

There can be few who equally with me participate in the
loss you deplore. In expressing this sentiment, I may, without
impropriety, allude to the numerous and distinguished marks of
confidence and friendship of which you have yourself been a
witness, but I cannot say in how many ways the continuance
of that confidence and friendship was necessary to me in fu-
ture relations. Vain, however, are regrets. From a calamity
which is common to a mourning nation, who can expect to be
exempt ? Perhaps it is even a privilege to have a claim to a
larger portion of it than others.

I will only add, madam, that I shall esteem it a real and a
great happiness if any future occurrence shall enable me to give
you proof of that respectful and cordial attachment with which
I have the honor to be,

Your obliged and very obedient servant,

A. H.

Mrs. Martha Washington.

^Et. 42.] CORRESPONDENCE. 419

HAMILTON TO BAYARD.

New-York, January 16, 1800.

I was glad to find, my dear sir, by your letter, that you had
not yet determined to go, with the consent of the federal party, in
support of Mr. Burr ; and that you were resolved to hold your-
self disengaged, till the moment of final decision. Your resolu-
tion to separate yourself in this instance from the federal party,
if your conviction shall be strong of the unfitness of Mr. Burr, is
certainly laudable. So much does it coincide with my ideas,
that if the party shall, by supporting Mr. Burr as President,
adopt him for their official chief, I shall be obliged to consider
myself as an isolated man. It will be impossible for me to recon-
cile with my motives of honor or policy, the continuing to be of
a party which, according to my apprehension, will have degraded
itself and the country.

I am sure, nevertheless, that the motives of many will be
good, and I shall never cease to esteem the individuals, though I
shall deplore a step which I fear experience will show to be a
very fatal one. Among the letters which I receive, assigning
the reasons, pro and con, for preferring Burr to J., I observe no
small exaggeration to the prejudice of the latter, and somethings
taken for granted as to the former, which are at least questionable.
Perhaps, myself the first, at some expense of popularity, to un-
fold the true character of Jefferson, it is too late for me to become
his apologist. Nor can I have any disposition to do it.

I admit that his politics are tinctured with fanaticism ; that
he is too much in earnest in his democracy ; that he has been a
mischievous enemy to the principal measures of our past admin-
istration ; that he is crafty and persevering in his objects ; that
he is not scrupulous about the means of success, nor very mind-
ful of truth, and that he is a contemptible hypocrite. But, it is
not true, as is alleged, that he is an enemy to the power of the
Executive, or that he is for confounding all the powers in the
House of Kepresentatives. It is a fact, which I have frequently
mentioned, that, while we were in the administration together,

420 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 42.

he was generally for a large construction of the Executive au-
thority, and not backward to act upon it in cases which coincided
with his views. Let it be added, that in his theoretic ideas, he
has considered as improper the participations of the Senate in
the Executive authority. I have more than once made the reflet
tion, that viewing himself as the reversioner, he was solicitous to
come into the possession of a good estate. Nor is it true, that
Jefferson is zealot enough to do any thing in pursuance of his
principles, which will contravene his popularity or his interest.
He is as likely as any man I know, to temporize ; to calculate
what will be likely to promote his own reputation and advantage,
and the probable result of such a temper is the preservation of
systems, though originally opposed, which being once established,
could not be overturned without danger to the person who did
it. To my mind, a true estimate of Mr. Jefferson's character
warrants the expectation of a temporizing, rather than a violent
system. That Jefferson has manifested a culpable predilection
for France, is certainly true ; but I think it a question, whether
it did not proceed quite as much from her popularity among us
as from sentiment ; and in proportion as that popularity is dimin-
ished, his zeal will cool. Add to this, that there is no fair
reason to suppose him capable of being corrupted, which is a se-
curity that he will not go beyond certain limits. It is not at all
improbable, that under the change of circumstances, Jefferson's
Gallicism has considerably abated.

As to Burr, these things are admitted, and indeed cannot be
denied, that he is a man of extreme and irregular ambition ; that
he is selfish to a degree which excludes all social affections; and
that he is decidedly profligate. But it is said, 1st, that he is artful
and dexterous to accomplish his ends ; 2d, that he holds no per-
nicious theories, but is a mere matter of fact man ; 3d, that his
very selfishness* is a guard against mischievous foreign predilec-
tions ; 4th, that his local situation has enabled him to appreciate
the utility of our commercial and fiscal systems, and the same
quality of selfishness will lead him to support and invigorate

* It is always very dangerous to look at the vices of men for good.

jEt. 42.] CORRESPONDENCE. 421

them ; 5th, that he is now disliked by the Jacobins ; that his ele-
vation will be a mortal stab to them, breed an invincible hatred
to him, and compel him to lean on the federalists ; 6th, that
Burr's ambition will be checked by his good sense, by the mani-
fest impossibility of succeeding in any scheme of usurpation, and
that, if attempted, there is nothing to fear from the attempt.
These topics are in my judgment more plausible than solid. As to
the first point, the fact must be admitted ; but those qualities
are objections rather than recommendations, when they are un-
der the direction of bad principles. As to the second point, too
much is taken for granted. If Burr's conversation is to be
credited, he is not very far from being a visionary. He has
quoted to me Connecticut as an example of the success of the demo-
cratic theory, and as authority, serious doubts whether it was not
a good one. It is ascertained, in some instances, that he has talked
perfect Godwinism. I have myself heard him speak with applause
of the French sj^stem, as unshackling the mind, and leaving it to its
natural energies ; and I have been present when he has con-
tended against banking systems* with earnestness, and with the
same arguments that Jefferson would use.

The truth is, that Burr is a man of a very subtile imagina-
tion, and a mind of this make is rarely free from ingenious whim-
sies. Yet I admit that he has no fixed theory, and that his
peculiar notions will easily give way to his interest. But is it a
recommendation to have no theory f Can that man be a syste-
matic or able statesman who has none? I believe not. No
general principles will hardly work much better than erroneous
ones.

As to the third point, it is certain that Burr, generally
speaking, has been as warm a partisan of France as Jefferson ;
that he has, in some instances, shown himself to be so with pas-
sion. But if it was from calculation, who will say that his calcu-
lations will not continue him so? His selfishness, f so far from

* Yet he has lately by a trick established a bank — a perfect monster in its prin-
ciples, but a very convenient instrument otprofit and influence.

■f Unprincipled selfishness is more apt to seek rapid gain in disorderly practices
than slow advantages i'rom orderly systems.

422 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [At. 42.

being an obstacle, may be a prompter. If corrupt, as well as
selfish, he may be a partisan for gain. If ambitious, as well as
selfish, he may be a partisan for the sake of aid to his views.
No man has trafficked more than he in the floating passions of
the multitude. Hatred to Great Britain and attachment to France
in the public mind, will naturally lead a man of his selfishness,
attached to place and power, to favor France, and oppose Great
Britain. The Gallicism of many of our patriots is to be thus re-
solved, and, in my opinion, it is morally certain that Burr will
continue to be influenced by this calculation.

As to the fourth point, the instance I have cited with respect
to banks, proves that the argument is not to be relied upon.
If there was much in it, why does Chancellor Livingston maintain
that we ought not to cultivate navigation, but ought to let foreign-
ers be our carriers ? France is of this opinion too ; and Burr,
for some reason or other, will be very apt to be of the opinion
of France.

As to the fifth point, nothing can be more fallacious. It is
demonstrated by recent facts* that Burr is solicitous to keep upon
anti-federal ground to avoid compromitting himself by any engage-
ments! with the federalists. With or without such engagements
he will easily persuade his former friends, that he does stand on
that ground ; and after their first resentment, they will be glad
to rally under him. In the mean time he will take care not to
disoblige them ; and he will always court those among them who
are best fitted for tools. He will never choose to lean on good
men, because he knows that they will never support his bad pro-
jects, but instead of this, he will endeavor to disorganize both
parties, and to form out of them a third, composed of men fitted
by their characters to be conspirators and instruments of such
projects.

That this will be his future conduct may be inferred from his
past plan, and from the admitted quality of irregular ambition.
Let it be remembered that Mr. Burr has never appeared solicitous

* My letter to Mr. Morris states some of them,
t He trusts to their prejudices and hopes for support.

jEt. 42.] CORRESPONDENCE. 423

for fame, and that great ambition, unchecked by principle, or the
love of glory, is an unruly tyrant, which never can keep long in
a course which good men will approve. As to the last point, the
proposition is against the experience of all times. Ambition
without principle, never was long under the guidance of good
sense. Besides that, really, the force of Mr. Burr's understanding
is much overrated. He is far more cunning than wise — far more
dexterous than able.

[ Very, very confidential. — In ' my opinion he is inferior in real
ability to Jefferson. There are also facts against the supposition.
It is past all doubt, that he has blamed me for not having im-
proved the situation I once was in to change the government.
That when answered that this could not have been done without
guilt, he replied, "Les grands ames se soucient peu des petits
moraux ;" that when told the thing was never practicable, from
the genius and situation of the country, he answered, " that
depends on the estimate we form of the human passions, and of
the means of influencing them." Does this prove that Mr. Burr
would consider a scheme of usurpation as visionary ?]

The truth is, with great apparent coldness he is the most
sanguine man in the world. He thinks every thing possible to
adventure and perseverance : and though I believe he will fail, I
think it almost certain he will attempt usurpation, and the at-
tempt will involve great mischief. But there is one point of
view which seems to me decisive. If the anti-federalists, who
prevailed in the election, are left to take their own man, they re-
main responsible, and the federalists remain free, united, and
without stain, in a situation to resist, with effect, pernicious
measures. If the federalists substitute Burr, they adopt him, and
become answerable for him. Whatever may be the theory of the
case abroad and at home, (for so from the beginning will be taught,)
Mr. Burr must become in fact the man of our party ; and if he
acts ill, we must share in the blame and disgrace. By adopting
him, we do all we can to reconcile the minds of the federalists
to him, and we prepare them for the effectual operation of his

424 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.tor. 42

arts. He will, doubtless, gain many of them ; and the federalists
will become a disorganized and contemptible party. Can there
be any serious question between the policy of leaving the anti-
federalists to be answerable for the elevation of an objectionable
man, and that of adopting ourselves, and becoming answerable
for a man who, on all hands, is acknowledged to be a complete
Catiline ? 'Tis enough to state the question to indicate the an-
swer, if reason, not passion, presides in the decision.

You may communicate this and my former letter to discreet
and confidential friends.

Yours very truly,

A. H.

TOBIAS LEAR TO HAMILTON.

Mount Vernon, January 16th, 1800.

Dear Sir:

Your letter of the 2d instant did not get to my hands till last
evening. I had anticipated the reasons for my letter of the 15th
December being so long in reaching you.

No one living besides yourself knows as well as I do the loss
which you have sustained by the General's death ; and I know
at the same time that no man under these circumstances could
find a greater resource in himself than you can.

Make yourself easy, my dear sir, respecting the confidential
communications which have passed between you and the General.
They have never passed under the eye of any person but him and
myself. Papers of this kind have always been kept separate from
the mass. To Judge Washington the General left by will all his
public and private papers. A few hours before his death he
observed to him — " I am about to change the scene. I cannot
last long. I believed from the first the attack would be fatal.
Do you arrange all my papers and accounts, as you know more
about these things than any one else."

,Et.42.] correspondence. 425

lear to hamilton.

January 23d, 1800.

Dear Sir :

Mrs. Washington has put into my hands your letter of the
12th instant, and requests me to acknowledge the receipt of it.

While she expresses the most grateful sensibility for your
kind and affectionate condolence, she is sensible that your loss,
as well as hers, is irreparable. In resigning herself to the dis-
pensation of Divine Providence, she looks up for consolation to
that Being, whose hand is the rod of affliction and the balm of
comfort.

The offer of your services, if in any occurrence you can be
useful to her, is received with gratitude and thankfulness ; and
she begs that you and Mrs. Hamilton will accept her prayers
and best wishes for your health and happiness.

LA FAYETTE TO HAMILTON.

La Grange, 20th nivose, February 10th, 1800.

My Dear Hamilton :

I have not, since my return to France, received a line from
you ; yet I am sure you are affectionately interested in every
account which concerns me. The departure of Mr. Pichon for
the United States affords me a good opportunity to write. He
has much pleased me by his eager wishes and useful exertions
for a reconciliation between both countries.

He speaks of America and Americans in terms gratifying to
my feelings, and has expressed himself particularly desirous to
come to you with a letter from your old and constant friend.
You have, no doubt, received the news of the negotiation be-
tween the United States and France, and the intelligence must
have been personally given by one of the ministers who have

426 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 42.

been employed in it. A continental peace, in Europe, is the re-
sult of a series of French victories. The .Ehine shall be our
frontier. The new Italian republic will probably be otherwise
disposed of. There is hope of a British negotiation. This gov-
ernment does earnestly wish to put every where an end to
the war. The late attempt against the life of Bonaparte, by
threatening the tranquillity of the citizens at large, has made
him more popular. It is evident in the moral state of the na-
tion, that none but the two extreme parties could have improved
the event, which being prepared by the terrorists, would have,
at least for some time, given them a tremendous chance of pow-
er, unless it had been taken by the garrison. You may con-
ceive how every honest man has been affected on hearing of a
plot, the object and the circumstances of which were equally
detestable. Oh, my dear friend, preserve your liberties ; do not
let party spirit and personal hatreds be carried further than the
proper balance in a wise, virtuous commonwealth, that you may
have nothing to do with the diseases, nor even with the medi-
cines. My whole heart is in the wishes I form for the continua-
tion of your political, social, personal freedom, dignity, and hap-
piness.

The opinion of several American friends, particularly Gen-
eral Washington and you, the situation of my French compa-
nions who had not, as I had, another country they could call
their own, did, as you know, keep me in Europe until the revo-
lution of Brumaire. The professions of liberty and justice which
accompanied it, made it decent and of course proper for me to
return to France. My companions have been erased from the
fatal list; my friends have re-entered the barrier of public
places, and in the mixture which Bonaparte has thought poli-
tical to make, he has given a majority to honest men. As to
myself, I was on the day of my arrival, and I am more and more
every day, determined for a life of perfect retirement. It has
been said that I was going to America as an ambassador. My
feelings and my habits in the United States I could not recon-
cile to the acting a foreign character however friendly, nor could
I with ease to myself, either within or without, put off my Ame-

,Et.42.] correspondence. 427

rican regimentals. I may be a happy visitor, and so I shall one
day or other, but am not fit to be an ambassador of the one
country to the other.

I feel better than it can be expected, which joined to the bad
health of my wife and her inability to cross the seas, puts the
matter on the footing of impossibility. It has also been reported
I was intended for, and several friends had wished me in the
public places of this constitutional establishment. I was totally
a stranger to the framing of it. I have earned my right to a life
of tranquillity, and am determined not to see myself be decoyed
or persuaded out of it. As to the command of armies, there are
now in France so many good generals, Bonaparte and Moreau
have been endowed with military abilities so prodigious and so
successful, that it were out of the question for me to think, at
this late hour of the war, of reassuming the staff. It was not
the case with George ; he serves in the army of Italy as an officer
of hussars, and has been lately engaged in the action of the pas-
sages of Rivers, which you will find in the papers.

I am, therefore, and shall remain a farmer. My wife, my two
daughters, son-in-law, and a little granddaughter, are with me in
a solitary country-place, upwards of forty miles from Paris, where
I am visited by some of my friends, and where I live very happy
amongst rural employments and rural studies, of which I am very
fond. My visits to the capital are rare, and short. I am on good
terms with the First Consul, my deliverer from Olmutz, who has
recalled my companions, and behaves very obligingly by me ; but
I do not in any degree, nor in any way, meddle with public
affairs. I wish Bonaparte may seek and find in the establish-
ment of true freedom the complement of his glory as well as the
security of his person and of a legal power — either for liberty the
safest and the nearest chance. As to foreign politics, the supe-
riority of France is unrivalled ; her resources are immense ; the
intentions of her government are sincere and generous ; and I
think particularly well disposed towards the United States — an
opinion of mine the less to be prejudiced, as I have no participa-
tion in her councils.

My abode is the inheritance of my unfortunate mother-in-law.

428 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 42.

"What remained of my property when I left France has been, for
the greatest part, sold and dilapidated. I have many debts to
pay — yet will I in the end have enough for my family and my-
self to live upon ; not enough, however, to manage my farm in
the elegant style which would suit my agricultural taste. But
whatever be my private circumstances, I shall stick to the plough
and to a life of retirement.

Now, my dear friend, may I hope that you will, in return,
give me minute details of every thing that concerns you. Be
pleased to remind me to our brother soldiers who have not for-
gotten their long absent comrade ; to my American friends about
you ; present my affectionate respects to Mrs. Hamilton and her
sister. I trust this letter, which I send by post to L'Orient, will
arrive safely with Mr. Pichon. Government has great confidence
in him ; and I have been much pleased with his acquaintance.
May the connection between the two countries be improved ; as
it is natural and easy to do it, for the mutual interest, honor, and
happiness of both.

With all the sentiments which have for so long a time at-
tatched me to you, I am, my dear Hamilton,

Your friend,

La Fayette.

Mr. Pichon has lately married a young and amiable lady, who
accompanies him. I have foretold her she will be very well
liked in America, and I do not fear to be mistaken in my pre-
diction.

HAMILTON TO SWAN.

February 17th, 1800.

Sir:

I have been applied to by an old soldier, who served during
the revolutionary war, on the subject of pay which he states to
be still due to him.

JEt. 42.] CORRESPONDENCE. 429

He mentions to me, that he enlisted for the war in the regi-
ment commanded by Colonel Livingston, and that he was trans-
ferred in the course of the war from that regiment to the one
under Colonel Weisenfelt. His claim is to two years' pay for his
services in the first of these regiments, and to nine months' pay
for his services in the last. He states, that he applied to the pay-
masters, but was prevented from obtaining his claim by having
been returned among the dead. You will be pleased to inform
me whether the door is yet open for claims of this nature. The
person states, that he should have applied at an earlier day, had
he known that he was returned among the dead. This circum-
stance came to his knowledge but about four years since.

HAMILTON TO SEDGWICK.

New-York, February 27th, 1800.

Dear Sir :

When will Congress probably adjourn ? Will any thing be
settled as to a certain election f Will my presence be requisite as
to this or any other purpose, and when ?

I observe more and more, that by the jealousy and envy of
some, the miserliness of others, and the concurring influence of
all foreign powers, America, if she attains to greatness, must creep
to it. Will it be so ? Slow and sure is no bad maxim. Snails
are a wise generation.

P. S. Unless for indispensable reasons, I had rather not
come.

430 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 42.

LA FAYETTE TO HAMILTON.

La Grange, March 7th, 1800.

My Dear Hamilton:

Madame de Fleury, widow to our gallant friend, having impart-
ed to me her intention to address the government of the United
States, is pleased to think that letters from me, and one partic-
ularly to you, might serve her purpose. I am sure the American
citizens, and above all our brother soldiers, need not being re-
minded of the brilliant and useful services which the late Gen.
Fleury had the happiness to render. Unfortunate it is for Madame
Fleury that her application can no more be patronized by him
whose lamentable loss to mankind, is to you, to all his personal
friends, to me, his adopted and loving son, so desolately deplor-
able. The great and deserved share you had in his confidence,
the obligations which Col. Fleury has often been under to your
esteem and friendship, entitle you to receive and promote any
proper demand that the worthy widow finds herself by her situ-
ation and the merits of her husband warranted to present.
I am most affectionately, dear Hamilton, yours,

La Fayette.

GEN. LEE TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, March 5th, 1800.

* * * * It gives me pain to find you so despondent. Cer
tainly you cannot regard the calumnies of your enemies. This
to them would be high gratification. Nor ought you to despond
of your country. We have heretofore prospered when surround-
ed by infinitely greater difficulties, in contributing to which pros-
perity no man alive has done more than yourself.

Be then more like yourself, and resist to victory all your foes.
It would give me great pleasure to see you here, and I had ex-

At. 42.] CORRESPONDENCE. 431

pected that official duty would have brought you among us a
second time during the winter. "We are now engaged in the little
pitiful business of the Irish murderer Nash, and I fear much of
our time will be spent in this dirty affair.

Yours affectionately,

H. Lee.

HAMILTON TO LEE.

Nkw-York, March 7th, 1800.

My Dear Sir :

The letters to which you allude in yours of the 5th instant,
have never been seen by me. The truth is, that I pay very little
attention to such newspaper ebullitions, unless some friend points
out a particular case which may demand attention.

But be assured once for all, that it is not easy for these mis-
creants to impair the confidence in, and friendship for you, which
are long habits of my mind ; so that you may join me in looking
with indifference upon their malicious efforts.

You have mistaken a little an observation in my last. Be-
lieve me, that I feel no despondency of any sort. As to the
country, it is too young and vigorous to be quacked out of its
political health — and as to myself, I feel that I stand on ground
which, sooner or later, will insure me a triumph over all my
enemies.

But in the mean time I am not wholly insensible of the in-
justice which I from time to time experience, and of which, in
my opinion, I am at this moment the victim.

Perhaps my sensibility is the effect of an exaggerated estimate
of my services to the United States ; but on such a subject a man
will judge for himself; and if he is misled by his vanity, he must
be content with the mortifications to which it exposes him. In
no event, however, will any displeasure I may feel, be at war
with the public interest. This in my eyes is sacred. Adieu.

432 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 42.

HAMILTON TO WILLIAM SMITH.

New-York, March 11th, 1800.

Dear Sir :

You will probably have heard, before this reaches you, that I
had appointed Captain Izard one of my aids. I part with him
to you with all the reluctance that a strong impression of his
merit can inspire. Yet I do not resist his going, because our
military prospects in general, and mine in particular, are very
uncertain.

Though we have had no communication since your departure,
you may be assured that I have not ceased to interest myself
in your welfare. If you go to Constantinople, I wish you good
luck. It is, perhaps, past the time for you to play the false Ibra-
him. You see I am in a humor to laugh. What can we do bet-
ter in this best of all possible worlds'? Should you even be shut up
in the seven towers, or get the plague, if you are a true philoso-
pher you will consider this only as laughing matter. Adieu.

A. Hamilton.

HAMILTON TO WOLCOTT.

New- York, March 12, 1800.

Sir:

I have written to you heretofore respecting Mr. Benjamin
Wells, who acted as an excise officer, in the western part of
Pennsylvania, at the time of the disturbances there. But this
gentleman has just arrived here, and requests me to mention his
case again to you. I comply with his request.

It appeared from what I saw and heard at the time, that Mr.
Wells distinguished himself by persevering exertion to carry
the laws into effect. He was of course marked out as an object
of vengeance. The losses which he sustained were very con-
siderble, and proceeded from the zeal he had displayed in

jEt. 43.] CORRESPONDENCE. 433

support of the government. To repair his losses and reward his
zeal, is therefore a duty imposed on the government by the prin-
ciples both of justice and policy. It is imposed by justice — for
the injuries were committed by persons in disguise, or under cir-
cumstances which render it impossible to discover the offenders.
It is vain, therefore, to refer Mr. AVells to the individuals by whose
acts he suffered. This is to tell him that his losses will never be
repaired.

Policy speaks in this case the same language with justice.
Mr. Wells suffered in consequence of his efforts to support the
government, and of his attention to duty. Will the government
then refuse to make him compensation? To do so, will be to
violate the plainest maxims of policy, as it will effectually damp
the zeal of public officers in every future case of difficulty. It
is not to be expected that individuals will expose their persons
to violence, and their property to destruction, in support of a
government that has not generosity sufficient to reward those who
suffer in its cause.

There appears to me to be no doubt of the meritorious exer-
tions of Mr. AVells, even if there were some doubt, yet the excel-
lent effect which the measure is calculated to produce on public
officers, will prove a full compensation for the money that may
be advanced. I recollect to have mentioned to Mr. Wells, and
other persons in the same capacity, that I considered the govern-
ment as bound to indemnify them. So far, therefore, as my opin-
ion could pledge the government, it was pledged. In giving
this opinion I thought I was promoting the best interests of the
nation, and it appears to me that the government will very wide-
ly mistake its policy in refusing to allow these men all reason-
able claims.
434 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 43.

HAMILTON TO GEN. PINCKNEY.
(private.)

New-York, April 10, 1800.

Dear Sir:

I am perfectly content with the delay of communication to
the Eev. Mr. Hill till the effect of your experiments with the
Secretary of War shall be known.

I have heard nothing as to the impression made by our mission
to France upon the combined powers ; but I cannot doubt that
it is a disagreeable one, and certainly the course of events lately
has not said much for the good policy of the measure. This cal-
culation of the President on a general peace, as the main argu-
ment for what was done, proves at least to be as fallacious as I
ventured to predict to him just after he had resolved to consum-
mate the error. Capt. Izard has accepted his appointment under
Mr. Smith, and has sailed for Europe.

Mrs. H. and myself have learned with great pleasure the

amendment of Mrs. P.'s health. Offer her and accept yourself

our felicitations and best wishes.

Adieu, &c.

Dear Sir:
* * *

CARROLL TO HAMILTON.

Annapolis, 18th April, 1800.

* We have strange reports circulated among us
respecting the prevalence of Jacobinical principles in your State.
It is asserted with confidence by the anti-federal party here, that
all your electors will vote for Mr. Jefferson as President. If
such an event should really happen, it is probable he will be
chosen. Of such a choice, the consequences to this country may
be dreadful. Mr. Jefferson is too theoretical and fanciful a
statesman to direct with steadiness and prudence the affairs of
this extensive and growing confederacy. He might safely try

JEt. 43.] CORRESPONDENCE. 435

his experiments, without much inconvenience in the little re-
public of St. Marino, but his fantastic tricks would dissolve this
Union. Perhaps the miseries of France, and more especially the
government of Buonaparte, may have weaned him from his pre-
dilection for revolutions. I once saw a letter of his, in which,
amongst several others, was contained this strange sentiment, —
" that to preserve the liberties of a people, a revolution once in
a century was necessary." A man of this way of thinking may
be said to be fond of revolutions ; yet, possibly, were he the
chief magistrate, he might not wish for a revolution during his
presidency.

I beg my respects to Mrs. Hamilton, and to be kindly re-
membered to General Schuyler.

I am, with very great regard and esteem,

Dear Sir, your most humble servant,

Charles Carroll, of Carrollton.

HAMILTON TO PICKERING.

April 25, 1800.

Dear Sir :

I send you the paragraph of a newspaper just published. I
hope it is an electioneering lie ; but as it is likely to do mischief;
I will thank you, by return of post, to inform me whether you
have any thing to confirm or refute, and particularly whether
you have heard of the list with which Commodore Truxton's
name is connected.

{Copy of inclosed paragraph.)

New Havk.v, April J5.

Capt. James Stewart, of Chatham, in the brig Sally, arrived at New London
on the 4th instant, from Jamaica, brings the most unpleasant accounts from that
quarter. He states that the British capture all American vessels that afford the

436 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 43.

slightest pretext for condemnation, and impress all their seamen without discrim-
ination. Capt. Stewart was taken by his majesty's ship Acasto, of 44 guns, the
commander of which, Edward Fellows, came on board the Sally himself, ordered
Capt. Stewart's chest open, and, with his own hands, took out 4250 dollars, be-
sides plundering the captain of other articles.

On the arrival of the brig at Kingston, every man on board, except the captain
and boy, all natives of Connecticut, were impressed, and are left there. Capt. Na-
than Allyn, of Groton, had all his people impressed, with their protections in their
hands. Capt. Waterman, of New-York, was treated in the same manner, with
many others. And Mr. Savage, the American agent in Kingston, informed Capt.
Stewart that he had forwarded to the Secretary of State, by Commodore Truxton,
an attested list of the names of one thousand and one bona fide American seamen,
who have lately been impressed by the British in that single port. American
vessels and cargoes were constantly condemned in that place, a full account of
which must soon be made public. Several masters and supercargoes of con-
demned vessels came home with Capt. Stewart, who, besides the general usage,
was himself treated with personal incivilities and contempt.

HAMILTON TO SEDGWICK.

May 4, 1800.

Dear Sir:

You have heard of the loss of our election in the city of New
York. This renders it too probable that the electors of Presi-
dent for this State will be anti-federal. If so, the policy which
I was desirous of pursuing at the last election, is now recom-
mended by motives of additional cogency.

To support Adams and Pinclcney equally is the only thing
that can possibly save us from the fangs of Jefferson.

It is, therefore, essential that the federalists should not sepa-
rate without coming to a distinct and solemn concert to pursue
this course bona fide.

Pray attend to this, and let me speedily hear from you that
it is done.

At. 43.] CORRESPONDENCE. 4o7

SEDGWICK TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, May 7th, 1800.

Dear Sir:

I have this moment received yours of the 4th. I have already
detailed to you what was done on Saturday evening. On this
subject our friend D. is not perfectly right. I have had a con-
versation with him this morning. The view he takes of the sub-
ject is this. He says, that however those who have an opportu-
nity of personal observation may esteem the character of Mr.
Adams, as he is viewed by the great majority of federalists, he
is the most popular man in the United States, and deemed best
qualified to perform the duties of President ; that should an
agreement to support, equally, him and General Pinckney, ulti-
mate in the election of the latter, it will be supposed to result
from an insidious intention, in a certain description of men, to
displace him from the office of President ; that this will crumble
the federal party to atoms. He says, indeed, that when it shall
be reduced to an absolute certainty, that we have no alternative
but to pursue this course, or submit to the election of Jefferson,
he shall not hesitate to adopt the former. That this crisis exists,
is to my mind absolutely certain. He, however, says, that fed-
eral electors may be chosen in South Carolina, that Maryland
may give us an unanimous vote, and that several electors may be
chosen in New-York ; and should all these circumstances take
place, votes may be thrown away in Massachusetts without en-
dangering the election of Jefferson.

You cannot but perceive the mischievous tendency of these
observations from a man of D.'s weight of character. This I os^>{

pected from , but not from him. At any rate, we shall

have infinite difficulties to contend with. I did not expect to
have them either increased or multiplied from this quarter ; and,
if possible, he must be reclaimed. Every thing I can do shall
be attempted. Are you in such habits as to authorize an ad-
dress to him on the subject? Of course, he must not know that
I have suggested the idea to you.

438 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 43.

Marshall has this morning been nominated as Secretary of "War.
He was never consulted, and had no intimation that McHenry
was to retire. He will not accept. I hope Carrington may be
brought in. I have, as usual, written this in the house.

I am ever yours, &c.

HAMILTON TO JAY.

New-York, May 7th, 1800.

Dear Sir:

You have been informed of the loss of our election in this
city. It is also known that we have been unfortunate through-
out Long Island and in Westchester. According to the returns
hitherto, it is too probable that we lose our Senators for this
district.

The moral certainty therefore is, that there will be an anti-
federal majority in the ensuing legislature; and the very high
probability is, that this will bring Jefferson into the chief magis-
tracy, unless it be prevented by the measure which I shall now
submit to your consideration, namely, the immediate calling to-
gether of the existing legislature.

I am aware that there are weighty objections to the measure,
but the reasons for it appear to me to outweigh the objections ;
and in times like these in which we live, it will not do to be over-
scrupulous. It is easy to sacrifice the substantial interests of society
by a strict adherence to ordinary rules.

In observing this, I shall not be supposed to mean, that any
thing ought to be done which integrity will forbid, but merely
that the scruples of delicacy and propriety, as relative to a com-
mon course of things, ought to yield to the extraordinary nature
of the crisis. They ought not to hinder the taking of a legal and
constitutional step to prevent an atheist in religion, and a fanatic
in politics, from getting possession of the helm of state.

You, sir, know in a great degree the anti-federal party ; but

jEt.43.] CORRESPONDENCE. 439

I fear you do not know them as well as I do. It is a composi-
tion, indeed, of very incongruous materials ; but all tending to
mischief— some of them, to the overthrow of the government,
by stripping it of its due energies ; others of them, to a revo-
lution, after the manner of Bonaparte. I speak from indubi-
table facts, not from conjectures and inferences. In proportion
as the true character of the party is understood, is the force of
the considerations which urge to every effort to disappoint it;
and it seems to me, that there is a very solemn obligation to em-
ploy the means in our power.

The calling of the legislature will have for its object the
choosing of electors by the people in districts ; this (as Pennsylvania
will do nothing) will insure a majority of votes in the United
States for a federal candidate. The measure will not fail to be
approved by all the federal party ; while it will, no doubt, be
condemned by the opposite. As to its intrinsic nature, it is jus-
tified by unequivocal reasons of public safety.

The reasonable part of the world will, I believe, approve it.
They will see it as a proceeding out of the common course, but
warranted by the particular nature of the crisis, and the great
cause of social order.

If done, the motive ought to be frankly avowed. In your
communication to the legislature, they ought to be told that
temporary circumstances had rendered it probable that, without
their interposition, the executive authority of the general govern-
ment would be transferred to hands hostile to the system hereto-
fore pursued with so much success, and dangerous to the peace,
happiness, and order of the country ; that under this impression,
from facts convincing to your own mind, you had thought it
your duty to give the existing legislature an opportunity of de-
liberating whether it would not be proper to interpose, and en-
deavor to prevent so great an evil by referring the choice of
electors to the people distributed into districts.

In weighing this suggestion, you will doubtless bear in mind
that popular governments must certainly be overturned, and,
while they endure, prove engines of mischief, if one party will
call to its aid all the resources which vice can give, and if the

440 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [ Ms. 43.

other (however pressing the emergency) confines itself within all
the ordinary forms of delicacy and decorum.

The legislature can be brought together in three weeks, so
that there will be full time for the object; but none ought to be
lost.

Think well, my dear sir, of this proposition — appreciate the
extreme danger of the crisis ; and I am unusually mistaken in
my view of the matter, if you do not see it right and expedient
to adopt the measure.

Respectfully and affectionately yours, &c.

HAMILTON TO SEDGWICK.

May 8th, 1800.
I thank you, my dear sir, for your letter of the 5th instant,
which was received yesterday. The measure you mention has
been attempted, but without much hope of success.

Yet our friends are to-day in good spirits. The accounts
from the northward, apparently authentic, give us the strong
hope of still having a majority in our legislature. But, be this
as it may, our welfare depends absolutely on a faithful adherence
to the plan which has been adopted. New- York, if federal, will
not go for Mr. Adams unless there shall be as firm a pledge as
the nature of the thing will admit, that Mr. Pinckney will be
equally supported in the northern States.

Yours truly,

A. H.

jEt. 43.] CORRESPONDENCE. 441

HAMILTON TO SEDGWICK.

New-York, May 10th, 1800.

Dear Sir :

I am very sorry for the information contained in your letter
of the 7th. But I am not intimate enough with Dexter to put
myself upon paper to him.

If on his return I can catch him at New- York, I shall have
a particular conversation with him.

He is, I am persuaded, much mistaken as to the opinion en-
tertained of Mr. Adams by the federal party. Were I to deter-
mine from my own observation, I should say most of the most
influential men of that party consider him as a very unfit and in-
capable character.

For my individual part, my mind is made up. I will never
more be responsible for him by my direct support, even though
the consequence should be the election of Jefferson.

If we must have an enemy at the head of the government, let
it be one whom we can oppose, and for whom we are not respon-
sible, who will not involve our party in the disgrace of his fool-
ish and bad measures. Under Adams, as under Jefferson, the
government will sink. The party in the hands of whose chief it
shall sink, will sink with it ; and the advantage will all be on
the side of his adversaries.

"Pis a notable expedient for keeping the federal party to-
gether, to have at the head of it a man who hates and is despised
by those men of it who, in time past, have been its most efficient
supporters. If the cause is to be sacrificed to a weak and per-
verse man, I withdraw from the party, and act upon my own
ground, never certainly against my principles, but in pursuance
of them my own way. I am mistaken if others will not do the
same.

The only way to prevent a fatal schism in the federal party,
is to support General Pinckney in good earnest.

If I can be perfectly satisfied that Adams and Pinckney will
be upheld in the East with entire good faith, on the ground of

442 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 43.

conformity, I will, wherever my influence may extend, pursue
the same plan.

If not, I will pursue Mr. Pinckney as my single object.
Adieu.

Yours truly, &c.

SEDGWICK TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, May 13th, 1800.

Dear Sir:

Yours of the 10th I received yesterday. The events in the
executive departments you know. Their effects on the federal
party are such as you can as well determine by reflection as I
could detail. Would to heaven you was here, but it is too late.

There shall be a meeting of such men who remain here, and
who can be perfectly confided in ; I will inform you of the re-
sult. Every tormenting passion rankles in the bosom of that
weak and frantic old man, but I have good reason for believing
that Pickering and McHenry have been sacrificed as peace offer-
ings. I am at present of opinion, that no decided measures
should be taken till I see you.

Very sincerely yours, &c.

MCHENRY TO HAMILTON.
(private.)

War Department, 15th May, 1800.

Dear Sir:

I have the honor to communicate to you, that on the 6th
instant, I requested of the President of the United States permis-
sion to resign the office of Secretary for the Department of War.

To the above request I added a proposition, that my resigna-
tion be considered to take place on the 1st of Jungnext, in order

iET. 43.] CORRESPONDENCE. 443

that I might be for a short time in a convenient situation to ex-
plain to him or to my successor, any of the measures taken by me
as Secretary of "War that might require elucidation, and also the
inducing motives to some of them, which were best known to
myself.

The President answered, "that my requests were reasonable,
and readily agreed."

I am making my arrangements for the removal of myself and
family to Baltimore, and shall not continue in an official situa-
tion longer (if so long) than the 1st of June.

PICKERING TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, May 15, 1800.

My Dear Sir:

Last Saturday morning I received a summons to resign, and
a desire that I would myself name the day. But I did not in-
cline to accept this insidious favor. The President desired my
answer on Monday morning, and I sent it, mentioning that some
important matters would render my services useful in the office,
till about the close of the present quarter; but that " I did not
feel it to be my duty to resign." In an hour I received a per-
emptory discharge, and on Monday evening I quitted the office,
after working hard, and completing all the arrangements for the
second census, pursuant to a law passed in this session.

Mr. G. Morris was to set off this morning for New-York. He
will communicate an account of recent occurrences. I am
always gratified when there happens a coincidence of my thoughts
with yours. I have been contemplating the importance of a bold
and frank exposure of Adams ; perhaps I may have it in my
power to furnish some facts.

When the chief clerk in the office brought me your letter, he
told me that Mr. Lee broke it open, the clerk standing by ; but
Mr. Lee said he had not read it ; it was not addressed to me as

444 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mi. 43.

Secretary of State. Mr. Lee, when he was going to take charge
of the office, voluntarily assured me that private letters to me
should not be opened, or if opened inadvertently, that the
moment they were discovered to be private, they should not be
read, but half a minute was enough to read yours ; yet I do not
think he would act so dishonorably as to read it, or if any ex-
pression struck his eye, I hope he has honor enough to conceal
it. I shall direct the postmaster immediately to send letters ad-
dressed to me directly to my house.

HAMILTON TO WOLCOTT.

New- York, July 1st, 1800.

Dear Sir:

I send you the inclosed ; if any good use can be made of it
you will do it. I have been in Massachusetts, New Hampshire,
and Rhode Island. There is little doubt of federal electors in
all ; but there is considerable doubt of a perfect union in favor
of Pinckney.

The leaders of the first class are generally right, but the
leaders of the second class are too much disposed to be wrong.
It is essential to inform the most discreet of this description of
the facts which denote unfitness in Mr. Adams. I have promised
confidential friends a correct statement. To be able to give it I
must derive aid from you ; and any thing you may write shall
be, if you please, returned to you. But you must be exact, and
much in detail. The history of the mission to France, from the
first steps connected with the declarations in the speech to Con-
gress down to the last proceedings, is very important.

I have serious thoughts of writing to the President to tell
him that I have heard of his having repeatedly mentioned the
existence of a British faction in this country, and alluded to me
as one of that faction, requesting that he will inform me of the
truth of this information, and if true, what have been the grounds

JEt. 43.] CORRESPONDENCE. 445

of the suggestion. His friends are industrious in propagating
the idea to defeat the efforts to unite for Pinckney. The inquiry
I propose may furnish an antidote, and vindicate character.
What think you of this idea? For my part I can set malice at
defiance.

HAMILTON TO CAEROLL.

New- York, July 1st, 1800.

Deae Sie:

I yesterday returned from an excursion through three of the
four eastern States, and found your letter of the 18th of April.
It is very necessary that the true and independent friends of the
government should communicate and understand each other at
the present verj^ embarrassed *and dangerous crisis of public af-
fairs. I am glad, therefore, of the opportunity which your letter
affords me of giving you some explanations which may be useful.
They are given without reserve, because the times forbid tempo-
rising, and I hold no opinions which I have any motives to dis"
semble. As to the situation of this State, with regard to the
election of President, it is perfectly ascertained that on a joint bal-
lot of the two houses of our legislature, the opposers of the go-
vernment will have a majority of more than twenty ; a majority
which can by no means be overcome. Consequently all our
electors will vote for Mr. Jefferson, and Mr. Burr. I think there
is little cause to doubt that the electors in the four eastern States
will all be federal.

The only question seems to be as to Ehode Island, where
there is some division, and a state of things rather loose. Gov-
ernor Fenner, as far as he may dare, will promote the interest of
Jefferson.

A considerable diversion in favor of the opposition has lately
been made in New Jersey. But the best and best informed men
there entertain no doubt that all her electors will still be federal,
and I believe this opinion may be relied upon.

446 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [At. 43.

I go no farther south, as I take it for granted your means of
calculation with regard to that quarter are, at least, equal to
mine.

The result of a comprehensive view of the subject, seems to
me to be, that the event is uncertain, but that the probability is,
that a universal adherence of the federalists to Pinckney will
exclude Jefferson.

On this point there is some danger, though the greatest num-
ber of strong minded men in New England are not only satisfied
of the expediency of supporting Pinckney, as giving the best
chance against Jefferson, but even prefer him to Adams ; yet, in
the body of that people there is a strong personal attachment to
this gentleman, and most of the leaders of the second class are
so anxious for his re-election that it will be difficult to convince
them thap there is as much danger of its failure as there unques-
tionabljis, or to induce them faithfully to co-operate in Mr. Pinck-
ney, notwithstanding their common and strong dread of Jefferson.

It may become advisable, in order to oppose their fears to^heir
'prejudices, for the middle States to declare that Mr. Adams will not
be supported at all, when, seeing his success desperate, they would
be driven to adhere to Pinckney. In this plan New Jersey, and
even Connecticut, may be brought to concur. For both these
States have generally lost confidence in Mr. Adams.

But this will be best decided by future events and elucida-
tions. In the mean time it is not advisable that Maryland should
be too deeply pledged to the support of Mr. Adams.

That this gentleman ought not to be the object of the federal
wish, is, with me, reduced to demonstration. His administration
has already very materially disgraced and sunk the government.
There are defects in his character which must inevitably continue
to do this more and more. And if he is supported by the federal
party, his party must in the issue fall with him. Every other
calculation will, in my judgment, prove illusory.

Doctor Franklin, a sagacious observer of human nature, drew
this portrait of Mr. Adams : — " He is always honest, sometimes
great, but often mad." I subscribe to the justness of this picture,
adding as to the first trait of it this qualification — " as far as a

iET. 43.] CORRESPONDENCE. 447

man excessively vain and jealous, and ignobly attached to place
can be."

"With great consideration and esteem,

I am, dear Sir, &c.

WOLCOTT TO HAMILTON.
(private.)

Washington, July 7, 1800.

Dear Sir:

I have before me your favor of the 1st instant. I have some
knowledge of the circumstance referred to in General Schuyler's
letter. It is a fact that Mr. Shoemaker has either seen such a
letter from Mr. Jefferson as is described, or received such evi-
dence that a letter of the kind existed, as made a strong impres-
sion on his mind. It has, I know, been proposed to make appli-
cation to Mr. Smith for the letter, but I presume the idea has not
been pursued. Mr. Rawle can, I believe, inform what Mr.
Shoemaker can say.

I will readily furnish the statement you desire, from a firm
conviction, that the affairs of this government will not only be
ruined, but that the disgrace will attach to the federal party, if
they permit the re-election of Mr. Adams. I am, however, as
yet unsettled, and must previously arrange my papers and dispose
of some urgent official business.

It is necessary to give a proper direction to the newspapers,
which are at present filled with the most disgusting nonsense.
The cause of the federalists has declined ; their system has been
reversed, honest men have been calumniated and discredited, and
no apology or explanation has been offered to the public.

It will be extraordinary, if these strange things are permitted
to be slurred over, by attributing them to State necessity, the firm-
ness of the President, his independence of both parties, &c, &c.
A few paragraphs, exposing the folly of such publications, will

448 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 43.

produce an admirable effect : they will produce replies, which
will gradually and very naturally lead to the public discussion
which has become inevitable.

I approve entirely of your writing to the President for an
explanation of what he means by the frequent allusions to a
British party or faction. Indeed every thing which decorum
will permit, to render the present state of our affairs intelligible,
is, in my opinion, proper.

Nothing is more disgusting to me, than the praise bestowed
upon the President, for his ivise and sincere pursuit of peace, accord-
ing to the example of General Washington. A great number of
public men have heard the President declare, that he did not
believe that the French government was sincere in making what
are called the overtures upon which the last mission was founded.
Nay, more, the President has declared that a treaty was neither
to be expected nor desired. "While Mr. Ellsworth and Mr. Davis
were at Trenton last autumn, and after the instructions had
received the President's sanction, he said that the expulsion of
the envoys from France with circumstances of personal indignity,
would be favorable to the interests of the United States.

I shall ever believe that the last mission to France was by
the President considered as a game of diplomacy, and that it was#
his intention to gain popularity at home, by appearing to be
desirous of peace, while he exhibited his talents as a great states-
man, by outwitting the French in negotiation. The wisdom and
cordiality, of which Mr. Thomas speaks in his circular letter, was
in fact nothing but a sort of diplomatic skill, of which the Presi-
dent justly accuses his Secretaries of being unacquainted. You
may rely upon my co-operation in every reasonable measure for
effecting the election of General Pinckney. Mr. Carroll, of this
State, is, I believe, right ; but I wish you to write to him as soon
as possible.

JJt.43.] CORRESPONDENCE. 440

HAMILTON TO ADAMS.

New-York, August 1, 1800.

Sir:

It has been repeatedly mentioned to me that }7ou have on
different occasions asserted the existence of a British faction in
this country, embracing a number of leading or influential
characters of the federal party, as usually denominated ; and
that you have sometimes named me, at others plainly alluded to
me, as one of this description of persons. And I have likewise
been assured, that, of late, some of your warm adherents, for
electioneering purposes, have employed a corresponding Ian
guage. I must, sir, take it for granted that you cannot have
made such assertions or insinuations without being willing to
avow them, and to assign the reasons to a party who may con-
ceive himself injured by them. I therefore trust that you will
not deem it improper, that I a]»ply directly to yourself, to ascer-
tain from you, in reference to your own declarations, whether the
information I have received is correct or not ; and if correct,
what are the grounds upon which you have founded the sugges-
tion.

John Adams, Esq.. President of the United States.

HAMILTON TO WOLCOTT.

New-York, August 3d, 1800.

Dear Sir :

I have, two days since, written to Mr. Adams a respectful
letter on the subject I heretofore mentioned to you. Occupation
at court prevented its being done sooner.

But I wait with impatience for the statement of facts which
you promised me. It is plain that, unless we give our reasons
in some form or other, Mr. Adams's personal friends, seconded by
f 29

450 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 43.

the Jacobins, will completely run its down in the public opinion.
Your name, in company with mine, that of T. Pickering, &c, is
in full circulation, as one of the British faction of which Mr.
Adams has talked so much.

I have serious thoughts of giving to the public my opinion
respecting Mr. Adams, with my reasons, in a letter to a friend,
with my signature. This seems to me the most authentic way
of conveying the information, and best suited to the plain deal-
ing of my character. There are, however, reasons against it ;
and a very strong one is, that some of the principal causes of my
disapprobation proceed from yourself, and other members of the
administration, who would be understood to be the sources of
my information, whatever cover I might give the thing.

What say you to this measure? I could predicate it on the
fact that I am abused by the friends of Mr. Adams, who ascribe
my opposition to pique and disappointment ; and could give it
the shape of a defence of myself.

You have doubtless seen the#Aurora publication of Treasury
documents, and the manner in which my name is connected
with it. These publications do harm with the ignorant, who are
the greatest number. I have thoughts of instituting an action
of slander, to be tried by a struck jury, against the editor. If I
do it, I should claim you and the supervisors, collectors, and
loan officers of all the States, from Maryland to New York, in-
clusively, as witnesses, to demonstrate completely the malice and
falsity of the accusation. What think you of this ? You see I
am in a very belligerent humor.

But I remember that, at the outset, before the sums payable
for interest, pensions, &c, were ascertained, I placed the money
in the hands of the paying officers, upon estimate, and that, to
avoid disappointment, I made the estimates large. Pray look
into this, and see how far it may give any color to th^ calumny.

Let me hear from you soon.

^Et. 43.] CORRESPONDENCE. 451

HAMILTON TO BAYAED.

New-York, August 6th, 1800.

Dear Sir:

The president of Columbia College, in this city, has resigned,
and we are looking out for a successor. Dr. Wharton has oc-
curred to me as a character worthy of inquiry ; and the great
confidence I feel in your judgment and candor, induces me to
have recourse to you.

We are extremely anxious to have a well-qualified man, as
this is the only thing wanted to render our institution very
flourishing. We have two very good professors — one of the
languages, the other of the mathematics and natural philosophy ;
and we have a professor of chemistry — this branch having been
lately made a part of the academic course — together with better
funds, as I believe, than any similar institution in the United States.
I mention these particulars to impress you with the importance
of our college to the cause of literature, and with the duty
which thence results of peculiar circumspection and care in the
choice of a president. It is essential that he be a gentleman in
his manners, as well as a sound and polite scholar ; that his
moral character be irreproachable ; that he possess energy of
body and mind ; and be of a disposition to maintain discipline
without undue austerity ; and, in the last place, that his politics
be of the right sort. I beg you to inform me particularly how
far Dr. AVharton meets this description, in what, if any thing, he
fails. -You will, of course, see the propriety of mentioning noth-
ing about this inquiry. In the present eventful crisis of our
affairs, a mutual communication of informations and opinions
among influential men of the federal party, may be attended
with some advantage to their cause. Under this impression I
shall give you a summary of the state of things north of the
Delaware ; south of it, your information is likely to be as good
as mine ; and, accordingly, I shall request your view of what is
to be expected from that quarter. In New Hampshire there is
no doubt of federal electors ; but there is a decided partiality for

452 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 43.

Mr. Adams. I took pains to possess Governor Gilman, whose
influence is very preponderating, of the errors and defects of Mr.
Adams, and of the danger that no candidate can prevail, by mere
federal strength ; consequently of the expediency and necessity of
unanimously voting for Gen. Pinckney (who, in the south, may
get some anti-federal votes) as the best chance of excluding Mr.
Jefferson. The Governor appeared convinced of the soundness
of these views, and cautiously gave me to expect his co-operation.
Yet I do not count upon New Hampshire for more than two
things — one an unanimous vote for Mr. Adams; the other, no
vote for any anti-federalist. In Massachusetts, almost all the
leaders of the first class are dissatisfied with Mr. Adams, and
enter heartily into the policy of supporting General Pinckney.
But most of the leaders of the second class are attached to Mr.
Adams, and fearful of jeopardizing his election by promoting that
of General Pinckney ; and the mass of the people are well
affected to him and to his administration. Yet I have strong
hopes that, by the exertions of the principal federalists, Massa-
chusetts will unanimously vote for Adams and Pinckney.
Khode Island is in a state somewhat uncertain. Schisms have
grown up from personal rivalships, which have been improved
by the anti-federalists, to strengthen their interests. Governor
Fenner expresses a hope that there will be two anti-federal elec-
tors; but our friends reject this idea as wholly improbable. But
I am not quite convinced that they know the ground. In every
event, however, I expect that Mr. Adams will have there an
unanimous vote.

I think nothing can be relied upon as to General Pinckney.
Connecticut will, I doubt not, unanimously vote for General
Pinckney ; but, being very much displeased with Mr. Adams, it
will require the explicit advice of certain gentlemen to induce
them to vote for him. No anti-federalist has any chance there.
About Vermont, I am not as yet accurately informed, but I
believe Adams and Pinckney will both have all the votes. In
New-York all the votes will certainly be for Jefferson and Burr.
New Jersey does not stand as well as she used to do. The antis
hope for the votes of this State, but I think they will be disap-

jEt. 43.] CORRESPONDENCE. 453

pointed. If the electors are federal, Pinckney will certainly be
voted for ; and Adams will be or not, as leading friends shall
advise. Adding to this view of the northern, what I have
understood of the southern quarter, our prospects are not bril-
liant. There seems to be too much probability that Jefferson or
Burr will be President. The latter is intriguing with all his
might in New Jersey, Ehode Island, and Vermont ; and there is
a possibility of some success in his intrigues. He counts posi-
tively on the universal support of the anti-federalists ; and that,
by some adventitious aid from other quarters, he will overtop
his friend Jefferson. Admitting the first point, the conclusion
may be realized, and, if it is so, Burr will certainly attempt to
reform the government a la Buonaparte. He is as unprincipled
and dangerous a man as any country can boast — as true a Cati-
line as ever met in midnight conclave.

With sincere esteem and regard, &c.

CABOT TO HAMILTON".

Brooklyn, August 10th, 1800.

My Dear Sir:

Your letter of the 1st did not reach me until last evening ;
the inclosure shall be transmitted to-morrow or the day following,
by some trusty person who will attend the levee, if one can be
found who will engage to deliver it ; otherwise I may perhaps
send it in the regular package which goes from the post-office.
This method would be better than to send a servant, who might
be obliged to deliver it to another servant. There is no reason
to doubt the first course will be pursued, and I shall not delay
to inform you of the delivery as soon as it is ascertained.

Although I cannot but feel unhappy at the gloomy prospect
of our public affairs, yet I do not feel my usual degree of solici-
tude for the issue of the election. There is something like a bal-
ance of advantages and disadvantages in the success of either of

454 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 43.

the three candidates. Mr. Adams will doubtless continue to
sacrifice the independent federalists so long as he finds victims
who will be acceptable to those whose favor he courts ; he will
also hazard a war with Great Britain, which he evidently thinks
would be no injury to him ; but if he has justly forfeited the con-
fidence of the country, he has not yet actually lost it in this
quarter ; and the men who adhere to him, while they zealously sus-
tain him, are also a restraint upon him, and for some time at least
may prevent his worst measures, and until they have given him
up' will not cordially support another. Jefferson's' election would
tend to reunite the federal party, and if it is evidently effected
by the Jacobin force unaided by any other, or if aided at all by
the adherents of Mr. Adams, the reunion of our old friends would
be complete. Should Mr. Pinckney be elected he would be op-
posed by Mr. Adams and his warm adherents, and would be
heartily supported by those only who are now detached from
Mr. Adams. This state of things would be unpropitious to Mr.
Pinckney's administration ; there is, however, one unanswerable
reason for wishing Mr. Pinckney to succeeed, and that is, that
the best and indeed all the truly good men would find them-
selves in their proper places, arranged under the banners of the
Constitution and laws on the side of the national chief.

The question has been asked whether if the federalists can-
not carry their first points, they would not do well to turn the
election from Jefferson to Burr? They conceive Burr to be less
likely to look to France for support than Jefferson, provided he
could be supported at home. They consider Burr as actuated
by ordinary ambition, Jefferson by that and the pride of the Ja-
cobinic philosophy. The former may be satisfied by power and
property, the latter must see the roots of our society pulled up
and a new course of cultivation substituted ; certainly it would
have been fortunate for the United States, if the second candi-
tade on the Jacobin side had been one who might be safely
trusted. No great progress has been made in convincing people
of the propriety of voting for Pinckney with all our strength; yet
I believe if it shall appear clearly that Adams will fail, and that
Pinckney may be elected, our legislature will act properly, espe-

jEt. 43.] CORRESPONDENCE. 455

cially if there is no just imputation of unfairness against Mr.
Pinckney's friends.

I am told New Hampshire will vote for Adams and Pinck-
ney, but that Rhode Island will sooner give some second votes
for Jefferson than all for Pinckney.

I am, with unceasing esteem and attachment,

Your faithful friend,

George Cabot.

BAYARD TO HAMILTON.

August 18, 1800.

Dear Sir:

I willingly communicate such information as I possess on the
subject of the inquiries contained in the letter you did me the
honor to write on the 6th instant, and which I received the day
before yesterday. I had a ten years' acquaintance with Dr.
Wharton, which invariably continued on a footing of intimacy
and friendship. His classical knowledge is extensive and criti-
ical; and he has taught with much reputation, Mathematics,
Natural Philosophy, and Astronomy. He is a master in Ethics,
and acquainted with politics as a branch of Moral Philosophy.
He is a man of mild and amiable temper, of polite manners, and
of principles equally sound in practice as in theory, in morals and
in politics. "With these qualities there is a great desideratum in
the character necessary to direct the education of youth. The
cloisters of St. Omar's were extremely unfriendly to a just know-
ledge of human nature. They afforded leisure to study books,
but not the means of becoming acquainted with men. It was
probably too late, when the doctor came into life, to give a turn to
his mind which was entirely new. He contented himself with
pursuing the knowledge which could be acquired from books,
and did not or could not qualify himself to judge of men. In
applying his censure or applause, I often thought him intem-
perate and injudicious, as to that knowledge which would enable

456 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 43.

the president of a college to discriminate the dispositions and
talents of his pupils, and attribute their actions to the proper
motives, to know when and how praise ought to be bestowed,
and censure applied in order to produce a certain effect ; in short,
as to that skill which instructs us as to the keys of human action,
I consider the doctor as greatly deficient. In other respects, he
wants nothing of the character you describe. Such is the view,
certainly imperfect, which I have always had of the character of
Dr. Wharton, — a view not shaded by an unfriendly sentiment ;
nor do I believe colored by the sincere esteem and friendship I
have for him. He does not possess that imposing manner which
belongs to the deportment of some men, and which, if not essen-
tial, is at least a useful quality in those who have much inter-
course with young men, who are to be restrained as much by per-
sonal respect as severity of discipline. There is an occasional
levity about the doctor, which is little short of trifling. What is
meant by gravity he has nothing of. The serious affairs of life
he certainly can perform seriously, but not with that solemnity
and impression which belongs to the manners of many persons.
I offer you a very imperfect sketch of the doctor's character.
You will allow it no weighty but as corroborative of the opinions
of others.

I thank you for the view you have given me of the state of
things to the eastward, relative to the election of President.
I value it, because I can rely upon it. It is in my power to re-
peat what you know as to our situation in the southward ; but I
do not presume I can add to your information. The condition
of Pennsylvania is known to you. Every thing I take to depend
upon the ensuing election of the State legislature. The
federal majority is not so great in the Senate as to be beyond
the operation of this election. The event, however, is not much
dreaded. If the present state of things continues, the federalists
would consent to district the State, so as to give to Jefferson
eight votes. Delaware is safe. They may hesitate whether they
will give Mr. Adams a vote. The present electoral law of Mary-
land is by districts. Such an election would probably give Mr.
Jefferson three votes. It is the better opinion, however, that the

^Et. 43.] CORRESPONDENCE. 457

federalists will avail themselves of the power they possess, to
command the entire vote of the State. Virginia is sold, and past
salvation; my knowledge of North Carolina was derived during
the session of Congress from the members of that State. I con-
sulted the most of them on the federal side, and set down the
votes of the State, seven for Jefferson, and five for Adams and
Pinckney, the five perhaps less certainly for the latter than the
former. It is thought that the votes of South Carolina will
count equally for Mr. Jefferson and Mr. Pinckney ; Georgia, Ten-
nessee, and Kentucky, may be thrown into the scale of Mr. Jef-
ferson. But there is no reason to despond, unless the eastern
States play a foul game ; and if they do so a second time, they
ought never to be forgiven. If they do, they forfeit for ever the
confidence of their friends to the southward. They will beget a
system of miserable intrigue between the members of the same
party, whose efforts can never be united, but through mutual
confidence; and whose united efforts are absolutely necessary to
maintain their ground against their enemies.

What is the charm which attaches the east so much to Mr.
A. ? It can be nothing personal. The escape we have had un-
der his administration is miraculous. He is liable to gusts of
passion little short of frenzy, which drive him beyond the control
of any rational reflection. I speak of what I have seen. At
such moments the interests of those who support him or the in-
terest of the nation would be outweighed by a single impulse of
rage. This is enough, but not all. We may thank the guardian
genius of the country which has watched over its destinies for
the last four years. I do not hold this language to the multitude,
though I should have no objection to hold it to Mr. A. himself.
We must vote for him, I suppose, and therefore cannot safely say
to every one what we think of him. But he has palsied the
sinews of the party, and, if I relied on forebodings as ominous,
I should believe that before another Presidential cycle has com-
pleted itself, he would give it its death wound. I hope my senti-
ments do not scandalize the faith or works of good federalists.
I can see no in any thing which can happen, but am not

indifferent to the dangers or evils which threaten the country.

458 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 43.

You have the reputation of being our father confessor in politics ;
and I have therefore made to you a frank confession. My sins,
I hope, will be remitted.

CABOT TO HAMILTON.

Brookline, August 21, 1800.

My Dear Sir:

An exposition of the reasons which influence many men of
unquestionable patriotism and loyalty to withhold from Mr.
Adams the confidence he once enjoj^ed, maybe useful by satisfy-
ing the intelligent and candid part of the public that these men
act, as they have ever done, .on genuine national principles ; the
reasons are strong and require only to be placed in a clear light ;
but this must be done with infinite care and circumspection, that
neither danger nor jealousy may be excited. It must be done in
a manner that shall clear up the doubts, which now exist, of the
sincerity and consistency of the party who promote the union of
votes for Adams and Pinckney.

It is perceived by Mr. Adams's personal friends that while
the party profess a zealous desire to unite all the federal votes
for A. and P., there are many, or at least some individuals among
those who compose it, whose wishes are known to be that the
election may issue in favor of Mr. P., and therefore it is inferred
such persons will not act, and do not aim as they profess. To
this charge it is generally answered, " that without a union of
all the federalists, neither Mr. A. nor Mr. P. can probably be
chosen, but that with such an union one may probably be Presi-
dent, and the other Vice-President; and, considering all the
circumstances of the case, the chance and the preponderance of
wishes is in favor of Mr. A." — that although there may be many,
and doubtless are some individuals, who would think it by no
means propitious to the national welfare that Mr. Adams should
be re-elected, yet they yield to the superior consideration of
union, by which alone Jefferson can be kept out, and Adams or

JEt. 43.] CORRESPONDENCE. 459

Pinckney put into the office, and therefore these men act and will
act fairly towards Mr. Adams, giving him all their support upon
the just expectation of a similar support to Mr. P., from those who
prefer Mr. Adams; "that the plan formed at Philadelphia to
support both, was a compromise which contemplated Mr. Adams
as President ; but liable, however, to be superseded by Pinckney from
the nature of the election, and "that good faith would and ought
to be observed as the only means of success, and as the only
ground of content after success."

Such is the tenor of our language to the public — we think it
true, and we shall be greatly embarrassed if at this late period,
after ouu sentiments are extensively known, there should be a
new or different ground taken — you must allow me therefore to
insist, that whatever display is made of Mr. Adams's misconduct,
it must be continually recollected that he may be again chosen by us,
and that we are pledged to give him the full chance of the united
vote concerted at Philadelphia; so that, whatever is said against
him, must be explicitly avowed to be the complaint of those of
us who have yielded individual opinion to the general opinion of
the party as a matter of expediency, and not the language of the
party; and it ought to be admitted, that the party, from various
considerations, rather prefer the election of Mr. Adams than Mr.
Pinckney. I understand, through a friend, that the Carolinians
adhere to these ideas as they were digested and agreed to at
Philadelphia.

Mr. Harper writes from Baltimore on the 11th inst., "that
our friends may now count with some certainty, indeed very
great certainty, on an unanimous vote for Mr. Pinckney in Mary-
land." Although I think some good may be derived from an
exhibition of Mr. Adams's misconduct, yet I am well persuaded
that you may do better than to put your name to it. This might
give it an interest with men who need no such interest, but it
will be converted to a new proof that you are a dangerous man.
Ames and I agree that you will give the enemy an advantage to
which he has no claim.

In every situation believe me affectionately and faithfully
yours,

George Cabot.

460 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mi. 4§.

MARSHALL TO HAMILTON.

Washington, August 23d, 1800.

Dear Sir :

I received to-day your letter of the 19th inst., accompanying
a memorial from the Governor-General of the Danish West India
Islands, respecting the conduct of some of our ships of war.

This paper shall be immediately communicated to the Secre-
tary of the Navy. Our dispatches from Paris come no later than
the 17th of May. There is nothing in them on which a positive
opinion respecting the result of that negotiation can b« formed.

Connecting the then state of things with the European events
which have since happened, and with intelligence from America
which has since reached them, I shall not be surprised if the par-
agraph from St. Sebastian should be true.

With very much respect and esteem, &c.

CABOT TO HAMILTON.

Brookline, August 23d, 1800.

My Dear Sir:

I have shown to several of our wisest and best men a copy of
what I wrote you on the 21st instant. They all concur in the
sentiments it contains. Still it is probably fit, and it may be in-
dispensable, to expose Mr. Adams fully to the public. The
countenance and authority given by him and his friends to the
vile calumnies against us, may strengthen their credit so much as
to render them irrefutable without such an exposition. / don't
think, however, we can discard Mr. Adams as a candidate at this late
period without total derangement and defeat in this quarter. It is true
there is an apparent absurdity in supporting a man whom we
know to be unworthy of trust. It is a dilemma, however, into
which we are brought by the proceedings at Philadelphia, and

jEt. 43.] CORRESPONDENCE. 461

which we could not shun — or perhaps it is a natural result of the
mode of election, and could not have been avoided ; but, be this
as it may, we have considered, as an agreed point among the
federalists, that Adams and Pinckney are to be voted for
together, and we accordingly have urged, with great confidence,
that this is the intention of the federal party generally, and that it is
acquiesced in by most of those who are supposed to influence
them. I think, therefore, you cannot omit to make a clear and
explicit reference to this known state of things in whatever you
may publish, and possibly, as a consequence of it, to ground the
publication chiefly on the necessity of it to exculpate those whom
it vindicates from the abominable charges, insinuations, and un-
merited denunciations of Mr. Adams, and some of his personal
friends. Indeed, I see no impropriety in regretting that a com-
promise has been made, which must be observed at every
hazard, it being too manifest that Mr. Adams has relinquished
the system he was chosen by the federalists to support, and that
he has become hostile, and will necessarily become more and
more hostile, to the firm advocates of that system, and all who
adhere to it. I think, however, it must be shown that the oppo-
sition to Mr. Adams is founded upon broad public principles.
For myself, I often declare that the mission to France, though
impolitic, unjustifiable, dangerous and inconsistent ; the expul-
sion of able, upright and faithful officers — since Mr. Pickering was
expelled the President has said of him to a gentleman, " an
honest man as ever lived" — though a ruinous precedent ; the
pardon of Fries though a sacrifice of the safety as well as dig-
nity of the State ; that many other transactions of inferior mag-
nitude though shamefully wrong ; yet that all these would not
induce me to oppose the President's re-election, if I did not view
them as evidence, explained and confirmed by other evidence,
that he has abandoned the system he was chosen to maintain,
and that he is likely to introduce its opposite, with all its perni-
cious consequences, as fast as he can, and as far as his influence
will go.

If this idea is correct, as it appears to me, it cannot be too
strongly impressed on the sound part of the public. A long

462 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 43.

letter full of good sense and interesting information is just re-
ceived from Mr. W. ; he thinks an examination of P. Adams's
administration has been so long delayed that it can only now be
made to grow out of the unjust accusations of his present friends.
This excellent letter has been read and admired by several per-
sons whose judgment you respect, but whose opinions remain
perfectly fixed, that we cannot now change the arrangement.
We are not strong enough to break up and new form in the face of
our enemy. I have sent to Mr. W. a copy of mine to you of the
21st, which will explain to him sufficiently our situation. Mr.
Gordon tells me the New Hampshire electors will all vote for
Adams and Pinckney certainly, except one, of whom the same
is probable, but not certain. The persons for electors are suppos-
ed to he predestinated by the legislature.

Colonel Burr is to be at Providence to-day — he probably
may expect that as Governor Fenner will vote for Jefferson, he
may also be induced to vote for him ; as he is a very sanguine
man, he may expect even more.

Yours faithfully, &c.

JAY TO HAMILTON.

Albany, Monday, 25th August, 1800.

Dear Sir:

I was this moment favored with yours of the 19th instant,
requesting copies of the Instruction, and of the letter mentioned
in it. I shall, without delay, look for these papers. I presume
that I have preserved them, but am not certain. When I re-
moved from my house in the Broadway to the Government
House, all such of my papers as were not in use, or which did
not respect property, were packed up with little order ; nor have
they been since separated or arranged — nor, indeed, unpacked.

As to the letter, all the papers respecting the mission to
Great Britain were kept together, until I removed to this place,
when they were packed up also, with many others not in use,

iE-r. 43.] CORRESPONDENCE. 463

and so still remain. That I have preserved the letter is proba-
ble, but not certain ; for I usually destroy those private letters
which either ought not or which do not appear of sufficient im-
portance to be kept. My recollection of its contents is imper-
fect, but corresponds with the general idea you give of it. As
to the use I made of it, that was communicated to you in confi-
dence, and, consequently, cannot be given to the public. If I
find it, as I hope may be the case, you shall certainly have a
copy of it.

Yours sincerely,

John Jay.

AMES TO HAMILTON.

Dedham, Aug. 26th, 1800.

Dear Sir :

I have communicated your letter, by Mr. Coolidge to Mr.
Cabot and two or three friends. I have desired him, and he
has promised, to write to you on the subject. Since its recep-
tion I have had a long, profoundly sensible, and interesting
letter from Mr. Wolcott. The same friends have also considered
that, and we all agree in the result.

"We understand that at the close of the late session the feder-
alists consulted on the measures proper to be taken by the
friends of order and true liberty to keep the chair from being
occupied by an enemy of both. This was the principal object to
which all inferior considerations must be made to yield. It was
known, and allowed, that Mr. Adams has conducted strangely
and unaccountably, and that his re-election will be very inau-
spicious to the United States. But great as that evil appeared,
it was thought indispensably necessary to run the risk of it, and
to agree fairly to vote for him and General Pinckney, — because
chance might exclude the former — and because any other ar-
rangement would, by dividing the party, inevitably exclude
loth, and absolutely secure the success of Mr. Jefferson — and

464 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 43.

*

because, also, many, perhaps most of the federalists, will believe
it is better to have him (Mr. Adams) again, than Mr. Jefferson.
The question being not what opinion we must have of the can-
didates, but what conduct we are to pursue, I do not see cause
to arraign the policy of the result of that meeting.

For, in the first place, it is manifestly impossible to get votes
enough for General Pinckney to prevent the choice of Mr. Jef-
ferson, in case he should be supported in open hostility to Mr.
Adams. The sixteen votes of this State, and four of Khode Island,
may be counted as adhering, in all events, to Mr. Adams. Then
why should we ground any plan of conduct on a known imprac-
ticability of its execution ? By taking that course of open hos-
tility, generous as it may seem, we are at issue with all the
federalists who would not join us, and whose vexation and
despair would ascribe the certain ill success of the party to us
and not to the Jacobins. They would say we make Mr. Jeffer-
son President, and the vindictive friends of Mr. Adams would
join in the accusation. The federalists would be defeated, which
is bad, and disjointed and enraged against one another, which
would be worse. Now it seems to me that the great object of
duty and prudence is to keep the party strong by its union and
spirit ; for I see almost no chance of preventing the election of
Mr. Jefferson. Pennsylvania will be managed eventually by
Governor McKean and Governor Dallas, to throw its whole
weight into that scale. The question is not, I fear, how we shall
fight, but how we and all federalists shall fall — that we may fall
like Antaeus, the stronger for our fall.

It is, I confess, awkward and embarrassing to act under the
constraints that we do. But sincerity will do much to extricate
us. Where is the inconsistency of saying, President Adams has
not our approbation of some of his measures, nor do we desire
his re-election, but many federalists do, and the only chance
to prevent the triumph of the Jacobins, is to unite and vote ac-
cording to the compromise made at Philadelphia for the two can-
didates. That this gives an equal chance and a better than we
would freely give to one of them. But strong as our objections
are, and strongly as we would and are willing to urge them to

Mt. 43.] CORRESPONDENCE. 405

the public, we refrain because the effect of urging them would
be to split the federalists, and absolutely to insure Mr. Jeffer-
son's success. That, however, if the ravenous and absurd at-
tacks of Mr. Adams's personal friends, and the meditated in-
trigues with our legislature, should make it necessary, we shall
not fail to prevent the effect of that compromise which they thus
abuse and turn against the avowed design of those who made it ;
and that we shall not sit still, but resort to such measures as
they will render necessary. That tliis compromise not only
exhibits the condescension and pliancy of Mr. Adams's opposers,
but is the only good basis of the success of either Mr. Adams's or
General Pinckney's friends in the event, as it engages before-
hand for the acquiescence of the disappointed part of the feder-
alists, and also as it is the only step that can unite them to' op-
pose the election of a Jacobin, and, in that sad event, that can
keep them united as a party, without whose union oppression
and revolution will ensue.

Where is the absurdity or inconsistency of this language ? It
is, besides, that which we have held for some time, and it is diffi-
cult now to change it.

I am therefore clear, that you ought not with your name, nor if
practicable in any way, that will be traced to you, to execute your
purpose of exposing the reasons for a change of the Executive.
But a strong appeal to the sense and principles of the real fed-
eralists would not or need not contradict or discredit the lan-
guage above stated. I have tried to compress as much as I can
into one sheet, but I have much more I wish to suggest to you.
I have no occasion to say how highly I respect your judgment,
but I exceedingly desire to discuss with you the point of changes
which the Jacobins may force the nation to make in the plan of
the government.

Yours truly,

Fisher Ames.
466 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [At. 43.

JAY TO HAMILTON.

Albant, August 2Gth, 1800.

Dear Sir :

Yesterday I received and answered yours of the 19th instant.
I have found a copy of the instructions made by William T.
Franklin, who was our secretary. They contain the following,
verbatim, viz. : " You are to make the most candid and confi-
dential communications upon all subjects to the ministers of our
generous ally, the King of France ; to undertake nothing in the
negotiation for peace or truce, without their knowledge or con-
currence ; and ultimately to govern yourselves by their advice
and opinion."

I have not yet found the letter.

Yours,

John Jay.

JAY TO HAMILTON.

Albany, August 27th, 1800.

Dear Sir;

I received and answered your letter of the 19th inst. on Mon-
day. Yesterday I found the instructions, and immediately wrote
to you a letter containing a copy of the paragraph in question.
My search for the letter of which I made the use you mention,
was fruitless until this morning, when I found it, and now inclose
a copy. It does not quite answer your expectation as to the
opinion, but I know, and am ready to certify, that you gave me
in substance the opinion you mention, viz. : " That unless an
arrangement on solid terms could be made with Great Britain, it
would be better to do nothing."

Yours,

John Jay.

JEt. 43.] CORRESPONDENCE. 467

CARROLL TO HAMILTON.
Brooklandwood, near Baltimore, Aug. 27tli, 1800.

Dear Sir :

I received this morning, at this place, the country residence
of ray son-in-law, Mr. Caton, your letter of the 7th instant. I
wish it were in my power to give you pleasing intelligence of the
politics in this State. Our county (Ann Arundel), which was
lately so federal, is at present much divided in the upper part of
it. I suspect there is a majority for anti-federal candidates to our
State legislature. This change of sentiment has been principally
effected by a few characters, who, profiting by the report that
our legislature would take from the people the right of choosing
the electors of President and Vice-President, have infused such
jealousies into the minds of the people, that I fear the federal
ticket will not prevail in Ann Arundel, unless the candidates
will promise not to take from the people the choice of electors.

Notwithstanding the arts, and lies, and indefatigable industry
of the Jacobins in this State, I am of opinion a great majority of
its inhabitants are friendly to the federal government and its
measures. I suspect Jefferson and Burr will have three votes in
this State, and that the electors will be chosen by districts, and
not by the legislature. The federal electors will vote for Adams
and Pinckney, although the former has lost the confidence of
many of the federals from the incidents to which you allude, and
which are pretty generally circulated through this State.

It is the character of the age to be timid and suspicious; and
this infirmity, so natural to men of my time of life, has no doubt its
influence on my mind. I much fear that this country is doomed
to great convulsions, changes, and calamities. The turbulent and
disorganizing spirit of Jacobinism, under the worn-out disguise
of equal liberty and right, and equal division of property, held
out to the indolent and needy, but not really intended to be exe-
cuted, will introduce anarchy, which will terminate here, as in
France, in a military despotism.

I understand Jefferson and Burr have all the votes in Vir-

468 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 43.

ginia. How the votes will be to the southward of that State, I
can form no opinion, having no sure data to form one. If the
Virginia electors should suspect that Burr might outvote their
favorite, Jefferson, they will leave out Burr, or only leave him a
few votes.

I hope the eastern electors, in a case of so much importance,
and when they come to consider the baneful effects which may
result from their giving a chance to the election of Jefferson or
Burr for President, will vote unanimously for Adams and Pinck-
ney ; if they do not act in this manner, it is highly probable that
Jefferson will be elected President.

Although I dislike laws and changes suited to the spur of the
occasion, yet, as I see many evils are likely to result from the
choice of a Jacobinical President, the insidious policy of Virginia
should, in my opinion, be counteracted ; and if we should have
a federal House of Delegates, (of which I really have doubts from
the present ferment in public minds,) I hope the legislature will
choose "pro hac vice," the electors of President and Vice-Presi'
dent. I say I hope, for I am not certain, even if the new House
of Delegates should be federal, that they would pass such a law,
as many of the members will probably be instructed not to vote
for it.

I have given you my sentiments upon the subject of your
letter and all the information I possess, which, to speak the truth,
is chiefly derived from others, and those well disposed to our
present government.

Burr will probably act with more decision than Jefferson, if
elected President, and will go on better with his party, but will
not Jefferson be afraid to disoblige his party, and may he not be
driven to measures which his own judgment would reject.

A wise and federal Senate may, for a considerable time restrain
the wild projects of the Jacobin faction, and in politics as in
war, who gains time, I will not say, with the great Frederick,
gains every thing, but gains a great deal.

If the war in Europe should be protracted to another year, I
fear the anti-federal party will endeavor to precipitate this coun-
try into a war with England, and the depredations committed

Mt. 43.] CORRESPONDENCE. 469

by her cruisers on our trade will aid their designs. I hope, how-
ever, the coming winter will produce a general peace. In that
event we shall have one evil the less to dread from the machina-
tions of the enemies of order and good government.

It is much to be wished that our envoys to France may be
able to accommodate our differences with that nation, before
peace is concluded between it and England, otherwise Buona-
parte will, I fear, make us purchase the forbearance of the great
nation at a very dear rate.

I am with sentiments of high esteem
and respect, dear Sir,

Your most humble servant,

Charles Carroll of Carrollton.

JAY TO HAMILTON.

Albany, 22d September, 1800.

Dear Sir:

On my return to this place on Friday last, I was favored with
yours of the 3d instant.

It seems, that contradictory reports still prevail respecting our
negotiations at Paris. I am not yet persuaded that Buonaparte
has adopted, in all its extent, the system of domination which
the preceding rulers of France attempted to execute ; and there-
fore, I presume that a treaty of peace with America on fair and
just terms may comport with his views. A treaty of peace on
any other than fair and just terms is not desirable; and in my
opinion, that nation must be deficient in Spirit, Power, or Wis-
dom, that will accept of peace on any other. These ideas, how-
ever, are not new to you — for I well remember your opinion,
relative to settling our then existing differences with Great Brit-
ain, that " unless an arrangement on solid terms could be made with
Great Britain, it would be better to do nothing. ."

With great esteem and regard, I am dear Sir, &c.

470 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 43.

WOLCOTT TO HAMILTON.

Washington, October 1st, 1800.

My Dear Sir :

I have received your favor of September 26th, and have made
a few notes which I will revise and send to you to-morrow. The
style and temper is excellent ; no observations occur to me upon
the first part of the draft.

You will judge of the expediency of sending the letter from
the information which you possess of the public opinion. I have
no lights beyond those which I suggested as from Massachusetts,
in a late letter which I wrote to you, and which I hope you receiv-
ed. The advice from that quarter was opposed to any publica-
tion with your signature. I am of opinion, with you, that
anonymous publications do no good.

Presuming that you would want the draft, I inclose it. I will
write more at large to-morrow. Yours, &c.

P. S. I inclose a S. C. paper — there is in it a publication not
much to my mind. Mr. P. ought not to have suggested a doubt
of the authenticity of the letter to Tench Coxe.

HAMILTON TO ADAMS.

New- York, October 1, 1800.

Sir:

The time which has elapsed since my letter of the 1st Aug. was
delivered to you, precludes the further expectation of an answer.

From this silence I will draw no inference, nor will I presume
to judge of the fitness of silence on such an occasion, on the part
of the chief magistrate of a republic towards a citizen who with-
out a stain has discharged so many important public trusts.

But thus much I will affirm, that by whomsoever a charge of

jEt. 43. j CORRESPONDENCE. 471

the kind mentioned in my former letter may at any time have
been made, or insinuated against me, it is a base, wicked, and
cruel calumny, destitute even of a plausible pretext to excuse the
folly or the depravity which must have dictated it.
With due respect,

I have the honor to be Sir,

Your obedient servant.

"WOLCOTT TO HAMILTON.
(private.)

Washington, October 2, 1800.

Dear Sir:

I wrote you a hasty letter yesterday, in which I returned the
draft which accompanied your favor of September 26th. In my
opinion, the style, temper, and spirit of the composition, are well
suited to the subject, and will do you honor. I have only to sub-
mit a few criticisms to your consideration.

The observations respecting Mr. T. Pinckney's predilection for
France, in page 19, and his official conduct in London, in page
21, had, I think, better be omitted.

The reference to * * will, I hope, also be omitted.

Page 38. The President did not declare his opinion respect-
ing the departure of the envoys to be settled when he first came
to Trenton. In a letter from Massachusetts, he directed the
Secretaries to consult together, and prepare a draft of instruc-
tions, and he intimated that he would suspend the departure of
the envoys for some time. The draft of instructions was prepared,
and the President after his arrival at Trenton candidly consulted
all the Secretaries on the principles of the negotiation, but was
silent on the question whether the mission ought immediately
to proceed.

The instructions were settled in a consultation which termi-
nated only after eleven o'clock in the evening. The next morn-

472 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 43.

ing, before breakfast, the President informed the Secretary of
State by letter, that he had decided that the envoys should de-
part immediately. The peculiar indelicacy of his conduct con-
sisted in first encouraging an expectation that the mission would be
suspended until a change of circumstances occurred ; secondly,
in availing himself of opinions, so far only as they could serve
his own concealed views ; and thirdly, in deciding contrary to
what was expected, without hearing the arguments of the officers
on a collateral point which he well knew they deemed of import-
ance. It must be evident that no man's character can be safe,
when opinions can be required in a partial manner. Justice de-
manded either that the Secretaries should not be at all consulted,
or that they should be permitted to record their sentiments re-
specting any points which in their judgments were connected
with the general question of the mission.

Page 42. I perceive no reason why the eventual provision
for negotiation should not have been public. Indeed, secrecy is
impracticable with respect to the appointment of ministers under
our Constitution.

Page 49. The two insurrections cost, collectively, near a
million and a half of dollars.

Page 49. Two persons were convicted, — one appeared from
documents, which were laid before the President, to be a person
greatly deficient in reason, in short, nearly an idiot ; the other,
such an one as you have described.

Page 50. I have heard that the declaration attributed to the
President was made, but I do not clearly recollect the evidence.
It rests in my memory, however, that I was credibly informed
that the declaration was made, in presence of several persons, to
Doctor Push.

Page 50. That Messrs. Dallas and Lewis addressed such a
letter to the President is certain. Lewis mentioned the fact to
his friends in Philadelphia, and Dallas read the letter to Mr.
Liston ! ! I feel some delicacy in mentioning the circumstance
of the letter, and would' not do so if the fact had not otherwise
become public. If the paragraph is retained, you ought to rest
the fact on evidence derived from the conversations of the

^Et.43.] correspondence. 473

counsel. The name of Mr. Liston ought not to be mentioned.
It is a curious fact, however, that Dallas, Ned Livingstone, and
other democrats, have been more frequently in the train, and
much more intimate with Mr. Liston, than the men who are ac-
cused as belonging to the British faction. I do not suspect these
democrats of being bribed by Mr. Liston, though, on less evi-
dence than exists against them, they have been willing to keep
alive suspicions against much honester men.

Page 51. It will, I think, be sufficient to state that the facts
are founded on the best information — they will not be disputed.

Page 54. I have no reason to doubt the correctness of this
declaration as you mean to be understood ; but it will be well to
reflect whether you have not advised some connection with Eng-
land with the view of prosecuting joint hostilities with France.
If so, the declaration ought to be properly qualified.

Page 55 and 56. This subject is of peculiar delicacy, as it
affects others who are your friends. I think you ought not to
suggest a doubt respecting the treaty which was not explicitly
avowed by you under the signature of Camillus, and that you
ought to refer to that work for your opinions. As to the mode
of ratification, there were different opinions among men whose
intentions were equally good, the merits of which opinions can-
not be discussed. I am of opinion that no advantage can result
from turning the public attention to points, which then were,
and ever will, remain doubtful.

Your proposal to send Mr. Jefferson, or Mr. Madison, to
France, I always thought a mistake. I believe a disclosure of it
will do you no good, and that, in the progress of our affairs, the
knowledge that such advice was given by you, will do harm. It
is a fact, however, which you have an unquestionable right to
publish if you think proper. The time may come (but I think
it has not yet arrived) for a full disclosure of the part which
every man has acted in relation to the great questions which
have arisen at different times under the present government.

The last page ought, in my opinion, to be considerably
altered. I think the letter may, with propriety, be sent to your
friends elsewhere than in New England, if it is published at all.

474 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [At. 43.

The letter ought, and will, influence the election ; if it is sent
merely as a defence of your character, and that of your friends,
and not to influence the election, the publication should be de-
ferred till after the election is over. A principal merit of the
composition consists in its candor and temper ; particular caution
is therefore necessary in stating all the motives of the publication.
I have thought hitherto that Mr. Adams ought, by all fair and
honorable means, to be deprived of votes. If your letter should
be sent to Connecticut in its present form, I suspect that it would
be inferred to be your expectation at least, that Mr. Adams would
obtain all the votes of that State. The expression of such an
expectation might, in some degree, contribute to produce that
effect. I expect to visit my friends in a short time, and wish
the question to remain undetermined.

There is a party in this State (Maryland) who consider Mr.
Adams as a character exactly suited to their views, and I believe
it to be their intention to give him their exclusive support. To
counteract this policy, it is necessary that some federal votes
should be withdrawn from Mr. Adams. This would not increase
the chances of Mr. Jefferson's election, though it would probably
be the means of referring the choice of a President to the House
of Eepresentatives.

Perhaps the motives of writing the letter may be thus ex-
plained : — 1st. That it is necessary to the defence of your char-
acter ; and secondly, that for the reason assigned, you are seri-
ously apprehensive of fatal consequences from a re-election of
Mr. Adams — that you find, however, many federalists, whose
opinions you respect, who entertain no such apprehensions — that
your letter is dictated by a desire of informing them of facts and
circumstances which have guided your judgment, and of which
they are presumed to be unacquainted. That you are apprised of
the bad consequences which might result from a public inves-
tigation of the conduct and character of Mr. Adams, and that de-
ference lor the opinions of those who are his friends and support-
ers, has induced you to confine the circulation of your letter to
gentlemen of known respectability and prudence, who will dis-
passionately weigh your objections and decide according to what
shall appear to be the true interest of the country.

jEt.43.] correspondence. 475

What precedes is written upon the supposition that the letter
is to be transmitted according to your suggestion ; but as to the
measure itself, I can give no opinion ; my feelings and individual
judgment are in favor of it. I never liked the half-way plan
which has been pursued. It appears to me that federal men are
in danger of losing character in the delicate point of sincerity ;
— nevertheless, when I consider the degree of support which Mr.
Adams has already received ; that our friends in Massachusetts
say that they still 'prefer the election of Mr. Adams ; that the
country is so divided and agitated as to be in some danger of
civil commotions, I cannot but feel doubts as to any measure
which can possibly increase our divisions. You can judge of
the state of public opinion in the Eastern States better than I
can. If the popular sentiment is strong in favor of Mr. Adams — if
the people in general approve of his late public conduct, or if there is a
want of confidence for any reason in General Pinckney, I should think
the publication ought to be suppressed ; on the contrary, if the
publication would increase the votes for General Pinckney, and pro-
cure support to him in case he shoidd he elected, it would certainly be
beneficial. Notwithstanding your impressions to the contrary,
I am not convinced that Mr. Adams can seriously injure your
character. At the moment of an election many men who con-
sider themselves honest will affect or be really convinced, in
some degree, of things which, in more serene moments, they
cannot bring their minds to believe.

I am, with great sincerity, yours.

P. S. — It would seem from the papers, that the mission to
France has terminated as I predicted. I am not, however, such
a wizard as to tell what is to be done next. The situation of the
country is such as to demand all the skill of the great Master of
Diplomacy.

476 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 43.

VANS MURRAY TO HAMILTON.

Paris, October 9th, 1800.

Dear Sir :

I was extremely flattered by the confidence which your letter
by Mr. Colbert proved you have in my disposition to follow your
wishes. A letter from you is no affair of ceremony. It is an
obligation on any man who flatters himself with the hope of
your personal esteem. Mr. Colbert gave it to me yesterday. I
immediately, in particular, addressed a letter to Bonaparte, and
made use of your name, which I was sure would be pleasing to
him. To-day I dined with him. The Secretary of State, Mr,
Maret — a very clever fellow — assured me that he received it
kindly, and I can hope something good from him. If any come
it will be your work. I never before spoke or wrote to Bona'
parte on any affair other than public business. It will be very
pleasing to you, if we succeed, that your silent agency works
good to the unhappy and meritorious at such a distance. I
know nothing better belonging to reputation. In two days I go
to the Hague to my post; wherever I am, I beg you to com-
mand my services in all things in my power.

CABOT TO HAMILTON.

Brdokline, Saturday, October 11th, 1800.

My Dear Sir :

Your letter of the 2d did not reach me until last evening, it
having been accidentally detained at the stage-house in this vil-
lage several days. The President is on the point of departure
for the seat of government, so that no opportunity of conveyance
by a private gentleman could be found ; I have therefore sent
you a letter by a sure hand to the post-office, whence it undoubt-
edly goes in the President's regular package of letters this day,
to Quincy. I have chosen this method as more sure of reaching

Avr. 43.] CORRESPONDENCE. 477

his own hand than if I had sent it by a servant, who would have
been obliged to deliver it, perhaps, to another servant instead of
the President or his secretary. Our people, after all their scold-
ing, seem now to admit more generally that Massachusetts ought
fairly to vote for A. and P. ; but you know that we can only
give conjectures until the meeting of our legislature.

Although I am not an influential man, and wish I was not so
thought to be, I expect at least one, and if printed, several copies
of your justificatory letter.

Dr. D wight is here, stirring us up to oppose the demon Jaco-
binism. A new paper, to be entitled the " New England Anti-
Jacobin," is to be published at Boston, and circulated as exten-
sively as possible, especially through New England ; the labors
of many good men are expected in its support, and yours among
the rest. Some good may reasonably be expected from it in the
discrimination of useful truths, in correcting some of the danger-
ous errors embraced by the federalists, in uniting and keeping
them united, and in some measure preparing them for the evils
they cannot shun; but the object is too vague and the means
too inconstant to satisfy all our anxieties.

The President has been endeavoring to be calm and discreet,
and has discovered a desire to be visited by the individuals of the
" — = — faction" whom he has formerly proscribed.

Yours affectionately and faithfully,

G. Cabot.

HAMILTON TO PICKERING.

New-York, November 13, 1800.

Dear Sir:

You no doubt have seen my pamphlet respecting the conduct
and character of President Adams. The press teems with replies,
and I may finally think it expedient to publish a second time.
In this case I shall reinforce my charges by new anecdotes. My
friends will, no doubt, be disposed to aid me. You. probably

478 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 43.

possess some which are unknown to me. Pray let me have them
without delay.

You will observe that a prejudice is attempted to be excited
against you as wishing to bring about an alliance with Great
Britain. Explain to me fully this affair. I remember that you
once consulted me about the expediency of the measure, and
that I in reply gave you my opinion. I think it was that the
thing was in any event problematical, that it was not advisable
to go into at the time — that the most prudent course would be
for Great Britain to have a power competent to the purpose
vested in her Minister in this country, and to take the matter ad
referendum to be governed by future circumstances.

I have not a copy of my letter. You will oblige me by
letting me have it.

Yours faithfully and unalterably.

GOODHUE TO HAMILTON.

Salem, November 15, 1800.

My Dear Friend :

I received your pamphlet, for which I thank you. I have
always been of opinion that we have been actuated by a perni-
cious policy in being so silent respecting Mr. A. The public
have been left thereby to form opinions favorable to him, and of
course unfavorable to those who were the objects of his mad
displeasure. I abominate the hypocritical part which we have
been necessitated to act in consequence thereof to promote our
elections, &c.

Our General Court have appointed their electors, and I believe
them all good men. Ames tells me, who was present, that they
wrere alive to the object of having no one chosen who would not
vote for General P., as well as Mr. A. Therefore, take it for

granted, that they may be relied on to that point You

know my wish is, that Mr. P. should be the man, and I would

JEt. 43.] CORRESPONDENCE. 479

even hazard the election of Mr. Jefferson rather than not obtain
my wish. Adieu.

With great regard, I am your faithful

B. Goodhue.

MCHENRY TO HAMILTON.

Baltimore, November 10th, 1800.

* * * * The chief will destroy himself fast enough without
such exposures. Can it happen otherwise to a man (as I wrote
the other day to Mr. Wolcott) who, whether sportful, playful, witty,
kind, cold, drunk, sober, angry, easy, stiff, jealous, careless, cau-
tious, confident, close or open, is so, almost always in the wrong
place, and to the wrong persons.

My great fear is that while he is destroying himself he will
destroy the government also.

Those among the federalists in this State, I mean those
within my observation, the most anxious for the election of Mr.
Adams, pretend to consider the publication of your letter rather
calculated to distract than to do good. Mr. Charles Carroll of
Carrollton, writes me : " I have read Mr. Hamilton's pamphlet.
The drift of its publication at this time, I conjecture, was not so
much with a view of vindicating his character, as to prevent the
electors in Massachusetts from scattering their votes, in order to
secure the election of Mr. Adams, in preference to Mr. Pinckney.
All with whom I have conversed, blame, however, Mr. Hamil-
ton, and consider his publication as ill-timed. Although I pay
deference to the opinion of others, whose motives I know to be
good, yet I cannot help differing from them in this instance. The
assertions of the pamphlet, I take it for granted, are true — and if
true, surely it must be admitted, that Mr. Adams is not fit to be
President, and his unfitness should be made known to the elect-
ors and the public. I conceive it a species of treason to conceal
from the public his incapacity." Let this console you from one
of the wisest, most prudent, and best men in the United States.

480 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 43.

The statement of ray last conversation with the President was
made official, and entered in the letter-book appropriated to re-
cord communications with him. I presume the book containing
it has been burnt with the other records of the department. I wish
the remembrance of it, which harasses my feelings, could have
been destroyed also. The folly, madness, and insatiable vanity of
this man is excited by, and descends to, things the most trifling.

A few days after my dialogue with the President, Tousard
came and told me, — " Well, I have at last seen the President — a
very extraordinary conversation with which he has favored me.
You must not tell, however, that / have seen him." I replied I
would not, as it belonged to valets de chambre only to see great
men. Among other things the President complained in a violent
passion that he was neglected by every officer, for that forts had
been named '•' Pickering, Hamilton, and McHenry," and that not
one of them had been called Adams, except perhaps a diminutive
work at Khode Island. The supple Frenchman no doubt satis-
fied the angry chief, for Tousard informs me, that before his
leaving him, he put his hand on his shoulder, and mildly assured
him he should be appointed colonel of the second regiment of
artillery and engineers in a few days.

When I employed Tousard on the fortifications to the East-
ward, the President wrote me a surly letter upon the subject,
which made it necessary for me to reply, that Tousard had been
employed, because I could find no other person qualified to send
on the business. This pacified the madman, and Tousard was
permitted to remain.

CABOT TO HAMILTON.

Brookline, November 29, 1800.

My Dear Sir:

It is too late to use the letter you inclosed me in Vermont,
and here it is unnecessary. I am satisfied the votes in this State
and New Hamphire will be all for A. and P. You will have

JBn. 43.] CORRESPONDENCE. 481

seen with some pleasure that our legislature have conducted in
the manner that was predicted by our friend Mr. Lowell, j un. To
his efforts, indeed, much of the success may be attributed.
Some fears are entertained lest the electors in Ehode Island,
though decidedly federal, will not all vote for P. To avert such
a misfortune, Ames has written earnest expostulations, which
will be communicated to the electors or some of the influential
ones, and Mr. Mason, who will be at Providence on Monday,
carries with him a copy of a letter just received by me from Mr.
"Wolcott, containing a paragraph from Judge Washington, ex-
tremely well calculated to induce a fair and equal vote for
Pinckney in New England.

Admitting that your friends " are dismayed " by your letter
concerning Mr. A., it is nevertheless possible you may be right
in publishing it. I am of opinion that no publication of the kind
could have been well received at this time in any part of the
United States, and this opinion is manifestly supported by the
fact —

" Truths would you teach or save a sinking land,
All shun, none aid vou, and few will understand."

So said the man who had more good sense than commonly falls
to the lot of a poet. I don't think the case exactly parallel, yet
I cannot omit to remind you of " Burke's Reflections," which
were reprobated almost universally when they first appeared.
Even those who approved the sentiments, thought the avowal
of them imprudent, and the publication of them untimely.
I wish some one, who is more in the world than I am, and who
feels, if possible, as much interest in every thing that affects
you as I feel, would furnish you with correct information of all
the opinions which are expressed by sensible men, and espe-
cially by your friends; while I cannot conceal that some of
these would be unpleasant to hear, I am persuaded that most of
them are explicable on the principles of human nature, and do
not, in the smallest degree, inculpate the writer. Men are easily
made angry with the messenger of ill news, and they who love
F 31

482 H A MILTON'S WORKS [JEt. 43.

their ease listen with great impatience to those who tell thern
thej must no longer indulge it.

Some who feel great dislike to Mr. Adams, are disappointed
that you have treated him with so much moderation ; they
opened your book with the expectation of seeing Mr. Adams
convicted of designs to involve the country in war with Great
Britain, that he might thus secure to himself the support of those
numerous but mistaken people, whose animosity to Great Britain
is ardent and inveterate. They expected you would describe in
just but glowing colors his pernicious jealousy of Washington's
superior merits and fame, and the intolerance of such a spirit
toward all men who enjoy a great degree of public confidence.
They expected you would have analyzed him so effectually as to
prove that he is and must be but little attached to the support
of public credit and the rights of property ; and that his ideas
respecting commerce and the use it may be put to in our foreign
politics, are more unsound than were Jefferson's or Madison's —
in a word, that war with England, privateering, and paper money,
with all their baneful appendages and consequences, are viewed
by him not as evils to be deprecated, but resources to be prefer-
red to that stable condition aimed at by the Washington system,
which he hates, and which he has been constrained by circum-
stances to support. Yet, the men who looked for all this, acknow-
ledge it would have been highly impolitic and injudicious if you
had executed it. There are others, but they are not numerous,
who think you have done too much already in the crimination
of Mr. Adams — all agree that the execution is masterly, but I
am bound to tell you that you are accused by respectable men of
egotism, and some very worthy and sensible men say you have
exhibited the same vanity in your book, which you charge as a
dangerous quality and great weakness in Mr. Adams. I should
have left it to your enemies to tell you of the censures of your
friends, if I was not persuaded that you cannot possibly mistake
my motives, or doubt of the sincerity of my affection or the great-
ness of my esteem.

Yours faithfully,

George Cabot.

JEt. 43.] CORRESPONDENCE. 483

GEN. GUNN TO HAMILTON.

Washington, December 11th, 1800.

Dear Sir:

I have seen a list of the names of the South Carolina electors
— they will all vote for Jefferson and Col. Burr. Gen. Pinckney
will not get one vote. Yours sincerely,

James Gunn.

GEN. GUNN TO HAMILTON.

Washington, December 13th, 1800.

Dear Sir:

The issue of the election of President and Vice President,
so far as it depended upon the individual States, is at length
settled. Jefferson and Burr have the major vote, and it may
with truth be said that John Adams has damned our cause, for
the double chance was lost in South Carolina, owing to General
Pinckney refusing to give up Mr. Adams.

The federalists appear to have no plan ; common danger will
make them unite. Adams is no longer the mar-plot, and your
aid is necessary.

With this view of the subject, permit me to offer for your
consideration, the policy of the federal party extending the influ-
ence of our Judiciary ; if neglected by the federalists, the ground
will be occupied by the enemy the very next session of Congress,

and, sir, we shall see and many other scoundrels, placed on the

seat of Justice. Within two years the Senate will be democratic
— at the commencement of Jefferson's administration the Sena-
tors will stand 17 federal and 15 anti-federal.

Men of sense, in every State, must go into the State legisla-
tures, and mind for future events. With the aid of some judicious
management, the federal party will unite in every quarter, and,

484 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 43.

in future men of sense will be preferred, and the bloated pride
of an individual treated with disdain.

Gen. Davie arrived with the treaty last evening. I learn
from him, that Mr. Ellsworth was landed in the British empire,
and intends returning to France for the benefit of his health.

It is the opinion of all well-informed men in Europe, that a
treaty of partition will be concluded by the great powers, and
the lesser powers used as small change.

Yours sincerely, &c.

PICKERING TO HAMILTON.

Easton (Pennsylvania), Dec. 14, 1800.

My Dear Sir :

After an absence of four months in the woods, I returned
hither on the evening of the 10th instant, and this is the first
opportunity of acknowledging the receipt of your letter of the
13th ult.

A few days before I left the woods, I received, from a friend
in Philadelphia, your pamphlet concerning the conduct and
character of President Adams. You say the press teems with
replies. I have yet seen none of them, and therefore cannot
tell what facts or anecdotes would be useful or pertinent in your
future publications, and as you desired such communications
" without delay," it would now probably be too late to make them.

That I ever wished to bring about an alliance with Great
Britain, to link our interest and our fate with hers, cannot be
true. But when in 1798, I, in common with others, discerned a
rupture with France almost inevitable, it was certainly natural
and proper to think what would be the most effectual means of
carrying on the war ; and as natural to think some plan of co-
operation with Great Britain, then at war with France, for our
mutual safety and advantage against a common enemy, to be ex-
pedient. But as it was this expected rupture with France, which

JEt. 43.] CORRESPONDENCE. 485

alone led me to think of some connection with Great Britain, so
my ideas never went beyond that object.

You remember that I wrote to you on this subject, and that
you replied — that I requested your opinion, and that you gave
it against going immediately into an alliance with Great Britain.
Your recollection is correct. I have sought for and found the
letters. If you preserved mine, you will find it under the date
of March 25th, 1798, and which refers to another of the same
date, giving an account of the recent conduct of the French
government towards the United States. I subjoin an extract,
containing every syllable that I wrote you on the subject of any
connection with Great Britain.

(Extract.)

What shall we say to the British Government ? You hint at nothing. The
opposition party have often insinuated that a treaty, offensive and defensive, has
doubtless been already concluded with Great Britain. A friend of mine yester-
day told me that he was asked if such a treaty had not arrived. The truth is,
that not one syllable has been written to Mr. King, or any one else, upon the
subject. I confess it to have been my opinion for some time that provisional
orders should be sent to Mr. King. Mr. King, in one of his latest letters, desires
to bo particularly instructed. The dispatch boat* may be directed to go from
France to England with such instructions, which will be in cipher, or may go
directly to Falmouth, and there may ascertain whether our envoys are, or are not
in France.

Your ideas communicated on this subject, and on the facts
stated in the inclosed, will be highly acceptable to me. I wish
to receive them on Wednesday.

Agreeable to your request, I inclose your original of March
27, 1798, in answer to the above.

With true respect and esteem,

I remain, my dear Sir, ever yours,

Timothy Pickering.

* The dispatch boat was the United States brig Sophia, then going to France
with orders to the envoys relative to their return.

486 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 43.

HAMILTON TO WOLCOTT.

New-York, Dec. 16th, 1800.

It is now, my dear sir. ascertained that Jefferson or Burr
will be President, and it seems probable that they will come
with equal votes to the House of Eepresentatives. It is also
circulated here, that, in this event, the federalists in Congress, or
some of them, talk of preferring Burr. I trust New England, at
least, will not so far lose its head as to fall into this snare. There
is no doubt but that, upon every virtuous and prudent calcula-
tion, Jefferson is to be preferred. He is by far not so dangerous
a man ; and he has pretensions to character.

As to Burr, there is nothing in his favor. His private char-
acter is not defended by his most partial friends. He is bank-
rupt beyond redemption, except by the plunder of his country.
His public principles have no other spring or aim than his own
aggrandisement, per fas et nefas. If he can, he will certainly dis-
turb our institutions, to secure to himself permanent power, and
with it wealth. He is truly the Catiline of America ; and, if I
may credit Majpr Wilcocks, he has held very vindictive lan-
guage respecting his opponents.

But early measures must be taken to fix on this point the
opinions of the federalists. Among them, from different mo-
tives, Burr will find partisans. If the thing be neglected, he
may possibly go far.

Yet it may be well enough to throw out a lure for him, in
order to tempt him to start for the plate, and then lay the foun-
dation of dissension between the two chiefs.

You may communicate this letter to Marshall and Sedgwick.
Let me hear speedily from you.

JEt. 43.] CORRESPONDENCE. 487

HAMILTON TO WOLCOTT.

December 17, 1800.

Your last letter, my dear sir, has given me great pain ; not
only because it informed me that the opinion in favor of Mr.
Burr was increasing among the federalists, but because it also
told me that Mr. was one of its partisans. I have a

letter from this gentleman, in which he expresses decidedly his
preference of Mr. Jefferson. I hope you have been mistaken,
and that it is not possible for him to have been guilty of so great
duplicity.

There is no circumstance which has occurred in the course of
our political affairs, that has given me so much pain as the idea
that Mr. Burr might be elevated to the Presidency, by the means
of the federalists. I am' of opinion, that this party has hitherto
solid claims of merit with the public, and so long as it does
nothing to forfeit its title to confidence, I shall continue to hope
that our misfortunes are temporary, and that the party will ere
long emerge from its depression. But if it shall act a foolish or
unworthy part in any capital instance, I shall then despair.

Such without doubt will be the part it will act, if it shall seri-
ously attempt to support Mr. Burr, in opposition to Mr. Jeffer-
son. If it fails, as after all is not improbable, it will have riveted
the animosity of that person, will have destroyed or weakened
the motives to moderation which he must at present feel, and it
will expose them to the disgrace of a defeat in an attempt to ele-
vate to the first place of the government, one of the worst men in
the community.

If it succeeds, it will have done nothing more nor less, than
place in that station a man who will possess the boldness and
daring necessary to give success to the Jacobin system, instead
of one, who for want of that quality, will be less fitted to pro-
mote it.

Let it not be imagined that Mr. Burr can be won to the
federal views. It is a vain hope. Stronger ties, and stronger in-
ducements than they can offer, will impel him in a different direc-

488 HAMILTON'S WORKS. |>Et. 43.

tion. His ambition will not be content with those objects which
virtuous men, of either party, will allot to it, and his situation
and his habits will oblige him to have recourse to corrupt ex-
pedients, from which he will be restrained by no moral scruple.
To accomplish his end, he must lean upon unprincipled men, and
will continue to adhere to the myrmidons, who have hitherto
surrounded him. To these he will no doubt add able rogues of
the federal party, but he will employ the rogues of all parties, to
overrule the good men of all parties, and to prosecute projects
which wise men of every description will disapprove.

These things are to be inferred with moral certainty from the
character of the man. Every step in his career, proves that he
has formed himself upon the model of Catiline, and he is too
cold-blooded, and too determined a conspirator ever to change
his plan.

What would you think of these toasts and this conversation
at his table within the last three or four weeks ?

1st. The French republic.

2d. The Commissioners on both sides who instigated the
Convention.

3d. Bonaparte.

4th. La Fayette.

(What would you think of his having seconded the positions
that it was the interest of this country to allow the belligerent
powers to bring in and sell their prizes, and build and equip
ships in our ports ? Can it be doubted that a man who has all
his life speculated upon the popular prejudices, will consult
them in the object of a war when he thinks it is expedient to
make one? Can a man who, despising democracy, has chimed
in with all its absurdities, be diverted from the plan of ambition
which must have directed his course? They who suppose it
must understand little of human nature.)

If Jefferson is President, the whole responsibility of bad mea-
sures will rest with the anti-federalists. If Burr is made so by
the federalists, the whole responsibility will rest with them. The
other party will say to the people, We intended him only for Vice-
President ; true, he might have done very well, or been at least

/Et. 43.J CORRESPONDENCE. 489

harmless. But the federalists, to disappoint us, and a majority
of you took advantage of a momentary superiority to put him in
the first place. He is therefore their President, and they must
answer for all the evils of his bad conduct. And the people will
believe them.

Will any reasonable calculation on the part of the federalists
uphold the policy of assuming so great a responsibility in the
support of so unpromising a character ? The negative is so mani-
fest, that, had I not been assured of the contrary, I should have
thought it impossible that assent to it would have been attended
with a moment's hesitation.

Alas ! when will men consult their reason rather than their
passions ? Whatever they may imagine, the desire of mortifying
the adverse party must be the chief spring of the disposition to
prefer Mr. Burr. This disposition reminds me of the conduct of
the Dutch moneyed men, who, from their hatred of the old aristo-
cracy, favored the admission of the French into Holland to over-
turn every thing.

Adieu to the federal Troy if they one introduce this Grecian
horse into their citadel.

Trust me, my dear friend, you cannot render a greater ser-
vice to your country, than to resist this project. Far better will
it be to endeavor to obtain from Jefferson assurances on some
cardinal points.

1st. The preservation of the actual fiscal system.

2d. Adherence to the neutral plan.

3d. The preservation and gradual increase of the navy.

4th. The continuance of our friends in the offices they fill,
except in the great departments, in which he ought to be left
free.

490 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 43.

OTIS TO HAMILTON.

Washington, December 17th, 1800.

Dear Sir:

There exists the strongest probability that the electoral votes
are equally divided between Messrs. Jefferson and Burr. We
have certain advices from South Carolina and Georgia, and wait
only for intelligence from Kentucky and Tennessee to ascertain
the fact. The gentlemen of the opposition are of opinion that
this will be the case. The question now is, in what mode shall the
friends of the federal government take advantage of this casu-
alty ? Can any terms be obtained from Mr. Burr favorable to
the true interest of the country, and is he a man who will adhere
to terms when stipulated ? Is it advisable to attempt a negotia-
tion with him — and in what manner and through what channel
shall it be conducted ? We are inclined to believe that some
advantage may be derived from it, but few of us have a personal
acquaintance with Mr. Burr. It is palpable that to elect him
would be to cover the opposition with chagrin, and to sow among
them the seeds of a morbid division. But whether in any event
he would act with the friends to the Constitution, or endeavor to
redeem himself with his old party by the violence of his meas-
ures and the overthrow of the Constitution, is a doubt which you
may assist us to resolve. Your local situation and personal ac-
quaintance with these men and the state of parties, enables you
to give an opinion upon a subject in which all the friends to the
country have a common interest, and if you can venture to re-
pose confidence in me, I will most solemnly pledge myself that
your sentiments shall be reserved within my own breast, or com-
municated only to those whom you may designate. Should our
expectation be realized, which we shall know in a day or two, is
it advisable to send a messenger to New-York to confer with
friends there, or attempt to bring Mr. Burr here ? What should
be the outlines of an agreement with him, and (alas ! it is a dif-
ficult question,) what security can be devised for his adherence
to it?

Mt. 43.] CORRESPONDENCE. 491

I am anxious to act correctly and judiciously. It would be
distressing to omit or misdirect an effort which might be ben-
eficial to the country, or preserve the Constitution, and I presume
that honor and duty will sanction every endeavor to preserve it,
even by an ineligible instrument. The treaty is before the
Senate, and I believe will be found another chapter in the book
of humiliation.

All claims for spoliation, it is said, are suspended during the
war, all public ships captured by each party are to be surrender-
ed, and in the language of the case of Bullum v. Boatum, after
paying all costs we are permitted to begin again de novo. It is
very doubtful in my mind whether the Senate ratify.

SEDGWICK TO HAMILTON".

Washington, December 17th, 1800.

Dear Sir :

The substance of the convention with France will, I presume,
be known publicly in a few days. In the mean time I commu-
nicate, in confidence, some part of its character. It contains no
stipulation for satisfaction of the injuries we have received. It
makes the treaty of '78 a subject of future negotiation. It en-
gages that we shall return, in the condition they now are, all our
captures. It makes neutral bottoms a protection to their cargoes,
and it contains a stipulation directly in violation of the 25th arti-
cle of our treaty with Great Britain. Such are the blessed effects
of our mission ! These are the ripened fruits of this independent
administration ! Our friends in the Senate are not enough recov-
ered from their astonishment to begin to reflect on the course
they shall pursue. After this information, it will be needless to
add, that the mind, as well as body of Mr. Ellsworth, are render-
ed feeble by disease. He has resigned as chief justice.

The votes in Georgia ace given equally for Jefferson and
Burr. It is generally supposed they will be so in Kentucky and

492 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [vEt. 42.

Tennessee. This has rendered the Jacobins in the House more
civil in their attentions than I have ever known them. Should
the House have to decide between these rivals, my opinion would
prefer the former for reasons which will readily occur to you. In
this, many of my friends differ from me. They suppose that
Burr, if preferred, will be compelled to throw himself into the
hands of the federal party.

GENERAL GUNN TO HAMILTON.

Washington, December 18th, 1800.

Dear Sir:

I presume some of your friends will furnish you with a copy
of the French convention. The thing is detestable. The inde-
pendence of our country humbled to the dust.

The President this day nominated Mr. Jay chief justice. Mr.
Ellsworth resigned. Mr. Jay, having once declined the office of
chief judge, it is no compliment to re-appoint him to that office —
nor was it decent to wound the feelings of Judge Patterson^
Either Judge Patterson or General Pinckney ought to have been
appointed ; but both those worthies are your friends.

Jefferson and Burr, as yet, have an equal vote; and it is gen-
erally believed they will each have seventy- three votes. It is prob-
able that the federalists will have to choose among rotten apples.

GOUVERNEUR MORRIS TO HAMILTON.

Washington, December 19th, 1800.

My Dear Sir :

In company this day, I heard much said about the treaty
brought to us by Mr. Dacre ; wherefore, as it is now a subject of

vEt. 43.] CORRESPONDENCE. 493

public conversation, those restraints which I had imposed on
myself are removed, and I take the earliest opportunity of say-
ing one word about it to you.

The negotiation appears to have been very well conducted on
the part of France, and the result is probably equal to her wishes.
It contains, among other things, a stipulation that, as the parties
cannot agree about the old treaties, nor the indemnities mutually
due, or claimed, they will negotiate further about them at a con-
venient period, and until they shall have agreed on those points,
the treaty shall have no operation, but the relations of the two
countries shall be regulated by that convention; that public
ships, which have been, or may be taken, shall be mutually re-
stored ; that property captured and not yet definitely condemn-
ed, shall be restored on proof of ownership ; that debts shall be
paid ; that the vessels of the two nations, and their privateers
as well as their prizes, shall be treated in the respective ports
of each other, as those of the nation the most favored ; that
free ships shall make free goods, and the converse ; that when
neutral ships are convoyed, the word of the officer commanding
the convoy shall be taken, and no visit allowed ; that when arm-
ed ships shall be permitted to enter with their prizes, they shall
not be obliged to pay any duty, nor shall the prizes be seized,
nor shall the officers of the place make examination concerning
the lawfulness of such prizes ; but this stipulation is not to ex-
tend beyond the most favored nation ; that privateers belonging
to an enemy shall not fit their ships, sell or exchange their prizes,
or purchase provisions, except what may be needful to go to the
next ports of their own country. Finally, this convention is un-
limited in its duration.

Such, my dear sir, is the result of our French negotiation,
which evidently places us in a critical situation.

It is supposed that Mr. Jefferson and Mr. Burr will have
equal votes, and various speculations are made and making on
that subject. At first it was proposed to prevent any election, and
thereby throw the government into the hands of a President of
the Senate. It even went so far as to cast about for the person.
This appeared to me a wild measure, and I endeavored to dis-

494 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 43.

suade those gentlemen from it, who mentioned it to me. It
seems now to be given up. The object with many is to take Mr.
Burr, and I should not be surprised if that measure were adopt-
ed. Not meaning to enter into intrigues, I have merely ex-
pressed the opinion, that since it was evidently the intention of
our fellow-citizens to make Mr. Jefferson their President, it seems
proper to fulfil that intention.

The answer is simple, and on mere reasoning conclusive, but
it is conclusive to unimpassioned sentiment. Let the represen-
tatives do what they may, they will not want arguments to justify
them, and the situation of our countrj (doomed perhaps to sustain,
unsupported, a war against France or England) seems, indeed, to
call for a vigorous practical man. Mr. Burr Avill, it is said, come
hither, and some who pretend to know his views think he will
bargain with the federalists. Of such a bargain, I shall know
nothing, and have declared my determination to support the con-
stitutionally-appointed administration, so long as its acts shall
not in my judgment be essentially wrong. My personal line of
conduct gives me no difficulty, but I am not without serious ap-
prehension for the future state of things.

The anti-federal party is, beyond question, the most numerous
at present ; and should they be disappointed in their expectation
as to the President, they will generally, I believe, oppose the
government with embittered rancor. The best federalists will,
I apprehend, support but feebly a man whom (unj ustly perhaps)
they consider as void of principle ; and a government whose force
lies in public opinion, will, under such circumstances, be critically
situated.

I should do injustice to my opinion of your intuitive judg-
ment, should I dilate any farther. You are better acquainted
with characters and opinions than I possibly can be ; and your
ideas will have weight on the minds of many here, should you
think proper to transmit them through some accustomed channel
of communication. The subject is certainly of high considera-
tion, and the circumstances of the moment are of peculiar delicacy.

Mt. 43.] CORRESPONDENCE. 495

HAMILTON TO SEDGWICK.

New-York. December 22d. 1800.

I entirely agree with you, my dear sir, that in the event of
Jefferson and Burr coming to the Ilouse of Eepresentatives, the
former is to be preferred. The appointment of Burr as President
would disgrace our country abroad. No agreement with him
could be relied upon. His private circumstances render disorder
a necessary resource. His public principles offer no obstacle.
His ambition aims at nothing short of permanent power and
wealth in his own person. For Heaven's sake, let not the federal
party be responsible for the elevation of this man.

The convention with France is just such an isssue as was to
have been expected. It plays into the hands of France by the
precedent of those principles of navigation, which she is at this
moment desirous of making the basis of a league of the northern
powers against England. This feature will be peculiarly disa-
greeable to the latter; and, as it relates to the general politics of
the world, is a make-weight in the wrong scale.

The stipulation about privateers and prizes is of questionable
propriety. If third powers are entitled to the benefit of annul-
ling our treaties with France, it is a plain violation of our com-
pact with Great Britain.

But I rather think it the better opinion, that pending the
differences which produced that measure, it is a matter purely
between France and ourselves, by which no third power has a
right to profit ; and that even the statu quo would not have been
a violation of our engagements with Great Britain.

Thus situated, I am of opinion the treaty must be ratified.
The contrary condition would, I think, utterly ruin the federal
party, and endanger our internal tranquillity. Moreover, it is
better to close the thing where it is, than leave it to a Jacobin
administration to do much worse.

This is a deliberately formed sentiment, and I hope, will ac-
cord with the conclusions of our friends. At the same time, I
wish it to be declared by our friends in the Senate, that they
think the treaty liable to strong objections, and pregnant with

496 II A MILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 43.

dangers to the interests of this country ; but having been nego-
tiated, they will not withold their assent.
Keasons should be given.

HAMILTON TO GOVERNEUR MORRIS.

New-York, December 24,1800.

Dear Sir:

I will run the risk with you of giving countenance to a
charge lately brought against me, though it has certainly had a
very false direction. I mean that of being fond of giving advice.

Several friends at Washington inform me, that there is likely
to be much hesitation in the Senate about ratifying the conven.
tion with France. I do not wonder at it, and yet I should be
sorry that it should mature itself into a disagreement to the in-
strument. Having received its present form, I think it should be
ratified.

In my opinion there is nothing in it contrary to our treaty
with Great Britain. The annulling of our former treaties with
France was an act of reprisal in consequence of hostile differ-
ences, of which no other power had a right to benefit; and
which, upon an accommodation, might have been rescinded, even
to the restoration of the statu quo. Great Britain is now in this
respect in a better situation than she was when she made the
treaty. She has so far no good cause to complain.

There are, indeed, features which will not be pleasant to the
British cabinet, particularly the principle that, free ships shall
make free goods, and that the flag of ships of war shall protect.
As these are points upon which France was endeavoring to form
hostile combinations against Great Britain, the giving place to
them in the convention will have an unfriendly countenance
towards her ; and as it regards good understanding between her
and us, is to be regretted in the present moment. Yet we had a
right to make these stipulations, and as they may be fairly sup-
posed to be advantageous to us, they are not in fact indications of

JEt. 43.] CORRESPONDENCE. 497

enmity. They give no real cause of umbrage, and considering
the general interests of Great Britain, and her particular situation,
it does not seem probable that they will produce on her part a
hostile conduct.

As to the indemnification for spoliations, that was rather to
be wished than expected, while France is laying the world under
contribution. The people of this country will not endure that a
definitive rupture with France shall be hazarded on this ground.

If this convention is not closed, the leaving of the whole sub-
ject open will render it easier for the Jacobin administration to
make a worse thing.

On the whole, the least evil is to ratify. The contrary would
finish the ruin of the federal party, and endanger our internal
tranquillity. It is better to risk the dangers on the other hand,
than on this side.

Another subject. Jefferson or Burr? the former without all
doubt. The latter, in my judgment, has no principle, public or
private; could be bound by no agreement; will listen to no
monitor but his ambition ; and for this purpose will use the
worst part of the community as a ladder to climb to permanent
power, and an instrument to crush the better part. He is bank-
rupt beyond redemption, except by the resources that grow out
of war and disorder ; or by a sale to a foreign power, or by great
peculation. War with Great Britain would be the immediate
instrument. He is sanguine enough to hope every thing, dar-
ing enough to attempt every thing, wicked enough to scruple
nothing. From the elevation of such a man may heaven pre-
serve the country !

Let our situation be improved to obtain from Jefferson as-
surances on certain points ; the maintenance of the present sys-
tem, especially on the cardinal articles of public credit — a navy,
neutrality. Make any discreet use you may think fit of this
letter.
498 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 43.

WOLCOTT TO HAMILTON.

(private.)

Washington, December 25th, 1800.

Dear Sir:

I have received your favor of the 16th and 17th ; that of the
16th I communicated to Mr. Marshall and Mr. Sedgwick. The
first has yet expressed no opinion. The last mentioned gentle-
man has been inclined to support Mr. Burr, and this, I find, ap-
pears to be a prevailing and increasing sentiment of the federal-
ists. With what degree of seriousness the intention is formed,
and whether it can succeed, are points upon which no opinion
can be given. It will be well to bring the attention of our east-
ern friends to the subject, that their ideas may be seasonably
communicated to the gentlemen in Congress.

An attempt will be made to enact the new Judiciary bill. It
is probable that it will succeed, but what appointments shall we
have ?

You will be afflicted on reading the treaty with France. Mr.
Ellsworth's health is, I fear, destroyed. He has resigned his
office, and the President has sported a nomination of Mr. Jay,
who will not accept the appointment. It is probable that the
treaty will undergo some modification by the Senate.

HAMILTON TO MORRIS.

New- York, December 26th, 1800.

Dear Sir:

The post of yesterday gave me the pleasure of a letter from
you. I thank you for the communication. I trust that a letter
which I wrote you the day before the receipt of yours will have
duly reached you, as it contains some very free and confidential
observations ending in two results.

jEt.43.] correspondence. 409

1st. That the convention with France ought to be ratified as
the least of two evils.

2d. That on the same ground Jefferson ought to be preferred
to Burr.

I trust the federalists will not be so mad as to vote for the
latter. I speak with an intimate and accurate knowledge of
character. His elevation can only promote the purposes of the
desperate and profligate.

If there be a man in the world I ought to hate, it is Jeffer-
son. With Burr I have always been personally well. But the
public good must be paramount to every private consideration.

My opinion may be freely used with such reserves as you
shall think discreet.

HAMILTON TO BAYARD.

Nk.w-Yohk, December 27, 1800.

Dear Sir:

Several letters to myself and others from the city of Wash-
ington, excite in my mind extreme alarm on the subject of the
future President. It seems nearly ascertained that Jefferson and
Burr will come into the House of Eepresentatives with equal
votes, and those letters express the probability that the federal
party may prefer the latter. In my opinion a circumstance more
ruinous to them, or more disastrous to the country, could not
happen.

This opinion is dictated by a long and close attention to the
character of B., with the best opportunities of knowing it — an
advantage of judging, which, few of our friends possess; and
which ought to give some weight to my opinion.

Be assured, my dear sir, that this man has no principle, pub-
lic nor private. As a politician, his sole spring of action is an
inordinate ambition ; as an individual, he is believed by friends
as well as foes to be without probity ; and a voluptuary by system
— with habits of expense that can be satisfied by no fair expe-

500 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [At. 43.

dients. As to his talents, great management and cunning are the
predominant features ; he is yet to give proofs of those solid
abilities which characterize the statesman. Daring and energy
must be allowed him ; but these qualities under the direction of
the worst passions, are certainly strong objections, not recom-
mendations. He is of a temper to undertake the most hazardous
enterprises, because he- is sanguine enough to think nothing im-
practicable ; and of an ambition that will be content with nothing
less than permanent power in his own hands. The maintenance
of the existing institutions will not suit him ; because, under
them, his power will be too narrow and too precarious. Yet the
innovations he may attempt, will not offer the substitute of a
system durable and safe, calculated to give lasting prosperity, and
to unite liberty with strength. It will be the system of the day
sufficient to serve his own turn, and not looking beyond himself.
To execute this plan, as the good men of the country cannot be
relied upon, the worst will be used. Let it not be imagined that
the difficulties of execution will deter, or a calculation of interest
restrain. The truth is, that under forms of government like
ours, too much is practicable to men who will, without scruple,
avail themselves of the bad passions of human nature. To a
man of this description, possessing the requisite talents, the ac-
quisition of permanent power is not a chimera. I know that Mr.
Burr does not view it as such, and I am sure there are no means
too atrocious to be employed by him. In debt, vastly beyond
his means of payment, with all the habits of excessive expense,
he cannot be satisfied with the regular emoluments of any
office of our government. Corrupt expedients will be to him a
necessary resource. "Will any prudent man offer such a President
to the temptations of foreign gold ? No engagement that can be
made with him can be depended upon while making it ; he will
laugh in his sleeve at the credulity of those with whom he makes
it; — and the first moment it suits his views to break it, he will
do so.* Let me add, that I could scarcely name a discreet man

* A recent incident will give you an idea of his views as to foreign politics. I
dined with him lately. His toasts were, " The French Republic," " The Commis-
sioners who negotiated the Convention, " Buonaparte," "The Marquis La Fayette."

Mr. 44.] CORRESPONDENCE. 501

of either party in our State, who does not think^Mr. Burr the
most unfit man in the United States for the office of President.
Disgrace abroad, ruin at home, are the probable fruits of his
elevation. To contribute to the disappointment and mortification
of Mr. J., would be, on my part, only to retaliate for unequivocal
proofs of enmity ; but in a case like this, it would be base to listen
to personal considerations. In alluding to the situation, I mean
only to illustrate how strong must be the motives which induce
me to promote his elevation in exclusion of another.

For heaven's sake, my dear sir, exert yourself to the utmost
to save our country from so great a calamity. Let us not be
responsible for the evils, which in all probability will follow the
preference. All calculations that may lead to it must prove
fallacious.

Accept the assurances of my esteem,

A. Hamilton.

JOHN MARSHALL TO HAMILTON.

January 1st, 1801.

Dear Sir:

I received this morning your letter of the 26th of December.
It is, I believe, certain that Jefferson and Burr will come to the
House of Eepresentatives with equal votes. The returns have
been all received, and this is the general opinion.

Being no longer in the House of Representatives, and conse-
quently compelled by no duty to decide between them, my own
mind had scarcely determined to which of these gentlemen the
preference was due. To Mr. Jefferson, whose political character

His doctrines, that it would be the interest of this country to permit the indiscrimi-
nate sale of prizes by the belligerent powers ; and the building and equipment of
vessels — a project amounting to nothing more nor less (with the semblance of
equality), than to turn all our naval resources into the channel of France, and com-
pel Great Britain to war. Indeed Mr. Burr must have war, as the instrument of
his ambition and cupidity. The peculiarity of the occasion will excuse my men-
tioning in confidence the occurrences of a private table.

502 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 44.

is better known than that of Mr. Burr, I have felt almost insu-
perable objections. His foreign prejudices seem to me totally to
unfit him for the chief magistracy of a nation which cannot
indulge those prejudices without sustaining deep and permanent
injury. In addition to this solid and immovable objection, Mr.
Jefferson appears to me to be a man who will embody himself
with the House of Eepresentatives. By weakening the office of
President, he will increase his personal power. He will diminish
his responsibility, sap the fundamental principles of the govern-
ment, and become the leader of that party which is about to
constitute the majority of the legislature. The morals of the
author of the letter to Mazzei cannot be pure.

With these impressions concerning Mr. Jefferson, I was in
some degree disposed to view with less apprehension any other
characters, and to consider the alternative now offered as a cir-
cumstance not to be entirely neglected.

Your representation of Mr. Burr, with whom I am totally
unacquainted, shows that from him still greater danger than
even from Mr. Jefferson may be apprehended. Such a man as
you describe is more to be feared, and may do more immediate,
if not greater, mischief. Believing that you know him well, and
are impartial, my preference would certainly not be for him ;
but I can take no part in this business. I cannot bring myself
to aid Mr. Jefferson. Perhaps respect for myself should, in my
present situation, deter me from using any influence (if, indeed,
I possessed any) in support of either gentleman. Although no
consideration could induce me to be the Secretary of State while
there was a President whose political system I believed to be at
variance with my own, yet this cannot be so well known to
others, and it might be suspected that a desire to be well with
the successful candidate had, in some degree, governed my
conduct.

With you I am in favor of ratifying our treaty with France,
though I am far, very far, from approving it. There is, however,
one principle which I think it right to explain.

Our envoys were undoubtedly of opinion that our prior
treaty with Britain would retain its stipulated advantages, and I

jEt. 44.] CORRESPONDENCE. 503

think that opinion correct. Was our convention with any other
natitn than France, I should Peel no solicitude ou this subject.

But France, the most encroaching nation on earth, will claim a
literal interpretation, and our people will decide in her favor.
Those who could contend that a promise not to permit privateers
of the enemy of France, to be fitted out in our ports, amounted
to a grant of that privilege to France, would not hesitate to
contend that a stipulation giving to France, on the subject of
privateers and prizes, the privileges of the most favored nation,
placed her on equal ground with any other nation whatever. In
consequence of this temper in our country, I think the ratifica-
tion of the treaty ought to be accompanied with a declaration of
the sense in which it is agreed to. This, however, is only my
own opinion.

With very much respect and esteem,

I am, dear Sir, yours obediently,

J. Marshall.

GOUVERNEUR MORRIS TO HAMILTON.

Washington, January 5th, 1801.

My Dear Sir:

I have received your favors of the 24th and 25th of last
month, I am much obliged by both.

The convention with France will be ratified sub modo.
Such, at least, is my opinion. I wish first to strike out the 2d
and 3d article ; secondly, to fix a limitation of time. The 2d
article, by suspending the operation, admits the existence of
former treaties. The restitution of our trophies stipulated by
the third, may damp the spirit of our country. That nation,
which will permit profit or convenience to stand in competition
with honor, is on the steep descent to ruin. If, with the excep-
tion of those articles, and a limitation of time, the convention be
mutually ratified, I shall think it no bad bargain. Will the
French Consul ratify it when so curtailed and limited? Per-

•304 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 44-

haps, if his affairs are prosperous, he will not. Some gentlemen
propose adding a clause, to declare that it shall not prejralice
former treaties. This appears dangerous, because, if afterwards
ratified without that clause, such ratification may be construed
as an assent to the conclusion, which the declaration was in-
tended to obviate.

On the election between Mr. Jefferson and Mr. Burr, there is
much speculation. Some, indeed most, of our eastern friends
are warm in support of the latter, and their pride is so much up
about the charge of influence, that it is dangerous to quote an
opinion. I trust they will change or be disappointed, for they
appear to be moved by passion only. I have, more at the re-
quest of others than from my own mere motion, suggested certain
considerations not quite unworthy of attention ; but it is danger-
ous to be impartial in politics. You, who are temperate in
drinking, have never, perhaps, noticed the awkward situation of
a man who continues sober after the company are drunk.

Adieu, my dear Hamilton. God bless you, and send you
many happy years.

HAMILTON TO LA FAYETTE.

New-York, January 6th, 1801.
I have been made happy, my dear friend, by the receipt of
your letter of the 12th August last. No explanation of your
political principles was necessary to satisfy me of the perfect con-
sistency and purity of your conduct. The interpretation may
always be left to my attachment to you. "Whatever difference
of opinion may on any occasion exist between us, can never
lessen my conviction of the goodness both of your head and
heart. I expect from you a return of this sentiment as far as
concerns the heart. It is needless to detail to }^ou my political
tenets. I shall only say that I hold, with Montesquieu, that a
government must be fitted to a nation as much as a coat to an in-

JEt. 44.] CORRESPONDENCE. 505

dividual ; and consequently, what may be good at Philadelphia
may be bad at Paris, and ridiculous at Petersburgh.

I join with you in regretting the misunderstanding between
our two countries. You will have seen by the President's speech,
that a door is again opened for terminating them amicably ; and
you may be assured that we are sincere, and that it is in the
power of France, by reparation to our merchants for past injury,
and the stipulation of justice in future, to put an end to the con-
troversy.

But I do not like much the idea of your being in any way
implicated in the affair, lest you should be compromitted in the
opinion of one or the other of the parties.

It is my opinion, that it is best for you to stand aloof; neither
have I abandoned the idea that it is most advisable for you to
remain in Europe till the difference is adjusted. It would be
very difficult for you here to steer a course which would not place
you in a party, and remove you from the broad ground which
you now occupy in the hearts of all. It is a favorite point with
me, that you shall find in the universal regard of this country all
the consolations which the loss of your own (for so I consider it)
may render requisite.

Believe me always,

Your very cordial and faithful friend,

A. H.

BAYARD TO HAMILTON".

Washington, January 7th, 1801.

Dear Sir:

I have been but a few days in this city, but since my arrival
have had the pleasure to receive the letter which you did me the
honor to write on the 7th ult. I am fully sensible of the great
importance of the subject to which it relates, and am therefore
extremely obliged by the information you have been so obliging
as to communicate.

506 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 44.

You have probably seen a letter addressed by Colonel Burr
to General Smith, constituting him his proxy to disavow the
least desire on his part to interfere with the intention of his party
to place Mr. Jefferson in the chair of President.

I mention this letter merely for the opportunity of stating,
that it is here understood to have proceeded, either from a false
calculation as to the result of the electoral votes, or was intended
as a cover to blind his own party.

By persons friendly to Mr. Burr, it is distinctly stated, that
he is willing to consider the federalists as his friends, and to ac-
cept the office of President as their gift.

I take it for granted that Mr. Burr would not only gladly
accept the office, but will neglect no means in his power to secure
it. Certainly, he cannot succeed without the aid of the federal-
ists, and it is even much to be doubted whether their concurrence
will give him the requisite number of States. It is considered,
that at least in the first instance, Georgia, North Carolina, Vir-
ginia, Tennessee, Kentucky, Pennsylvania, New Jersey, and
New- York, will vote for Mr. Jefferson. It is probable that
Maryland and Vermont will be divided ; it is therefore counted
that upon the first ballot, it would be possible to give to Mr.
Burr six votes. It is calculated, however, and strongly insisted
by some gentlemen, that a persevering opposition to Mr. Jeffer-
son would bring over New- York, New Jersey, and Maryland.
What is the probability relative to New-York, your means en-
able you to form the most correct opinion. As to New Jersey
and Maryland, it would depend upon Mr. Lynn, of the former,
and Mr. Dent, of the latter State.

I assure you, sir, there appears to be a strong inclination in a
majority of the federal party to support Mr. Burr. The current
has already acquired considerable force, and manifestly increas-
ing. The vote which the representation of a State enables me
to give would decide the question in favor of Mr. Jefferson. At
present I am by no means decided as to the object of preference.
If the federal party should "take up Mr. Burr, I ought certainly
to be impressed with the most undoubting conviction before I
separated myself from them. With respect to the personal

^Et. 44.] CORRESPONDENCE. 507

qualities of the competitors, I should fear as much from the sin-
cerity of Mr. Jefferson (if he is sincere), as from the want of pro-
bity in Mr. Burr. There would be really cause to fear that the
government would not survive the course of moral and political
experiments to which it would be subjected in the hands of Mr.
Jefferson. But there is another view of the subject which gives
me some inclination in favor of Burr. I consider the State am-
bition of Virginia as the source of present party. The faction
who govern that State, aim to govern the United States. Vir-
ginia will never be satisfied but when this state of things exists.
If Burr should be the President, they will not govern, and his
acceptance of the office, which would disappoint their views,
which depend upon Jefferson, would, I apprehend, immediately
create a schism in the party which would soon rise into open op-
position.

I cannot deny, however, that there are strong considerations,
which give a preference to Mr. Jefferson. The subject admits of
many doubtful views, and before I resolve on the part I shall
take, I shall wait the approach of the crisis which may probably
bring with it circumstances decisive of the event. The federal
party meet on Friday, for the purpose of forming a resolution as
to their line of conduct. I have not the least doubt of their
agreeing to support Burr. Their determination will not bind me,
for though it might cost me a painful struggle to disappoint the
views and wishes of many gentlemen with whom I have been
accustomed to act, yet the magnitude of the subject forbids the
sacrifice of a strong conviction.

I cannot answer for the coherence of my letter, as I have un-
dertaken to write to you from the Chamber of Representatives,
with an attention divided by the debate which occupies the
House.

I have not considered myself at liberty to show your letter to
any one, though I think it would be serviceable if you could
trust my discretion in the communication of it.

I am, with great consideration, &c.

508 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 44.

HAMILTON TO GOUVERNEUR MORRIS.

New- York, January 9th, 1801.

I have lately, my dear sir, written you two letters. As they
contained some delicate topics, I shall be glad to know that they
got to hand.

It has occurred to me that perhaps the federalists may be dis-
posed to play the game of preventing an election, and leaving the
executive power in the hands of a future President of the Senate.
This, if it could succeed, would be, for obvious reasons, a most
dangerous and unbecoming policy. But it is well it should be
understood that it cannot succeed. The anti-federalists, as a
body, prefer Jefferson ; but among them are many who will be
better suited by the dashing, projecting spirit of Burr ; and who,
after doing what they will suppose to be saving appearances, they
will go over to Mr. Burr. Edward Livingston has declared
among his friends, that his first ballot will be for Jefferson — his
second for Burr.

The present is a crisis which demands the exertions of men
who have an interest in public order.

GUNN TO HAMILTON.

Washington, January 9th. 1801.

Dear Sir:

I have received your favor of the 24th ult. It is probable
a rejection of the French convention would excite some un-
pleasant feeling in America. But its ratification would be dis-
honorable. The second and third articles were rejected by very
large majorities — Gen. Armstrong voted againt the second article,
which alarmed the Jacobins. With some other exceptions it is
believed the thing will be ratified by the unanimous vote of the
Senate.

JEt. 44.] CORRESPONDENCE. 509

On the subject of choosing a President, some revolutionary
opinions are gaining ground, and the Jacobins are determined
to resist the election of Burr at every hazard — most of the Ja-
cobin members will be instructed not to vote for Col. Burr. I
have seen a letter from Mr. Madison to one of the Virginia rep-
resentatives, in which he says, that, in the event of the present
House of Representatives not choosing Mr. Jefferson President,
that the next House of Eepresentatives will have a right to
choose one of the two having the highest number of votes, and
that the nature of the case, aided with the support of the great
body of the people, will justify Jefferson and Burr jointly to call
together the members of the next House of Eepresentatives,
previous to the 8d of December next, for the express purpose of
choosing a President, and that he is confident they will make a
proper choice. In other parts of his letter he speaks of America
being degraded by the attempt to elect Burr President. What
say you, my friend? — the little A^irginian must have been a little
ferocious at the time he wrote to his friend. I am confident the
present House will not elect Col. Burr, and am persuaded the
democrats have taken their ground with a fixed resolution to
destroy the government rather than yield their point. I fear
some of our friends have committed themselves by writing im-
properly to Burr. We know the man, and those who put them-
selves in his power will repent their folly.

Yours, kc.

• RUTLEDGE TO HAMILTON,

Washington, January 10th, 1801.

My Dear Sir:

I yesterday had the honor of receiving your favor of the 4th
instant, and am justly sensible of the distinction conferred upon
me by your confidence. My determination to support Mr. Burr
has been shaken by your communication, and I shall make,

510 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 44.

among those who with, you are anxious to preserve the public
order at this crisis, all the use of it that its seasonableness and
value will enable me to do. Viewing Mr. J. and Mr. B. sepa-
rately, each appears improper for the presidency ; but, looking at
them together, and comparatively, the federalists think their pre-
ferring Burr will be the least mischief they can do. His promo-
tion will be prodigiously afflicting to the Virginia faction, and
must disjoint the part}^. If Mr. B.'s presidency be productive of
evils, it will be very easy for us to excite jealousy respecting his
motives, and to get rid of him. Opposed by the Virginia party,
it will be his interest to conciliate the federalists; and we are
assured by a gentleman who lately had some conversation with.
Mr. B. on this subject, that he is disposed to maintain and expand
our systems. Should he attempt an usurpation, he will endeavor
to accomplish his ends in a bold manner and by the union of
daring spirits, — his project in such a shape cannot be very for
midable, and those employed in the execution of it can very
easily be made way with. Should Mr. Jefferson be disposed to
make (as he would term it) an improvement, (and as we should
deem it a subversion) of our Constitution, the attempt would be
fatal to us, for he would begin by democratizing the people and
end with throwing every thing into their hands.

If the House of Representatives was to vote on this all import-
ant subject under existing impressions, I believe the termina-
tion would be as follows : South Carolina, Delaware, Connecti-
cut, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, and New Hampshire, for Burr;
and Georgia, Kentucky, Tennessee, Virginia, North Carolina,
Pennsylvania, Jersey, and New- York, for Mr. Jefferson. Ver-
mont would be divided, and Maryland is yet undecided. This
is I believe the state of present sentiment, but I will review my
decision, and in doing so, consider with due deliberation your
very important observations on this eventful subject; and I shall
also communicate them to a few of my friends, to whom I may
show them without being indiscreet. The public prints will have
informed you how we have occupied ourselves here ; — our House
is at present discussing the judiciary bill, which we hope very
confidently to carry. • It will greatly extend the judiciary power,

jEt.44.] correspondence. 511

and of course greatly widen the basis of government. "We shall
profit of our short-lived majority, and do as much good as we
can before the end of this session. The Senate are hammering at
our French treaty. I am surprised and mortified that our en-
voys signed it. It appears to me that they have done nothing
on the real points of complaint, nay, have done worse than
nothing. One part of the treaty abandons all our rights, and the
other part makes us the dupes of France in the game she means
to play against the maritime power of England. Before this
theory can be effected, the armed neutrality must have one hun-
dred ships of the line to convoy their merchantmen, or the Eng-
lish will search 'em. We lose our honor, by restoring the ships
we have taken, and by doing so, perhaps, make an implicit ac-
knowledgment of the injustice of our hostile operations, which
will be brought against us in the future and frivolous negotiations
into which we may enter for compensation.

Accept, I pray of you, my dear General, the homage of my
veneration and respect, and believe me to be
Yours very sincerely,

John Eutledge.

SEDGEWICK TO HAMILTON.

Washington. 10th January, 1801.

I delayed, my dear sir, an answer to your letter of the 22d
purposely, because from it I was induced to believe I was soon
to be favored with another containing additional observations on
the convention.

On that subject, at present, I shall say nothing. It is not
doubted that the votes for Jefferson and Burr have been equally
given, and that from one of those, the House must select the next
President of the United States. It is known, that all the demo-
cratic representatives are decidedly in favor of Jefferson. These
will give seven certainly, possibly eight votes, but it is believed
he cannot be elected without the concurrence of the federalists,

512 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 44.

and we entertain no doubt, that should we prefer Burr, tJiey will
not dare to persevere in voting for Jefferson, and thereby pre-
vent any election. How then shall we determine? The ques-
tion is difficult and the result doubtful. No decision is yet had,
though there is, I believe, a strong preponderance of opinion
against Jefferson.

In his favor, it is said, that it was the intention of all those
electors who voted for him and Burr, that he should be elected.
This bej^ond all doubt, as to a large majority of those electors, is
true. But wherefore, it is asked, was this preference given to
him ? Because, it is answered, he was known to be hostile to all
those great systems of administration, the combined effect of
which is our national prosperity, and all we possess of national
character and respectability ; because he is a sincere and enthusi-
astic democrat in principle, plausible in manners, crafty in con-
duct, persevering in the pursuit of his object, regardless of the
means by which it is attained, and equally regardless of an ad-
herence to truth, as demonstrated by his letter to Mazzei, his
declaration in the Senate on his first taking his seat there, &c. &c. ;
because he is known to be devoted to the views of those men, in
his State, whose unceasing efforts it has been, and is, to reduce in
practice the administration of this government to the principles
of the old confederation, in which that State, by her numerous rep-
resentatives, and the influence which she has on surrounding
States, will be the dictatrix; because he is known to be servilely
devoted to one foreign nation, under any form of government,
and pursuing any system of measures, however hostile to this
country, and unrelentingly hostile to another nation, and those
the two nations on earth with which we have the most interest-
ing relations, and with which it is most important to preserve an
equal and impartial regard. Ought we then to respect the pre-
fence which is given to this man from such motives, and by such
friends f

As to the other candidate, there is no disagreement as to his
character. He is ambitious — selfish — profligate. His ambition
is of the worst kind ; it is a mere love of power, regardless of
fame, but as its instrument- his selfishness excludes ail social

JEt. 44.] CORRESPONDENCE. 513

affections, and his profligacy unrestrained by any moral senti-
ments, and defying all decency. This is agreed, but then it is
known that his manners are plausible — that he is dexterous in
the acquisition and use of the means necessary to effect his
wishes. Nothing can be a stronger evidence of this than the
situation in which he stands at this moment — without any preten- .
sion from connections, fame, or services — elevated by his own
independent means to the highest point to which all those can
carry the most meritorious man in the nation. He holds to n&
previous theories, but is a mere matter-of-fact man. His very self-
ishness prevents his entertaining any mischievous predilections
for foreign nations. The situation in which he lives has enabled
him to discern and justly appreciate the benefits resulting from
our commercial and other national systems, and this same selfish-
ness will afford some security that he will not only patronize
their support but their invigoration.

There are other considerations. It is very evident that the
Jacobins dislike Mr. Burr as President — that they dread his ap-
pointment more than even that of General Pinckney.

On his part, he hates them for the preference given to his ri-
val. He has expressed his displeasure at the publication of his
letter by General Smith. This jealousy, and distrust, and dis-
like, will every clay more and more increase, and more and more
widen the breach between them. If, then, Burr should be
elected by the federalists against the hearty opposition of the
Jacobins, the wounds mutually given and received will probably
be incurable. Each will have committed the unpardonable sin.
Burr must depend on good men for his support, and that support
he cannot receive but by a conformity to their views.

In these circumstances, then, to what evils shall we expose
ourselves by the choice of Burr, which we should escape by the
election of Jefferson ? It is said, that it would be more disgrace-
ful to our country and to the principles of our government. For
myself, I declare I think it impossible to preserve the honor of
our country or the principles of our Constitution by a mode of
election which was intended to secure to prominent talents and
virtues the first honors of our country, and for ever to disgrace
f 33

514 HAMILTON'S WORKS. |>Et. 44.

the barbarous institutions by which executive power is to he trans-
mitted through the organs of generation. We have at one election
placed at the head of our government a semi-maniac, and who,
in his soberest senses, is the greatest marplot in nature ; and at
the next a feeble and false, enthusiastic theorist, and a profligate
without character and without property, bankrupt in both. But
if there remains any thing for us, in this respect, to regard, it is
with the minority in the Presidential election ; and can they be
more disgraced than by assenting to the election of Jefferson —
the man who has proclaimed them to the world as debased in
principle and as detestable and traitorous in conduct ? Burr is
indeed unworthy, but the evidence of his unworthiness is
neither so extensively known nor so conclusive as that of the
other man.

It must be confessed that there is part of the character of
Burr more dangerous than that of Jefferson. Give to the former
a i robable chance, and he would become an usurper. The latter
might not incline, he certainly would not dare, to make the at-
tempt. I do not believe that either would succeed, and I am
even confident that such a project would be rejected by Burr as
visionary.

At first, I confess I was strongly disposed to give Jefferson the
preference ; but the more I have reflected, the more I have been
inclined to the other; yet, however, I remain unpledged, even
to my friends, though I believe I shall not separate from them.

HAMILTON TO GOUVERNEUR MORRIS.

New- York, January, 10th, 1801.

I thank you, my dear sir, for your letter of the 5th instant.
The scruples you express about the ratification of the conven-
tion are very respectable. No well-informed man can doubt,
that it is an exceptionable instrument ; but I continue of the
opinion, that it is best upon the whole to ratify it uncondition-
ally.

JEt. 44.] CORRESPONDENCE. 515

It does not appear to me that on fair construction, the exist-
ence of the old treaties is recognized ; though a right of mutual
indemnities as to the past is admitted. But inasmuch as it is
declared, that they shall hereafter have no effect until a future
agreement, this appears to me to amount to the consent of France,
that they shall become inoperative and null ; unless they shall
be revived by the consent of the United States. So far I think
that something is gained. For the right of one party to annul
a treaty is a litigious right, never consummated till the other
party waives its opposition. This is now in substance done by
France. And, in my opinion, to have advanced so far is a mat-
ter of considerable importance.

The indemnification for spoliation is, I admit, virtually relin-
quished, as the price of a waiver of the treaties ; but considering
our situation, and the immense and growing power of France,
that price is not too great.

Further, there are such potent obstacles in the nature of
things to the obtaining of effectual indemnification, that it is
very well to leave it to the chapter of accidents.

The restoration of ships of war is an unpleasant, and, I will
not deny,- rather a humiliating thing.

But as it is in form reciprocal, it does not seem to me that
unequivocal species of dishonor, which ought to induce us to
run great risks. Our conduct, heretofore, has gone on the
ground, that though we ought not to submit to unequivocal dis-
grace, yet we ought not to be too susceptible or over-curious and
nice. In this spirit, we have borne a great deal, sometimes too
much, from all the belligerents. Circumstances do not now invite
to a different course. Our rapid progress to strength will, ere
long, encourage to and warrant higher pretensions.

You seem to have gotten over the difficulty of the supposed
collision between the convention and our treaty with Britain.
You already know that this accords with my opinion. Yet it
seems to me the most thorny point, as it draws into question our
faith towards a third power.

This gotten over, there is not, in my apprehension, any re-
maining obstacle to a full ratification which may not be over-
come.

516 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEr. 44.

The limitation of the treaty as to time, is doubtless desira-
ble ; but we may be sure it will not be eternal in fact. Perpe-
tual peace will not exist. A war cuts the knot, and leaves us
free to renew or not, to renew absolutely or with qualifications.

With this view of the subject, I do not consider the objec-
tions to a simple ratification to be strong enough to countervail
the dangers of a qualified one, which, certainly, will leave it in
the option of the other party to recede.

It is possible, that in the pride of success our backwardness
to ratify may be the pretext of a rupture to punish the presump-
tion. Under existing circumstances, such an event would be dis-
astrous, if not for the evils which the arms of France might in-
flict, yet for the hazard of internal schisms and discord. The
mania for France has in a great degree revived in our country,
and the party which should invite a rupture would be likely to
be ruined.

Perhaps with the administration we are going to have, there
may be less danger of rupture than with one of a different cast ;
yet not much reliance can be placed on this circumstance, and
there is another side to the question which deserves attention.

If the present convention be ratified, our relations to France
will have received a precise shape. To take up the subject anew,
and mould it into a shape better according with Jacobin pro-
jects, will not be as easy, as, finding the whole business open, to
give it that shape. I think it jDolitic, therefore, to close as far as
we can.

Again, it will be of consequence to the federal cause in future
to be able to say, the federal administration steered the vessel
through all the storms raised by the contentions of Europe into
a peaceful and safe port. This cannot be said, if the contest
with France continues open.

Inclosed you have some recent intelligence, which seems to
strengthen the argument for a simple ratification. Great Britain
stands on a precipice. The misfortune for her is, that there are
manifest symptoms of a depreciated and depreciating paper cur-
rency. This may cut deep.

The result is, that good understanding with the United

Mt. 44.] CORRESPONDENCE. 517

States is more than ever necessary to Great Britain. She will
not lightly take umbrage while France is in a position to ride
a high horse. These facts cannot prudently be excluded from
the calculation.

So our eastern friends want to join the armed neutrality
and make war upon Britain. I infer this from their mad pro-
pensity to make Burr President. If Jefferson has prejudices
leading to that result, he has defects of character to keep him
back. Burr, with the same propensities, will find the thing ne-
cessary to his projects, and will dare to hazard all consequences.
They may as well think to bind a giant by a cobweb, as his
ambition by promises.

GO VERNE UR MORRIS TO HAMILTON.

Washington, January 16th, 1801.

My Dear Sir:

I have yours of the ninth. I had already replied to those
which it refers to. The idea that a division of the votes would
bring over the aristocrats, who call themselves democrats, to
vote for Burr, is unfounded. Were it otherwise, a number of
federalists, that is, of republicans, would urge the experiment.
The conviction that they will not abandon their man may induce
the republicans to unite with the adversary, and give Mr. Jef-
ferson a unanimous vote.

I have hinted, that should they find the opposition to him
ineffectual, it might be advisable openly to declare, that, unable
to estimate the respective merits of the candidates, whose virtues
they are equally ignorant of, the republicans will join in the
choice of the person whom they may designate. Under present
circumstances, this appears to me the best expedient for avoiding
all responsibility at the bar of public opinion, and that is im-
portant, for let the choice fall as it may, many will be displeased.

The present moment is indeed of high interest, but prudence

518 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 44.

seems to be more necessary than any thing else. Not the cold

quality, which avoids mistakes, but the active virtue, which
corrects the evil of mistakes already made.

MOERIS TO HAMILTON.

Washington, January 16th, 1801.

My Dear Sir :

I this instant received your favor of the tenth. I thank you
for it. The Aurora will have shown you the result of our delib-
erations on the convention, at least of those which went to a
division worth noting. If it sticks in France, it will be respect-
ing points on which the vote was unanimous, or nearly so.

As to the induction from the words of the second article,
that the old treaties subsisted, though their operation was sus-
pended; I think it undeniable, and when connected with certain
rights given by the convention, which had been given both by
those treaties and by the treaty with Britain, a construction less
strained than many which become prolific in the management of
a great power, would have involved us in serious difficulty. To
Britain was given certain rights, limited by those of a singular
kind previously given to France. In abolishing our treaties
with the latter, that which we had made with the former obtain-
ed an actual extension, which we might rightfully restrain ■ for as
she was no party, either to our treaties with France, or to the
abrogation of them, she could not rightfully complain, had we
thought lit to re-establish those treaties. When, therefore, ac
Jcnowledging their existence by suspending their effects generally, we
particularly stipulate, and literally renew a part, might not the
French demand for the part so renewed a priority f In fact,
might not France demand that a British ship should not bring
into our ports a French prize ? The privileges granted being
incompatible and exclusive, the question of priority involves every
thing. So much for that.

jEt. 44. j CORRESPONDENCE. 519

Those articles (the second and third) being left out, the con-
vention must be considered merely as a treaty of peace. The
pre-existence of war is admitted, and from the moment of that
admission, there is an end to treaties and to claims of restitution
and indemnity. Nothing, therefore, can make the matter more
clear than to be perfectly silent.

Our negotiators huddled up a treaty, because there was to
be a general peace ; and you, my good friend, seem to think we
should gulp it down because there is to be a general war. I
took occasion early to declare in the Senate that we need not
hurry the matter through, because, in my opinion, there would
not be a general peace. Circumstances rush on to support my
conjecture. Doubtless the First Consul, if the dice run against
him, will agree to our offer. If they run in his favor they may
reject it, and in like manner he might, under such circumstances,
have freed himself from any cobweb fetters. His whole conduct
is a comment on that text.

But you seem to fear for Britain, because she has brought
paper money into fashion. This reason, my dear sir, is stronger
against trusting her in commerce, than it is against confiding in
her system of politics or war. Paper money, like ardent spirits,
increases for a while the strength, though it consumes by degrees
the fat, the muscles, and the viscera. At present, Britain pre-
sents a plump carcass for the poison to prey upon. With toler-
able management, she may last at least ten years, and make,
during that period, tremendous exertions. Rely on it, Denmark
and Sweden will be sick of their bargain before midsummer
next ; and as to Paul Peter, remember what I told you of his
fickle character. He cannot last long, and, deprived of com-
merce, will find his paper bubbles run down hill much faster
than the paper guineas of his adversary. His mother was a dif-
ferent being, and yet, even with her gigantic talents, she must
have failed in the prosecution of her schemes had she not ob-
tained money on loan in Holland.

As to the continental war, I think France has pushed as far
as reason will justify. Should she go farther south in Italy, and
farther east in Germany, the Austrians, by rapid movements to

520 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 44.

a central position, may give the Consul a blow he will never
recover.

HAMILTON TO BAYARD.

New-York, January 16th, 1801.
[This letter was inserted by mistake on page 419, under date of Jan. 1G, 1800.]

HAMILTON TO GOUVERNEUR MORRIS.

New- York, January. 1801.

Dear Sir:

I hasten to give you some information which may be useful.
I know as a fact that overtures have been made by leading indi-
viduals of the federal party to Mr. Burr, who declines to give
any assurances respecting his future intentions and conduct, say-
ing that to do it might injure him with his friends, and prevent
their co-operation ; that all ought to be inferred from the neces-
sity of his future situation, as it regarded the disappointment and
animosity of the anti-federalists ; that the federalists, relying
upon this, might proceed in the certainty that, upon a second
ballot, New-York and Tennessee would join him. It is likewise
ascertained that he perfectly understands himself with Edward
Livingston, who will be his agent at the seat of government.

Thus you see that Mr. Burr is resolved to preserve himself in
a situation to adhere to his former friends, engagements, and
projects, and to use the federalists as tools of his aggrandisement.

The hope that by his election he will be separated from the
anti-federalists, is a perfect farce.

He will satisfy them that he has kept himself free to continue
his relations to them, and as many of them are secretly attached
to him, they will all be speedily induced to rally under his stand-
ard, to which he will add the unprincipled of our party, and he
will lausrh at the rest.

jEt. 44.] CORRESPONDENCE. 521

It is a fact that Mr. Burr is now in frequent and close con-
ference with a Frenchman, who is suspected of being an agent of
the French government, and it is not to be doubted that he will
be the firm ally of Buonaparte.

You are at liberty to show this letter to such friends as you
think fit, especially Mr. Bayard, of Delaware, in whose principles
and sound sense I have much confidence.

Depend upon it, men never played a more foolish game than
will do the federalists, if they support Burr.

HAMILTON TO SEDGWICK.

Albany, Jan. 21, 1801.

Dear Sir :

Being in a hurry to leave New- York for this place, I com-
pressed, in a letter to Bayard, some observations which, had I
time, I should have put in a reply to your last. I requested him
to communicate it to you, and I beg of you, as you love your
country, your friends, and yourself, to reconsider dispassionately
the opinion you have expressed in favor of Burr.

I never was so much mistaken, as I shall be, if our friends,
in the event of their success, do not rue the preference they will
give to that Catiline. Adieu.

A. H.

HAMILTON TO

Albany, February 22, 1801.

Dear Sir:

After my ill success hitherto, I ought, perhaps, in prudence,
to say nothing farther on the subject. But situated as things now
are, I certainly have no advice to give. Yet I may, without
impropriety, communicate a fact, it is this :

Colonel Burr is taking an active personal part in favor of Mr.

522 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [vEt. 44.

Clinton against Mr. Rensselaer, as Governor of this State. I
have, upon my honor, direct and indubitable evidence, that be-
tween two and three weeks past, he wrote a very urgent letter to
Oliver Phelps, of the western part of this State, to induce his
exertions in favor of Clinton. Is not this an unequivocal con-
firmation of what I predicted, that he will, in every event, con-
tinue to play the Jacobin game? Can any thing else explain his
conduct at such a moment, and under such circumstances? I
might add several other things to prove that he is resolved to
adhere to and cultivate his old party, who lately, more than ever,
have shown the cloven foot of rank Jacobinism.

BAYARD TO HAMILTON.

• Washington, 8th March, 1801.

Dear Sir:

I left Washington on the 5th and arrived here last evening.
The letter which you did me the honor to write the 22d ultimo,
reached me on the 4th, when I was occupied in arrangements
for leaving the seat of government.

I remained in Washington on the 4th through necessity, though
not without some curiosity to see the inauguration, and to hear
the speech. The scene was the same as exhibited upon former
occasions, and the speech, in political substance, better than we
expected ; and not answerable to the expectations of the parti-
sans of the other side.

After the inaugural ceremonies, most of the federal gentlemen
paid their respects to the President and the Vice, and were
received with very decent respect.

Mr. Adams did not attend. He has been sufficiently humbled
to be 'allowed to be absent. Your views in relation to the elec-
tion, differed very little from my own, but I was obliged to yield
to a torrent, which I perceived might be diverted, but could not
be opposed.

In one case I was willing to take Burr, but I never considered

jEt. 44.] CORRESPONDENCE. 523

it as a case likely to happen. If by his conduct he has com-
pletely forfeited the confidence and friendship of his party, and
left himself no resort but the support of the federalists, there are
many considerations which would have induced me to prefer him
to Jefferson. But I was enabled soon to discover that he was
determined not to shackle himself with federal principles ; and
it became evident that if he got in without being absolutely
committed in relation to his own party, that he would be dis-
posed and obliged to play the game of McKean upon an im-
proved plan, and enlarged scale.

In the origin of the business I had contrived to lay hold of
all the doubtful votes in the House, which enabled me, according
to views which presented themselves, to protract or terminate
the controversy.

This arrangement was easily made, from the opinion readily
adopted from the consideration, that representing a small State
without resources which could supply the means of self-protec-
tion, I should not dare to proceed to any length which would
jeopardize the constitution or the safety of any State. When the
experiment was fully made, and acknowledged upon all hands
to have completely ascertained that Burr was resolved not to
commit himself, and that nothing remained but to appoint a Pres-
ident by law, or leave the government without one, I came out
with the most explicit and determined declaration of voting for
Jefferson. You cannot well imagine the clamor and vehement
invective to which I was subjected for some days. We had sev-
eral caucuses. All acknowledged that nothing but desperate
measures remained, which several -were disposed to adopt, and
but few were willing openly to disapprove. We broke up each
time in confusion and discord, and the manner of the last ballot
was arranged but a few minutes before the ballot was given. Our
former harmony, however, has since been restored.

The public declarations of my intention to vote for Jefferson,
to which I have alluded, were made without a general consulta-
tion, knowing that it would be an easier task to close the breach
which I foresaw, when it was the result of an act done without
concurrence, than if it had proceeded from one against a decision

524 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 44.

of the party. Had it not been for a single gentleman from Con-
necticut, the eastern States would finally have voted in blank, in
the same manner as done by South Carolina and Delaware ; but,
because he refused, the rest of the delegation refused ; and be-
cause Connecticut insisted on continuing the ballot for Burr,
New Hampshire, Massachusetts, and Khode Island, refused to de-
part from their former vote.

The means existed of electing Burr, but this required his
co-operation. By deceiving one man (a great blockhead), and
tempting two (not incorruptible), he might have secured a
majority of the States. He will never have another chance of
being President of the United States ; and the little use he has
made of the one which has occurred, gives me but an humble
opinion of the talents of an unprincipled man.

CONSTABLE TO HAMILTON.

Paris, March 23d, 1801.

Dear Sir:

Our government is doubtless informed of the treaty between
this republic and Spain for the cession of Louisiana, of which
Collaud is to be governor. I am told it is concluded.

Original inclosed to J. Madison, Esq., Secretary of State, May 20th, 1807.

MADISON TO HAMILTON.

Department of State, Washington, May 26th, 1801.

Sir:

I have received your letter of the 20th, inclosing one from
Paris, of March 23d. The cession of Louisiana by Spain to the
French republic, referred to in the letter, had been previously
signified to this department from several sources, as an event be-

.Et.44.] correspondence. 525

lieved to have taken place. Supposing you might wish to re-
possess the letter from Mr. C, I herein return it.
I have the honor to remain, Sir,

Your obedient servant,

James Madison.

VAN VECHTEN TO HAMILTON.

Albany, 1801.

Dear Sir:

I am enjoined by the General Committee to tax your good-
ness to prepare a short, temperate, and pertinent supplemen-
tary address, by way of reply to that of our opponents. This
tax will be levied and collected without communicating whence
it is derived.

WOOLSEY TO HAMILTON.

September 4th, 1801.

Dear Sir:

I am as much dissatisfied with the recent conduct of the Manu-
mission Society as you can be, and have, out of doors, remon-
strated against the measures which they have pursued, but with-
out effect. My name appears as vice-president, although I have
not for several years attended a meeting of the Society. I had
almost determined before your note that I would remove my in-
dividual responsibility by a public protest against their measures.
Your plan may be better, though I am very doubtful of its effi-
cacy. If you would, after your return, incline to have the So-
ciety called together, I will apply to Mr. Willet Seaman, who is
the president, for that purpose.

526 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 44.

BUSHROI) WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Walnut Farm, November 21, 1801.

Dear Sir:

Your letter dated in September, came lately to my hands, after
having made a circuitous route through many distant post-offices,
as appears from the endorsement on it. * * *

The system of intolerance and proscription which seems to
be the order of the day, from the General to many of the State
governments will, I fear, produce a fatal schism, which may pro-
bably divide the States, as it already has the people. But I ap-
prehend that the plan of Mr. Pendleton, which, not unlikely, is
the plan of his party to obtain a general convention for reform-
ing the Constitution, will bring us to this ultimate point of our
political progress by a shorter road. I do not think that it re-
quires the gift of prophecy to foretell the dissolution of the con-
federacy if a convention should be agreed to by two-thirds of the
States at this, or perhaps at any other time.

With very great respect and esteem, &c.

JAY TO HAMILTON.

Albany, November 15th, 1801.

Dear Sir:

At present I have not leisure to mention more on this subject
than that the gentleman who was thought of for a certain em-
ployment, declines it, nor does he know of any person who
would probably be willing, and also well qualified, to execute what
would be expected from him as necessary to insure success to
the plan.

Yours, &c.

jEt.45.] CORRESPONDENCE. 527

KING TO HAMILTON.

London, January 12, 1802.
Both as a friend and a father I do most unfeignedlj partici-
pate and condole with you in the heavy affliction that has fallen
upon your family. It would be altogether vain for me to have
recourse to the usual topics of consolation. In so severe a ca-
lamity it must be sought for among the treasures of your own
mind, which nature has so eminently endowed ; and after awhile
it will likewise be found in. the promising branches of your
family which remain, to recall to your remembrance as well as to
console you for the loss you have suffered.

With the most faithful regard and attachment, &c.

HAMILTON TO RUSH.

New-York, Feb. 12th: 1802.

Dear Sir:

I felt all the weight of the obligation which I owed to you
and your amiable family for the tender concern they manifested
in an event beyond comparison the most afflicting of my life ; but
I was obliged to wait for a moment of greater calm to express
my sense of the kindness.

My loss is indeed great. The brightest as well as the eldest
hope of my family has been taken from me. You estimate him
rightly. He was a fine youth. But why should I repine ? It
was the will of heaven, and he is now out of the reach of the se-
ductions and calamities of a world full of folly, full of vice, full
of danger, of least value in proportion as it is best known. I
firmly trust, also, that he has safely reached the haven of eternal
repose and felicity.

You will easily conceive that every memorial of the goodness
of his heart must be precious to me. You allude to one recorded

528 HAMILTON'S WORKS.

[jEt. 45.

in a letter to your son. If no special reasons forbid it, I should
be very glad to have a copy of that letter.

Mrs. Hamilton joins me in affectionate thanks to Mrs. Bush
and yourself; our wishes for your happiness will be unceasing.

Very sincerely and cordially, &c.

MORRIS TO HAMILTON".

Washington, Feb. 22d, 1802.

My Dear Sir:

You must pardon me for telling you I am sorry that you op-
posed sending a petition to Congress against the repeal of the law
of last session for amending the judicial system. It will stop, I
suppose, any such petitions which might have come on from the
eastward, and thus leave our enemies to conclude against us from
the silence of our friends. Moreover, it will enable your per-
sonal enemies to say, that you wished the repeal to take effect, so
as to overturn the Constitution ; and weak-minded friends may
be hurt that the bar of a State should hold themselves too high
to petition the legislature of the Union. However, what is done
cannot be undone.

"Would it not be useful to establish committees of corres-
pondence from Baltimore to Boston, of which New-York to be
the centre, as a more favorable position to collect opinions
through that tract of country ? If a general meeting of the citi-
zens of New- York should be convened, it might be for the pur-
pose of considering what constitutional measures can be adopted
in the present moment to secure the independence of the State,
and the national compact of the Union, from the dangers with
which they are threatened. At such meeting, it might be useful
to appoint a large committee, chiefly of merchants, composed of
moderate men. You should not appear in all this. They will
soon catch an esprit de corps. They may report simply resolu-
tions, that the repeal is inexpedient, that a petition be presented

.Et. 45.] CORRESPONDENCE. 529

•

to the President, and that a committee be appointed to corres-
pond with other committees.

This corresponding committee, selected from the first, and ap-
pointed hy the people, may consist of the most intelligent and
moderate men. In a few weeks they will find business for them-
selves and for Mr. President too. The petition might state, first,
that the law to be repealed is considered as useful, and tending
to the speedy administration of justice; secondly, that the ex-
pense, compared with the object or with the general amount of
expenditure, is trifling; thirdly, that respect forbids the idea,
which has been suggested by some, that the principal object of
the repeal is to get rid of obnoxious judges — that, whatever may
be the characters of those who sit in other circuits, those of the
second circuit have deserved the public confidence; fourthly,
that, without questioning the powers of Congress, it appears a
point of such magnitude, and the result, if the law be unconstitu-
tional, which is the opinion of many cool and discerning men, is
fraught with such danger, that the petitioners hope he will inter-
fere to prevent a decision, and thereby quiet the minds of many
real friends to the national government and the independence of
the several States, who view with extreme anxiety the present
situation of our affairs.

HAMILTON TO MORRIS.

New-York, 27th February, 1802.

My Dear Sir:

Your letter of the 22d is the third favor I am indebted to you
since you left New-York.

Your frankness in giving me your opinion as to the ex-
pediency of an application of our bar to- Congress, obliged me.
But you know we are not readily persuaded to think we have
been wrong. Were the matter to be done over, I should pursue
the same course. I did not believe the measure would be useful
F 34

530 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 45.

•

as a preventive, and for the people an expression of an opinion
by letter would be as good as a memorial.

It appeared to be best, because it saved our delicacy, and be-
cause in the abstract, I am not over fond of the precedent of the
bar addressing Congress. But I did what I thought likely to do
more good. I induced the Chamber of Commerce to send a me-
morial. As to the rest, I should be a very unhappy man, if I
left my tranquillity at the mercy of the misinterpretations which
friends as well as foes are fond of giving to my conduct.

Mine is an odd destiny. Perhaps no man in the United
States has sacrificed or done more for the present Constitution
than myself ; and contrary to all my anticipations of its fate, as
you know from the very beginning. I am still laboring to prop the
frail and worthless fabric. Yet I have the murmurs of its friends
no less than the curses of its foes for my reward. What can I
do better than withdraw from the scene ? Every day proves to
me more and more, that this American world was not made for
me.

The suggestions with which you close your letter suppose a
much sounder state of the public mind than at present exists.
Attempts to make a show of a general 'popular dislike of the pend-
ing measures of the government, would only serve to manifest
the direct reverse. Impressions are indeed making, but as yet
within a very narrow sphere.

The time may ere long arrive when the minds of men will
be prepared to make an effort to recover the Constitution, but the
many cannot now be brought to make a stand for its preserva-
tion. We must wait a while.

I have read your speeches with great pleasure. They are
truly worthy of you. Your real friends had many sources of
satisfaction on account of them. The conspiracy of dulness was
at work. It chose to misinterpret your moderation in certain
transactions of a personal reference.

A public energetic- display of your talents and principles was
requisite to silence the cavillers. It is now done. You, friend
Morris, are by birth a native of this country, but by genius an
exotic. You mistake, if you fancy that you are more of a favor-

JEt. 45.] CORRESPONDENCE. 531

ite than myself, or that you are in any sort upon a theatre suited
to you.

HAMILTON TO GOUVERNEUR MORRIS.

New- York, March 4, 1802.

My Dear Sir :

You have seen certain resolutions unanimously pass our
legislature for amending the Constitution ; 1st, by designating
separately the candidates for President and Vice-President ; 2d,
by having the electors chosen by the people in districts under
the direction of the national legislature.

After mature reflection, I was thoroughly confirmed in my
full impression, that it is true federal policy to promote the
adoption of these amendments.

Of the first ; not only because it is in itself right, that the
people should know whom they are choosing, and because the
present mode gives all possible scope to intrigue, and is danger-
ous (as we have seen) to the public tranquillity ; but because in
every thing which gives opportunity for juggling arts, our adver-
saries will nine times out of ten excel us.

Of the second ; because it removes thus far the intervention
of the State governments, and strengthens the connection between
the federal head and the people, and because it diminishes the
means of party combination, in which also, the burning zeal of
our opponents will be generally an overmatch for our temperate
flame.

I shall be very happy that our friends may think with me,
and that no temporary motive may induce them to let slip the
precious occasion in which personal motives induce the other
party to forget their true policy.

We are told here, that at the close of your birthday feast, a
strange apparition, which was taken for the Vice-President, ap-
peared among you, and toasted " the union of all honest men."

532 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.tor. 45.

I often hear at the corner of the streets important federal secrets,
of which I am ignorant. This may be one.

If the story be true, 'tis a good thing, if we use it well. As
an instrument, the person will be an auxiliary of some value ; as
a chief, he will disgrace and destroy the party.

I suspect, however, the folly of the mass will make him the
latter, and from the moment it shall appear that this is the
plan, it may be depended upon much more will be lost than
gained. I know of no important character, who has a less
founded interest than the man in question. His talents may do
well enough for a particular plot, but they are ill suited to a
great and wise drama. But what has wisdom to do with weak
men ? Adieu.

Yours truly,

A. Hamilton.

JACKSON TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, March 12, 1802.
I beg leave, my dear General, to request that you will notify
the New- York State Society of the Cincinnati, that the triennial
general meeting of the Society is to be held at the city of Wash-
ington on the first Monday in May next, where it is anxiously
wished that their delegates may attend. The nomination of gen-
tlemen in Congress who are members of the Society, may facili-
tate the convening of a quorum.

As President-General of the Society, your presence will be
peculiarly gratifying to

Your faithful and affectionate servant,

W. Jackson, Secretary- General

jEt. 45.] CORRESPONDENCE. 533

TRUXTUN TO HAMILTON.

Norfolk, 22d March, 1802.

Dear Sir:

A variety of circumstances convinced me at Washington that
my appointment was by no means congenial to the wishes of the
President ; and a little time after I came here made the fact so
evident, that I at length considered my reputation deeply at
stake in the hands of the present administration, and brought
things to a point.

It is with pain and reluctance I quit the navy ; but it was
unavoidable, as you will see by the inclosed copy of a letter to
the Secretary of the Navy. Although I had come on to Wash-
ington in January, on my way here (by appointment made by
the President), to command the squadron destined for the Medi-
terranean, in the course of conversation at dinner in the palace,
the President asked me which way I was travelling, whether I
was going to the northward or southward. This question was
astonishing, and the more so when I assure you, he never opened
his lips to me on the subject of the squadron or of our Mediter-
ranean affairs.

I think I can, with truth say, it was never intended that I

should proceed on the command in question, if it could be decently

avoided, and at the same time the appearance kept up. I shall

make a visit of a few days to Colonel Parker, and proceed home.

I am, dear Sir,

Your very obedient humble servant,

Thomas Truxtun.

TRUXTUN TO HAMILTON.

Norfolk, 26th March, 1802.

Dear Sir:

As an officer sacrificed by party spirit, and in the hope of a
favorable change in the affairs of our once free and happy coun-

534 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 45.

try, I think it a duty to address you as one of the remaining
honest political fathers of it.

The present administration finding, as I verily believe, that
it was not possible to succeed in bringing me over to prostitute
my principles by forsaking the federal cause, and becoming a
proselyte to their infernal doctrines and their measures, which
will ere long destroy in toto the Constitution of our country,
have adopted a scheme to compel me to quit the navy. The art
with which this project was arranged, could not have been sur-
passed by any pettifogging lawyer in the United States, of talents
superior to the actor (Mr. Secretary Smith) in the undertaking.
But it was not for me at this period of my life, independent in
my mind and fortune of public favor, to suffer any thing degrad-
ing to my honor by the sect, in violation of an agreement made
with me previous to my leaving Washington for this borough, to
take command of the squadron destined for the Mediterranean
station. Early on my arrival here, I discovered the whole plan,
and the cause of it, and my embarrassments were great, lest on
quitting the service many of my federal friends, not knowing the
real cause, should consider me blamable ; but on reflection, and
mature reflection, I considered that an honest representation of
facts would reconcile them to my determination, especially as
there was no alternative left but to quit the service or to show a
meanness of spirit which I despise, and would not do to be pos-
sessed of the President's palace, with all his equipage, power and
consequence.

Believing, as I did, that the sect viewed me with a jealous
eye, I carried on much of my correspondence with the Secretary
of the Navy, through Mr. Stoddart (the late Secretary of that
department), and he will do me the justice to say, that I declared,
before I left my home in New Jersey, and after I had journeyed
on as far as Philadelphia, that I would not proceed without a
captain under me (as Commodore Dale has), or if that grade of
officer was inconvenient to furnish, on account of the few cap-
tains retained in service in consequence of the act of Congress
of 1801, a lieutenant-commandant to supply the place of a cap-
tain ; and, on my arrival at Washington, Mr. Smith furnished

jet. 45.) correspondence. 535

me with a list of officers ordered to my ship (the Chesapeake),
headed by Captain Campbell, which list is now before me. But
some time after I arrived here, and had completed the equip-
ment of the ship, I received a letter from the Secretary, stating
that Captain Campbell, from some accident, could not, or would
not, be able to go ; and, although I had gone through the fatigue
of preparing the ship for the expedition, with only two very
young lieutenants (all that was sent me), I was directed to make
another lieutenant from the inexperienced midshipmen on board,
none of which had been more than a voyage or two at sea. This
order I could not comply with, nor would the ship have been
safe in a common squall, when I was at any time off deck, with
officers in charge thereon so very destitute of nautical informa-
tion. This circumstance only admitted, how much more so would
the risk of the honor of our flag have been in battle, especially
if any accident happened to the commanding officer ?

But, sir, Messrs. Jefferson, Gallatin, Smith and Co., knew
full well I would not submit to this state of things ; and it was,
in my belief, their plan to get rid of me. They can never for-
give me for having taken and beaten Frenchmen. I have com-
mitted a dreadful crime for having spilt French blood in the
execution of performing faithfully my duty ; and I shall be for
ever held up at their caucuses as undeserving of any honors from
their party ; and the ungrateful and ungracious manner, with
the countenance shown by Mr. Jefferson when he presented
me with the medal, was a convincing proof that, while he
executed the law in doing it, he felt as much rancor as he did
(when Vice-President) at signing the late Judiciary bill as Presi-
dent of the Senate. When I have the honor to see you, I will
detail further the conduct of the administration in my case ; till
then, I trust that my friends will stand convinced that I have
only acted as an officer ought to act for his own honor, and for
the honor and good of his country. For it would have been
running, as I have stated, every risk to have proceeded in the
service directed in the manner it was intended to dispatch me, if
it ever was intended to dispatch me.

I have the honor to be, &c,

Thomas Truxtun.

536 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 45.

HAMILTON TO MORRIS.

New-York, April 6th, 1802.

Amidst the humiliating circumstances which attend our
country, all the sound part of the community must find cause of
triumph in the brilliant display of talents which have been em-
ployed, though without success, in resisting the follies of an infat-
uated administration ; and your personal friends will not have
much reason for mortification on account of the part you have
performed in the interesting scene. But, my dear sir, we must
not content ourselves with a temporary effort to oppose the ap-
proach of evil. We must derive instruction from the experience
before us; and learning to form a just estimate of the things to
which we have been attached, there must be a systematic and
persevering endeavor to establish the fortune of a great empire
on foundations much firmer than have yet been devised. What
will signify a vibration of power, if it cannot be used with confi-
dence or energy, and must be again quickly restored to hands
which will prostrate, much faster than we shall be able to rear,
under so frail a system ? Nothing will be done, until the struc-
ture of our national edifice shall be such as naturally to control
eccentric passions and views, and to keep in check demagogues
and knaves in the disguise of patriots. Yet, I fear a different
reasoning will prevail, and an eagerness to recover lost power
will betray us into expedients which will be injurious to the
country, and disgraceful and ruinous to ourselves. What meant
the apparition and the toast which made part of the after-piece of
the birthday festival? Is it possible that some new intrigue is
about to link the federalists with a man who can never be any
thing else than the bane of a good cause? I dread more from
this than from all the contrivances of the bloated and senseless
junto of Virginia.

The federalists and anti-federalists of this State united in cer-
tain amendments to the Constitution now before your House,
having for objects, 1st, to discriminate the candidates for the
Presidency and Vice-Presidency ; 2d, to have the electors of these

J5T.4SJ] CORRESPONDENCE. 537

officers chosen by the people, in districts, under the direction of
Congress. Both these appear to me points of importance in true
federal calculation. Surely the scene of last session ought to
teach us the intrinsic demerits of the existing plan. It proved to
us, how possible it is for a man in whom no party had confidence,
and who deserves the confidence of none, by mere intrigue and
accident, to acquire the first place in the government of our na-
tion ; and it also proves to us, how serious a danger of convul-
sion and disorder is incident to the plan. On this point, things
have come to my knowledge improper for a letter, which would
astonish you. Surely, we ought by this time to have learnt, that
whatever multiplies the opportunities and means of cabal, is more
favorable to our adversaries than to us. They have certainly the
advantage in the game, by greater zeal, activity, and subtlety ;
and especially by an abandonment of principle. On all these ac-
counts, it is our true policy to abridge the facilities to cabal, as
much as possible, in all our public institutions and measures. As
to the second of the amendments, it has ever appeared to me as
sound principle to let the federal government rest, as much as
possible, on the shoulders of the people, and as little as possible on
those of the State legislatures. The proposition accords with this
principle ; and, in my view, it is farther recommended by its ten-
dency to exclude combination, which, I am persuaded, in the gen-
eral and permanent course of things, will operate more against
than for us. Colonel Burr, without doubt, will resist these
amendments ; and he may induce some of our friends to play into
his hands; but this will be a very bad calculation, even admit-
ting the inadmissible idea, that he ought to be adopted as a chief
of the federal party. We never can have him fairly in our power,
till we render his situation absolutely hopeless with his old
friends. While the indiscriminate voting prevails, he will find it
his interest to play fast and loose, and to keep himself in a state
to be at the head of the anti-federal party. If these hopes are
cut off, he will immediately set about forming a third party, of
which he will be at the head ; and then, if we think it worth the
while, we can purchase him with his flying squadrons.

These observations are, of course, hypothetical : for, to my

538 HAMILTON'S WORKS [Mr. 45.

mind, the elevation of Mr. Burr, by federal means, to the chief
magistracy of the United States, will be the worst kind of politi-
cal suicide. Adieu, my dear Sir,

Yours very sincerely, &c.

KING TO HAMILTON.

London, April 8th, 1802.

Dear Sir:

By Dr. Romayne I send you a pamphlet lately written upon
the interesting subject of the public credit of this country. The
author is a member of Parliament, an old and practical banker
— brother to the President of the Bank of England, and for
many years much conversant with the great money operations of
the country. When you have read it, I ask the favor of you to
send it, together with the other pamphlet respecting the sugar
colonies, to our friend Mr. George Cabot.

I do not enter upon the situation of Europe since the peace.
It would be too long a labor to do so. While the war lasted,
constant and endless occasions presented themselves to employ
myself here in the benefit of our countrymen, and I flatter my-
self for the public advantage.

The revision of our commercial treaty has been a service,
to which I have all along looked as the conclusion of my mis-
sion. As, however, I have no reason to suppose it likely soon
to take place, I am not much inclined to remain here a mere
figurant, and I am therefore seriously thinking of my return.
Without deciding any thing on this point, I confidentially ask
your opinion respecting it. This I have not done except in the
present instance.

Very faithfully, &c.

Before returning, I am desirous to pass a few months upon
the continent.

Mr. 45.] CORRESPONDENCE. ^39

BAYARD TO HAMILTON.

Washington, April 12th, 1802.

My Dear Sir:

The apprehensions you appear to entertain of the effect of
the intrigues of a certain person, if you will take my word for it,
are wholly without ground.

In fact, little has been attempted and nothing accomplished.
I answer only for the time present, because I believe the gentle-
man is waiting to see the result of the new state of things more
completely developed before he decides upon the course he will
pursue. The apparition in the afterpiece was not unexpected, but
the toast was.

An intimation was given, that, if he was sensible of no im-
propriety in being our guest upon the occasion, his company
would be very acceptable ; our calculation was that he had less
chance of gaining than losing by accepting the invitation. We
knew the impression which the coincidence of circumstances
would make upon a certain great personage, how readily that
impression would be communicated to the proud and aspiring
lords of the Ancient Dominion, and we have not been mistaken
as to the jealousy we expected it would excite through the
party.

Be assured, the apparition was much less frightful to those
who saw it, than to many who heard of the place where it ap-
peared. The toast was indiscreet, and extremely well calculated
to answer our views. It will not be an easy task to impose
upon the federalists here, united and communicative as they are
at present ; and you may rely, that no eagerness to recover lost
power will betray them into any doctrines or compromises, re-
pugnant or dangerous to their former principles. We shall pro-
bably pay more attention to public opinion than we have here-
tofore done, and take more pains, not merely to do right things,
but to do them in an acceptable manner. I perfectly agree in
opinion with you as to the propriety of the proposed amend-
ments to the Constitution. They are recommended strongly by

540 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 45.

both reason and experience. You have seen the patchwork of-
fered to us as a new judicial system. The whole is designed to
cover one object, which the party consider it necessary to accom-
plish— the postponement of the next session of the Supreme
Court to February following. They mean to give to the repeal-
ing act its full effect, before the judges of the Supreme Court are
allowed to assemble. Have you thought of the steps which our
party ought to pursue on this subject ? There will be a meet-
ing to concert an uniform plan of acting or acquiescing before
Congress adjourns, to be recommended in the manner which
shall be thought advisable.

We beg your opinion. You know the value we set upon it,
and the influence it will have on our determination.

A joint committee of the two houses have agreed upon Mon-
day the 26th of the present month, as the day of adjournment.

Yours, &c.

HAMILTON TO BAYARD.

New-York, April, 1802.

My Dear Sir :

Your letter of the 12th instant has relieved me from some
apprehension. Yet it is well that it should be perfectly under-
stood by the truly sound part of the federalists, that there do in
fact exist intrigues in good earnest between several individuals
not unimportant, of the federal party, and the person in ques-
tion, which are bottomed upon motives and views by no means
auspicious to the real welfare of the country. I am glad to find
that it is in contemplation to adopt a plan of conduct. It is very
necessary ; and, to be useful, it must be efficient and comprehen-
sive in the means which it embraces, at the same time that it
must meditate none which are not really constitutional and
patriotic. I will comply with your invitation by submitting
some ideas which, from time to time, have passed through my
mind. Nothing is more fallacious than to expect to produce any

Mt. 46.] CORRESPONDENCE. 541

valuable or permanent results in political projects, by relying
merely on the reason of men. Men are rather reasoning than
reasonable animals, for the most part governed by the impulse of
passion. This is a truth well understood by our adversaries, who
have practised upon it with no small benefit to their cause ; for
at the very moment they are eulogizing the reason of men, and
professing to appeal only to that faculty, they are courting the
strongest and most active passion of the human heart, vanity !
It is no less true, that the federalists seem not to have attended
to the fact sufficiently ; and that they erred in relying so much
on the rectitude and utility of their measures as to have neglect-
ed the cultivation of popular favor, by fair and justifiable
expedients. The observation has been repeatedly made by me
to individuals with whom I particularly conversed, and expedi-
ents suggested, for gaining good will, which were never adopted.
Unluckily, however, for us, in the competition for the passions
of the people, our opponents have great advantages over us ;
for the plain reason that the vicious are far more active than the
good passions ; and that, to win the latter to our side, we must
renounce our principles and our objects, and unite in corrupting
public opinion, till it becomes fit for nothing but mischief. Yet,
unless we can contrive to take hold 0/, and carry along with us
some strong feelings of the mind, we shall in vain calculate upon
any substantial or durable results. Whatever plan we may
adopt, to be successful, must be founded on the truth of this pro-
position. And perhaps it is not very easy for us to give it full
effects ; epecially not without some deviations from what, on other
occasions, we have maintained to be right. But in determining
upon the propriety of the deviations, we must consider whether
it be possible for us to succeed, without, in some degree, em-
ploying the weapons which have been employed against us, and
whether the actual state, and future prospect of things, be not
such as to justify the reciprocal use of them. I need not tell
you that I do not mean to countenance the imitation of things
intrinsically unworthy, but only of such as may be denominated
irregular ; sucb as, in a sound and stable order of things, ought
not to exist. Neither are you to infer that any revolutionary

542 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 45.

result is contemplated. In my opinion, the present Constitution
is the standard to which we are to cling. Under its banners,
bona fide, must we combat our political foes, rejecting all changes
but through the channel itself provides for amendments. By
these general views of the subject, have my reflections been
guided. I now offer you the outline of the plan which they
have suggested. Let an association be formed to be denomina-
ted " The Christian Constitutional Society." Its objects to be,

1st. The support of the Christian religion.

2d. The support of the Constitution of the United States.

Its organization.

1st. A council, consisting of a president and twelve members,
of whom four and the president to be a quorum.

2d. A sub-directing council in each State, consisting of a
vice-president and twelve members, of whom four, with the vice-
president, to be a quorum ; and 3d, as many branches in each
State as local circumstances may permit to be formed by the sub-
directing council.

The meeting at Washington to nominate the president and
vice, together with four members of each of the councils, who
are to complete their own numbers respectively.

Its means.

1st. The diffusion of information. For this purpose not only
the newspapers but pamphlets must be largely employed ; and to
do this a fund must be created ; five dollars annually, for eight
years, to be contributed by each member who can really afford
it (taking care not to burthen the less able brethren), may afford
a competent fund for a competent term. It is essential to be
able to disseminate gratis useful publications. Wherever it can
be done, and there is a press, clubs should be formed, to meet
once a week, read the newspapers, and prepare essays, para-
graphs, &c.

2d. The use of all lawful means in concert to promote the
election of Jit men ; a lively correspondence must be kept up be-
tween the different societies.

JEt. 45.] CORRESPONDENCE. 543

3d. The promoting of institutions of a charitable and useful
nature in the management of federalists. The populous cities
ought particularly to be attended to ; perhaps it would be well
to institute in such places — 1st, societies for the relief of emi-
grants ; 2d, academies, each with one professor, for instructing
the different classes of mechanics in the principles of mechanics
and the elements of chemistry. The cities have been employed
by the Jacobins to give an impulse to the country ; and it is be-
lieved to be an alarming fact, that while the question of Presi-
dential election was pending in the House of Representatives,
parties were organizing in several of the cities in the event of
there being no election, to cut off the leading federalists and seize
the government.

The foregoing to be the principal engine, and in addition, let
measures be adopted to bring as soon as possible the repeal of
the Judiciary law before the Supreme Court ; afterwards, if not
before, let as many legislatures as can be prevailed upon, instruct
their Senators to endeavor to procure a repeal of the repealing
law. The body of New England, speaking the same language,
will give a powerful impulse. In Congress our friends to propose
little, to agree cordially to all good measures, and to resist and ex-
pose all bad. This is a general sketch of what has occurred to me.
It is at the service of my friends for so much as it may be worth.
With true esteem and regard, dear Sir, yours, &c.

BAYARD TO HAMILTON".

Washington, 25th April, 1802.

Dear Sir :

I have considered with a great deal of attention the project
recommended in your last letter, of connected associations in the
different States, for the support of our Constitution and religion.
The plan is marked with great ingenuity, but I am not inclined
to think that it is applicable to the state of things in this coun-
try. Such an association must be bottomed upon a stronger and

544 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 45.

more active principle than reason, or even a sense of common
interest, to render it successful. There is more material for such
an association upon the other side than upon ours. We have
the greater number of political calculators, and they of political
fanatics.

An attempt at association, organized into clubs, on the part
of the federalists, would revive at housand jealousies and suspi-
cions which now begin to slumber.

Let us not be too impatient, and our adversaries will soon de-
monstrate to the world the soundness of our doctrines, and the
imbecility and folly of their own. Without any exertion upon
our part, in the course of two or three years they will render
every honest man in the country our proselyte.

A degree of agitation and vibration of opinion must for ever
prevail under a government so free as that of the United States.
Under such a government, in the nature of things, it is impossible
to fix public opinion. It is still left to the exertions of good men
to prevent infinite evils, to which the country is exposed from
the selfish and ambitious intrigues of demagogues.

The President's party in Congress is much weaker than you
would be led to judge from the printed state of votes. Here we
plainly discern that there is no confidence, nor the smallest at-
tachment prevails among them.

The spirit which existed at the beginning of the session is en-
tirely dissipated : a more rapid and radical change could not
have been anticipated.

An occasion is only wanting for Virginia to find herself
abandoned by all her auxiliaries, and she would be abandoned
upon the ground of her inimical principles to an efficient federal
government.

Upon the subject of the judiciary, I have had an opportu-
nity of learning the opinions of the Chief Justice. He considers
the late repealing act as operative in depriving the judges of all
power derived under the act repealed.

The office still remains, which he holds to be a mere capacity,
without a new appointment, to receive and exercise any new ju-
dicial powers which the legislature may confer. It has been

JEt. 45.] CORRESPONDENCE. 545

considered here as the most advisable course for the circuit courts
to pursue, will be at the end of their ensuing session to adjourn
generally, and to leave what remains to be done to the Supreme
Court.

PINCKNEY TO HAMILTON.

Charleston, May 3d, 1802.

Dear Sir:

I was in Georgia when your favor of the 15th of March ar-
rived in Charleston, and when I received it it was too late to set
out for Washington, to be there at the time mentioned, even if I
had been prepared for such a jaunt. I agree entirely with you
in your sentiments of the act repealing the act of the last session
for the better organization of the judiciary department; but it
was natural to expect that persons who have been always hostile
to the constitution, would, when they had power, endeavor to de-
stroy a work whose adoption they opposed, and whose execution
they have constantly counteracted. But I do not imagine they
will stop here. They will proceed in their mad and wicked
career, and the people's eyes will be opened. If you have been
able to effect a meeting, I should be glad to hear of the result.
I did not write to General Davie, as I knew he had lately met
with a loss in his family, which would prevent his being with
you, even if he had time.

Be so obliging as to acquaint the editor of the Herald 'that
none of his South Carolina subscribers have received more than
three parcels of papers from him. If he was regular in the
transmitting of them, I am sure he would receive encouragement
in this State ; but the irregularity and negligence of the persons
who put them up will occasion most of those who now subscribe
to withdraw their names another year. From Boston, Philadel-
phia, and Washington, I get the papers punctually. I am obliged
F 35

546 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 45.

to you for making me acquainted with Prince Kuspole. I found
him well informed. He sails for Europe to-morrow.
I am always your affectionate friend,

Chaeles Cotesworth Pinceney.

HAMILTON TO KING.

New-York, June 3, 1802.

My Dear Sir:

I have been long very delinquent towards you as a corres-
pondent, and am to thank you that you have not cast me off
altogether as an irretrievable reprobate. But you know how to
appreciate the causes, and you have made a construction equally
just and indulgent.

In your last you ask my opinion about a matter delicate and
important, both in a public and in a personal view. I shall give
it with the frankness to which you have a right, and I may add
that the impressions of your other friends, so far as they have
fallen under my observation, do not differ from my own. While
you were in the midst of a negotiation interesting to your coun-
try, it was your duty to keep your post. You have now accom-
plished the object, and with the good fortune, not very common,
of having the universal plaudit. This done, it seems to me most
advisable that you return home. There is little probability that
your continuance in your present station will be productive of
much positive good. Nor are circumstances such as to give
reason to apprehend that the substitute for you, whoever he may
be, can do much harm. Your stay or return, therefore, as it
regards our transatlantic concerns, is probably not material,
while your presence at home may be useful in ways which it is
not necessary to particularize. Besides, it is questionable whether
you can long continue in the service of the present administra-
tion, consistently with what is due as well to your own char-
acter as to the common cause. I am far from thinking that a

JEt. 45.] CORRESPONDENCE. 547

man is bound to quit a public office, merely because the adminis-
tration of the government may have changed hands. But when
those who have come into power are undisguised persecutors of the
party to which he has been attached, and study with ostentation
to heap upon it every indignity and injury — he ought not, in my
opinion, to permit himself to be made an exception, or to lend
his talents to the support of such characters. If, in addition to
this, it be true that the principles and plans of the men at the
head of affairs tend to the degradation of the government, and to
their own disgrace, it will hardly be possible to be in any way
connected with them without sharing in the disrepute which they
may be destined to experience.

I wish I had time to give you a comprehensive and particular
map of our political situation ; but more than a rude outline is
beyond my leisure, devoted as I am more than ever to my profes-
sional pursuits.

You have seen the course of the administration hitherto,
especially during the last session of Congress ; and I am per-
suaded you will agree with me in opinion, that it could hardly
have been more diligent in mischief. What, you will ask, has
been and is likely to be the effect on the public mind ?

Our friends are sanguine that a great change for the better
has been wrought and is progressive. I suppose good has been
done — that the federalists have been reunited and cemented;
have been awakened, alarmed. Perhaps, too, there may be some
sensible and moderate men of the opposite party who are begin-
ning to doubt. But I as yet discover no satisfactory symptoms
of a revolution of opinion in the mass — " informe ingens cui
lumen ademptum." Nor do I look with much expectation to
any serious alteration until inconveniences are extensively felt,
or until time has produced a disposition to coquet it with new
lovers. Vibrations of power, you are aware, are of the genius
of our government.

There is, however, a circumstance which may accelerate the
fall of the present party. There is certainly a most serious
schism between the chief and his heir-apparent ; a schism abso-
lutely incurable, because founded in the hearts of both, in the

£48 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEr. 45.

rivalship of an insatiable and unprincipled ambition. The effects
are already apparent, and are ripening into a more bitter ani-
mosity between the partisans of the two men, than ever existed
between the federalists and anti-federalists.

Unluckily, we are not as neutral to this quarrel as we ought
to be. You saw, however, how far our friends in Congress went
in polluting themselves with the support of the second personage
for the Presidency. The cabal did not terminate there. Several
men of no inconsiderable importance among us like the enter-
prising and adventurous character of this man, and hope to soar
with him to power. Many more, through hatred to the chief,
and through an impatience to recover the reins, are linking them-
selves to the new chief almost without perceiving it, and pro-
fessing to have no other object than to make use of him ; while
he knows that he is making use of them. What this may end
in, it is difficult to perceive.

Of one thing only I am sure, that in no event will I be directly
or indirectly implicated in a responsibility for the elevation or
support of either of two men who, in different senses, are in my
eyes equally unworthy 'of the confidence of intelligent or honest
men.

Truly, my dear sir, the prospects of our country are not bril-
liant. The mass is far from sound. At head quarters a most
visionary theory presides. Depend upon it, this is the fact to a
great extreme. No army, no navy, no active commerce ; national
defence, not by arms, but by embargoes, prohibitions of trade,
&c. ; as little government as possible within ; these are the per-
nicious dreams which, as far and as fast as possible, will be
attempted to be realized. Mr. Jefferson is distressed at the cod-
fish having latterly emigrated to the southern coast, lest the
people there should be tempted to catch them, and commerce, of
which we have already too much, receive an accession. Be
assured this is no pleasantry, but a very sober anecdote.

Among federalists old errors are not cured. They also con-
tinue to dream, though not quite so preposterously as their op-
ponents. All will be very well (say they) when the power once
gets back into federal hands. The people, convinced by experi-

JEt. 45.] CORRESPONDENCE. 549

ence of their error, will repose a permanent confidence in good
men. Risum teneatis? Adieu.

Yours ever,

A. Hamilton.

HAMILTON TO WOLCOTT.

Grange, August 14, 1802.

My Dear Sir:

When you were last in town, I proposed to communicate to
jou the outline of a project, by which I think you may enter
upon a career of business beneficial to yourself and friends. My
almost constant attendance at court ever since you were here, has
retarded the communication which I shall now make.

Let a commercial capital be found, to consist of 100,000 dol-
lars, divided into shares of $100 each. A subscriber to pay in
cash one-tenth of his subscription, and for the residue 7 per centum
per annum. It will then be his interest to pay up as soon as
he can.

The subscribers to form a partnership, under the firm of
Oliver Wolcott & Co. ; Oliver Wolcott alone to have the signa-
ture of the firm, and the active management of the affairs of the
company, with an allowance of $1500 per annum out of the
profits for the trouble of management, besides his share of profits
as a partner.

Oliver Wolcott and two others of the partners to form a
board of direction, to plan, &c.

Clerks and all incidental expenses to be paid out of the fund.

The objects of the company.

1. Agencies for purchase and sales of lands, stocks, &c.

2. Factorage of cargoes, consigned on commission ; purchases
of goods on commission, &c. ; in brief, "the business of a com-
mission merchant merely."

3. Purchases at auction, and sales of the articles purchased.

550 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 45-

4. Loans of money on deposit of goods, with a right, if not
redeemed in time, to sell on commission, perhaps.

Speculative enterprises in navigation and commerce to be ex-
cluded.

In a company thus formed under your management, I should
be willing to become a partner for from 5 to 10,000 dollars, and
I have no doubt that the capital will be readily formed of confi-
dential and trust-worthy characters, who would insure great
credit to the house. I am also confident, that when it should be
known in Europe that certain characters were of the company,
it would attract a good portion of*profitable employment.

I will enter into no farther detail. If the project impresses
you favorably, come to New- York, and we will give it form, and
finish and prepare for the execution. Do not lightly reject it.
Yours, very truly, &c.

HAMILTON TO MORRIS.

Grange, September 4th, 1802.

My Dear Sir:

I fully intended to have dined with you to-day, but, going to
town the two last days, and forgetting that I ought to observe a
regimen, I have brought back, in some degree, the complaint
which lately annoyed me, and which requires to be well watched.
This must deprive me of the pleasure of seeing you.

I send schedules of the papers required of Tillier, all which
have been put into my hands ; the bills to remain till the close
of the affair ; the other documents to be delivered to your
order.

I also send a draught of the trust deed. It endeavors to
comply with your suggestion, as far as can be done without run-
ning foul of the danger desired to be avoided.

Your guests are invited to dine with us Thursday next.
"Will you make one ?

JEt. 45.] CORRESPONDENCE. 551

HAMILTON TO GEN. C. C. PINCKNEY.

Grange (New- York), Dec. 29, 1802.

My Dear Sir :

A garden, you know, is a very usual refuge of a disappointed
politician. Accordingly, I have purchased a few acres about
nine miles from town, have built a house, and am cultivating a
garden. The melons in your country are very fine. Will you
have the goodness to send me some seed, both of the water and
musk melons? My daughter •adds another request, which is for
three or four of your paroquets. She is very fond of birds. If
there be any thing in this quarter, the sending of which can give
you pleasure, you have only to name them. As farmers, a new
source of sympathy has arisen between us, and I am pleased
with every thing in which our likings and tastes can be approx-
imated. Amidst the triumphant reign of democracy, do you
retain sufficient interest in public affairs to feel any curiosity
about what is going on ? In my opinion, the follies and vices of
the administration have as yet made no material impression to
their disadvantage. On the contrary, I think the malady is
rather progressive than upon the decline, in our northern quar-
ter. The last lullaby message, instead of inspiring contempt,
attracts praise. Mankind are for ever destined to be the dupes
of bold or cunning imposture. But a difficult knot has been
twisted by the incidents of the cession of Louisiana, and the in-
terruption of the deposit of New Orleans. You have seen the
soft tuj-n given to this in the message. Yet we are told that the
President, in conversation, is very stout. The great embarrass-
ment must be how to carry on the war without taxes. The
pretty scheme of substituting economy to taxation will not do
here. And a war would be a terrible comment upon the aban-
donment of the internal revenue. Yet how is popularity to be
preserved with the western partisans, if their interests are tamely
sacrificed ? Will the artifice be for the chief to hold a bold lan-
guage, and the subalterns to act a feeble part? Time must
explain. You know my general theory as to our western affairs.

552 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 46.

I have always held that the unity of our Empire, and the best
interests of our nation, require that we shall annex to the United
States all the territory east of the Mississippi, New Orleans
included. Of course I infer that, on an emergency like the pre-
sent, energy is wisdom.

Adieu, my dear Sir.

Ever yours, &c.

Mrs. Hamilton joins me in affectionate compliments to Mrs.
Pinckney.

SEDGWICK TO HAMILTON.

Stockbridge, January 27th, 1803.

Dear Sir:

This will be handed to you by a Mr. Thomas Fitch, and at his
desire is addressed to his care. He wishes for the honor of being
known to you, and he hopes for the aid of your patronage in the
pursuit of some object of which I have no distinct knowledge. He
is of an obscure, though reputable family in this neighborhood.
The President of the College where he was educated, a good and
respectable man, has spoken to me of his talents and acquire-
ments in terms above the degree which could be expressed by
the epithet decent, and of his moral character as perfectly pure.

I regret exceedingly that I had not the pleasure to see you
here last autumn. There is not a man on earth, whose company
would have given me more pleasure. Of this enough, because
you know the fact to be so without my affirmation.

What think you of democracy ? Will it not progress suc-
cessfully until its evils are felt \ For myself, I have no doubt
that it will. Even in this State, great sacrifices are made to
popular passions and prejudices, and they are deemed necessary
to retain the powers of our government in federal hands. There
is one consolation under all the humiliation which we endure
from a sense of the degradation of our national character. This

,Et. 46.] CORRESPONDENCE. 553

state of things cannot long exist. The disorganization which is
the inevitable effect of the enfeebling policy of democracy will
produce such intolerable evils as will necessarily destroy their
cause. All that good and enlightened men can hope is to be in
such a state as that their talents and experience at that period
may be applied to the public benefit. For that purpose, union
of conduct and sympathy of sentiment ought now to be cultiva-
ted. This is of the utmost importance, that the conduct of certain
men should be constantly regulated by these important consider-
ations. Hence it was I was pleased with the idea which you
suggested, when I first had the pleasure of seeing you, of a
confidential meeting, and I have very much regretted that it did
not take place.

It is very important that the federalists should retain and
acquire the possession of the State governments wherever in
their power. For this reason, and indeed for many others, I am
glad Mr. King is about to return home. With wisdom and pru-
dence, I think it is probable that he may be placed at the head of
the government of New- York. He may there do infinitely more
good than in the inefficient office of Vice-President. General
Pinckney must in all events be considered as our candidate for
the first office. I have been inexpressibly disgusted with some
of our friends who have suggested that we ought to consider
him only as designed for the second. There is, however, anoth-
er consideration on the subject which ought to be considered as
conclusive. We shall most certainly not succeed at the next
election, nor is it, in my mind, desirable that we should. Should
Mr. King be holden up for this office, it would lessen at
least the probability of his success for the government of New-
York.

There seems to me an inexcusable indolence or a want of
ability among our friends at Washington. The public interest
has been shamefully neglected, or profligately sacrificed in the
affairs of Louisiana, the compromise with Georgia, and in the at-
tempt made to break down our system of navigation. These
subjects either are not understood, or there is a criminal inatten-
tion to them.

554 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 46.

Next week I go to Boston, where I wish you would have
the goodness to address a letter to me. Present my sincere re-
gards to Mrs. Hamilton, and believe me, as I truly am, your
friend.

PINCKNEY TO HAMILTON.

Charleston, March 6th, 1803.

My Dear Sir:

I wrote you a few lines yesterday, and sent you some water-
melon seeds and musk-melon seeds by the brig Charleston Pack-
et, which sails this morning. I formerly sent some to Mrs.
Washington, at Mount Vernon, but she told me they did not
answer so well as some she got in the neighborhood ; perhaps
had she planted the seeds from the melons which were produced
from the Carolina seed the subsequent year, they would have
adapted themselves to the climate and produced good fruit. It
was by this means we obtained our fine cotton, which has been
of such advantage to our State. The first year it produced but
three or four pods ; by planting the seed of these pods the
second year, they produced thirty ; and by following the same
method, the third year they were thoroughly naturalized, and bore
from one hundred and fifty to two hundred pods. I will also
send you by the Industry a few seeds of the salvia cocinea, or
scarlet sage, which I believe you have not with you, and of the
erythrina herbacea, or coral shrub ; also a few seeds of the Indian
creeper, and some of a beautiful purple convolvulus.

I will endeavor to obtain some paroquets for Miss Hamilton.
I have not seen any for some years; ours are the large kind, by
no means equal in beauty to the small African species.

Does there not appear to be a great want of nerve and en-
ergy in the measures our rulers are adopting ? They are not
calculated to avoid war, and we shall have to encounter it in a
shameful state of unpreparedness. Yet such is the infatuation

Mr. 46.]

CORRESPONDENCE. 555

of the people, that anti-federalism certainly gains ground in this
State, which can only exist by a strong union and firm govern-
ment.

LA FAYETTE TO HAMILTON".

Paris, Germinal the 10th, 11th year.

My Dear Hamilton:

I would like by this opportunity to write you a long letter,
but having been lying on my back for two months past, and
being three weeks to come doomed to the same situation, I
must confine myself to a few lines written near my bed. The
particulars of the accident, and his cure, will be given to you by
General Bernadotte, whom I must particularly introduce, and his
lady, to Mrs. Hamilton and you. Politics I will not dwell upon.
My sentiments are so well known to you, that it were superflu-
ous to say what I think of Senatus-Consulta at home, and set-
tling colonies in North America; yet I hope this late affair may
still be arranged to mutual satisfaction, and I am sure nobody
could have better personal dispositions than my friend General
Bernadotte, who, to those high and brilliant abilities which have
so much contributed to the triumph of the French arms, joins
one of the most civic, generous, and candid hearts it is possible
to meet with. I know he sets a great value by the approbation
of the citizens of America, and is particularly desirous of your
acquaintance, and properly sensible of its advantages. I have
seen in the papers a letter from you relative to the transactions
at our York Town redoubt, in which I have found my friend
Hamilton's whole character, and the more pleased I have been
to receive it; as the attack had been some time known to me,
but on the proposal of some friends to write to you, I had an-
swered, you were on the spot, and would know better what was
best for me to be done. Adieu, my dear friend ; my best re-
spects to Mrs. Hamilton. Eemember me to our friends. I know

556 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 46.

you are most friendly interested in my private concerns, and
have ever depended upon it.

Most affectionately I am your constant friend,

La Fayette.

WALSTERSTORFF TO HAMILTON.

St. Croix, April 20th, 1803.

Dear General :

When I received your favor of the 5th August, I certainly
•did not think I should postpone so long answering it, and return-
ing you my thanks for this proof of your kind remembrance. I
shall offer you no apology for it, because there is none that would
be satisfactory to myself. I beg you only to be assured, dear
general, that there is not a character in America for whom I feel
a greater regard and respect than that of General Hamilton, whose
talents will no doubt soon again be called into action to the honor
and advantage of his country. * * *

You would oblige me very much by sending our friend, Dr.
Stevens, a copy of Camillus' letters, and of your later productions;
the only copj' of Camillus' letters which I had, I once lent to the
late Count Bernstorff, who begged of me to let him keep it in his
library as a Classical work — these were his expressions.

Accept my sincerest wishes for your happiness and that of
your family, and believe me to be, with the greatest regard and
the sincerest attachment, &c.

HAMILTON TO PICKERING.

New-York, Sept. 18th, 1803.

My Dear Sir:

I will make no apology for my delay in answering your in-
quiry, some time since made, because I could offer none which

jEt. 46.] CORRESPONDENCE. 557

would satisfy myself. I pray you only to believe that it proceed-
ed from any thing rather than want of respect or regard. I shall
now comply with your request. The highest toned propositions
which I made in the convention, were for a President, Senate, and
Judges, during good behavior — a House of Eepresentatives for
three years. Though I would have enlarged the legislative power
of the general government, yet I never contemplated the aboli-
tion of the State governments ; but, on the contrary, they were, in
some particulars, constituent parts of my plan. This plan was,
in my conception, conformable with the strict theory of a govern-
ment purely republican ; the essential criteria of which are, that
the principal organs of the executive and legislative departments
be elected by the people, and hold their offices by a resjionsible
and temporary or defeasible tenure. A vote was taken on the pro-
position respecting the Executive. Five States were in favor of
it ; among these, Virginia ; and .though, from the manner of
voting by delegations, individuals were not distinguished, it was
morally certain, from the known situation of the Virginia mem-
bers (six in number, two of them, Mason and Bandoljj/t, professing
popular doctrines), that Madison must have concurred in the vote
of Virginia — thus, if I sinned against republicanism, Mr. Madison
was not less guilty. I may truly, then, say, that I never pro-
posed either a President or Senate for life, and that I neither
recommended nor meditated the annihilation of the State govern-
ments. And I may add, that in the course of the discussions in
the convention, neither the propositions thrown out for debate,
nor even those voted, in the earlier stages of the deliberation, were
considered as evidences of a definitive opinion in the proposer or
voter. It appeared to me to be in some sort understood, that
with a view to free investigation, experimental propositions might
be made, which were to be received merely as suggestions for
consideration. Accordingly, it is a fact, that my final opinion
was against an Executive during good behavior, on account of
the increased danger to the public tranquillity incident to the
election of a magistrate of this degree of permanency. In the
plan of a constitution which I drew up while the convention was
sitting, and which I communicated to Mr. Madison about the

558 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 46.

close of it, perhaps a day or two after, the office of President has
no greater duration than for three years. This plan was predi-
cated upon these bases : — 1. That the political principles of the
people of this country would endure nothing but republican gov-
ernment. 2. That in the actual situation of the country, it was
in itself right and proper that the republican theory should have
a fair and full trial. 3. That to such a trial it was essential, that
the government should be so constructed as to give all the en-
ergy and stability reconcilable with the principles of that theory.
These were the genuine sentiments of my heart, and upon
them I acted. I sincerely hope that it may not hereafter be dis-
covered, that, through want of sufficient attention to the last idea,
the experiment of republican government, even in this country,
has not been as complete, as satisfactory, and as decisive as could
be wished.

Yery truly, dear Sir, your friend and servant.

PICKERING TO HAMILTON".

City of Washington, October 18, 1803.

Dear Sir :

I hoped to have seen you on my way hither; but the dis-
tance at which you were from the place of crossing the Hudson,
and my engagements with my travelling companions, prevented.

I duly received your letter of September 16th, relative to the
propositions you made in the general convention. It was obvi-
ous that those, with the propositions of others, were presented
for consideration and discussion, to be adopted and rejected as a
sense of the public safety should require, and by no means as the
definitive opinions of the movers.

Dining in company with General Pinckney, as he passed
through Salem, in September, I was asked by one of the guests
some questions concerning the nature of the propositions you
made in the general convention. I referred the inquirer to the

Mr. 41.] CORRESPONDENCE. 559

general, who was a member. He answered, that you proposed
that the governors of the several States should be appointed by
the President of the United States, but that Mr. Madison moved,
and was seconded by his cousin Charles Pinckney, that all the
laws of the individual States should be subject to the negative
of the chief executive of the United States. The general added,
that he did not know which would be deemed the strongest
measure.

You will see in the newspapers the President's message, but
perhaps you may wish to have it in a more convenient form, and
I inclose it. If you desire to possess similar documents, which
shall be published in the course of the session, have the goodness
to let me know it ; and as any correspondence between us will be
liable to suspicions, be pleased to inform me how I shall make
any communications to you.

HAMILTON TO KING.

Albany, Fob. 24th, 1804.

My Dear Sir:

You will have heard before this reaches you of the fluctua-
tions and changes which have taken place in the measures of the
reigning party, as to a candidate for Governor ; and you will
probably have also been informed that, pursuant to the opinions
professed by our friends, before I left New-York I had taken an
active part in favor of Mr. Lansing.

It is a fact to be regretted, though anticipated, that the fed-
eralists very extensively had embarked with zeal in the support
of Mr. Burr; yet an impression to the contrary, and in favor of
Mr. Lansing, had been made, and there was good ground to hope
that a proper direction in the main might have been given to the
current of federalism. The substitution of Mr. Lewis has essen-
tially varied the prospect, and the best informed among us here
agree that the federalists, as a body, could not be diverted from

5G0 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 47.

Mr. Burr to Mr. Lewis, by any efforts of leading characters, if
they should even deem the support of the latter expedient.

Though I have no reason to think that my original calcula-
tion was wrong, while the competition was between Clinton and
Burr, yet from the moment the former declined, I began to con-
sider the latter as having a chance of success. It was still, how-
ever, my reliance that Lansing would outrun him ; but now that
Chief Justice Lewis is the competitor, the probability in my
judgment inclines to Mr. Burr.

Thus situated, two questions have arisen; first, whether a
federal candidate ought not to be run, as a means of supporting
Mr. Burr, and of keeping the federalists from becoming a per-
sonal faction allied to him. Second, whether, in the conflict of
parties as they now stand, the strongest of them disconcerted and
disjointed, there would not be a considerable hope of success for
a federal candidate.

These questions have received no solution in scarcely any
one's mind ; but it is agreed that, if an attempt is to be made,
you must be the candidate. There is no other man among us
under whose standard either fragment of the democratic party
could as easily rally. It is enough to say, you have been absent
during the time in which party animosities have become matured
and fixed, and, therefore, are much less than any other distin-
guished federalist, an object of them.

To detach the federalists from Burr, they must believe two
things : one, that we are in earnest as to our candidate, and that
it is not a mere diversion ; the other, that there is some chance
of success. All believe, and some leading candidates admit, that
if either of the two democratic rival parties should come to ex-
pect a defeat, they will range themselves under your banner.

Reflect well on all these things, and make up your mind in
case you should be invited to consent. I have not time to
enlarge.

Yours very truly, &c,

JEt. 46.] CORRESPONDENCE. 561

HAMILTON TO GOVERNOR CLINTON.

Albany, February 27, 1804.

Sir:

It is now a long time since a very odious slander has been in
circulation to the prejudice of my character.

It has come to my ears in more than one way, but always,
till lately, without the disclosure of any source to which I could
resort for explanation or detection. Within a few days, Mr.
Kane, of this city, related to me a story as coming from Judge
Purdy, in substance very similar to the calumny to which I have
alluded. The amount of his information, and the result of an
interview with Judge Purdy, are contained in the inclosed paper.
You will observe, sir, that your name is implicated in the trans-
action. AYith what warrant, it would be improper for me to pre-
judge. But the very mention of your name adds importance to
the affair, and increases the motives to investigation.

The charge, even in the mitigated form to which it is reduced
by Judge Purdy 's admission, is of a nature too derogatory to
permit me to pass it lightly over. It is essential that its origin
and progress should be traced as fully as may be practicable, in
order to the thorough exposure of its falsehood and malignity.

The assertions of Judge Purdy authorize me to appeal to you
for a frank and candid explanation of so much of the matter as
relates to yourself. This explanation I request as speedily as
may be.

CLINTON TO HAMILTON.

Albany, 29th Feb., 1804.

Sir:

This is the first moment's leisure I have had to answer your
letter of the 27th inst., which was handed to me yesterday. I
have carefully perused the paper it inclosed, under the signature
F 36

5G2 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 46.

of Mr. James Kane, and find the statement of the transaction
alluded to, as admitted by Judge Purdy, to be correct as far as
my name is implicated ; and I believe it contains, as reduced by
Judge Purdy, the substance of all the conversations that passed
between him and me on that subject. I recollect to have men-
tioned to him that I had seen the copy of a letter similar to the
one mentioned in the statement on or about the time the conven-
tion, which formed our federal constitution, was sitting. This
copy was put into my hands by the late General Malcolm, who
informed me he had received it from Connecticut. It was with-
out signature or direction.

I have the honor to be,

Your most obedient servant,

Geo. Clinton.

HAMILTON TO CLINTON.

Albany, March 2, 1804.

Sir:

If our correspondence does not terminate with your letter of
the 29th February, received yesterday, I wish it to be under-
stood that it proceeds merely from the desire of removing all
ambiguity from a transaction in which my character may be
materially interested.

It is perhaps the natural inference from what you have stated,
that nothing took place on your part to sanction or corroborate
the story related to you by Judge Purdy, in reference to any
agency or co-operation of mine in the supposed project. Yet
some of the circumstances are such, that a different inference
might possibly be drawn.

I therefore trust that you will be sensible of the propriety of
dissipating all obscurity on this point.

If the letter, which you mention to have been put into your
hands by General Malcolm, was not withdrawn by him, or if
any copy was retained by you, it would be satisfactory to me to

.l.T. 46.] CORRESPONDENCE. 563

have an inspectionof the one or the other, with leave to take a
copy, in order that I may have an additional clue to the source of
a story, which I verily believe originated entirely in a fabrication.
I have the honor to be,

Your Excellency's obedient servant, &c.

CLINTON TO HAMILTON.

Albany, March 6th, 1804.

Sir:

I have had the honor to receive your letter of the 2d instant.
I cannot conceive it possible that inferences can be drawn from
any circumstance attending the transaction alluded to, repugnant
to the explicit declarations in my letter to you of the 29th of last
month, without calling in question the truth of them, and this I
trust will not be attempted. It was not to be expected that I
could recollect, so as to repeat the precise words used in the con-
versation which Judge Purdy had with me, nor is it essential to
your inquiries, as they would throw no light on the subject.

With respect to the copy of the letter put into my hands by
General Malcolm, it is a circumstance of so old a date, that I
dare not venture positively to assert that I returned it to him •
but I believe I did; and what serves to confirm me in this
opinion, is my not being able to find it amongst my papers.
The contents of it, however, were so interesting, as to make a
strong and durable impression on my mind. It recommended a
government for the United States similar to that of Great Britain,
and to obviate the difficulties which might attend fixing on a
suitable character for a king, and to form an intimate connection
with that country, the prince, Bishop of Osnaburgh, was pro-
posed. The House of Lords was to be composed partly of the
British hereditary nobility, and partly of such of our own citizens
as should have most merit in bringing about the measure. The
House of Commons to be elected by the people. In considera-

564 HAMILTON'S WORKS.

[Mr. 46.

tion of this provision for one of the British royal family, Canada
was to be ceded to the United States, with a certain portion of
the British navy, and a perpetual treaty of alliance, offensive and
defensive, entered into between the two countries. The letter
was well written, and interspersed with much plausible reason-
ing, which I do not fully recollect, calculated to obviate any ob-
jections that might be raised against the measures it proposed,
and to show the advantages which would result from them.

The charge of having countenanced an attempt to establish a
monarchical government, however modified, in the United
States, I consider odious and disreputable, and I am pleased to
find that, however much we may differ on other political sub-
jects, we agree in sentiment as to this; and you may rest assured,
that should the copy of the letter alluded to be found amongst
my papers, or otherwise acquired by me, you shall have a copy
of it, with an opportunity of examining the original.

I am your most obedient servant.

HAMILTON TO CLINTON.

Albany, March 7th, 1804.

Sir:

On Saturday last I sent you a letter, of which the foregoing
is a copy, to which, as yet, I have received no reply.

Intending to leave this place for New-York on Saturday next,
it is important that I should receive an answer before that day.
I have the honor to be,

Your Excellency's obedient servant, &c.

Mt. 46.] CORRESPONDENCE. 565

HAMILTON TO CLINTON.

Albany, March 9, 1804.

Sir:

I had the honor of receiving yesterday, your excellency's let-
ter of the 6th instant. It is agreeable to me to find in it a con-
firmation of the inference that you had given no countenance
to the supposition of my agency or co-operation in the project
to which the story of Judge Purdy relates ; and it only remains
for me to regret, that it is not in your power to furnish the addi-
tional clue of which I was desirous, to aid me in tracing the fabri-
cation to its source.

I shall not only rely on the assurance which you give as to
the future communication of the copy of the letter in question,
should it hereafter come to your hands, but I will take the liberty
to add a request, that you will fce pleased to make known to me
any other circumstances, if any should reach, you, which may
serve to throw light upon the affair. I feel an anxiety that it
should be thoroughly sifted, not merely on my own account, but
from a conviction that the pretended existence of such a project,
long travelling about in whispers, has had no inconsiderable in-
fluence in exciting false alarms, and unjust suspicions, to the
prejudice of a number of individuals, every way worthy of pub-
lic confidence, who have always faithfully supported the existing
institutions of the country, and who would disdain to be con-
cerned in an intrigue with any foreign power, or its agents, either
for introducing monarchy, or for promoting or upholding any
other scheme of government within the United States.
I have the honor to be, &c.

566 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 46.

HAMILTON TO TALLEYRAND.

New-York, March 25, 1804.

Sir:

Presuming on the acquaintance, from which I derived much
pleasure during your stay in this country, I am going to take a
very great liberty. It concerns a near relation of mine, Mr.
Alexander Hamilton, now a prisoner of war on parole at Paris.

His brother, from whom I have just received a letter, informs
me that being on a visit to the continent, as a traveller, he was
overtaken by the war between France and Great Britain, and has
been since that time in the situation which I have mentioned.
He is a Scotch gentleman of education and literary acquirement,
who, having amassed a pretty handsome fortune in the East In-
dies, had returned to his own country to devote himself to the
pursuits of knowledge, and was induced to pass over to the con-
tinent to indulge his curiosity, with a particular eye to the very
interesting monuments of the arts, of which Paris is now the
depository.

I will ask nothing specific for him, because I know not what
could with propriety be done, contenting myself with merely
saying, that if your interposition can procure for him any facility,
indulgence, or favor, it will confer a personal obligation on one
who has the honor to

Eemain, with great respect.

HAMILTON TO

New-York, April 13th, 1804.

Dear Sir :

The post of to-day brought me a letter from you, and another

from Mr. . I have no doubt but that the latter would serve

you if he could, but he cannot at this time. On the whole, I

jEt. 46.] CORRESPONDENCE. 567

would advise you to return to New-York, and accept any re-
spectable employment in your way, till an opportunity of some-
thing better shall occur. 'Tis by patience and perseverance that
we can vanquish difficulties, and better our unpleasant condition.

Arraign not the dispensations of Providence. They must
be founded in wisdom and goodness, and when they do not suit
us, it must be because there is some fault in ourselves which de-
serves chastisement, or because there is a kind intent to correct
us in some vice or failing, of which perhaps we may not be con-
scious, or because the general plan requires that we should suffer
partial ill.

In this situation it is our duty to cultivate resignation, and
even humility, bearing in mind, in the language of the poet, that
it was " pride which lost the blest abodes."

With esteem and regard, &c.

HAMILTON TO STUYVESANT.

June 26, 1804.

Dear Sir :

I should like to see you on the subject of a poor fellow, Peter
Drinker, who says you have been employed for him, and appears
unfortunate, which is his title to my attention.

Yours truly.

HAMILTON TO SEDGWICK.

New-York, July 10, 1804.

My Dear Sir:

I have received two letters from you since we last saw each
other ; that of the latest date being the 2-ith of May. I have had
on hand for some time a long letter to you, explaining my view

568 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 20.

of the course and tendency of our politics, and my intentions as
to nay own future conduct. But my plan embraced so large a
range, that owing to much avocation, some indifferent health,
and a growing distaste to politics, the letter is still considerably
short of being finished. I write this now to satisfy you that
want of regard for you has not been the cause of my silence.

I will here express but one sentiment, which is, that dismem-
berment of our empire will be a clear sacrifice of great positive
advantages without any counterbalancing good, administering no
relief to our real disease, which is democracy, the poison of which
by a subdivision will only be the more concentrated in each part,
and consequently the more virulent. King is on his way for
Boston, where you may chance to see him, and hear from him-
self his sentiments.

God bless you.

A. H.

HAMILTON TO GOUVERNEUR MORRIS, ROBERT LIVINGSTON,
AND ALLISON, ESQRS.

1777.*

Gentlemen :

With cheerfulness I embrace the proposal of corresponding
with your convention through you, and shall from time to time,
as far as my leisure will permit, and my duty warrant, just com-
municate transactions as shall happen, such pieces of intelligence
as shall be received, and such comments upon them as shall
appear necessary to convey a true idea of what is going on in
the military line. Let me caution you, however, that whatever
opinions I shall give in the course of our correspondence, are to
be considered merely as my private sentiments, and are never to

* For these letters, written in 1777, the Editor is indebted to the kindness of
Bishop Potter. They did not come into his possession until after the first volume
was in print.

jEt. 20.] CORRESPONDENCE. 569

be interpreted as an echo of those of the General ; since they
will not be really so, and a construction of the kind may lead
into errors and be productive of inconveniences.

The present season affords nothing of importance. There
are daily little skirmishes, arising from attempts of the enemy
to forage ; but which, though generally favorable to us, are at.
tended with consequences so trifling and insignificant as to be
scarcely worth mentioning. They are, indeed, of great service
in the general scale, as they serve to harass and distress the
enemy, and by keeping them from forage, will put them under
difficulties as to the transportation of their baggage and cannon,
whenever they shall think of making any capital movement.
One thing worthy of notice is, that hardly a day passes without
some deserter coming in. The fact itself, and the accounts they
concurrently give, prove that the spirit of desertion runs high;
and the reason assigned for it is, that many of the regiments have
been a very long time without pay, and that the men are most
barbarously treated if they only dare to lisp their discontent on
the score of it.

'Tis rumored that the Congress have received a letter from
Dr. Franklin, by which he seems to be in such high spirits as to
prognosticate a favorable disposition of affairs in the quarter
where he is. I was just now also transiently told that he had
been received in the public character of a plenipotentiary from
the American States. When it receives confirmation, I will give
it to you.

I shall observe your directions respecting a transference of
the company lately mine to the continental establishment, and in
my next shall communicate the result of my inquiry into the
present state of your cannon. The General is now perfectly re-
covered, and, added to the pleasure of returning health, enjoys
the solace of his lady's company, who has lately joined the army.
I am, with much respect, gentlemen,

Your most obedient servant,

A. Hamilton.

570 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mi. 20.

HAMILTON TO MORRIS, ETC.

Head-Qoarters, Morristown, 2d March, 1777.

Gentlemen :

Two days ago I accepted your challenge, and met you for
the first time in the epistolary field ; since which I had the plea-
sure of receiving yours of the 19th instant, and, as far as circum-
stances will permit, close with your proposal of interchanging
blows twice a week.

The present time is so unfruitful of events, that it affords no
intelligence worth your notice. As to transactions of a military
nature, I can only say, that the British army continues to de-
crease by the daily loss of prisoners and deserters taken at and
coming into the different posts, which is a striking symptom that
the situation of affairs with the enemy is not so favorable as it
might be; for when an army is in good humor, and its affairs
prosperous, desertion is a disease that seldom prevails in it.

From all the accounts they have given us, seconded by con-
siderations that obviously present themselves, it is my opinion
the enemy will make no grand movement before the beginning
of May, and perhaps not then. There is no expectation in their
army of their being speedily called to the field, nor the least dis-
position of matters that I have heard of for a sudden excursion.
It will be a long time before the roads will be fit for the trans-
portation of artillery, which is an essential instrument in their
operations ; and a still longer before the ground will admit of an
encampment consistent with the health and comfort of the
soldiers; and it would defeat their purpose to undertake any
thing of importance under circumstances that would oblige them
to divide their army in order to accommodate it. It seems also
to be an opinion supported by the best reasons, that the main
object with which they will open the campaign will be the cap-
ture of Philadelphia. If so, they will have a greater probability
of success by co-operating both by sea and land ; and the prepa-
rations for this, added to the dangers of making an attempt by
water at too early a season, will in all likelihood protract the ex-
ecution of their project at least till the time I have mentioned.

Mat. 20.] CORRESPONDENCE. 571

I intimated that it might perhaps be later before they would
move. It seems to me a pretty general idea in their army, that
they will wait for reinforcements before they take the field.
Should they do this; I see not from what quarter they can expect
any succors worth mentioning, so early as the beginning of
May. But I would lay no great stress upon this. Notwithstand.
ing the idea is countenanced by their weakness in numbers,
which must make their success more doubtful, and expose them
to greater hazard in whatever they attempt than can be agreea-
ble, where so much is at stake, much will depend, however,
upon the comparative strength of our army, and the conception
they may form of it.

Though I do not doubt your discretion, which occasioned me
so readily to embrace your proposal, yet such is the delicacy of
my situation, that I must beg leave to repeat what I before ob-
served to you, that whenever I give opinions they are merely
my own, and will probably, so far from being a transcript of
those of the General, differ widely from them in many respects.
The one I now advance is of this kind, and is besides improper
to be generally circulated; for many people who have the man-
agement of affairs are of so lethargic a complexion that they are
to be kept in action only by the fear of immediate danger — and
should they get it into their heads that the enemy would remain
idle for six weeks, would think they had a right to doze away
forty da}^s at least.

In my last, I mentioned a rumor concerning Doctor Frank-
lin ; since that I have seen something said (and I believe it) to be
an extract of a letter from him to Mr. Bache, of Philadelphia,
in which he represents things to be in an excellent train in
France, and uses this strong emphatical language, that a war
between her and Britain " was as inevitable as death." No pub-
lic advices from him that I know of, have reached Head-Quar-
ters.

I spoke to General Knox about your cannon in the conti-
nental service. He answered that it would be difficult to ascer-
tain to what particular class the pieces that had been left
belonged ; but he considered the continent at all times bound

572 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 20.

to make good the number borrowed from your State ; and that
he had still your six pieces in his hands. I have always look-
ed upon the matter in the same light.

I have the honor to be,

Gentlemen,
Your most obedient servant,

Alexander Hamilton.

HAMILTON TO MORRIS, ETC.

Head-Quarters, Morristown, April 12th, 1777.

Gentlemen :

I this day have received your favor of the 8th instant. Hurry
of business prevents my entering into a particular detail of af-
fairs, either with respect to the enemy or ourselves, though mat-
ters remain much in the same situation as when I last wrote.
The enemy are unquestionably preparing to take the field as
soon as possible, notwithstanding which, I believe it may be full
as late as I at first suggested before they will be perfectly ready
for a general movement. By several persons who have come
out of New-York within these few days, it is pretty well confirm
ed that they have constructed a bridge to be laid upon boats, for
the purpose,, in all probability, of crossing the Delaware.

The new levies begin to come in from the southward, but not
in such large numbers as could be wished. It is to be hoped,
however, that we shall shortly be sufficiently reinforced to give
an effectual obstruction to their designs. The Congress have
resolved, if the General approves, to form a camp on the west
side of the Delaware, and have called upon Pennsylvania to
furnish 3000 militia to join the same. Every nerve must and
will be strained to prevent Philadelphia falling into the enemy's
hands. It is a place of infinite importance.

It is said there are favorable accounts lately received from
Doctor Franklin ; but we have no authentic advice of the kind,
nor does the report extend to any particulars.

JEt. 20.] CORRESPONDENCE. 573

Your sentiments of Major Edmonston's conduct correspond
with the General's ideas of it. He had given some directions to
General Schuyler on the subject. Besides other purposes it
might serve, the design of his going to Canada was evidently
that he might be a vehicle of instructions to General Carleton.
It would be the most convenient, certain, and expeditious mode
they could have fallen upon to convey them. I communicated
the paragraph of your letter respecting him to his Excellency.
He wishes the major might be sent on directly to Philadelphia.
I fancy he would be glad to be saved the trouble of an interview
with him.

I should be obliged to you to inform the convention, that it
is my opinion the General will not permit Mr. Leroy to go into
New- York. It is a determined point with him to grant no such
indulgence when any matter of the kind is referred to him,
unless the person applying can assign the most substantial rea-
sons for his request, and can also produce explicit credentials of
his political principles and conduct being favorable to the Amer-
ican cause. I conclude from my being instructed to require his
parole, that he cannot give satisfaction on these points. If, how-
ever, he should obtain permission, I will execute the resolve
transmitted to me. For the future, if the convention have cogent
reasons for allowing any subject of the State to go in to the enemy,
as they are the best judges of all the circumstances concerning
him, they had better send him in without referring the matter
particularly to the General.

I take the liberty to inclose a letter to the care of Mr. Jay ;
the delivery of which to him will be a favor conferred on,
Gentlemen,

Your most respectful servant,

A. Hamilton.

574 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 20.

HAMILTON TO MORRIS, LIVINGSTON, AND ALLISON, COMMITTEE
OF THE NEW-YORK CONVENTION.

Head-Quarters, Morristown, April 20th, 1777.

Gentlemen :

The disposition of the convention, with respect to the dis-
affected among you, is highly commendable, and justified by
every principle of equity and policy. The necessity of exem-
plary punishment throughout the States, is become evident be-
yond a doubt, and it were to be wished every one of the thirteen
would imitate the judicious conduct of New- York. Lenity and
forbearance have been tried too long to no purpose : it is high
time to discard what the clearest experience has shown to be in-
effectual.

But in dispensing punishment, the utmost care and caution
ought to be used. The power of doing it, or even of bringing
the guilty to trial, should be placed in hands that know well how
to use it. I believe it would be a prudent rule to meddle with
none but those whose crimes are supported by very sufficient
evidence, and are of a pretty deep die. The apprehending inno-
cent persons, or those whose offences are of so slender a nature
as to make it prudent to dismiss them, furnishes an occasion of
triumph, and a foundation for a species of animadversion which
is very injurious to the public cause. Persons so apprehended
generally return home worse than they were, and by expatiating
on their sufferings, first excite the pity towards themselves, and
afterwards the abhorrence towards their persecutors, of those
with whom they converse. I believe it would also be in general
a good rule, either to pardon offenders entirely, or to inflict capi-
tal and severe punishments. The advice given by a certain gen-
eral to his son, when the latter had the Roman army in his power,
was certainly very politic : he advised him either to destroy them
utterly, or to dismiss them with every mark of honor and respect.
By the first method, says he, you disable the Romans from being
your enemies ; by the last, you make them your friends. So with
respect to the tories ; I would either disable them from doing us

Mt. 20.] CORRESPONDENCE. 5*75

any injury, or I would endeavor to gain their friendship by clem-
ency. Inflicting trifling punishments only embitters the minds
of those on whom they fall, and increases their disposition to do
mischief without taking away the power of doing it.

I shall communicate your additional resolve to the General,
and consult him on what you mention, and shall let you know
his opinion in my next : mine, however, is, that those who ap-
pear to be of such a character as to be susceptible of reformation,
should be employed ; but it is a delicate point.

As to news, the most material is, that from intelligence re-
ceived from Khode Island, it appears the enemy are abandoning
it. This is a preparatory step to the intended operations of the
enemy.

The other day we surprised a lieutenant's guard, took sixteen
prisoners, and killed three or four.

In a private letter from Philadelphia, I am informed that a
treaty of a very particular nature is on the point of being con-
cluded between the Court of France and the States of America.
There is a prospect of opening a trade with Sweden. I hear Mr.
Morris, of Philadelphia, has a vessel arrived from thence.
I am in haste,
Gentlemen,

Your most respectful servant,

A. Hamilton.

HAMILTON TO THE HONORABLE COMMITTEE OF CONVENTION FOR
THE STATE OF NEW- YORK.

Head-Quarters, Morristown, April 28th, 1777.

Gentlemen :

Extreme hurry of business puts it out of my power to say but
very little.

Your information concerning a piece of ordnance lately con-
structed at Philadelphia, is true. There is such a piece at head-

576 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 20.

quarters, weighs 227 pounds, carries a three-pound ball. The
iron is wrought, hooped and welded together. The General and
others esteem it a great acquisition. It has been fired twenty
times, as fast as possible, and is supposed to be thorough proof.
For my part, I am rather dubious of this matter, and have re-
commended fifty successive discharges instead of twenty. If she
would stand that, her sufficiency would be ascertained beyond a
doubt, and her value would be immense ; and as it is a new ex-
periment, we cannot take too much pains to be sure. If Mr.
Livingston can construct pieces of the same kind and weight
that will stand a similar proof, he will render the most essential
service to his country. "We cannot have too respectable an artil-
lery ; and he need not doubt they will be wanted.

As to ships opposite to Fort Washington, the General first
supposed they might be intended to make a descent on the Jer-
sey side, and come by surprise on our left flank ; but he now
considers it wholly as an amusement, while they were executing
their attempt on the stores at Danbury. Of this affair you are
probably as well advised as we are.

I thank you for your promise of sending me the model of
your government as soon as published. I have sanguine ex-
pectations concerning it.

Nothing new at head-quarters but the attempt against Dan-
bury. If the enemy do not * * * * *
till they get reinforced or receive further orders.

Troops coming on from the southward. We are told two
thousand Carolinians, far on their way to Philadelphia — a part
arrived.

I am, with great respect, gentlemen,

Your most obedient servant,

A. Hamilton.

* Not legible in the manuscript.

jEt. 20.] CORRESPONDENCE. 577

HAMILTON TO GOUVERNEUR MORRIS.

Head-Quarters, Morristown, May 7th, 1777.

I thank you for the favor of the pamphlet containing your
form of government, which, without, flattery, I consider as far
more judicious and digested than any thing of the kind that
has yet appeared among us ; though I am not so unreserved
in my approbation as to think it free from defects. While I
view it in the main as a wise and excellent system, I freely con-
fess it appears to me to have some faults which I could wish did
not exist. Were it not too late to discuss particulars for any
useful end, or could my judgment have any weight in a matter,
which is the work of so many far more able and discerning than
I can pretend to be, I should willingly descend to an exhibition
of those parts I dislike, and my reasons for disapproving. But,
in the present situation of things, it would be both useless and
presumptuous.

I congratulate you on the late important arrivals to the east-
ward. We consider them as immense acquisitions. Did I not
suppose you must be possessed of the same particulars we have
at head-quarters, I would transmit those we have to you. I
congratulate you also on the Danbury expedition. The stores de-
stroyed there have been purchased at a pretty high price to the
enemy. The spirit of the people on the occasion does them
great honor — is a pleasing proof that they have lost nothing of
that primitive zeal with which they began the contest, and will
be a galling discouragement to the enemy from repeating at-
tempts of the kind. Such an opposition, under such circum-
stances, was not to be expected. By every account, both from
our friends and from themselves, they cannot have sustained a
loss of less than five hundred killed, wounded, and taken. An
honest, intelligent lad, a prisoner with them, who made his es-
cape two or three days ago, informs that he saw three vessels
loaded with wounded. He was permitted to look into the hold
of two of them, and affirms there could not be fewer than forty
in each. He attempted to inspect the contents of the third, but
f 37

578 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 20.

was hindered by the sentries. He also informs that there were
loud wailings and lamentations among the soldiers' women on
the occasion, and that the people of New-York considered the
affair in the light of a defeat to the British troops.

From some late appearances, my opinion is greatly shaken as
to the enemy's intention to» move against Philadelphia. I begin
to fear they will disappoint us with a contrary movement. The
General is aware of this possibility, and will do every thing he
can to provide for the event ; and I trust the convention of your
State will co-operate with him by every exertion in their power.
By intelligence received yesterday and to-day, from Generals
Putnam and Lincoln, at the outposts, we have reason to suspect
the enemy will soon evacuate Brunswick, and push for Amboy,
whence they will no doubt embark for some expedition by
water. This may be either to Philadelphia, or up the North
Paver. Or, perhaps, the appearances that indicate this, may be
only feints to perplex and deceive us. The testimony of every
person that comes from them confirms this fact, that their
horses are in such miserable condition as to render them incapa-
ble of any material operations by land. If, therefore, proper
care be taken, wherever they shall point their efforts, to prevent
their collecting supplies of good horses among ourselves, I know
not how it will be possible for them to penetrate any distance
into the country. As far as it may depend upon them, I hope
the convention will attend to this circumstance, and will take
effectual measures to put it out of their power to gain such sup-
plies in any part of your State towards which they may direct
their movements. Nothing particular from Europe. Doctor
Lee, indeed, writes, that from the face of affairs there, a war
cannot be postponed longer than three months. He thinks,
however, the English will be able to get a reinforcement this
year of 8 or 10,000 Germans. If I mistake not, he says they
have already engaged them, and sent transports to take them in.
I am, with great respect,

Your most obedient servant,

A. Hamilton.

Mt. 20.] CORRESPONDENCE. 579

HAMILTON TO MORRIS.

Head-Quarters, Morristown, May 12th, 1777.

Dear Sir:

I have received the pleasure of your favor of yesterday's date.
The reasons you assign for the interval of silence on your part
are admitted as sufficient, though I regret that the principal one
exists — the combination of the tories for a general insurrec-
tion. But, perhaps, on the scale of policy, I ought rather to
congratulate you on the event. That there are too many tories
in your State, as well as in several others, is a fact too well
known. That they should confederate themselves for active
purposes of revolt and disaffection, when once discovered, is
desirable, because it arms the vindictive justice of the State, and
will justify, in the eyes of all the world, a radical blow at the
faction. Were it not that we have seen so many similar in-
stances, that only prove the temerity and folly of the tories, I
should consider this as a presumptive argument, that the enemy
intend your way.

It seems now fully the opinion of our generals, that the last
year's project for uniting the two armies, by the conquest of your
State, will be prosecuted this champaign. To confirm this sup-
position, all the later intelligence we have received from the
enemy strongly indicates an intention to evacuate the Jerseys ;
and 'tis thought there will be very great obstacles to an attempt
upon Philadelphia, by way of the Delaware ; 'tis concluded that
the North Eiver must be the object. And, upon this principle,
Generals Greene and Knox, in whom his excellency has great
confidence, are sent to examine the situation of things with you,
and, in concert with General McDougal, who is in equal estima-
tion, to adopt every proper expedient for putting you in the best
state of defence. They set out this day.

If the enemy do not, in fact, aim at Philadelphia, they have
been very artful in throwing out appearances well calculated to
deceive ; and which, though .they have not had so full an effect
as at any time to cause our cautious General to lose sight of the

580 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 20.

other object which 'tis now imagined they propose to themselves,
yet they have so far deceived as to beget pretty universally the
opinion they wished to impose. But, for my own part, though
I am staggered in my conjectures, yet I by no means give up
my first supposition. I think it very probable they are only
evacuating the Jerseys to be out of danger of an attack from us,
which they have reason to fear from the increasing strength of
our army, and mean to encamp on Staten Island till reinforced.
It would be madness in them, weak as they are in numbers, to
risk all in any capital attempt, and I am confident they will not
do it unless they have a desperate game to play, and have no
expectation of reinforcements. Such a conduct would be con-
trary to every principle of war or policy. Howe cannot take
the field with more than eight thousand men ; let him go where
he will, the probability of a defeat will be strong, and the conse-
quences of it would be absolutely fatal. How can he hope to
penetrate far with so small a force, and with such a miserable
supply of horses to convey his artillery and baggage ? It seems
to me, too, with respect to the supposed design upon your State,
if it really existed, they would have taken care to have seized
your forts, and other important posts, when they might have
been apprised you were in no condition to defend them.

We have lately had one or two little skirmishes here. A
party from Bound-brook beat up some of the enemies' advanced
pickets from Brunswick. An attack was made upon their pick-
ets near Bonum-town. "We have no regular account of this mat-
ter ; but what we have had is to this purport : " That a party un-
der Col. Cook attacked one of their pickets and drove it in ;
that it was reinforced and sallied out again, and was beaten in a
second time ; that it received a second reinforcement and made
a second sally; and that Gen. Maxwell, who conducted the af-
fair, perceiving the matter growing too serious by continual suc-
cors coming to them from Brunswick and' Amboy, thought it
best to retire, which he did in good order — the enemy keeping
at a respectful distance during the whole time of their retrogra-
dation." 'Tis said we have lost between 20 and 30 killed
and wounded, and a few stragglers taken ; and 'tis also asserted

jEt.20.] correspondence. 581

that some of our officers counted nineteen dead bodies of the
enemy on the field. The royal Highlanders had taken possession
of a wood, by way of ambuscade, out of which they were expelled
by our troops. Here, I believe, the principal loss was sustained
on both sides.

I am with great regard, Sir,

Your obedient servant,

A. Hamilton.

P. S. — I thank you for the inclosures of every kind. I be-
lieve you have not received a letter I wrote a few days ago,
giving my idea of your Constitution, with which, on a second
inspection, I am better pleased than at first. You will oblige me
by forwarding the inclosed.

HAMILTON TO MORRIS.

Head-Quarters, Morristown, May 19th, 1777.

Dear Sir:

I this moment received the favor of your letter of the 16th
instant.

I partly agree and partly disagree with you respecting the
deficiencies of your Constitution. That there is a want of vigor
in the executive, I believe, will be found true. To determine
the qualifications proper for the chief executive magistrate re-
quires the deliberate wisdom of a select assembly, and cannot be
safely lodged with the people at large. That instability is in-
herent in the nature of popular governments I think very dispu-
table; unstable democracy, is an epithet frequently in the mouths
of politicians ; but I believe that from a strict examination of the
matter — from the records of history, it will be found that the
fluctuations of governments in which the popular principle has
borne a considerable sway, have proceeded from its being com-
pounded with other principles; — and from its being made to

582 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 20.

operate in an improper channel. Compound governments, though,
they may be harmonious in the beginning, will introduce distinct
interests, and these interests will clash, throw the State into con-
vulsions, and produce a change or dissolution. When the de-
liberative or judicial powers are vested wholly or partly in the
collective body of the people, you must expect error, con-
fusion, and instability. But a representative democracy, where
the right of election is well secured and regulated, and the exer-
cise of the legislative, executive, and judiciary authorities, is
vested in select persons, chosen really and not nominally by the
people, will, in my opinion, be most likely to be happy, regular,
and durable. That the complexity of your legislature will oc-
casion delay and dilatoriness, is evident, and I fear may be at-
tended with a much greater evil ; — as expedition is not \erj ma-
terial in making laws, especially when the government is well di-
gested and matured by time. The evil I mean is, that in time
your Senate, from the very name, and from the mere circum-
stance of its being a separate member of the legislature, will be
liable to degenerate into a body purely aristocratical.

And I think the danger of an abuse of power from a simple
legislature, would not be very great in a government where the
equality and fulness of popular representation is so wisely pro-
vided for as in yours. On the whole, though I think there are
the defects intimated, I think your government far the best that
we have yet seen, and capable of giving long and substantial
happiness to the people. Objections to it should be suggested
with great caution and reserve.

Nothing particular in the military line. The enemy still in
the Jerseys, though they have been some time sending away their
stores, baggage, &c, and are raising new works of defence. All
this may be preparatory to an evacuation at all events, and they
may be only intended to pave the way for a retreat, in case of an
attack or any accident.

Advices from the West Indies, that have an appearance of
authenticity, mention a French vessel bound for the Continent,
being taken by the British frigate Perseus, and carried into
^Dominique ; and a remonstrance being made by the Governor of

jEt. 20.] CORRESPONDENCE. 583

Martinique, threatening reprisals in case of a detention. Nay,
some accounts say he has actually seized all the English vessels
in the harbor of Martinique, and imprisoned their seamen till
restitution shall be made. If these accounts be true, they are
important, and may be considered as an earnest of more general
hostility.

Perhaps your next favor will find me at Bound-brook. Head-
quarters will soon be moved there. Our family seem desirous
of cultivating a closer acquaintance with the enemy than we have
had the pleasure of for some time past.
With real regard, I am, Sir,

Your most obedient servant,

A. Hamilton.

Relying on your punctuality in favoring me with any impor-
tant intelligence your way, I am likely to lose a beaver hat,
which was staked against the truth of the report of the stores at
St. John's being destroyed. If you forget me in future, I will
certainly excommunicate you.

HAMILTON TO GOUVERNEUR MORRIS.

Middle Brook Camp, June 2, 1777.

Dear Sir:

I received your favor per express, and as the absence of my
former respectable correspondents has made a change necessary,
I am happy that you have been substituted in their room.

Except a body of militia at and about Pumpton, and a few
detachments of observation, our whole army is now collected at
two points ; the main body here, and a division under General
Sullivan at Princeton. Though this alteration of circumstances
takes off in a great measure the restraints imposed upon the
enemy during the winter, gives them a more ample field to range
in, and exposes the country more to their ravages, yet the measure

584 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 20.

is abundantly justified by every wise military maxim. The rigor
of the season has been heretofore our chief security against those
advantages which might have been taken of our dispersed state ;
and this dispersion was necessary both for the conveniency of
winter quarters, and with a view to confine and distress the
enemy, which was the most capital object we could then propose
to ourselves. It was also necessary by this method to second the
check to that torrent of influence which their successes in the
Jerseys had given them. Many other justifying reasons might
be assigned, which I doubt not you will easily conceive, and
which it would be indiscreet to commit to paper.

But now that a more active season is arrived, and something
of importance must be done on one side or the other, it becomes
our business to put ourselves in the best posture both for defence
and offence. Common sense dictates that the best way to effect
this is to collect our strength. In a collected state we can best
repel a general attack ; we can best make one, if circumstances
warrant it ; and we can move with greater expedition to discon-
cert any sudden push not immediately upon us, which the enemy
are likely to make. It is needless to enlarge on a subject which
your own judgment will enable you of itself to view in a just
light.

As to the designs of the enemy, appearances are so intricate,
fluctuating, and seemingly inconsistent, that it is difficult to form
any certain conclusion from them. Either they do not under-
stand themselves, and are very irresolute and fickle, or they very
artfully manage matters to deceive us. I am rather inclined to
suppose the former. This, however, I may say with tolerable
certainty, that my ideas of their intending to operate to the South-
ward, derive just support from such parts of their conduct lately
as are most intelligible. We have a variety of concurring intel-
ligence that they have lately drawn more troops into the Jerseys
— that they have brought over a large number of wagons, and all
the boats prepared for bridges, with several other particulars of
less importance, all which denote a preparation to operate this
way. Persons who have been among them assert confidently
that they mean to attack us. But we are divided in sentiment

Mt. 20.] CORRESPONDENCE. 585

as to the probability of that, or of their making a forced march to
Philadelphia. If they act wisely, they will neither attack us in our
present situation, strongly posted as we are, nor will they attempt
to cross a river, where they may certainly expect opposition in
front, and leaving at the same time a formidable army in the rear.
He should endeavor to draw us off from here and fight us
upon more equal ground. But after all, if he expects any timely
reinforcements, upon what rational principle can he risk his own
reputation and all the hopes of his cause, in an attempt with his
present force, so extremely important and hazardous ? Perhaps
he only means to get every thing in readiness against the arrival
of the reinforcements looked for, that he may immediately com-
mence his operations. Things, however, will hardly bear this
construction. We are told that in seventeen sail lately arrived
from Europe, there were about 2000 raw recruits.

This from deserters.

The enemy yesterday perpetrated a most barbarous butchery
upon a Lieutenant Martin of ours. He was out with a scouting
party, and met some of the British light-horse ; his men, it is said,
quitted him. But however other matters may be, 'tis certain his
dead body was found most horribly mangled. He had not a
single bullet wound, but was hacked to pieces with the sword ;
he had several cuts in his head, each of which was sufficient to
dispatch him, besides a number of more inconsiderable scars
about his body and hands. It is evident that the most wanton
and unnecessary cruelty must have been used towards him ; for
the greater part of his wounds must have been given him when
utterly out of a condition to resist.

This may be relied on as a fact, for I saw his corpse, as
did also every officer and soldier in camp that chose it. The Gen-
eral sent him down to their lines with a letter to Lord Cornwallis, as
an undeniable evidence of their brutality ; but the letter was taken
from the flag and sent in ; the flag and the body not permitted
to pass their outposts.

I am, sir,
With real respect and esteem,

Your most obedient servant,

A. Hamilton.

586 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 20.

HAMILTON TO KOBERT R. LIVINGSTON.

Head-Quarters, Camp at Middle Brook, June 28, 1777.

Dear Sir:

Yours of the 25th came to hand last night. Since my last ad-
dressed to Mr. Morris, the enemy have been trying a second ex-
periment to tempt us to an engagement, on equal terms of
ground. Under the supposition of their intending to evacuate
the Jerseys immediately, in order to keep up the idea of a pur-
suit, and to be in a posture to take advantage of any critical
movement that might present itself, to give them a blow; the
chief part of our army, after their retreat from Brunswick, was
marched down to Quibbletown, and parties detached thence
further towards the enemy. Finding this disposition take place,
and expecting that, elated by what has passed, we might be wil-
ling to venture upon a general engagement, which is Howe's
only hope, he came out with his whole army from Amboy, only
on Thursday morning, and made a forced march towards our
left, with design, if possible, to cut off some of our detachments,
particularly one under Lord Stirling ; and probably, if we were
not expeditious in regaining the heights, to get there before us,
by rapidly entering the passes on our left. Lord Stirling's
party was near being surrounded ; but after a smart skirmish
with the enemy's main body, made their retreat good to West-
field, and ascended the pass of the mountains back of the Scotch
plains. The other parties, after skirmishing on their flanks,
came off to join the main body, and take possession of the
heights. The enemy continued their march towards our left as
far as Westfield, and there halted. In the mean time, it was
judged prudent to return with the army to the mountains, lest it
should be their intention to get into them, and force us to fight
them on their own terms. They remained at Westfield till the
next day, and perceiving their views disappointed, have again
returned to Amboy, plundering and burning as usual. We had
parties hanging about them on their return ; but they were so
much on their guard, no favorable opportunity could be found

Mi. 20.] CORRESPONDENCE. 587

of giving them any material annoyance. Their loss we cannot
ascertain; and our own, in men, is inconsiderable, though we
have as yet received no returns of the missing. I have no doubt
they have lost more men than we ; but unfortunately, I won't
say from what cause, they got three field-pieces from us, which
will give them room for vaporing, and embellish their excursion,
in the eyes of those who make every trifle a matter of import-
ance. It is not unlikely they will soon be out of the Jerseys ;
but where they will go to next is mere matter of conjecture, for,
as you observe, their conduct is so eccentric, as to leave no cer-
tain grounds on which to form a judgment of their intentions.

I know the comments that some people will make on our
Fabian conduct. It will be imputed either to cowardice, or to
weakness. But the more discerning, I trust, will not find it
difficult to conceive, that it proceeds from the truest policy, and
is an argument neither of the one nor the "other.

The liberties of America are an infinite stake. TVe should
not play a desperate game for it, or put it upon the issue of a
single cast of the die. The loss of one general engagement may
effectually ruin us, and it would certainly be folly to hazard it,
unless our resources for keeping up an army were at an end,
and some decisive blow was absolutely necessary ; or unless our
strength was so great as to give certainty of success. Neither is
the case — America can in all probability maintain its army for
years, and our numbers, though such as would give a reasonable
hope of success, are not such as should make us entirely san-
guine. A third consideration, did it exist, might make it expe-
dient to risk such an event — the prospect of very great reinforce-
ments to the enemy ; but every appearance contradicts this, and
affords all reason to believe they will get very inconsiderable ac-
cessions of strength this campaign. All the European maritime
powers are interested for the defeat of the British arms in Ame-
rica, and will never assist them. A small part of Germany is
disposed to make a market of its troops, and even this seems not
over fond of being drained any further. Many springs may be
put in motion even to put a stop to this. The king of Prussia
may, perhaps, without much difficulty, be engaged to espouse

588 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 20.

views unfriendly to the court of Britain, and a nod of his would
be sufficient to prevent all future German succors. He, as well
as most other powers of Europe, feels the necessity of commerce
and a large maritime force to be generally respectable. His
situation, till lately, has been unfavorable to this; but the re-
duction of Poland, and the acquisition of Dantzig in the Baltic,
have put it very much in his power to pursue commercial
schemes ; and may tempt him to be propitious to American in-
dependence. Russian assistance is still infinitely more precari-
ous ; for besides that it cannot be the true interest of that ambi-
tious empire to put its troops to sale, it is at present embroiled
with the Turks, and will want all its men to employ in its own
wars. England herself, from the nature of her policy, can fur-
nish few soldiers, and even those few can ill be spared, to come
to America in the present hostile appearance of affairs in Europe.
On whatever side it is considered, no great reinforcements are
to be expected to the British army in America. It is therefore
Howe's business to make the most of his present strength ; and
as he is not numerous enough to conquer and garrison as he
goes, his only hope lies in fighting us, and giving a general de-
feat at one blow.

On our part, we are continually strengthening our political
springs in Europe, and may every day look for more effectual
aids than we have yet received. Our own army is continually
growing stronger in men, arms, and discipline ; we shall soon
have an important addition of artillery, now on its way to join
us. We can maintain our present numbers good, at least, by en-
listments, while the enemy must dwindle away ; and at the end
of the summer the disparity between us will be infinitely great,
and facilitate any exertions that may be made to settle the busi-
ness with them. Their affairs will be growing worse, ours bet-
ter ; so that delay will ruin them. It will serve to perplex and
fret them, and precipitate them into measures that we can turn
to good account. Our business then is to avoid a general engage-
ment, and waste the enemy away by constantly goading their
sides in a desultory, teasing way.

In the mean time it is painful to leave a part of the inhabi-

Mi. 20.] CORRESPONDENCE. 589

tants a prey to their depredations ; and it is wounding to the
feelings of a soldier, to see an enemy parading before him and
daring him to fight which he is obliged to decline.

But a part must be sacrificed to the whole, and passion must
give way to reason. You will be sensible that it will not be
advisable to publish the seritiments contained in this letter as
coming from me ; because this will make the enemy more fully ac-
quainted with our views ; but it might not be amiss to have them
circulated, as those which ought to govern the conduct of the
army, in order to prepare the minds of the people for what may
happen, and take off the disagreeable impressions our caution
may make. I am, dear sir,

Your most obedient servant,

A. Hamilton.

HAMILTON TO MORRIS.
Head-Quarters, Coryel's Ferry, July 29th, 1777.

Dear Sir:

I have the pleasure of your favor of the 25th. I cannot be
induced to think the enemy are so numerous as you apprehend,
and would place no dependence on what is said either by desert-
ers or prisoners, further than as it respects their. own company,
nor even that with regard to prisoners in general, who commonly
have their cue, as the phrase is, and know very well how to man-
ufacture stories calculated to serve the purposes of the side they
belong to. If we may judge at all from the state of the British
and foreign regiments in Howe's army, or the proportion of re-
cruits they have had this year, we cannot but believe the repre-
resentations you mention greatly exaggerated. Though the
northern army have not suffered much by action, they have
probably suffered 'more by sickness than the southern ; for many
accounts agree that they have been very sickly, and particularly,
that there was a great mortality among them while lying at the

590 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 20.

Isle of Noix. From the estimate of the first prisoner, they must
have been greatly reduced by some means or other ; for it appears
that before his company had been augmented by the twenty-four
foreigners, it was only twenty-six strong; and it is very impro-
bable it should have had so large an augmentation, for I am mor-
ally certain the regiments under Howe have not had fifty men
each as recruits, and I see no reason to suppose Burgoyne's could
have had so much better luck. Eight companies, at twenty-six
men each, amount to two hundred and eight. Suppose each regi-
ment to have received one hundred recruits, which, by every
rule of comparison, must be more than the truth ; this brings a
regiment to about three hundred men. Ten regiments, at three
hundred each, amount to three thousand, the number of British
troops in Canada. Again, if I am not mistaken, four thousand
was the allotment of foreign troops for the northern department.
As the sickness spoken of fell chiefly upon them, they, in all
probability, lost more in that way than they have gained in re-
cruits. But, even if this were not the case, they cannot exceed
the original number — four thousand added to three thousand
make seven thousand. Besides these, there are the grenadiers
and light-infantry. Of these there cannot be above eighteen
companies each, which, allowing them to contain every one fifty
men, amount to eighteen hundred — and this brings them to about
eight thousand eight hundred men in their whole force of Brit-
ish and foreign troops. Of these, at least one-sixth must be unfit
for duty, by every calculation, which reduces the number of men
fit for the field to about seven thousand five hundred. Part of
these must be left in Canada, if it were for no other purpose than
to guard their magazines, and for other duty of that kind. Nor
could they with safety commit the charge of those things to the
Canadians, many of whom are notoriously disaffected, and would
be very likely to destroy instead of preserve them. From this
view, which I verily believe is too favorable to them, they can-
not bring more than between six and seven thousand British and
foreign troops to act out of Canada. Out of' these six or seven
thousand, a considerable part must be left to garrison Ticonde-
roga, and secure their rear in case of accidents ; for they could

Mt.20.] correspondence. 591

not without madness attempt to advance, and leave the posts be-
hind them in a defenceless state; and they may be obliged to in-
crease their attention to this matter by keeping a body of men
somewhere about the Grants, which has been recommended.
When this last deduction is made, Burgoyne cannot advance
with more than between five and six thousand men, to suppose
him to act with his whole collective force ; except Canadians and
Indians, who are not, by any accounts, numerous.

Let us now take a view of our own force. When Glover's
brigade gets up, and the recruits for the regiments there, now on
their march, arrive, General Schuyler will have about five thou-
sand continental troops. Surely the eastern States cannot sleep
so soundly, when the danger is so imminent, but that they will
reinforce him with eight or ten thousand militia. If this hap-
pens, and he cannot stop General Burgoyne's progress, it must
proceed from other causes than the want of men. With about
the same army last year, General Washington kept Howe with
sixteen or seventeen thousand men at bay.

Perhaps it may be said, there will not be time to collect this
force, as the enemy are advancing with very great rapidity. I
am much mistaken if there will not be abundant time. The na-
ture of the ground ; the difficulty of transporting the immense
quantity of baggage, provisions, &c, necessary to accompanj^ an
army of five thousand men penetrating an enemy's country ; the
want of wagons for the purpose; the impediments thrown in
their way by cutting up the roads — all these obstacles will retard
their march much more than is at first sight imagined, and will
give full time to prepare them a good reception.

On the whole I am clearly of opinion, that unless Howe co-
operates with Burgoyne against your State, it has very little to
fear; and I even doubt, if he goes to the southward, whether
Burgoyne will attempt to penetrate far. At present there is
every appearance of a southern expedition. Seventy sail of the
enemy's fleet have been seen passing by Little Egg Harbor,
making short tacks towards the capes of Philadelphia. Three
divisions of the army are arrived here and at Howel's Ferry, four
miles up. One is coming on by way of Princeton, &c. Another

592 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 20.

coming after us by way of Morristown. I wish this last to halt
there. Two brigades more have been ordered to cross the North
River and wait further orders. We shall not, however, pass the
Delaware till we hear of the arrival of the enemy in the Capes
of Philadelphia. Nor will those two brigades be ordered on till
the same event takes place. We shall act the most cautious part
possible in our circumstances. I communicated your letter to
the General. He agrees with me in point of the enemy's num-
bers. With respect to animating the eastern States, he has
written the most urgent letter to their several assemblies, which
I am in hopes will answer the end you propose from sending per-
sons to each of them.

It were to be wished your forts and ships were well supplied
with cannon ; but it is wholly out of the General's line to strip
the ships to the eastward of their cannon for that purpose. If
your Convention were to make application to the Congress or
Board of War, it might succeed ; but I should have very little
hope of it.

I am, with great esteem, dear Sir,
Your most obedient,

Alexander Hamilton.

HAMILTON TO MORRIS.

Head-Quarters, Morristown, July 6, 1777.

Dear Sir:

I received your favor of the 4th, by express. If I recollect
how far my last went, it did not announce the return of the
enemy from Westfield to Amboy, nor their evacuation of that
place since. After resting and refreshing themselves a night,
they decamped the following day, and proceeded to Amboy, from
which place they went to Staten Island as expeditiously as they
could ; where they still remain.

The news from the northward wore so serious a face, that our
generals thought the enemy were about to operate in earnest

JEt. 20.] CORRESPONDENCE. 593

against our posts in that quarter ; and, as supposing this the
case, General Howe might certainly be expected to co-operate by
way of the North Eiver, it was -judged necessary to move the
main body of the army from Middle Brook to Morristown ; to
advance a division under General Sullivan to Pumpton, and
another under General Parsons as far as Peekskill. A brigade
at that port, under General Nixon, was ordered, so soon as Par-
sons's division arrived near its destination, to proceed imme-
diately as a reinforcement to the northern army. This disposition
is deemed advantageous to prevent the success of a coup de main
on the Highland passes, and not inconsistent with a proper at-
tention to Philadelphia, should the northern alarm prove nothing
more than a diversion, and Howe return to the charge that way.

I am loath to risk a conjecture about Mr. Howe. He is such
an unintelligible gentleman, that no rule of interpretation can
possibly be found out by which to unravel his designs. If he
acted like a man of sense, he would wait quietly on Staten Island,
and there concentrate all his forces. He would draw round him all
the men that could be spared from Canada, and all that are now
at Rhode Island. With these, and the reinforcements he may
receive from Europe, he would make a point of forcing us, by
some means or other, to an action. In this his only hope lies.
If he could defeat our arnry, and improve the moment of success,
he would go very near effecting his purpose ; but, let him go to the
northward or to the southward, every new post he takes weakens
his main body, and makes it the more liable to be ruined by our
collective strength. Any object short of our army is a bad one ;
and that plan is the worst, where, by a division of his forces, he
runs the hazard, in case of an accident either way, of having his
whole scheme overturned.

We have different accounts of the present situation of his
army. Some tell us that the whole is now encamped on Staten
Island ; others, that the greater part of the Hessians are on board
the ships. By some sailors who came from them yesterday, we
are told that the ships are taking in water and provisions for two
months, and that conveniences for transporting horses are fitting up
in them. All this is rather vague, and may or may not be true.
F 38

594 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [M-r. 20.

Their flourishes in the Jerseys, I believe, cannot have cost
them less than six or seven hundred men. We have not lost
above a hundred. This is the* best way to ruin them without
risking any thing.

Our present situation is embarrassing. Their ships give them
a vast advantage, and we shall probably be much puzzled when
they begin their operations again. We shall, however, act cau-
tiously, and do the best we can. We are anxiously waiting for
northern intelligence.

I am, dear sir, with great regard,

Yours, &c,

A. Hamilton.

»

Please forward the inclosed to General Schuyler per first
opportunity.

HAMILTON TO ROBERT R. LIVINGSTON.

Head-Quarters, Camp at Cross Roads, Aug. 18, 1777.

My Dear Sir:

I most sincerely and heartily sympathize with you in the dis-
tress and dangers under which your State is laboring at this crit-
ical period. I lament its misfortunes, as they are wounds to the
common cause, as they more nearly interest those for whom I
feel the warmest regard, and as they are suffered by a State which
I consider in a great measure as my political parent. I wish any
thing in my power could contribute to its relief.

I am fully sensible, with you, that Mr. Burgoyne's successes
involve the most important consequences to America, and that a
further progress in your State may bring on all the evils you de-
lineate, and most deeply affect the common cause. I agree with
you, that the loss of your State will be a more afflicting blow to
America than any that could be struck by Mr. Howe to the
southward ; and I can assure you it is regarded in the same light

jEt. 20.] CORRESPONDENCE. 596

by others, whose thoughts of the matter are of much more con-
sequence than my own. I may also add, that His Excellency
has afforded the northern army all the assistance he could, in his
circumstances, give, with the least degree of propriety ; and
were you as well acquainted with those circumstances as I am,
you would be perfectly convinced of the truth of what I assert.

Though I have differed, and still differ, and, I believe, on the
most substantial grounds, with you, as to the numbers of the
enemy, yet I clearly perceive, from the spirit reigning in our
army, and from the unpardonable backwardness of your eastern
neighbors, that you have every thing to fear, notwithstanding
your most strenuous exertions, which, to the honor of your State,
are justly admired, as far surpassing what might naturally be ex-
pected from you under so many discouragements. I am so tho-
roughly impressed with your true situation, that I am fully of
opinion, if Burgoyne is not speedily checked in his career, he
will become the first object to this army, especially if Howe
operates so far to the southward as every appearance seems to in-
dicate. Charlestovvn is now thought to be the place of his desti-
nation. He has been seen passing by Sinnipuxint, steering
southward, twelve days ago ; and, as he has not been since heard
of, 'tis concluded he must be bound pretty far in that course,
and no object short of Charlestown is supposed at all worthy his
attention. However common sense is against Mr. Howe's going
so far to the southward, facts are so strongly in favor of it, that
we must give credit to them. It is an inadmissible supposition,
that he can be keeping a large fleet so long at sea merely as a
feint, or that he would steer so far out of his way, if he really in-
tended to operate to the northward ; the more, as the season is at
hand when he would be liable to heavy gusts on the southern
shores, and contrary winds on his return.

If he goes so far southward, we cannot think of following him
with this army ; and if Burgoyne continues to penetrate, we must
find means to stop him. This will point out the propriety of
uniting this with the northern army, and falling upon him with
their joint force ; and perhaps nothing is more to be wished than
that affairs should run into this train.

596 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mi. 20.

Before this reaches you, you will be informed that two regi-
ments have gone from Peekskill to reinforce the northern army,
and that Morgan's corps of riflemen are on their march for the
same purpose. They left Trenton yesterday morning, and as
they march light, and vessels are ordered to be ready waiting for
them at Peekskill, they will soon be at the place of their desti-
nation. It has been my wish and endeavor for some time past,
that this corps might be sent to your assistance. I expect much
from them; they are a picked corps, well used to rifles and
to wood-fights, commanded by officers of distinguished bravery,
and have been very serviceable in frequent skirmishes with the
enemy. I dare say these people will soon chastise the forward-
ness of the Indians, and I should not be surprised if, after a little
time, they make them desert their British friends. Their known
inconstancy and want of perseverance, give great reason to hope
a few drubbings will exceedingly discourage them, and send the
greatest part of them home. From every account, I am led to
believe our misfortunes are greatly owing to a panic dread of
the Indians. If this be so, the presence of Morgan's corps will
not fail to have the most happy effect. It would be well to pro-
pagate through the country and army, such ideas of this corps as
will tend to revive the spirits of both inhabitants and soldiers.
If their number, which is about five hundred, it

would do no harm. But of ail things, my dear sir, let every
topic be carefully avoided, that may tend to breed jealousies be-
tween this corps and the northern troops ; such jealousies have
been, are, and will be more detrimental to our affairs than any
thing besides.

I communicated your letter to his Excellency.
I am, with real regard and esteem, dear Sir,

Your most obedient servant,

A. Hamilton.

P. S. Your express not calling on his return, was the sole
reason of your not receiving a letter from me ; I had written one
to go by him.

His Excellency desires his particular respects to you, and as-

JEt. 20.] CORRESPONDENCE. 597

sures you that nothing in his power will be left undone for your
assistance.

HAMILTON TO MORRIS.

Head-Quarters, Wilmington, September 1st, 1777.

Dear Sir :

Agreeable to the intention of the council, I have delivered
their inclosed letter to his Excellency, who, after perusing it,
has sealed and forwarded it to Mr. Hancock.

The relieving Fort Schuyler is a very happy and important
event, and will concur with the two happy strokes given by
Herkemer and Starke, to reverse the face of affairs, and turn the
scale against Mr. Burgoyne. I hope Captain Montgomery's sug-
gestions may be right as to his being obliged to advance ; but I
fancy, if he once thinks it unsafe, he will not be bound by such
an empty punctilio as to risk the destruction of his army. As
General Howe is now fairly sat down to the southward, the
eastern States, no longer under any apprehensions from him, will
be disposed, I am in hopes, to exert their whole force ; and if
they do, I shall wonder at it if Mr. Burgoyne advances with
impunity.

Before this reaches you, you will have heard of General
Howe's coming into Chesapeake bay, where he has landed his
whole army, within about four miles from the head of Elk ; a
day or two after his landing, he marched from his first position
and extended his van as far as Green Hills. He still lies there
in a state of inactivity, in a great measure, I believe, from the
want of horses to transport his baggage and stores. It seems he
sailed with only about three weeks' provender, and was six at sea ;
this has occasioned the death of a great many of his horses, and
has made skeletons of the rest. He will be obliged to collect a
supply from the neighboring country before he can move, unless
he should be disposed to make a more hazardous movement

598 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 34.

than he would ever be able to justify, unless by a degree of suc-
cess he has no right to expect.

The main body of our army is encamped on the heights of
Wilmington, so as to cover the town. We have strong parties
of light troops and militia advanced towards the enemy, who
have frequent skirmishes with them of little consequence, and
often pick up a few prisoners. We have taken at least seventy
since they landed, and have had thirty deserters. This country
does not abound in good posts. It is intersected by such an
infinity of roads, and is so little mountainous, that it is impossi-
ble to find a spot not liable to capital defects. The one we now
have is, all things considered, the best we could find ; but there
is no great dependence to be put upon it. The enemy will have
Philadelphia if they dare make a bold push for it, unless we
fight them a pretty general action. I opine we ought to do it,
and that we shall beat them soundly if we do. The militia
seem pretty generally stirring. Our army is in high health and
spirits. We shall, I hope, have twice the enemy's numbers. I
would not only fight them, but I would attack them ; for I hold
it an established maxim, that there is three to one in favor of
the party attacking.

I am in haste, dear Sir,

Your most obedient servant,

A. Hamilton".

JEFFERSON TO HAMILTON.*

December 23d, 1791.
Thomas Jefferson presents his respectful compliments to the
Secretary of the Treasury, and incloses him the copy of a letter
and table which he has addressed to the President of the United
States, and which, being on a subject whereon the Secretary of
the Treasury and Thomas Jefferson differed in opinion, he thinks
it his duty to communicate to him.

* This letter was omitted by mistake in its order among the Cabinet papers.

Mt. 34.] CORRESPONDENCE. 599

jefferson to washington.

Sir:

As the conditions of our commerce with the French and British dominions are
important, and a moment seems to be approaching when it may be useful that
both should be accurately understood, I have thrown a representation of them
into the form of a table, showing at one view how the principal articles interesting
to our agriculture and navigation stand in the European and American dominions
of these two powers. As to so much of it as respects France, I have cited under
every article the law on which it depends, which laws, from 1784 downwards, are
in my possession.

Port charges are so different according to the size of the vessel, and the dex-
terity of the captain, that an examination of a greater number of port-bills might
perhaps produce a different result. I can only say that that e xpressed in the
table is fairly drawn from such bills as I could readily get access to, and that I
have no reason to suppose it varies much from the truth, nor on which side the
variation would lie. Still I cannot make myself responsible for this article. The
authorities cited will vouch the rest.

I have the honor to be, with the most perfect respect and attachment,

Sir,
Your most obedient and most humble servant,

Thomas Jefferson.

The President of the United States.

[For table, see Jefferson's Works, v, 3. p. 143.]

[Mt. 32.

LETTEES OP H. G.

LETTER I.

New-York, February 20th, 1789.

Dear Sir :

Your letter of the 18th instant has duly come to hand, and
entitles you to my particular thanks. In return I shall endeavor
fully to comply with your request, and furnish you, in a series of
letters, with all the material in my power to enable you to judge
what conduct it will be proper for you to pursue in relation to
the ensuing election for Governpr. Your influence is considera-
ble, and you do well to examine before you resolve on what side
to bestow it.

The present Governor was bred to the law under William
Smith, Esquire, formerly of this city. Some time before the late
revolution he resided in Ulster county, and there followed his
profession with reputation, though not with distinction. He was
not supposed to possess considerable talents, but, upon the whole,
stood fair on the score of probity. It must, however, be con-
fessed, he very early got the character with many of being a very
artful man, and it is not to be wondered at, if that impression, on
the minds in which it prevailed, deducted something from the
opinion of his integrity. But it would be refining too much to
admit such a consequence to be a just one. There certainly are
characters (though they may be rare) which unite a great degree
of address, and even a large portion of what is best expressed by

jEt. 32.] LETTERS OF H. G. 601

the word cunning, with a pretty exact adherence in the main to
the principles of integrity.

Mr. Clinton, from his youth upwards, has been remarkable
for a quality which, when accompanied by a sound and enlarged
understanding, a liberal mind, and a good heart, is denominated
firmness, and answers the most valuable purposes; but which,
when joined with narrow views, a prejudiced and contracted dis-
position, a passionate and interested temper, passes under the
name of obstinacy, and is the source of the greatest mischiefs,
especially in exalted public stations.

This gentleman, immediately preceding the contest with
Great Britain, was several times returned a member of Assembly
for the county in which he lived, and being of a warm, zeal-
ous, and resolute temper, became in a great measure the head of
one of the parties which then prevailed in the legislature. The
merit or demerit of these parties is not now worthy of discus- .
sion — nor can they, or the principles upon which they recipro-
cally moved, be too soon or too entirely buried in oblivion.

In the beginning of 1775 the contest with Great Britain had
become serious ; and we all remember the interesting question
then agitated in our Assembly, respecting the co-operation of
this State in the general measures of America. Here Mr. Clin-
ton and Mr. Philip Schuyler* were the leaders of the minority,
who advocated the propriety of that co-operation ; and both
these gentlemen, for their conduct upon the occasion, will always
be entitled to credit from the friends of the revolution. To com-
pare the degree of merit to which they may respectively lay
claim would be an invidious task. But as the partisans of Gov-
ernor Clinton have taken pains to propagate an opinion of supe-
rior merit in him, in regard to this transaction, it is but justice
to the other gentleman to observe, that he was equally open and
decided in the part he took in that question ; that as none
will pretend to ascribe to Mr. Clinton greater abilities than to
Mr. Schuyler, the exertions of the latter must have been at
least as useful as those of the former ; and that Mr. Schuyler
has in his favor the additional circumstance of having risked

* Then called Colonel Schuyler, and since General Schu}-ler.

602 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [At. 32.

a large' property, which Mr. Clinton had not to risk, upon the
event of this revolution.

With sincere esteem,

I remain, dear sir,

Your obedient servant,

H. G.

To , Esq., Suffolk County.

LETTER II.

New-York, February 21st, 1789.

Sir:

Shortly after the breaking out of the war with Great Britain,
Mr. Clinton received an appointment as Brigadier-General, in
which capacity he served until he was elected Governor of this
State, some time in the early part of the year 1777.

In both these situations, from the condition of the State, which,
during the greater part of the war, was its principal theatre, Mr.
Clinton was frequently engaged in military duties. There is,
however, no part of his character which has been more misrepre-
sented than the military part of it. His panegyrists describe
him to us as the "war-worn veteran" — the complete soldier — the
consummate general. One would imagine from their stories of
him that he had often, in the language of sergeant Kite, " break-
fasted upon ravelins, and picked his teeth with palisadoes" — that
he was the first of American generals — a Marius in courage — a
Caesar in skill — inferior in nothing to a Turenneor aMonticuculli,
an Eugene or a Marlborough. But trust me, my dear sir, this is
mere rant and romance. That Mr. Clinton is a man of courage,
there is no reason to doubt. That he was upon most occasions
active and vigorous, cannot be justly disputed. In his capacity
of Governor he was ever ready to promote the common cause,
prompt in affording the aid of the militia when requisite ; and
scrupling not, when he thought his presence might be of use, to

JEt. 32.] LETTERS OF H. G. 603

put himself at the head of them. But here his praise as a soldier
ends. Beyond this he has no pretension to the wreath of milita-
ry renown. No man can tell when or where he gave proofs of
generalship, either in council or in the field. After diligent
inquiry, I have not been able to learn that he was ever more
than once in actual combat. This was at Fort Montgomery,
where he commanded in person ; and which, after a feeble and
unskilful defence, was carried by storm. That post, strongty for-
tified by nature, almost inaccessible in itself, and sufficiently
manned, was capable of being rendered a much more difficult
morsel to the assailants than they found it to be. This, I own,
was not the common idea at the time ; but it is not the less true.
To embellish military exploits, and varnish military disgraces, is
no unusual policy. Besides, Governor Clinton was at the zenith
of his popularity — a circumstance which disposed men's minds
to take a great deal for granted. One particular in this affair de-
serves to be noticed. It is certain that the Governor made a
well-timed retreat, (I mean personally, for the greatest part of
the garrison were captured,) a thing which must have occasioned
no small conflict in the breast of a commander nice in military
punctilio. But squeamishness on this head had been ill-placed.
It was undoubtedly the duty of the Brigadier to provide in season
for the safety of the Governor.

Those who are best acquainted with the particulars of the
burning of Esopus, in the fall of the year 1777, assert that his
Excellency was culpably deficient in exertion on that occasion.
The fact seems to have been, that a large body of men re-
mained unemployed in the vicinity, under his direction, while
the descent of the enemy was made with little or no opposition.
And there is room to suppose, that if a better countenance had
been kept up, the evil might have been prevented.

Very sincerely yours,

H. G.

To . Esq., Suffolk County.

G04 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 32.

LETTER III.

New-York, February 22, 1789.

Dear Sir :

You mention, towards the close of your letter, two reports cir-
culating in your county, which you say operate to the advantage
of Mr. Clinton ; the one, that at the time he first took the chair
of government, " the great men," as they are insidiously called,
declined the station, through apprehension of the dangers that
might attend it, — not less willing then to set him up as a mark
for the resentment of the power with which we were contending,
in case of an unfortunate issue to the war, than eager now to de-
prive him of the well-earned fruits of his courage, after it has
been happily terminated : the other, that the exertions made by
this State during the war, are chiefly to be attributed to his in-
fluence.

Truly, my dear sir, had the terms of your letter been less
positive, I could not have supposed it possible that suggestions
so unfounded as these, and so easily to be disproved by the tes-
timony of all well-informed men, could ever have been propa-
gated.

So far is the first report from being true, that it is a fact noto-
rious to those who were acquainted with the transactions of the
period, that in the very first election for governor in this State,
General Schuyler was a competitor with Mr. Clinton for the
office, and it is alleged would have been likely to prevail, had
not the votes of a considerable body of militia, then under the
immediate command and influence of the latter, turned the scales
in his favor.

Neither is there much more of truth in the second report.
Mr. Clinton's zeal and activity in forwarding the revolution were
unquestionably conspicuous. But to ascribe to him the chief
merit of the exertions of the State, is to decorate him with the
spoils of others. There were, at every period of the war, choice
spirits in both Houses of the legislature, his equals in zeal and
fortitude, his superiors in abilities. These men needed not his

iET. 32.] letters of h. g. 605

incitement to invigorate their efforts, nor his counsel to direct
their plans.

One of the number only I shall name, Egbert Benson, Esq.,
the present attorney-general ; this gentleman, in the capacity of
a member of the Assembly, long had a principal agency in giving
energy and animation to the measures of the State. In confining
myself to the mention of Mr. Benson, it is not because there are
not others who have an equal right to it, but because it is his pe-
culiar good fortune to have virtues and talents, and yet to be unen~
vied. And as it is my intention you should be at liberty to
make any use of these letters which you may think proper, I am
unwilling to attempt an enumeration of all the characters alluded
to, lest, if incomplete, it should be the occasion of offence. Though
not immediately connected with the subject, there is one circum-
stance which I cannot forbear mentioning before I conclude.
Mr. Benson, during the war, was considered as the confidential
friend and adviser of the governor. Not long after the peace,
it was perceived that this relation between the two persons be-
gan to be weakeued, and it is some time since it has been under-
stood to have entirely ceased. The first appearance of the change
was, to discerning men, an ill omen of the future. But Benson
was an unfit confidant for the new system of policy. He was
honest and independent. Materials better adapted for tools were
wanted, and they have been selected with admirable judgment.
Yours, with much regard,

H. G.

To , Esq., Suffolk County.

LETTER IV.

New- York, February 24, 1789.
You will perceive, my dear sir, from the sketch I have given
you, that though the present governor has a just title to credit for
his exertions in the last revolution, yet the degree of credit to

GOG HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 32.

which he is entitled has been immodestly exaggerated. It is to
be wished, nevertheless, for the honor and interest of the State,
that his administration since the peace was proportionably com-
mendable. But Avith the close of the war, the scene of merit
closes. All that succeeds is either negative or mischievous.

It may seem strange to some, that a man who had behaved
well in one situation, should be so entirely defective or faulty in
another. But men acquainted with human nature, and its his-
tory, on a large scale, will be sensible that there is nothing extra-
ordinary in the thing. Many of those who have proved the
worst scourges of society, have, in the commencement of their
career, been its brightest ornaments. These fair beginnings are
sometimes the effect of premeditation, to pave the way to future
mischief; at other times^ they are the natural result of a mixed
character, placed in favorable circumstances.

In all struggles for liberty, the leaders of the people have fal-
len under two principal discriminations ; those who, to a con-
viction of the real usefulness of civil liberty, join a sincere attach-
ment to the public good, and those who are of restless and turbulent
spirits, impatient of control, and averse to all «power or superi-
ority which they do not themselves enjoy. With men of the
latter description, this transition from demagogues to despots is
neither difficult nor uncommon.

Mr. Clinton, as a zealous advocate for Amerioan independence
in the course of a war, in which the cause to which he was at-
tached was every moment exposed to the most critical hazards,
under the influence of a sense of continual danger to that cause,
and of course to himself, as one of its supporters, was naturally led
to activity and exertion. But such a situation affords a very
partial and imperfect view of his character. No certain con-
clusion can be drawn from it of the general disposition and prin-
ciples of the man. These can only be estimated with certainty
in situations in which the passions have their natural and ordi-
nary course, free from any violent impulse of any kind.

It is therefore in the peace-administration of Mr. Clinton, that
we may expect to find the best materials for judging of his fit-
ness or unfitness to govern. These I shall endeavor to explore

jEt. 32.] LETTERS OF H. G. 607

in some succeeding letters, concluding the present with this gen-
eral observation : / do not recollect a single measure of public util-
ity, since the peace, for which the State is indebted to its chief magistrate.
Yours with sincere regard,

H. G.

To , Esq.. Suffolk County.

LETTER V.

New-York, February 25th, 1789.

Dear Sir:

In yours of the 23d instant, which has just come to hand,
you observe that there are persons in your county who entertain
favorable impressions of the present Governor, for the good order
preserved in this city upon the evacuation by the British troops,
and which you say is ascribed to his moderation, care, and deci-
sion. This is an idea riot confined to your county. Mr. Clinton
and his friends have had the address to disseminate it in this and
in other parts of the district. The apprehensions excited by
some inflammatory publications, prior to our taking possession
of the city, disposed men's minds to regard it as a great merit in
the Executive, that they were not subjected to general plunder
and massacre. But this compliment to him includes a supposi-
tion of licentiousness and fury in the citizens in general, who '
returned within the district at that period, which they do not
deserve, and which, in truth, form no part of the American
character.

It must be confessed that there were a few violent men, and
that these, for the sake of present consequence, endeavored to
work on the passions of others for intemperate purposes. But
the number of those who were inclined to violate the laws, or
disturb the public peace, was at no time considerable enough to
make the danger serious. The greater part were either for
liberal and moderate measures, or, at worst, for some legislative

608 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 32.

discriminations. It is worthy of remark, that some of the most
heated have been, at all times, warm adherents to the Governor,
and objects of his peculiar patronage.

What was the precise line of conduct pursued by his Excel-
lency at the juncture in question, I have never been able clearly
to ascertain. But to many, and to me among the rest, it ap-
peared indecisive and temporizing, favoring more of artifice and
duplicity than of real prudence or energy. A popular chief
magistrate, as Mr. Clinton then certainly was, standing on the
firm ground of national faith and the constitution, by an inde-
pendent use of his influence, might, in all probability, have
prevented some measures of that day which have been both
injurious and disreputable to the State.

The inclination of the Governor to hinder tumult or commo-
tion is not to be questioned. In his situation, a man must have
been both abandoned and mad not to have had that inclination.
Eegard to his own authority and consequence, independent of
other motives, was sufficient to produce it. But there are cir-
cumstances which warrant a conclusion, that he had formed a
plan of building up his own popularity in the city upon that of
certain individuals who were then advocates for persecution;
not, indeed, in the shape of mobs and riots, but of law; by
banishment, disfranchisement, and the like ; and that his conduct
was guided by condescensions to them, which, in some measure,
involved him in their policy. There is a fact to this effect, the
particulars of which I do not now distinctly recollect, but which,
'as far as my memory serves me, was of the following com-
plexion : — The Council appointed for the temporary government
of the Southern district, on account of some irregularities which
had happened, passed a resolution, or framed a proclamation, for
repressing the spirit that had occasioned them, which was in-
trusted to the Governor for publication. Instead, however, of
executing the intention of the Council, he communicated their
act to two of the persons alluded to, and, upon their advices or
remonstrances, withheld it from publication till the next meeting
of the Council, a majority of whom were then prevailed upon to
rescind it.

jEt. 32.] LETTERS OF H. G. 609

It is not undeserving of attention, that the chief agents in
promoting the laws, passed after the evacuation of the city, of
which the inhabitants of the Southern district had reason to
complain, were men who had been constantly devoted to the
Governor; and that the persons who have had the greatest share
in mitigating, or abrogating, those exceptionable laws, have been
in opposite views to him. And it ought not to escape observa-
tion, that there has never been any official act of the Governor
calculated to effect the alteration or repeal of those laws.

It is with reluctance, my dear sir, that I look back to trans-
actions which cannot be too soon forgotten. All parties now
rejoice in the effects of a more liberal policy. And I should not
have been induced to revive topics of so disagreeable a nature,
had it not been necessary as well to the advancement of truth,
as to the performance of my promise to you.

I remain your friend and servant,

H. G.

To , Esq., Suffolk County.

LETTER VI.

New-York, Feb. 26, 1789.

Dear Sir:

I shall now proceed to give you a brief history of the Gov-
ernor's administration since the peace, as it respects the United
States ; from the whole of which, preferring the evidence of
actions to that of professions, I am persuaded that you will agree
with me, that there is satisfactory proof of his being an enemy
to the American Union.

The facts from which I shall draw this conclusion are of the
following nature : —

I. That while he has acknowledged the insufficiency of the
old government, he has strenuously opposed the principal mea-
sures devised by the joint councils of America, for supporting
and strengthening it.
f 39

610 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [&t. 32.

II. That he has treated Congress, as a body, in a contemptu-
ous manner.

III. That his behavior towards the individuals composing
that body, has been of a nature calculated to give them just
cause of disgust.

IV. That he disapproved of the very first step taken towards
the effectual amendment of the old confederation.

V. That he prejudged and condemned the new Constitution
before it was framed.

YI. That he opposed it, after it appeared, with unreasonable
obstinacy.

VII. That he has continued his opposition to it even since
its adoption by this State. And,

VIII. That he is unfriendly to the residence of Congress in
this city.

From the assemblage of these facts, I am mistaken, my dear
sir, if you do not think the evidence of his enmity to the Union
complete ; and I shall not be the less mistaken if you do not
consider this as a conclusive objection to his re-election.

Whatever may have been your doubts respecting parts of
the new Constitution, I am satisfied that you regard the preserva-
tion of the Union as essential to the peace and prosperity of the
country, and will deem it unsafe to trust any man with power,
who entertains views inimical to it.

Unfeignedly yours,

H. G.

To , Esq., Suffolk County.

LETTER VII.

New-York, Feb. 27th, 1789.

Dear Sir:

In my last I stated a number of facts tending to prove that
Mr. Clinton is not a friend of the Union. I would not be under-

JF.r. 32.] LETTERS OF H. G. 611

stood, that either of these facts singly would authorize such a
conclusion, but that it is the result of them collectively. Many
men, of whose good intentions I have no doubt, have entertained
similar sentiments with him on several of the points stated; but
I am mistaken if there is to be found one, out of the circle of his
immediate instruments, who has had or discovered the same dis-
position in all the particulars. I shall now briefly mention the
different articles of charge.

The first is, that, while he has acknowledged the insufficiency
of the old government, he has strenuously opposed the principal
measures devised by the joint councils of America for supporting
and strengthening it.

This admission of the insufficiency of the old confederation
has not only been made in private conversations, but fully and
pointedly in the late Convention of this State. He has not, how-
ever, uniformly held the same language, as will be taken notice
of hereafter.

To prove the latter part of the charge, I shall instance his op-
position to the impost system proposed by Congress, and repeat-
edly urged by them as the only measures to obtain revenue, for
objects of indispensable importance, on which reliance could be
placed.

The first idea of a general impost for the benefit of the United
States, is said to have originated in a convention held at Hart-
ford, consisting of deputies from the four New England States
and from New-York. The measure was agreed upon in Con-
gress in February, 1781, at a period when the United States,
after various trials of requisitions, and of other expedients, were
reduced to the utmost extremity of distress, for want of money to
carry on the war. The impost then proposed was, I believe,
granted by all the States except Rhode Island. The act of this
State, passed 19th of March, 1781, expressly provides, that the
duties granted to Congress " should be levied and collected in such
manner and form, and under such pains, penalties, and regulations,
and by such officers, as Congress should from time to time make, order,
direct, and appoint."

But, on the appearance of peace, the system of our policy

612 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 32.

changed. The foregoing act was repealed by one passed the 15th
of March, 1783, by which it was too apparent that the leaders of
our councils, at the first dawn of peace, were resolved to desert
the principles which had governed them in the time of common
danger.

It is true, that the same act grants the duties anew, but to be
collected by the officers, and under the authority of the State ;
which was so essential an alteration of the plan as would have
rendered it necessary (had not the opposition of Ehode Island
already done so) to recommence the business in a new form, in
order that all the States might stand on an equal footing.
I remain, dear Sir,

Your obedient and humble servant,

H. G.

To , Esq , Suffolk County.

LETTER VIII.

New-York, February 28th, 1789.

Dear Sir:

The embarrassments experienced in carrying through the
first plan, the increase of the national debt, and other circum-
stances, induced Congress to devise a new system of impost,
which was finally agreed upon on the 18th of April, 1783.

In this system, the appointment of the officers to collect the
duties was referred to the several States, which it was supposed
would remove the principal objection to the former plan. All
the States, except New-York, substantially adopted it, annexing
certain precautions for the more secure exercise of the powers
granted to Congress. But New-York persisted to the last in
withholding her assent. She passed, indeed, a law for granting
an impost on different principles ; but as Congress could not ac-
cept this without releasing the other States, and setting the
whole business afloat, it was evident to all the world, that the act

/Et. 32.] LETTERS OF H. G. 613

of New- York was nothing better than a mere evasion of the thing
asked.

The Governor, undoubtedly, took an active part in opposition
to this measure. It is true, he declared in the convention that
he had always been a friend to the impost, but could not agree to
the manner in which Congress proposed to exercise the power.
This is plainly a subterfuge. He was a friend to an abstract
something, which might be any thing or nothing, as he pleased ;
but he was an enemy to the thing proposed. A general impost,
being a measure not within the provision of the confederation,
could only be brought about by some general plan devised by the
common councils of the Union, and submitted to the adoption of
the several States. There could else be no concert, no common
agreement. To oppose, therefore, the specific plan offered, and
yet pretend to be a friend to the thing in the abstract, deserves
no better name than that of hypocrisy.

I am possessed of unquestionable evidence, to prove that he
used personal influence with members of the legislature to preju-
dice them against the granting of the impost. You may obtain
a confirmation of this from one of the gentlemen who represented
your own county in the year 1786. The argument employed
with him was, that Congress being a single body, and conse-
quently without checks, would be apt to misapply the money
arising from it. This looks like more than an objection to the
mode. If the money was to be granted in any shape, that conse-
quence, if to be apprehended at all, might follow.

A question of a very delicate and serious nature arises on the
conduct of the Governor. Is it justifiable in the chief magistrate
.of a State to employ his personal influence with individual mem-
bers of the legislature in relation to any matter of public con-
cern, which is to come under their deliberation? To me an in-
terference of this sort appears highly exceptionable.
With sincere regard, I am, dear Sir,

Your most obedient servant,

II. G.

To , Esq.. Suffolk County.

614 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 32.

LETTER IX.

New-York, March 2d, 1789.

Dear Sir:

The second particular which I have stated, as evidence of Mr.
Clinton's enmity to the Union, is, that he has treated Congress, as
a body, in a contemptuous manner.

A proof of this exists in his refusal to convene the legislature
of this State in the year 1786, upon pressing and repeated suppli-
cations of Congress ; sheltering himself under the frivolous pre-
tence, that the constitution did not leave him at liberty to do it.

The constitution empowers the governor to convene the legis-
lature " on extraordinary occasions." This provision is evidently
calculated to enable him to call together the legislature whenever
any thing of importance out of the ordinary routine of State
business should occur. To put any other meaning upon it is ab-
surd, and would embarrass the operations of government. It
cannot be supposed that the constitution intended by "extraor-
dinary occasions," nothing but wars, rebellions, plagues, or earth-
quakes. The word "extraordinary," as used in this case, can
only be construed as equivalent to special; and a special occasion
is any thing of moment out of the common and expected course.
It merits attention, that the words of the constitution are, simply,
that the governor " shall have power to convene the legislature
upon extraordinary occasions." This mode of expression has
plainly an authorizing and empowering, not a restricting operation.
It is true that the governor is bound, in the exercise of this power,
to observe a reasonable discretion, and not to act with caprice,
levity, or wantonness ; but the same may be said of every other
power with which he is intrusted, and does not affect the consti-
tutional sense of the provision.

Let us now, sir, take a view of the nature of the application
and refusal. The legislature of the State, in May, 1786, passed
the act I have already mentioned, in lieu of one conformable to
the plan proposed by Congress, and agreed to by the other twelve
States ; for even Rhode Island had at length got the better of

,Et. 32.] LETTERS OF II. G. 615

her scruples. Congress were of opinion, for the most obvious
and solid reasons, that they could derive no advantage from the
act of New-York ; that to attempt it would be to let go their
hold on the twelve adopting States, who had made the passing
of similar acts by all the States, the condition of their grants;
that the act of New- York, independent of the objection just men-
tioned, was framed upon principles mischievous in their nature,
and calculated not only in a great measure to -defeat the revenue,
but to prevent several of the States from entering into the plan.
One of these principles was, that the paper money of the States
should be receivable in payment of duties. If Congress had
acceded to such a plan, the consequence would have been, that
the other States which had emitted paper money would insist
upon the same privilege ; by which mean the duties would be
paid in nominal money of different degrees of value, in some
States at a depreciation of forty or fifty per cent. ; a circumstance
which would have diminished the product of the impost, rendered
the burthen unequal upon the citizens of different States, and
deterred the States averse to paper money from engaging in the
scheme.

Congress, for these and other good reasons, considered the act
of New- York as amounting to nothing. They felt at the same time
that the honor and interest of the Union were suffering for want
of the co-operation of this State. They experienced the most
painful embarrassment, in particular from the just demands of
those foreigners, who had lent us money to carry on the war.
They saw themselves without resource, even for paying the inter-
est of the foreign debt, except by new loans abroad for that pur-
pose ; a resource which had the pernicious effect of an accumula-
tion of the debt (for which all our estates must be considered as
mortgaged) by the tremendous process of compound interest.

In this disgraceful and ruinous situation, the representatives
of the United States make a solemn application to the Governor
to convene the legislature, for the purpose of reconsidering their
act. He refuses to comply, assigning the curious reason, that the
Constitution empowers him to convene the legislature only on
extraordinary occasions, and that the present does not seem to

616 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 32.

him such. To give color to this idea, he intimates the recent con-
sideration of the business by the legislature.

He seems in this proceeding not only to have taken it for
granted, that the legislature would be immovable by the most
solid reasons for altering their policy, (which, if true, he had no
right to presume,) but also to have forgotten, or not to have
chosen to recollect, that the legislature to be convened was not
to be regarded as the same body which had before decided,
having been formed by a subsequent election of the people.
The measure would, therefore, have had to undergo a new exa-
mination by a new body.

He, notwithstanding, refuses. Congress, impelled by the
exigency of the situation, pass new resolutions, declaring their
opinion that the critical and embarrassed situation of the finances
of the United States required that the system of impost should
be carried into immediate effect ; and that they deemed the occa-
sion sufficiently important and extraordinary to request that the
legislature of this State should be convened ; and therefore again
earnestly recommending it to the Executive to convene the legis-
lature. The Governor persisted in his refusal, and the legislature
is not convened.

Now, sir, I will boldly appeal to every candid mind, whether
this transaction is not evidence, as well of a splenetic and disre-
spectful disposition towards the government of the United States,
as of a temper inflexibly haughty and obstinate. In what a
humiliating light must he have considered Congress, not to have
looked upon their earnest and repeated application, on a matter
which they and all the other States thought of the most serious
moment to the Union, in a situation notoriously distressing and
critical, as an occasion sufficiently special to leave him at liberty
to call the legislature together ! How much of contempt and
disregard towards the representative authority of confederated
America was implied in such a construction ! The merits of the
impost system are of no consequence in the consideration of the
subject. The whole is a question of decorum and due deference
in the head of a particular member of the confederacy towards
the head of the whole confederacy. In this lig^ht, it is evident

,Et. 32.] LETTERS OF H. G. 617

that the conduct of the Governor on the occasion was an insult
to the people of the United States, and of course to the people
of this State, through their representatives in Congress.
I remain with the truest attachment, dear Sir,
Your obedient and humble servant,

H G .

To Esq., Suffolk County.

LETTER X.

New- York, March 3, 1789.

Dear Sir:

I have mentioned as a third circumstance tending to prove
the enmity of the Governor to the Union, " That his behavior
towards the individuals composing Congress has been of a nature
calculated to give them just cause of disgust."

I am well informed that his Excellency never made a visit to,
or had any intercourse of civilities with either of the two last
Presidents of Congress. This neglect on his part appears the
more pointed, as it is well known that he had been upon a foot-
ing of intimacy with one of the gentlemen previous to his ap-
pointment, I mean General St. Clair. This gentleman had been
heard to lament that the Governor's conduct towards him, in an
official respect, had put it out of his power to keep up the amica-
ble intercourse which had formerly subsisted between them. It
seems as if the character of a President of Congress amounted, in
the Governor's estimation, to a forfeiture even of the rights of
private friendship.

This behavior to the official head of Congress, is to be
regarded in a stronger light than mere disrespect to the individual.
It may justly be esteemed disrespect to the body themselves, and
to have been dictated by a disposition to humiliate the govern-
ment which they administered.

618 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 32.

The same spirit ran through the Governor's conduct towards
the members of Congress in general. Very few, if any of them,
experienced any attentions whatever from him.

Whatever apology may be made for the Governor's want of
decent hospitality towards the representatives of the United
States, I believe it will be difficult to find an excuse for his
personal neglect of them. There are civilities which cost nothing,
and these might have been bestowed without any violation of the
frugality of his Excellency's maxims.

It may be asked, how it can be determined where the fault
lay, whether with the Governor, or with the individuals of Con-
gress? I answer, that with regard to the Presidents of Congress,
there can be no doubt. As that body sat in the State, it was
unquestionably the duty of the Governor to pay the first atten-
tions to the President after his election. This rule has been
understood throughout America, and its propriety is self-evident.
The omitting to pay those attentions, was a mark of disregard to
the government of the Union, for which there can be no excuse,
and which admits of but one interpretation.
Dear Sir,

Yours sincerely, &c,

H G .

To Esq., Suffolk County.

LETTER* XL

New- York, March 4th, 1789.

Dear Sir:

Some time in the latter part of the year 1785, or beginning of
1786, the State of Virginia proposed the holding a convention, for
the purpose of devising some system of commercial regulations
for the United States. This State, among others, acceded to the
proposition, and the deputies from the different States appointed

Mr. 32.] LETTERS OF H. G. 619

pursuant, met at Annapolis in the fall of 1786. But the num-
ber actually assembled formed so incomplete a representation of
the Union, that, if there had been no other reason, it would have
been inexpedient for them to proceed in the execution of their
mission. In addition to this, they were unanimously of opinion,
that some more radical reform was necessary ; and that even to
accomplish the immediate end for which they had been deputed,
certain collateral changes in the federal system would be requi-
site, to which their powers in general could not be deemed com-
petent. Under these impressions, they, with one voice, earn-
estly recommended it to the several States to appoint deputies
to meet in convention, in the ensuing month of May, with power
to revise the confederation at large, and to propose such altera-
tions and amendments as should appear to them necessary to
render it adequate to the exigencies of the Union.

The report of this convention was in course handed to the
Governor, on the return of the deputies of this State from Anna-
polis.

I have ascertained it beyond a doubt, that in a conversation
on the subject of this report, he expressed a strong dislike of its
object, declaring that, in his opinion, no such reform as the re-
port contemplated was necessary; that the confederation as it
stood was equal to the purposes of the Union, or, with little
alteration, could be made so ; and that he thought the deputies
assembled upon that occasion, would have done better to have
confined themselves to the purposes of their errand.

This was the first thing that gave me a decisive impression
of the insincerity of his Excellency's former conduct. The oppo-
nents of the impost system had, in their writings and conversa-
tion, held up the organization of Congress as a principal objec-
tion, to the grant of power required by that system. The same
sentiment had been conveyed by the Governor. The want of
checks from the constitution of Congress, as a single body,
seemed to be the bulwark of the opposition. But now that a pro-
posal was made which evidently had in view a different con-
struction of the federal government, the language was all at once
changed. The old confederation as it stood, or with little alter-
ation, was deemed to be competent to the ends of the Union.

620 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 32.

This, then, seemed to be the true state of the business. On
the one hand, Congress, as constituted, was not fit to be trusted
with power ; on the other, it was not expedient to constitute them
differently. To me it appears impossible to reconcile all this to a
sincere attachment to an efficient federal government. Thus, sir,
have I explained to you my meaning in the assertion : that the
Governor disapproved of the very first step taken towards the
effectual amendment of the old confederation.
I remain with esteem, dear Sir,

Your very humble servant,

H. G.

To , Esq., Suffolk County.

LETTER XII.

New-York, March 6th, 1789.

Dear Sir: *

One of the circumstances stated to you in mine of the 26th of
February, to show that the Governor is unfriendly to the Union,
is, that he prejudged and condemned the new Constitution be-
fore it was framed.

This fact has been long since given to the public, to which
no other answer, that I have heard, has been made by his Ex-
cellency or his friends, than that he, as a citizen, had a right to
entertain and declare such sentiments as appeared to him pro-
per. This is a position not to be denied; but it is equally unde-
niable, that his constituents have as good a right to judge of the
propriety of his opinions and conduct, and of the views by which
they seem to be actuated.

While the convention was sitting at Philadelphia, the Gov-
ernor, I am well informed, made unreserved declarations of his
opinion, that no good was to be expected from the appointment
or deliberations of that body. That the most likely result was,
that the country would be thrown into confusion by the mea-
sure. That it was by no means a necessary one ; as the confed-

a:t.32.] letters of h. g. 621

eration had not had a sufficient trial, and probably, on more full
experiment, would be found to answer all the purposes of the
Union.

Here we will discover the clearest indication of a predeter-
mined opposition in the mind of his Excellency. He is not a man
governed in ordinary cases by sudden impulse. Though, of
an irritable temper, when not under the immediate influence of
irritation, he is circumspect and guarded ; and seldom acts or
speaks without premeditation and design.

Language of the kind I have mentioned, from him, clearly
betrayed an intention to excite prejudices beforehand against
whatever plan should be proposed by the convention. For such,
conduct, or for such an intention, no apology can be made. The
United States conceived a convention to be proper, necessary,
and expedient. They appointed one, this State concurring.
Their deputies were actually assembled, and in deliberation.
The step once taken, it became the duty of every good man to
give the attempt a fair chance. It was criminal to endeavor to
raise prepossessions against it. That very conduct might have
led to the mischief predicted. It was certainly not his Excel-
lency's fault that his predictions were not fulfilled. In all pro-
bability, if his whole party had been as pertinacious as himself,
the confusion he foretold would now exist. But, happily for the
United States, some of them were more prudent, and we are in
peace.

The declarations of the Governor on this occasion, fix upon
him the charge of inconsistency. How can what he .said in the
instance in question be reconciled with his declaration in the
convention, " that he had always lamented the feebleness of the con-
federation t "

Yours, with great regard,

H. G.

To Esq., Suffolk County.

622 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 32.

LETTER XIII.

March 7th, 1789.

Dear Sir:

The next in order of the circumstances, alleged in proof of
the unfriendly disposition of the Governor to the Union, is that
he opposed the new Constitution, after it appeared, with un-
reasonable obstinacy.

To judge of the propriety of this observation, it ought to be
recollected, that the merits or demerits of that constitution must,
after all, be in a great measure a speculative question, which
experience only can solve with certainty.

It ought also to be recollected that the convention who
framed it consisted, if not wholly, at least generally, of men
from whom America had received the strongest proofs of pa-
triotism and ability ; that this body, so composed (with the ex-
ception of only three individuals), united in the plan, which was
the result of their joint deliberations; and that a Franklin and
a Washington are among the number of those who gave their
approbation to it.

It ought further to be attended to, that when the conven-
tion of this State came to a decision, ten out of the thirteen
States had adopted the Constitution, and that a majority of the
characters in each State, most distinguished for virtue and wis-
dom, were among its advocates.

These, sir, are truths which (notwithstanding the clandestine
arts made use of to traduce some of the best and brightest char-
acters of America for being friends to the Constitution) no man
of candor or information among its opponents will deny.

I do not infer from them, that the Constitution ought on those
accounts to have been considered as a good one ; but I contend
that they dictated greater moderation in the opposition than ap-
peared in the Governor's conduct. They ought to have taught
him, that unless he had better assurance of his own infallibili-
ty than an impartial estimate of himself would justify, there was
a possibility of his being mistaken in his speculations ; and that

JEt.32.] LETTERS OF H. G. 623

as a further resistance to the general sense of America was preg-
nant with manifest inconveniences and hazards, it became him to
sacrifice the pride of opinion to a spirit of accommodation.

I should be the last to blame any man for opposing the adop-
tion of the Constitution, while its establishment was yet a ques-
tion in the United States ; but when that was no longer the case ;
when nine States, the number required by the Constitution to its
establishment, had adopted it ; when it had thereby become the
government of the Union, I think further opposition was not
justifiable by any motives of prudence or patriotism. These
considerations had their proper weight with a great proportion
of the Governor's party.

Out of sixty-four members, of which the Convention of this
State consisted, there were at first only nineteen in favor of the
Constitution. In the conclusion, there was a majority which did
actually adopt it. But the Governor persisted to the last in his
negative.

All those of his party who concurred in the adoption (and
among whom were some of its ablest leaders), are to be regarded
as so many witnesses to the unreasonable obstinacy of the
Governor's conduct on the occasion. Why did they agree to
adopt ? Because they saw that a contrary course was replete
with danger to the peace and welfare of this State and of the
Union. They acted in that like moderate and prudent men.
Why did not his Excellency act a similar part ? Let facts de-
cide ! Let the collective complexion of his language and be-
havior inform us ! The inference from the whole will certainly
not exempt him from the imputation of obstinacy, nor give us a
very favorable impression of his inclination to preserve the tran-
quillity and Union of the States.

I entertain no doubt that your judgment of this instance of
the Governor's conduct will correspond with mine, as I have
understood that the conduct of the members of your county had
met your entire approbation. These gentlemen are among the
number of those who, though like yourself, are not attached in
the abstract to the Constitution as it stands, prudently yielded

624 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [/Et. 32.

to the considerations of expediency which recommended its
adoption.

Accept my best wishes for your health, and

Believe me always yours,

h. a

To , Esq., Suffolk County.

LETTER XIV.

March 8th, 1789.

Dear Sir:

The seventh of the circumstances enumerated in proof of his
Excellency's enmity to the Union is, that he has continued his
opposition to the new Constitution even since its adoption by
this State.

There are two kinds of opposition, direct and indirect. The
Governor must have been an idiot to have rendered himself
chargeable with the first kind. It would have brought the
resentment of the whole community upon him, and frustrated
the very object he had in view. Indirect methods were the only
ones that could be practised with safety, or with any prospect of
success. To embarrass, not to defeat, the operations of the
government, was, of necessity, the plan of a man who wished ill
to it.

The adversaries of the Constitution in Virginia have furnished
a striking specimen of this species of policy. The last legisla-
ture in which they were predominant, made no difficulty about
organizing the government. The act of the people was, of
course, to be obeyed in appearance. But its efficacy was to be
destroyed by throwing obstacles in the way of the administration
of the system. For this purpose an act has been passed, declar-
ing it incompatible for any officer of the State to perform official
functions under the authority of the United States.

This act, if valid, would oblige the United States to have a

Mr. 32.] LETTERS OF H. G. 625

complete set of officers for every branch of the national business
— judges, justices of the peace, sheriffs, jail-keepers, constables,
&c, which could not fail to render the government odious. This
may serve as a sample of the means by which it may be dis-
tressed and counteracted.

The friends of the Governor tell us that after the adoption of
the Constitution, he declared in convention that he would con-
ceive himself bound to maintain the public peace, and to concur
in putting the system into operation. This was saying as little as
possible. Luckily, the public peace was in no clanger ; and his
Excellency, with all his hardihood, would not dare to refuse an
official co-operation in putting the government established by the
people in motion. I attended the debates of the convention, and
I could not forbear remarking, that the Governor, in the speech
alluded to, seemed carefully to confine his assurances to a mere
official compliance. The impression made upon my mind by the
two last speeches he delivered, was this : that he would, as Gov-
ernor of the State, in mere official transactions, conform to the
Constitution ; but that he should think it expedient to keep alive
the spirit of opposition in the people, until the amendments pro-
posed, or another convention (I am not certain which), could be
obtained. In this impression I am not singular ; there were
others who understood him in the same sense.

No reasonable man can doubt that such a sentiment was an
unjustifiable one. The United States are to determine on the
propriety of amendments, and on the expediency of a conven-
tion. Both must be referred to their judgment. If they think
both improper or unnecessary, it is the duty of a particular mem-
ber to acquiesce. This is the fundamental principle of the social
compact. To threaten the continuance of an opposition, there-
fore, till either of those purposes was accomplished, was in every
way intemperate and unwarrantable. That there will be a recon-
sideration of parts of the system, and that certain amendments
will be made, I devoutly wish and confidently expect. I have
no doubt that the system is susceptible of improvement, and I
anxiously desire that every prudent means may be used to con-
ciliate the honest oponents of it. But I reprobate the idea of
F 40

626 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [vEt. 32.

keeping up an opposition upon principles, which derogate from
those on which it is, and must necessarily be supported. I repro-
bate the idea of one State giving law to the rest.

But even the official compliance promised by the Governor,
has hitherto been afforded in a very ungracious and exceptiona-
ble manner; in such a manner as indicates secret hostility and a
disposition to have the government considered in an unimportant
and inferior light. On the 13th of September, 1788, the act for
organizing the government was passed by Congress, and it is
presumed was communicated without delay. We know that it
immediately appeared in the public papers. But it was not until
the 13th of October following, that the Governor issued his pro-
clamation for convening the legislature, and the time appointed
for their meeting was less than a month from that which was
fixed for the appointment of electors to choose the President and
Vice-President. This procrastination appeared at a time extra-
ordinary to every body, and wore the aspect of slight and neglect
at least. The Governor asserts that it was impracticable to
convene the legislature sooner; but he has not told us why it
was so ; and I scruple not to affirm, that if a reason is ever
assigned, it will be found so flimsy a one, as to discover the insig-
nificant light in which his Excellency was disposed to view and
treat the national government. Neglect and slights calculated to
lessen the opinion of the importance of a thing, and bring it into
discredit, are often the most successful weapons by which it can
be attacked.

But this is not the only view in which the delay in convening
the legislature is to be considered as reprehensible. It had the
effect of depriving the legislature itself of the exercise of a right
vested in them by the national Constitution, and hazarded an un-
due postponement of our representation in Congress, which has
actually happened. As to the first, the Constitution of the United
States leaves the mode of appointing electors to the discretion
of the State legislatures. They may, therefore, refer them to the
choice of the people, if they think proper. This has been done
in several of the States, and is, in my opinion, a privilege which
it is of great importance should be in the hands of the people.

Ml. 32.] LETTERS OF H. G. 627

Making the usual allowances for want of punctuality in meeting,
disagreement in opinion, difficulties in framing new and untried
regulations, it may be safely pronounced that the legislature was
assembled too late to refer the choice of electors to the people ;
whereby they were deprived of an opportunity of exercising a
constitutional discretion, and the people of a chance of exercising
a privilege of very considerable moment to their interests. May
it not be justly said in this instance, that the Governor under-
took to think for the legislature ? But this is not all. The
state of the parties in the legislature was understood long before
they met, and it was to have been foreseen that there would
have been a diversity of views in regard to the mode of appoint-
ing our national representatives, and consequently delays in
agreeing upon any. By not calling the legislature early enough
to allow time for overcoming these impediments, it happens, that
in a matter in which the two houses did finally agree, to wit, the
manner of choosing members of the national House of Eepre-
sentatives, the execution has been so greatly procrastinated, that
it must be more than a month from the time appointed for the
meeting of the body before it can be even ascertained who our
representatives are.

There is a further circumstance in which the Governor's con-
duct subjects him to the suspicion of an intention to embarrass
the measures relating to the Constitution.

The Senate having, in very gentle terms, intimated a wish
that the legislature had been more early convened, the Governor,
in a very petulant and indecent reply, considering that it was the
Executive speaking to a branch of the legislature, made himself
a party on the side of the Assembly in the controversy between
the two houses, and thereby furnished a motive of obstinacy to
the one and of irritation to the other. It is well known, that in
that controversy, one of the reasons on which the Assembly had
chiefly relied in insisting upon the joint ballot, was, that it ap-
proached more nearly to an election by the people; while the Senate
held that they were entitled to an equal voice, and that, as being
the peculiar representative, by our Constitution, of the great body of
the freeholders, they were bound, by a regard to the interests of

628 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 32.

that class, as well as to their own rights as a branch of the legis-
lature, to insist upon the equality they claimed.

The Senate in their speech had observed, that, if there had
been time, they would have been for referring the choice of
electors to the people. The Governor answers, that it was im-
practicable to convene the legislature in time for that object, and
intimates a persuasion that the Senate will see the propriety of
pursuing their principle as far as circumstances would permit,
by adopting such mode of appointment as should appear most
nearly to approach an election by the people, adverting to the ground
which had been taken by the majority in the Assembly. This
intimation of the Governor could not be understood in any other
light than as advocating their principle, and could not have failed
to have had the effect of confirming them in it, and alienating
the Senate, who were indelicately treated, still more from it.
There are circumstances which render a hint as intelligible as the
most precise and positive expressions.

This species of interference in a question between the two
branches of the legislature was very unbecoming in the Chief
Magistrate, and bespoke much more the intemperate partisan
than the temperate arbiter of differences prejudicial to the State.

And the inference from the whole of what I have stated, is,
that the Governor, since the adoption of the Constitution in this
State, has manifested the reverse of a disposition to afford it a cor-
dial support.

I remain, with great regard,

Yours, &c,

H. G.

To , Esq., Suffolk County.

LETTER XV.

March 9th, 1789.

Dear Sir:

The last of the circumstances mentioned by me in my letter
of the 20th of February, as evincive of the inimical disposition of

^t. 32.] LETTERS OF H. G. 629

the Governor towards the Union, is, that he is unfriendly to the
residence of Congress in this city.

This maybe inferred from the disrespectful manner in which
he has treated that honorable body, aggregately and individually,
as detailed in some former letters; and from his fomenting that
spirit of party in the legislature which has left us without a rep-
resentation in Congress.

But the matter does not rest on this evidence only. I have
direct proof that he has held language clearly indicating an
opinion in him, real or affected, that it was a disadvantage to the
State to have the seat of the federal government in it. His ob-
jections have been drawn from its pretended tendency to pro-
mote luxury and dissipation. He has, I am well informed, talked

in this style, among others, to our friend, Judge , of

county, with some circumstances of aggravation, which, from a
regard to decency, I forbear to repeat.

Now, my dear sir, nothing but a rooted hostility to all federal
government could have dictated this sentiment in the breast of
the Governor. Every man of sense knows that the residence of
Congress among us has been a considerable source of wealth to
the State ; and as to the idle tale of its promoting luxury and
dissipation, I believe there has not been for a number of years
past a period of greater frugality than that in which Congress
have resided in this city. As far as my observation or informa-
tion extends, it has made no sensible difference in the style of
living, as to the article of expense. The truth must be, that the
Governor has supposed that the presence of Congress in the State
has had an influence in encouraging the zeal and exertions of the
friends to federal government. Thus it appears that the whole
system of thinking adopted by the Governor has been manifestly
adverse to every thing connected with the federal government,
has led him to view all its concerns through a jaundiced medium.

To what can ail this be attributed ? To what can be ascribed
the regular and undeviating opposition on his part to the measure
devised by the joint council of America for strengthening and
confirming the Union ? How shall we explain the different and
inconsistent grounds of opposition taken at different periods?

630 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 32.

To me, my dear sir, the collective view of his conduct will admit
of no other supposition than that he has entertained a project
for erecting a system of State Power, unconnected with, and in
subversion of the Union. This is my firm and sincere belief;
founded upon a long and close attention to the secret and public
proceedings of his excellency. Some of the circumstances which
have led to it, I am not at liberty to disclose, because I could not
do it without a breach of confidence. Viewing in the light I do
the conduct of the Governor, I consider it as a sacred duty which I
owe to the country, to advise all those with whom I have any connec-
tion or intercourse, to promote a change. It is possible that the
Governor, finding the execution of his schemes impracticable,
may have abandoned them. But I conceive a man capable of
adopting such views as too dangerous to be trusted at the head
of the State. And I should hold it to be the extreme of creduli-
ty and weakness to confide in any assurances of amendment
which his friends, to answer a present purpose, may be induced
to give.

With unalterable regard,

I remain yours,

H. G.

To , Esq., Suffolk County.

LETTER XVI.

April 9th, 1789.

Dear Sir:

In mine of the 25th of February last, I observed that there
were reasons to conclude that the Governor's conduct immediate-
ly after the evacuation of this city, had been influenced by
condescensions of those who were at the time advocates for per-
secution, which in some measure involved him in their policy ;
and in confirmation of this idea, I mentioned some circum-

.Et. 32.] LETTERS OF H. G. 631

tances, as they then presented themselves to my memory, which
had attended the suppression of a proclamation issued by the
council for the temporary government of the southern district, in
consequence of certain irregularities committed in this city by
some of the persons alluded to. You have no doubt seen in
the newspapers Mr. Willet's statement of this affair, and the
correspondence which ensued between that gentleman and myself.

Pursuant to the assurance contained in my letter to Mr. AVil-
let, I shall now disclose to yon the result of the inquiries I have
made. It has turned out as was to have been apprehended.
Neither of the gentlemen to whom I have applied has a distinct
recollection of particulars. One of them indeed recollects little
more than that he was a good deal displeased with the transac-
tion. The other has a perfect remembrance of some circumstances
though not of all. Among other things, he well recollects that
he was much dissatisfied with the Governor's conduct in the af-
fair, and that the impression which he had at the time was, and
constantly since has been, that there had been on the part of the
Governor an undue and improper acquiescence, at least in the
conduct of the person concerned, in suspending the proclama-
tion. But what the facts or appearances were which produced
that impression, have now, in a great measure, escaped his mem-
ory.*

Thus stands the affair. The investigation has not weakened
in my mind the evidence that the circumstances attending the
suppression of the proclamation were evincive of condescensions on
the part of Hie Governor towards the advocates for persecution, at the
period in question, which in some measure involved him in their
policy.

This, by reference to my letter, you will perceive was the sole
purpose for which the transaction was quoted. I do not insist
that the particulars as first stated are accurate. You will ob-
serve they are stated with hesitation and uncertainty ; but I feel

* Mr. Wilkt. by applying to the printer, may satisfy himself of the fairness of
this representation and of the respectability of the authority on which it is founded.

632 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 33.

an entire conviction that the aggregate complexion of the affair
was such as I have supposed it to be.

I remain with sincere regard,

Dear Sir,
Your very humble servant,

H.G.

To , Esq., Suffolk County.

ADDRESS TO THE PUBLIC CREDITORS.

BY A FRIEND.

September 1, 1790.

It is probable that many of you are not sufficiently apprised
of the advantages of your own situation, and that for want of
judging rightly of it, and of your future prospects, you may be
tempted to part with your securities much below their true value,
and considerably below what it is probable they will sell for in
eight or nine months from this time.

To guard you against an unnecessary sacrifice of your inter-
ests by a precipitate sale, I will now state to you, in a plain and
concise way, what has been done for you in the course of the
last session of Congress, and what you may reasonably expect.

Effectual provision has been made for actually paying you
six per cent, yearly, on two-thirds of the principal of your debt,
that is four per cent, on the whole amount of your principal. And
at the end of ten years you are to receive six per cent, yearly, on
the remaining third of your principal, that is, two per cent, more
on the whole of your principal. And like effectual provision has
been made for actually paying you three per cent, yearly, on
whatever arrears of interest may be due to you on your prin-
cipal. For this interest you are not even to wait to the end of a
year, but you are to receive it in quarter-yearly payments, that
is to say one-fourth part at the end of every three months ; and
it is to be paid to you not in new certificates, or paper money,

Mt. 33.J ADDRESS TO PUBLIC CREDITORS. 633

but in actual gold and silver. To secure this to you, the duties
which have been laid on goods imported, and on the tonnage of
ships or vessels (and which there is every reason, from the ex-
perience we have had, to believe will be sufficient), are absolute-
ly mortgaged to you, till the whole of your debt is discharged. You
will not have to depend, as under most of the State governments,
upon a provision from year to year, with an entire uncertainty
whether it would be continued, and with many examples of fickle-
ness and change ; but you will have to depend on a permanent
provision made once for all, for the sacredness of which the faith,
not of a single State, but of all the States, is solemnly bound to
you, and which cannot be undone or altered, without the concur-
rence of three different branches of the government — the House
of Representatives, the Senate, and the President of the United
States. It cannot be supposed that if one of the two branches
of Congress should hereafter be disposed to do so disgraceful and
ruinous a thing, as to repeal a law on which the credit of the
government was at stake, that the other branch would be willing
to concur in so pernicious a measure; or if both should be so un-
wise and dishonest, that the President of the United States
would give his assent to it, or if he assented, that two-thirds of
both Houses of Congress would be inclined to persist in spite of
his disapprobation. Whoever considers the nature of our gov-
ernment with discernment, will see, that though obstacles and delays
will frequently stand in the way of the adoption of good mea-
sures, yet, when once adopted, they are likely to be stable and
permanent. It will be far more difficult to undo than to do.

To destroy your confidence in future, there are too many
publications, which represent to you that Congress have, by their
late proceedings, violated their past engagements, and that you
can place no greater reliance upon those they now make than
those they have heretofore made. Whether representations like
these proceed from a sincere opinion in persons, who have not
accurately considered the matter, or from those who wish to de-
preciate the government, or from those who wish to buy securi-
ties cheap, or from all these descriptions of persons, I cannot
say ; but from whatever source they proceed, they are certainly
not candid nor just.

G34 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 33.

Congress, it is true, submit to your consideration some alter-
ations in the nature of your claims upon the government, for cer-
tain equivalents which they hold out to you, and of which you
are to judge. A principal object they have in doing this is, to
obtain a suspension of the payment of one-third of the interest,
to which you are entitled for ten years, in order to avoid the ne-
cessity of burthening the community, or carrying the taxation
to objects which might be displeasing to them. And you cannot
wonder that a government so lately formed, and not without
considerable opposition, should be cautious in this respect.

But whether you will accept the terms offered to you is cer-
tainly left to your own choice. There is not a syllable in the
Law that obliges you to do it. On the contrary, there is in it an
express ratification of your former contracts ; and to remove all
possibility of future cavil about the true import or obligation, all
questions of discrimination and the like, new titles are offered
to you of the like import in substance with your old ones. And
your rights are thus established, and their meaning defined, so as
to render their future operation, under the sanction of the Con-
stitution, unequivocal. They are not only not violated, but if
possible they have received additional strength, and have become
still more inviolable.

So far is there from being any thing compulsory, in the acts
of the government in the case, that those of you, who do not
choose to subscribe to the new terms, are to receive during the time
allotted for determining upon them, exactly as much as those
who do subscribe. And the faith of the government remains
pledged to you to fulfil its engagements, which must be perform-
ed, as fast as its resources can be brought into action for the pur-
pose. Your only security before the late arrangement was the
faith of government. There were no funds pledged to you which
have been taken away. You have still the faith of government
upon a renewed assurance as your pledge, and while you are de-
liberating on the new proposals you are to receive a payment
on account.

You are therefore to decide according to your own judgment,
whether an acceptance of the new terms, under all their circum-

JEt. 33.] ADDRESS TO PUBLIC CREDITORS. 635

stances, are preferable or not to a dependence on the future re-
sources of the country for more. This is a question of prudent
calculation, which you are at liberty to determine as you please.

Whence it is evident, that whatever other objections may be
against the propriety of the provision which has been made, for
the public debt, the charge of a breach of contract is not well
founded.

The better to form a comparison between the terms proposed,
and those of your former contract, it may be well to recollect
that the latter will be satisfied by a provision, annually made, for
paying you six per cent. Whatever the policy of the govern-
ment may hereafter dictate, there is nothing in the existing con-
tract that calls for a permanent appropriation of funds. Such a
permanent appropriation, however, forms a part of the new loans,
and will be of the essence of the new contract.

These remarks are intended to satisfy you, that there is no
cause, from any thing that has happened, for a diminution, but
on the contrary much reason for an increase of your confidence
in the property you possess, as holders of the public debt.

I return to the subject of the value of your securities. Their
present price, if compared with that at which they were current
before the establishment of the new Constitution, will be deemed
to be high, and is as great as at this time could reasonably have
been expected ; but compared with their true value, and the so-
lidity of the footing on which they stand, is still far too low.
The rise which has already taken place is an earnest to you of
their probable future rise. Such of you who do not incline to be
permanent holders, will at least do well to postpone a sale till
after March, when the first payment of interest is to be made.
The effect of this on the price of securities must undoubtedly
be very favorable, and you may then calculate on a better
market.

The holders of State securities have still stronger reasons for
keeping those they have, the price of which, in most of the
States, is out of all proportion lower than that of the present se-
curities of the United States, and must, in all probability, un-
dergo a considerable change for the better, as soon as funds are

636 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 33.

actually appropriated for them, which is not now the case, but
which must of course be so at the ensuing session of December.
The present debt of the United States having been provided for
out of the duties on imposts and tonnage only, seems to leave no
doubt of the facility of devising the means of providing for the
amount which has been assumed of the State debts.

VINDICATION OF THE FUNDING SYSTEM.

NUMBER ONE.

1 1.

It was to have been foreseen, that though the virtuous part
of those who were opposed to the present Constitution of the
United States, while in deliberation before the people, would
yield to the evidence which experience would afford of its useful-
ness and safety, there were, of a certain character, opponents
who, as happens in all great political questions, would always re-
main incurably hostile to it; that in the course of its adminis-
tration, its greatest merits would be in the eyes of such men its
greatest blemishes, its most brilliant successes to them occasions
of bitter chagrin and envious detraction; its slightest mis-
managements subjects of malignant exaggeration; its most
trivial misfortunes the welcome topics of virulent accusation and
insidious misrepresentation.

With some men, the hardest thing to forgive is the demon-
stration of their errors, the manifestation that they are not infal-
lible. Mortified vanity is one of the most corroding emotions
of the human mind; one of the most unextinguishable sources
of animosity and hatred.

It was equally to have been foreseen, that personal disappoint-
ments would be likely to alienate from the government some in-
dividuals who had at first advocated its adoption, perhaps from
motives not the most patriotic or commendable, — that personal
rivalships and competitions would throw others into an op-

jEt. 34.] FUNDING SYSTEM VINDICATED. 637

position to its measures, without much regard to their intrinsic
merits or demerits, and that a third class would embrace the path
of opposition as the supposed road to popularity and preferment;
raising upon every colorable pretext the cry of danger to liberty ;
endeavoring to disseminate among the people false terrors and
ill-grounded alarms.

Phenomena like these have deformed the political horizon,
and testified the depravity of mankind in all countries and at
all times.

It was likewise to have been expected among the well-mean-
ing friends of the government, there would be a part competent
to the proper management of the affairs of the Union, who,
sensible from experience of the insufficiency of the former sys-
tem, gave their assent to the substitute offered to their choice,
rather from general impressions of the necessity of a change, than
from an accurate view of the necessary compass of the authorities
which ought to constitute it.

When they came to witness the exercise of those authorities
upon a scale more comprehensive than they had contemplated,
and to hear the incendiary comments of those who will ever be
on the watch for pretexts to brand the proceedings of the govern-
ment with imputations of usurpation and tyranny ; and the fac-
tious and indiscreet clamors of those who, in and out of the legis-
lature, with too much levity, torture the Constitution into objec-
tions to measures which they deem inexpedient; — it was to have
been expected, I say, that some such men might be carried away by
transient anxieties and apprehensions, and might for a moment
add weight to an opposition which could not fail to grow out of
other causes, and the real objects of which they would abhor.

There is yet another class of men, who, in all the stages of our
republican system, either from desperate circumstances, or irregu-
lar ambition, or a mixture of both, will labor incessantly to keep
the government in a troubled and unsettled state ; to sow dis-
quietudes in the minds of the people, and to promote confusion
and change. Every republic at all times has its Catilines and its
Caesars.

Men of this stamp, while in their hearts they scoff at the

638 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 34.

principles of liberty, while in their real characters they are arbi-
trary, persecuting, and intolerant, are in all their harangues and
professions the most zealous ; nay, if they are to be believed, the
only friends to liberty. Mercenary and corrupt themselves, they
are continually making a parade of their purity and disinterest-
edness, and heaping upon others charges of peculation and cor-
ruption. Extravagant and dissipated in their own affairs, they
are always prating about public economy, and railing at the gov-
ernment for its pretended profusion. Conscious that as long as
the confidence of the people shall be maintained in their tried
and faithful servants, in men of real integrity and patriotism,
their ambitious projects can never succeed, they leave no artifice
unessayed, they spare no pains to destroy that confidence, and
blacken the characters that stand in their way.

Convinced that as long as order and system in the public
affairs can be maintained, their schemes can never be realized,
they are constantly representing the means of that order and sys-
tem as chains forged for the people. Themselves the only plot-
ters and conspirators, they are for ever spreading tales of plots and
conspiracies; always talking of the republican cause, and mean-
ing nothing but the cause of themselves and their party ; virtue
and liberty constantly on their lips, fraud, usurpation, and
tyranny in their hearts.

There is yet another class of opponents to the government and
its administration, who are of too much consequence not to be
mentioned : a sect of political doctors ; a kind of Popes in gov-
ernment; standards of political orthodoxy, who brand with,
heresy all opinions but their own ; men of sublimated imagina-
tions and weak judgments ; pretenders to profound knowledge
yet ignorant of the most 'useful of all sciences — the science of
human nature ; men who dignify themselves with the appellation
of philosophers, yet are destitute of the first elements of true phi-
losophy ; lovers of paradoxes ; men who maintain expressly that
religion is not necessary to society, and very nearly that govern-
ment itself is a nuisance ; that priests and clergymen of all de-
scriptions are worse than useless. Such men, the ridicule of
any cause that they espouse, and the best witnesses to the good-

jEt. 34.] FUNDING SYSTEM VINDICATED. 639

ness of that which they oppose, have no small share in the
clamors which are raised, and in the dissatisfactions which are
excited.

While the real object of these clamors, with the persons most
active in propagating them, is opposition to the administration
of it ; while they are straining every nerve to render it odious,
they are profuse in their professions of attachment to it. To op-
pose avowedly the icork of the people would be too barefaced. It
would not accord with that system of treacherous flattery, which
is the usual engine of these pretended " friends," but real be-
trayers of the people.

Circumstances require that the mode of attack be changed.
The government is to be good, if not excellent, but its adminis-
tration is to be execrable, — detestable, — a mere sink of corrup-
tion ; a deep-laid plan to overturn the republican system of the
country.

Suspicions of the most flagitious prostitution and corruption
in office; of improper connections with brokers and speculators
to fleece the commmunity ; of the horrid depravity of promoting
wars, and the shedding of human blood, for*the sake of sharing
collusively the emoluments of lucrative contracts ; suspicions like
these, are, if possible, to be thrown upon men, the whole tenor
of whose lives gives the lie to them ; who, before they came into
office, were never either land-jobbers, or stock-jobbers, or job-
bers of any other kind ; who can appeal to their fellow-citizens of
every other party and description to attest, that their reputations
for probity are unsullied ; that their conduct in all pecuniary
concerns has been nicely correct, and even exemplarily disin-
terested ; who, it is notorious, have sacrified, and are sacrificing
the interests of their families to their public zeal ; who, whenever
the necessity of resisting the machinations of the enemies of the
public quiet will permit them to retire, will retire poorer
than they came into office, and will have to resume under nu-
merous disadvantages the pursuits which they before followed
under every advantage. Shame, where is thy blush ? If detrac-
tion so malignant as this can affront the public ear, Integrity,
where is thy shield — where thy reward — if the poisonous breath

640 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 34.

of an unprincipled cabal can pollute thy good name which thou
incessantly toiled to deserve.

People of America, can ye be deceived by arts like these ?
Will ye suffer yourselves to be cheated out of your confidence in
men who deserve it most ? Will ye be the dupes of hypocritical
pretenders?

Think for yourselves. Look around you. Consult your own
experience. If any of you have doubts, listen calmly and dispas-
sionately to the arguments and facts which, in the course of the
following numbers, shall be opposed to the suggestions which
would persuade you that the administration of your government
has been in the aggregate weak or wicked, or both.

NUMBER TWO.

Of all the measures of the government, that which has been
most bitterly inveighed against is the Funding System, contained
in the act making provision for the debt of the United States.
As well for this reason, as on account of its superior importance,
the objections which have been made to it are entitled to an ex-
amination in the first place.

It is a curious phenomenon in political history (not easy to
be paralleled), that a measure which has elevated the credit of
the country from a state of absolute prostration to a state of ex-
alted pre-eminence, should bring upon the authors of it obloquy
and reproach.

It is certainly what, in the ordinary course of human affairs,
they could not have anticipated. They are not here chargeable
with arrogance, if they indulged from it the hope of credit and
applause ; and if the clamors which have been raised have truly
proceeded, as the clamorers assure us, from patriotic motives, it
must be confessed that they have the additional merit of nov-
elty and singularity.

There must be something original in the passions as well as

JEr. 34.] FUNDING SYSTEM VINDICATED. 641

in the ideas of the sect to which they are attributable. It will
be hardly possible not to believe, that some mysterious work of
political regeneration has begun to make its way in the world,
and that all those who have not been the subjects of it are in a
state of pitiable darkness and error.

The two first points which, in considering the funding sys-
tem, present themselves to attention, are the existence and the
composition of the debt funded.

A person who, unacquainted with the fact, should learn the
history of our debt from the declamations with which certain
newspapers are perpetually charged, would be led to suppose,
that it is the mere creature of the present government for the pur-
pose of burthening the people with taxes, and producing an arti-
ficial and corrupt influence over them ; he would, at least, take it
for granted, that it had been contracted in the pursuit of some
wanton or vain project of ambition or glory ; he would scarcely
be able to conceive, that every part of it was the relict of a war
which had given independence, and preserved liberty to the
country; that the present government found it as it is, in point
of magnitude (except as to the diminutions made by itself), and
has done nothing more than to bring under a regular regimen
and provision what was before a scattered and heterogeneous
mass.

And yet this is the simple and exact state of the business.
The whole of the debt embraced by the provisions of the funding
system consisted of the unextinguished principal and arrears of
interest of the debt which had been contracted by the United
States in the course of the late war with Great Britain, and which
remained uncancelled, and the principal and arrears of interest of
the separate debts of the respective States contracted during the
same period, which remained outstanding and unsatisfied, relating
to services and supplies for carrying on the war. Nothing more
was done by that system, than to incorporate these two species
of debt into the mass, and to make for the whole one general,
comprehensive provision.

There is, therefore, no arithmetic, no logic, by which it can
be shown that the funding system has augmented the aggregate
F 41

642 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 34.

*lil . t The sum total is manifestly the same;

though the parts which were before divided arc now united.

There is, consequently, no color for an assertion, that the sys-
tem in question either created any new debt, or made any addi-
tion to the old.

And it follows, that the collective burthen upon the people
of the United States must have been as great wit/tout as with the
union of the different portions and descriptions of the debt. The
only difference can be, that without it that burthen would have
been otherwise distributed, and would have fallen with unequal
weight, instead of being equalty borne as it now is.

These conclusions which have been drawn respecting the
non-increase of the debt, proceed upon the presumption that
every part of the public debt, as well that of the States individu-
ally as that of the United States, was to have been honestly paid.

If there is any fallacy in this supposition, the inferences may
be erroneous, but the error would imply the disgrace of the
United States, or parts of them — a disgrace from which every
man of true honor and genuine patriotism will be happy to see
them rescued.

AV hen Ave hear the epithets, " vile matter, " " corrupt mass,"
bestowed upon the public debt, and the owners of it indiscrimi-
nate^ maligned as the harpies and vultures of the community,
there is ground to suspect that those who hold the language,
though they may not dare to avow it, contemplate a more summary
process for getting rid of debts than that of paying them. Charity
itself cannot avoid concluding from the language and conduct of
some men (and some of them of no inconsiderable importance),
that in their vocabularies creditoi* and enemy are synonjmious
terms, and that they have a laudable antipathy against every
man to whom they owe money, either as individuals or as mem-
bers of the society.

It has been said, that the sum of the debt to be ultimately
provided for has been artificially increased by the plan for the
settlement of accounts between the United States and individual
States. This point will most properly be the subject of a dis-
tinct examination, as the act which settles the accounts is a dis-

.'F.t. 34.] FUNDING SYSTEM VINDICATED. 643

tinct one from that which, establishes the funding system. It
will appear, upon examination, that there is no foundation for
the assertion, and, moreover, that the plan which has been adopted
by the present government for the settlement of the accounts is
essentially a recapitulation of that which was adopted under the
confederation, and which established principles which were not
only equitable in themselves, but could not have been reversed
without an infraction of the public faith.

NUMBER THREE.

My last number contained a concise and simple statement of
facts tending to show, that the public debt was neither created
nor increased by the funding system, and, consequently, that it
is not responsible either for the existence or the magnitude of the
debt.

It will be proper next to examine the allegations which Lave
been made of a contrary tendency.

In the first place, it is asserted, that the debt is greater than
it ought to be, because, from the state of depreciation in which
the government found it, a much less provision for it than that
which was made might have sufficed. A saving of nearly one-
half, it is said, might have been made by providing for it in the
hands of alienees, at least at 8s. or 10s. in the pound, who, having
come by it at a much less rate, would have been well compen-
sated by such a provision.

To a man who entertains correct notions of public faith, and
who feels as he ought to feel for the reputation and dignity of
the country, it is mortifying to reflect that there are partis
enough of such a doctrine to render it worth the while to combat
it. It is still more mortifying to know that in that class are
comprehended some men who are in other respects sober-minded
and upright, friends to order, and strenuous a Ivocates for the
rights of property.

644 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 34*

In reasoning upon all subjects, it is necessary to take, as a
point of departure, some principle in which reasonable and sound
minds will agree. Without this there can be no argument, no
conclusion, in moral or political more than in physical or mathe-
matical disquisitions.

The principle which shall be assumed here is this, that the
established rules of morality and justice are applicable to nations as
well as to individuals ; that the former as well as the latter are
bound to keep their promises ; to fulfil their engagements to respect the
rights of property which others have acquired under contracts with
them. Without this there is an end of all distinct ideas of right
or wrong, justice or injustice, in relation to society or govern-
ment. There can be no such thing as rights, no such thing as
property or liberty ; all the boasted advantages of a constitution
of government vanish into air. Every thing must float on
the variable and vague opinions of the governing party, of whom-
soever composed.

To this it may be answered, that the doctrine, as a general
one, is true, but that there are certain great cases which operate
as exceptions to the rule, and in which the public good may de-
mand and justify a departure from it.

It shall not be denied that there are such cases ; but as the
admission of them is one of the most common as well as the most
fruitful sources of error and abuse, it is of the greatest importance
that just ideas should be formed of their true nature, foundation
and extent. To minds which are either depraved or feeble, or
under the influence of any particular passion or prejudice, it is
enough that cases are only attended with some extraordinary cir-
cumstances to induce their being considered as among the excep-
tions. Convenience is with them a substitute for necessity, and
some temporary, partial advantage is an equivalent for a funda-
mental and permanent interest of society. We have too often
seen in the United States examples of this species of levity. The
treaties of the United States, the sacred rights of private property,
have been too frequently sported with, from a too great facility in
admitting exceptions to the maxims of public faith and the gen-
eral rules of property. A desire to escape from this evil was a

Mt. 34.] FUNDING SYSTEM VINDICATED. 645

principal cause of the union which took place among good men
to establish the national government ; and it behoved its friends
to have been particularly cautious how they set an example of
equal relaxation in the practice of that very government.

The characteristics of the only admissible exceptions to the
principle that has been assumed, are — 1st. Necessity. 2d.
There being some intrinsic and inherent quality in the thing
which is to constitute the exception, contrary to the social order
and to the permanent good of society.

Necessity is admitted in all moral reasoning as an exception
to general rules. It is of two kinds , as applied to nations —
where there is want of ability to perform a duty, and then it is
involuntary ; and where the general rule cannot be observed with-
out some manifest and great national calamity.

If from extraordinary circumstances a nation is disabled from
performing its stipulations, or its duty in any other respect, it is
then excusable on the score of inability. But the inability must
be a real, not a pretended one ; one that has been experimentally
ascertained, or that can be demonstrated to the satisfaction of all
honest and discerning men. And the deviation ought to be as
small as possible ; all that is practicable ought to be done.

A nation is alike excusable in certain extraordinary cases for
not observing a right in performing a duty, if the one or the
other would involve a manifest and great national calamity. But
here, also, an extreme case is intended ; the calamity to be avoid-
ed must not only be evident and considerable — it must be such
an one as is like to prove fatal to the nation, as threatens its ex-
istence, or at least its permanent welfare.

War, for instance, is almost always a national calamity, of a
serious kind ; but it ought often to be encountered in protec-
tion even of a part of the community injured or annoyed ; or in
performance of the condition of a defensive alliance with some
other nation.

But if such special circumstances exist in either case, that
the going to war would eminently endanger the existence
or permanent welfare of the nation, it may excusably be for-
borne.

646 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 34.

Of the second class of exceptions, the case of certain foedal
rights, which once oppressed all Europe, and still oppress too great
a part of it, may serve as an example ; rights which made abso-
lute slaves of a part of the community, and rendered the condi-
tion of the greatest proportion of the remainder not much more
eligible.

These rights, though involving that of property, being con-
trary to the social order, and to the permanent welfare of society,
were justifiably abolished in the instances, in which abolitions
have taken place, and may be abolished in all the remaining ves-
tiges.

Wherever, indeed, a right of property is infringed for the
general good, if the nature of the case admits of compensation
it ought to be made ; but if compensation be impracticable, that
impracticability ought not to be an obstacle to a clearly essential
reform.

In what has been said, the cases of exception have been laid
down as broad as they ought to be. They are cases of extremi-
ty— where there is a palpable necessity — where some great and
permanent national evil is to be avoided — where some great and
permanent national good is to be obtained. It must not be to
avoid a temporary burthen or inconvenience — to get rid of a par-
ticular, though a considerable evil, or to secure a partial ad-
vantage. A relaxation of this kind would tend to dissolve all
social obligations — to render all rights precarious, and to intro-
duce a general dissoluteness and corruption of morals.

A single glance will suffice to convince that the case of the
debt of the United States was not one of those cases which could
justify a clear infraction of the fundamental rules of good faith,
and a clear invasion of rights of property acquired under the
most unequivocal national stipulations.

If there was any doubt before, the real facility with which
a provision for the debt has been made removes it, a provision
which touches no internal source of revenue but the single
article of distilled spirits, and lays upon that a very moderate
duty.

But a history of the real state of the debt when it was taken

,Et. 34. j FUNDING SYSTEM VINDICATED. 64?

up by the government will put -the matter out of all doubt.
This shall constitute the subject of my next number.

NUMBER FOUR.

The debt proper, or the original debt of the United States, in
its primary sense, may be classed under four general heads ; 1st,
the old emissions of Continental money ; 2d, the Loan Office
debt, contracted for moneys lent to the government; 3d, the
Army debt, contracted for the pay and commutation of the army ;
4th, the debt of the five great Departments, as they are called in
the resolution of Congress, being for services and supplies in the
Marine Department, the Quartermaster's, Commissary's, Clothing,
and Hospital Departments.

Emanations from these were the registered debt, so denomi-
nated from new kinds of certificates issued by the Eegister of
the Treasury in lieu of the former evidences. Indents of inter-
est being a species of paper payable to bearer, which, by differ-
ent resolutions of Congress, were issued on account of arrears
of interest on the old debt. The new emission money is not
added to the enumeration, because it was issued upon funds of the
respective States, with only a guarantee of the United States, and
falls, perhaps, most properly, in the class of State debts.

Of this original debt, it appears by a statement of the Eegis-
ter of the Treasury, published in not less than i
in its first concoction, belonged to citizens of the States from
Pennsylvania to New Hampshire inclusively ; the remaining
belonging to States from Maryland to Georgia inclusively, in
nearly the following proportions :

to Maryland, to Virginia, to

North Carolina, to South Carolina, to

Georgia, The reasons of this state of things are

obvious. Until the the principal theatre of the

war had been in the States from Pennsylvania north; and after

648 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 34.

that period, to the close of it, the principal part of the enemy's
force remained stationary at New-York, which obliged to the
keeping up in the same quarter large bodies of troops till the
termination of the war.

The natural consequence of this state of things was, that a
very large proportion of the means for carrying on the war — men,
money, and other supplies — were drawn from the States compre-
hended in the first division. They indeed possessed greater com-
parative resources than the more southern States, and with only
the same degree of zeal could furnish more to the common cause.
Obvious causes always conspire to occasion larger aids to be
drawn from the vicinity of the war than from more distant
parts of the country, and the main dependence of the United
States being credit, a large debt was created in the scene from
which the principal supplies came.

The use of this statement of the original distribution of the
debt will appear hereafter.

A leading character of every part of the debt is, that it was
in its origin made alienable. It was payable to the holder, either
in capacity of assignee or bearer, far the greatest part of the lat-
ter description. The contract, therefore, was, in its very issue, a
contract between the government and the actual holder.

A considerable part of the debt was consequently alienated
by the first proprietors at different periods, from its commence-
ment down to the time of passing the funding act.

Bat this has been much exaggerated, both as to the quantity
alienated and as to the rates of alienation. The declamations on
the subject have constantly represented far the greatest part of
the debt in the hands of alienees, and have taken the lowest price
at which it ever was in the market as the common standard of
the alienation. The changes have been rung upon two shillings
and sixpence in the pound, in all the arguments which have ad-
vocated a violation of the rights of the alienees.

Neither the first nor the last supposition is true. As to the
first point, namely, the quantity of the debt alienated, there are
no documents by which it can be satisfactorily ascertained, which
o course give full scope to imagination.

jEt. 34.] FUNDING SYSTEM VINDICATED.
But there is an important fact which affords strong evidence
that the quantity has always been much less considerable than
has been supposed.

In the year the State of New- York passed a law per-

mitting the holders of Continental securities, to bring them in
and receive in exchange for them State securities upon certain
conditions, which were generally deemed for the advantage of
the holders to accept. The same arrangement embraced an ex-
change of old State securities for new.

In the event of this exchange, which was completed by the
, it appeared that about of the debt re-

mained in the hands of the original proprietors.
Alienations after this period. * *

It may be stated as a fact, that there always has prevailed in
the States north of New-York, a more firm confidence in an
eventual provision for the debt than existed in that State ; and
it may be inferred that the alienation was still less in those States
than in the State of New- York.

In Jersey and Pennsylvania, it is probable that the aliena-
tions were not more considerable in their degree than in New-
York. In Maryland they may be supposed to have been still
less, on account of that State having made a better provision for
its debt than any other, and having included in it Continental
securities in the hands of its own citizens by an exchange of cer-
tificates.

It is probable from information, though not certainly known,
that a more considerable alienation in proportion had taken place in
the States south of Maryland. But making all due allowance for
this, and taking into the account that the principal part of the debt
was originally, owned from Pennsylvania north, the probability
still is, that the progress of alienation has been much less rapid than
has been conjectured. Nothing is more natural than a mistake
on this point. The dealers in the debt in the principal cities,
appeared to be continually engaged in buying and selling large
sums ; and it has not been their fault generally, to underrate the
extent of their dealings. Thence it came to be imagined that
the whole debt, or the greatest part of it, was in the market ;

650 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [M-r.34.

whereas a small sum comparatively was sufficient to satisfy all
the appearances. Bandied incessantly from hand to hand, a few
hundred thousand dollars appeared like as many millions.

The best inquiries on the subject will lead to an opinion that
there never was, prior to the funding system, three millions of
dollars of floating debt in all the great stock markets of the
United States. And the whole sum which had been acquired by
foreigners, was about . From all which it is very questiona-
ble whether one-third of the debt in the hands of alienees at the
time when Congress began to deliberate concerning a provision
for it would not be an ample allowance.

Wit! i regard to the terms of alienation, they have varied from
20s. clown to 2s. 6d in the pound.

There are several considerable classes of alienees, who hold
the debt at full or high values :

I. Those who advanced moneys, or furnished supplies to pub-
lic officers upon loan-office certificates, issued to those officers in
their own names. An example of this exists in the cases of pur-
chases made during the war by public officers. Warrants from
the Treasury would frequently be drawn in their favor upon the
commissioners of loans, who would often furnish loan office certi-
ficates in their own names in payment of those warrants. For
these certificates the officers would sometimes procure the cur-
rent paper in exchange, and would transfer the certificates to
those who advanced the money. In other cases they would pay
for supplies in the certificates themselves, which they would in
like manner transfer. This is a very extensive case.

II. Those whose money has been placed in the funds by
trustees or agents, who took out certificates in their own names,
and afterwards assigned them to the true proprietors.

An instance of this was mentioned in the debates in Congress
on the subject of a discrimination between original and present
holders, and can be ascertained- by any one who will take the
pains to inquire. It was that of a Mr. Caldwell, a respectable cler-
gyman and zealous patriot in New Jersey, who acted for some
time during the war in the capacity of deputy quarter-master.
In that capacity he frequently had money to pay to individuals,

JEt. 35.] A X T 1 - 1) E P A MER. 6 5 1

which, at their desire, he would place in the loan-office for them,
take certificates in his own aame, and afterwards transfer them
to the persons whose money he had deposited. There arc like-
wise instances, not a few, of trustees and agents for absent per-
sons and minors, who placed the moneys of those whom they
represented in the loan-offices, took out certificates in their own
names, and afterwards transferred them to the parties entitled.

III. Those who, by laws of particular States, were compelled
to take certificates al the full value in payment of debts.

.V law of the State of New-York passed in the year
obliged all persons who had resided within the British lines dur-
ing the war, to receive, in satisfaction of their debts from those
who had been without the lines, certificates.

IV. Those who, at different periods, voluntarily received cer-
tificates in payment of debts. This, in some States, is a very ex-
tensive case. From the precarious situation in which all persons
were placed by the revolution, whose -property was merely per-
sonal, it was no uncommon thing for creditors to receive from
their debtors certificates in payment of debts ; and this was almost
always at high values.

u since the peace, compromises between creditors and
debtors, especially those whose fortunes had been injured by the
war, in which certificates were received at full value. — Ooetera
desunt.

Fur the Federal Gazette.

1702.
Russell, under an affected moderation, veils the most insidi-
ous and malignant d< ad slyly propagates the basest slan-
ders. This is evident from the following passage of his second
paper. After statin- a visionary and impracticable scheme for
avoiding a war with the Indians, he proceeds thus — " But, then,
how many officers had been wanting, how many lucrative con-
tracts would have been lost, and how great a waste of money

652 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mx. 35.

would have been prevented from flowing into the coffers of
those concerned in this business ?"

The plain inference from this is, that the public officer who
has an agency in making those contracts shares in the profit of
them, and that a part of the money which is expended flows into
his coffers. If this is not his meaning, then Eussell owes it to
himself and to justice to disavow the inference. If it is his
meaning, then he owes it to the public to answer the following
questions : —

Does he know by what public officer the contracts for sup-
plying the army are made ? Has he any ground to believe that
that officer ever advised a single step which has led to the pre-
sent Indian war ? Does he know what his official conduct has
been with regard to it ? Does he know what his private charac-
ter has been as to pecuniary affairs ? Is he acquainted with a
single fact, or even circumstance, which can justify a suspicion
that he has even been directly or indirectly interested in any
contract in which he has had an agency ?

Let him answer these questions, or otherwise assign the
grounds of his insinuation, or let him be despised as a wanton
calumniator.

Anti-defamer.

END OF VOL. VI.

OCT 2 7 1933