1 i^^

K NYPU RESEARCH LIBRARIES H

Hii

^^H

■ i.ir.- .-^-. 1,1,1,1 r

'7, \a .

'^•««*yA''*'

\ \ \ \

THE WOKKS

ALEXANDER HAMILTON;

COMPRISING

HIS CORRESPONDENCE,

AND
I

HIS POLITICAL AND OFFICIAL WRITINGS,

EXCLUSIVE OF THE FEDERALIST, ^"

CIVIL AND MILITARY.

PUBLISHED FROM THE ORIGINAL MANtJSCRIPTS DEPOSITED IN
THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE,

BY ORDER OF

THE JOINT LIBRARY COMMITTEE OF CONGRESS.

EDITED BY

JOHN a HAMILTON,

AUTHOR OF ■THE LJFE OF HAMILTON.''

NEW-YORK :
JOHN F. TROW, PRINTER, 49, 51 & 53 ANN-STREET.

M.DCCC.LI.

BB«nBO«. Ito- i 9 i i if

Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1850, by

JOHN C. HAMILTON,

In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States for the Southern

District of New- York.

iET. 37.J

CABINET PAPERS.

SECRETARY OF STATE TO MIFFLIN.
Draft by Hamilton.

Philadelphia, August 7th, 1794.

Sir:

The President of the United States has directed me to acknow-
ledge the receipt of your letter of the 5th instant, and to commu-
nicate to you the following reply :

In requesting an interview with you on the subject of the
recent disturbances in the western parts of Pennsylvania, the
President, besides the desire of manifesting a respectful attention
to the chief magistrate of a State immediately aifected, was influ-
enced by the hopes that a free conference, guided by a united
and comprehensive view of the Constitutions of the United States
and of Pennsylvania, and of the respective institutions, authori-
ties, rights, and duties of the two governments, would have as-
sisted him in forming more precise ideas of the nature of the
co-operation which could be established between them, and a bet-
ter judgment of the plan which it might be advisable for him to
pursue, in the execution of his trust in so important and delicate
a conjuncture. This having been his object, it is matter of some
regret, that the course which has been suggested by you, as pro-
per to be pursued, seems to have contemplated Pennsylvania in

E 1

2 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 37.

a light too separate and unconnected. The propriety of that
course, in most, if not in all respects, would be susceptible of lit-
tle question if there were no federal government, federal laws,
federal judiciary, or federal officers ; if important laws of the
United States, by a series of violent, as well as of artful expe-
dients, had not been frustrated in their execution for more than
three years ; if officers immediately charged with that execution,
after suffering much and repeated insult, abuse, personal ill-treat-
ment, and the destruction of property, had not been compelled
for safety to fly the places of their residences, and the scenes of
their official duties ; if the service of the processes of a court of
the United States had not been resisted ; the marshal of the dis-
trict made and detained for some time a prisoner, and compelled
for safety also to abandon the performance of his duty, and re-
turn by a circuitous route to the seat of government ; if, in fine,
a judge of the United States had not in due form of law notified
to the President, " that in the counties of Washington and Al-
leghany, in Pennsylvania, laws of the United States are opposed,
and the execution thereof obstructed by combinations too pow-
erful to be suppressed by the ordinary course of judicial proceed-
ings, or by the powers vested in the marshal of that district." It
is true, your excellency has remarked, that in the plan suggested
you have only spoken as the executive magistrate of Pennsyl-
vania, charged with a general superintendence and care, that the
laws of the commonwealth be fully executed, leaving it impli-
citly to the judgment of the President to choose, on such evi-
dence as he approves, the measures for discharging the analogous
trust which is confided to him in relation to the laws of the
Union. But it is impossible not to think that the current of the
observations in your letter, especially as to the consequences
which may result from the employment of coercive measures,
previous to the preliminary course which is indicated in it, may
be construed to imply a virtual disapprobation of that plan of
conduct, on the part of the general government, in the actual
stage of its affiiirs, which you acknowledge would be proper on
the part of the government of Pennsylvania, if arrived at a simi-
lar stage. Let it be assumed here (to be more particularly shown

Mt. 37.] CABINETPAPERS. 3

hereafter), that the government of the United States is now at
that point, where it is admitted, if the government of Pennsyl-
vania was, the employment of force by its authority would be
justifiable ; and let the following extracts be consulted for the
truth of the inference which has been just expressed. " Will not
the resort to force, inflame and cement the existing opposition ?
Will it not associate in a common resistance those who have
hitherto peaceably, as well as those who have riotously, expressed
their abhorrence of the excise ? Will it not collect and combine
every latent principle of discontent, arising from the supposed
oppressive operations of the federal judiciary, the obstruction of
the western navigation, and a variety of other local sources?
May not the magnitude of the opposition on the part of the ill-
disposed, or the dissatisfaction of a premature resort to arms on the
part of the well-disposed citizens of the State, eventually involve
the necessity of employing the militia of other States ? And the
accumulation of discontent which the jealousy engendered by
that movement may produce, who can calculate, or who will be
able to avert?"

These important questions naturally give birth to the follow-
ing serious reflections. The issues of human affairs are in the
hands of Providence. Those intrusted with them in society, have
no other sure guide than the sincere and faithful discharge of
their duty, according to the best of their judgments. In emer-
gencies, great and difficult, not to act with an energy propor-
tioned to their magnitude and pressure, is as dangerous as any
other conceivable course. In the present case, not to exert the
means which the laws prescribe for effectuating their own execu-
tion, would be to sacrifice those laws, and with them the Consti-
tution, the Government, the principles of social order, and the
bulwarks of private right and security. What worse can hap-
pen from the exertion of these means ?

If, as cannot be doubted, the great body of the citizens of the
United States are attached to the Constitution, which they have
established for the management of their common concerns — if
they are resolved to support their own authority in that of the
constitutional laws, against disorderly and violent combinations

4 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 37.

of comparatively small portions of the community — if they are
determined to protect each other in the enjoyment of security to
person and property — if they are decided to preserve the cha-
racter of republican government, by evincing that it has adequate
resources for maintaining the public order — if they are persuaded
that their safety and their welfare are materially connected with
the preservation of the Union, and consequently of a government
adequate to its exigencies ; in fine, if they are disposed to con-
tinue that state of respectability and prosperity which is now de-
servedly the admiration of mankind — the enterprise to be
accomplished, should a resort to force prove inevitable, though
disagreeable and painful, cannot be arduous or alarming.

If, in addition to these dispositions in the community at large,
the officers of the governments of the respective States, feeling
it to be not only a patriotic but a constitutional duty (inculcated
by the oath enjoined upon all the officers of a State, legislative,
executive, and judicial), to support in their several stations the
Constitution of the United States, shall be disposed, as occasion
may require (a thing as little to be doubted as the former), with
sincerity and good faith to co-operate with the government of the
United States, to second with all their influence and weight its
legal and necessary measures, by a legal and substantial concert,
then the enterprise to be accomplished can hardly even be deemed
difficult.

But if, contrary to the anticipations which are entertained of
these favorable dispositions, the great body of the people should
be found indifferent to the preservation of the government of the
Union, or insensible to the necessity of vigorous exertions to
repel the danger which threatens their most important interests,
or, if an unwillingness to encounter partial inconveniences, should
interfere with the discharge of what they owe to their permanent
welfare ; — or if, either yielding to the suggestions of particular
prejudices, or misled by the arts which may be employed to infuse
jealousy and discontent, they should suffer their zeal for the
support of public order to be relaxed by an unfavorable opinion
of the merits and tendency of the measures which may be
adopted ; if above all it were possible that any of the State gov-

^T. 37.] CABINET PAPERS. 5

ernments should, instead of prompting tlie exertions of the
citizens, assist directly or indirectly in damping their ardor by
giving a wrong bias to their judgment — or by disseminating dis-
satisfaction with the proceedings of the general government — or
should counteract the success of those proceedings by any sinister
influence whatever — then, indeed, no one can calculate, or may
be able to avert the fatal evils with which such a state of things
would be pregnant. Then, indeed, the foundations of our politi-
cal happiness may be deeply shaken, if not altogether overturned.

The President, however, can suppose none of these things.
He cherishes an unqualified confidence in the virtue and good
sense of the people, in the integrity and patriotism of the officers
of the State governments, and he counts absolutely on the same
affectionate support, which he has experienced upon all former
occasions, and which he is conscious that the goodness of his
intentions now, not less than heretofore, merits.

It has been promised to show more particularly hereafter, that
the government of the United States is now at that point where,
it is confessed, if the State government was, the employment of
force on its part would be justifiable. This promise remains to
be fulfilled.

The facts already noted establish the conclusion ; but to ren-
der it palpable, it will be of use to apply them to the positions
which 3^our excellency has been pleased to lay down.

You admit, that as the offences committed respect the State,
the military power of the government ought to be employed,
when its judiciary authority, after a fair experiment, had proved
incompetent to enforce obedience or to punish infractions of the
law ; that if the strength and audacity of a lawless combination
shall baffle and destroy the efforts of the judiciary authority, to
recover a penalty or inflict a punishment, that authority may
constitutionally claim the auxiliary intervention of the military
power— that in the last resort, at the requisition and as an auxiliary
of the civil authority, the military force of the State would be
called forth. And you declare that the circumstances of the
case evidently require a firm and energetic conduct on the part,
both of the State and General Government.

6 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [iEx. 37.

For more than tliree years, as already observed, certain laws
of the United States have been obstructed in their execution by
disorderly combinations. Not only officers, whose immediate
duty it was to carry them into eifect, have suffered violent per-
sonal outrage and injury, and destruction of property, at differ-
ent times, but similar persecution has been extended to private
citizens, who have aided, countenanced, or only complied with
the laws. The violences committed have been so frequent, and
such in their degree as to have been matters of general notoriety
and alarm — and it may be added that they have been abun-
dantly within the knowledge and under the notice of the judges
and magistrates of Pennsylvania, of superior as well as inferior
jurisdiction. If in particular instances they have been punished
by the exertions of the magistrates, it is at least certain that their
efforts have been in the main ineffectual. The spirit has con-
tinued, and, with some intervals of relaxation, has been progres-
sive, manifesting itself in reiterated excesses. The judiciary
authority of the United States has also, prior to the attempt
which preceded the late crisis, made some fruitless efforts. Un-
der a former marshal, an officer sent to execute process was
deterred from it by the manifest danger of proceeding. These
particulars serve to explain the extent, obstinacy and inveteracy
of the evil.

But the facts which immediately decide the complexion of
the existing crisis are these : Numerous delinquencies existed
with regard to a compliance with the laws laying duties on
spirits distilled within the United States and upon stills^ An
armed banditti, in disguise, had recently gone to the house of an
officer of the revenue, in the night, attacked it, broken open the
doors, and, by menaces of instant death, enforced by pistols pre-
sented at him, had compelled a surrender of his commission and
books of office. Cotemporary acts of violence had been perpe-
trated in other quarters. Processes issued out of a court of the
United States, to recover the penalties incident to a non-compli-
ance with the laws, and to bring to punishment the violent in-
fractors of them, in the above mentioned case, against two of
whom indictments had been found. The marshal of the dis-

^T. 37.] CABINET PAPERS, 7

trict went in person to execute tliese processes. In the course
of his duty he was actually fired upon, on the high road, by
a body of armed men. Shortly after, other bodies of armed
men (in the last instance amounting to several hundred per-
sons) repeatedly attacked the house of the inspector of the
revenue, with the declared intention of compelling him to re-
nounce his office, and of obstructing the execution of the laws.
One of these bodies of armed men made prisoner the marshal of
the district, put him in jeopardy of his life, and did not release
him till, for safety and to obtain his liberty, he engaged to for-
bear the further execution of the processes with which he was
charged. In consequence of further requisitions and menaces
of the insurgents, the marshal, together with the inspector
of the revenue, have been since under the necessity of flying,
secretly and by a circuitous route, from the scene of these trans-
actions, towards the seat of government. An associate justice,
pursuant to the provisions of the laws for that purpose, has, in
the manner already stated, officially notified the President of the
existence of combinations, in two of the counties of this State,
to obstruct the execution of the laws, too powerful to be sup-
pressed by the judiciary authority, or by the powers of the
marshal.

Thus, then, is it unequivocally and in due form ascertained,
in reference to the government of the United States, that the
judiciary authority, after a fair and fall experiment, has proved
incompetent to enforce obedience to, or to punish infractions of,
the laws ; that the strength and audacity of certain lawless com-
binations have baffled and destroyed the efforts of the judiciary
authority to recover j)enalties or inflict punishment; and that
this authority, by a regular notification of this state of things,
has, in the last resort, as an auxiliary of the civil authority,
claimed the intervention of the military power of the United
States. It results, from these facts, that the case exists when —
according to the positions advanced by your excellency, in refer-
ence to the State government — when the military power may,
with due regard to all the requisite cautions, be rightfully inter-
posed ; and that the interposition of this power is called for, not

8 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 37.

only by principles of a firm and energetic conduct on the part of
the general government, but by the indispensable duty which
the Constitution and the laws prescribe to the Executive of the
United States. In this conclusion, your excellenc3'-'s discern-
ment, on mature reflection, cannot, it is presumed, fail to acqui-
esce ; nor can it refuse its concurrence in the opinion which
the President entertains, that he may reasonably expect, when
called for, the zealous co-operation of the militia of Pennsylva-
nia ; that as citizens, friends to law and order, they may com-
ply with the call, without any thing that can properly be de-
nominated "a passive obedience to the mandates of govern-
ment;" and that, as freemen, judging rightly of the cause and
nature of the service proposed to them, they will feel them-
selves under the most sacred of obligations to accept and to per-
form it with alacrity. The theory of our political institutions
knows no difference between the obligations of our citizens, in
such a case, whether it relate to the government of this Union
or of a State ; and it is hoped and confided, that a difference will
be as little known to their affections or opinions.

Your excellency, it is also presumed, will as little doubt, on
the like mature reflection, that in such a case the President
could not, without an abdication of the undoubted rights and
authorities of the United States, and of his duty, postpone the
measures for which the laws of the United States provide, to a
previous experiment of the plan, which is delineated in your
letter.

The people of the United States have established a govern-
ment for the management of their general interests ; they have
instituted executive organs for administering that government ;
and their representatives have established the rules by which
these organs are to act. When their authority in that of their
government is attacked, by lawless combinations of the citizens
of part of a State, they could never be expected to approve that
the care of vindicating their authority, of enforcing their laws,
should be transferred from the ofiicers of their own government
to those of a State, and this to wait the issue of a process so un-
determinate in its duration as that which it is proposed to pur-

^T. 37.] CABINET PAPERS. 9

sue ; compreliending a further and full experiment of tlie judici-
ary authority of the State, a proclamation "to declare the
sentiments of its government, announce a determination to
prosecute and punish offenders, and to exhort the citizens at
large to pursue a peaceable and patriotic conduct ;" the sending
of commissioners " to address those who have embarked in the
present combinations upon the lawless nature and ruinous tenden-
cy of their proceedings ; to inculcate the necessity of an immediate
return to the duty which they owe their country ; and to prom-
ise, as far as the State is concerned, forgiveness of their past
transactions, upon receiving a satisfactory assurance that, in
future, they will submit to the laws ;" and, finally, a call of the
legislature of Pennsylvania, " that the ultimate means of subdu-
ing the spirit of insurrection, and of restoring tranquillity and
order, may be prescribed by their wisdom and authority."

If there were no other objection to a transfer of this kind, the
very important difference which is supposed to exist in the na-
ture and consequences of the offences that have been committed,
in the contemplation of the laws of the United States and those
of Pennsylvania, would alone be a very serious obstacle. The
paramount considerations which forbid an acquiescence in this
course of proceeding, render it unnecessary to discuss the proba-
bility of its success ; else it might have been proper to test the
considerations which have been mentioned as a ground of hope,
by the inquiry, what was the precise extent of the success of
past experiments, and especially whether the execution of the
revenue laws of Pennsylvania within the scene in question was
truly and effectually accomplished by them, or whether they did
not rather terminate in a tacit compromise, by which appear-
ances only were saved?

You are already, sir, advised that the President, yielding to the
impressions which have been stated, has determined to take mea-
sures for calHng forth the militia; and that these measures con-
template the assembling of a body of between twelve and thirteen
thousand men, from Pennsylvania and the neighboring States of
Virginia, Maryland, and New Jersey. The recourse thus early to
the militia of the neighboring States, prevails from a probability

10 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 37.

of tlie insufficiency of that of Pennsylvania alone to accomplish
the object ; your excellency having, in your conference with the
President, confirmed the conclusion which was deducible from
the known local and other circumstances of the State, by the
frank and express declaration which you made of your convic-
tion of that insufficiency in reference to the number which could
be expected to be drawn forth for the purpose.

But, while the President has conceived himself to be under
an indispensable obligation to prepare for that eventual resort, he
has still consulted the sentiment of regret which he expressed to
you, at the possible necessity of an appeal to arms ; and to avert
it, if practicable, as well as to manifest his attention to the prin-
ciple, that "a firm and energetic conduct does not preclude the
exercise of a prudent and humane policy," he has (as you have
been also advised) concluded upon the measure of sending him-
self commissioners to the discontented counties, to make one
more experiment of a conciliatory appeal to the reason, virtue
and patriotism of their inhabitants ; and has also signified to you
how agreeable would be to him your co-operation in the same
expedient, which you have been pleased to afford. It can
scarcely be requisite to add, that there is nothing he has more at
heart than that the issue of this experiment, by establishing the
authority of the laws, may preclude the always calamitous neces-
sity of an appeal to arms. It would plant a thorn in the re-
mainder of his path through life, to have been obliged to employ
force against fellow-citizens, for giving solidity and permanency
to blessings which it has been his greatest happiness to co-operate
with them in procuring for a much-loved country.

The President receives with much pleasure the assurance you
have repeated to him, that whatever requisition he may make,
whatever duty he may impose, in pursuance of his constitutional
and legal powers, will, on your part, be promptly undertaken and
faithfully discharged ; and acknowledging, as an earnest of this,
and even more, the measures of co-operation which you are pur-
suing, he assures you, in return, that he relies fully on the most
cordial aid and support from you in every way which the Con-
stitutions of the United States and of Pennsylvania shall au-
thorize, and present or future exigencies may require.

^T. 37.] CABINET PAPERS. 11

And he requests that you will construe, with a reference to
this assurance of his confidence, whatever remarks may have
been made in the course of this reply to your letter, if it shall
have happened that any of them have erred from a misconcep-
tion of the sentiments and views which you may have meant to
communicate.

With perfect respect and esteem, I have the honer to be, &c.,

Edmund Eandolph,

Secretary of State.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

August 12, 1794.

The Secretary of the Treasury presents his respects to the
President, and sends him two letters which were received last
night from Pittsburgh.

Would it not be advisable to put the garrison of Fort Frank-
lin in the power of Major Butler, so that if he deems it advisable
he may draw a part of it to his aid ?

An attack from the Indians appears at present improbable,
and an attack from the insurgents probable enough.

The bearer of the letters waits orders to return. Will the
President suggest any thing ?

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Germantown, August 12, 1794.
To the Secretary of the Treasury {acting for the Secretary of War).

Your letter of the 12th did not get to my hands until my
return from Philadelphia about an hour ago.

The letters from Majors Butler and Baif, make it necessary
in my opinion, to vest discretionary orders with the former, to

12 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 37.

reinforce the garrison at Pittsburgh with as many men from Fort

Franklin, as can be drawn from it without hazarding that post

too much ; provided the hazard (on account of the insurgents)

may not be too great for the proposed advantage of the measure.

I sent you through the Secretary of State, two letters (of the

14th and 16th ult.) with inclosures from Gov. Blount, which

you will consider and report on.

Geo. Washington.

HAMILTON TO CRA-IG.

Philadelphia, August 13, 1794.
Sie::

In consequence of an arrangement of the Secretary of "War,
who is absent, your letter of the 8d instant has been communi-
cated to me. It is satisfactory to receive exact intelligence of
the movements of the insurgents. Your care of the interest con-
fided to you is in every event depended upon according to cir-
cumstances. The keeping the arms and stores out of the hands
of the insurgents, is a matter of great importance. It is lioped
that you loill personally^ in the worst issue of things^ find safety in the
fort. The friends of government may depend that it will not be
wanting to its duty and interest upon this occasion. And can
there be any doubt of the sufficiency of its means ?
With much esteem, I am, &c.,

Alexander Hamilton,

For the Secretary at War.

JAY TO HAMILTON.

London, 16th August, 1794,

Dear Sir :

I am happy to find, by a New- York paper, that the result of
the late inquiry into your official conduct, is perfectly consistent

JEt. 37.]

CABINflT PAPERS. 13

with the expectations of your friends. It is there represented as
being voluminous, and in a variety of respects interesting. Be
so good as to send me a copy. I wrote to you lately a confiden-
tial letter, under cover to the President ; my dispatches to Mr.
Kandolph, were under the same cover. I presumed that, if the
vessel should be examined by some rude privateer, more re-
spect would be paid to a letter directed to the President, than to
others.

Nothing very important has since occurred ; things are in a
train that looks promising ; but the issue is of course uncertain.
The resolutions from Kentucky and North Carolina are here,
and make disagreeable impressions. Incivilities as often produce
resentment as injuries do.

Affairs in Europe wear a serious aspect. The French conti-
nue successful, and the English decided. It is thought the Dutch
will resign to their fate without very strenuous opposition. Ge-
neva is undergoing another revolution. News of Robespierre's
violent death has arrived, and gains credit. If true, the import-
ance of it to France or the allies cannot yet be calculated.

Events have hitherto been more common than influential.

Yours sincerely.

HAMILTON TO "WASHINGTON.

Treasury Department, Aug. 16, 1794.

Sir:

It appears probable that advantages will result from giving
to the citizens at large information on the subject of the disturb-
ances which exist in the western part of Pennsylvania.

With this view, if no objection to the measure should occur
to you, I would cause a publication to be made of the report
which I had the honor to address to you, dated the 5th instant.
"With the most perfect respect, &c.

14 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [tEt. 37.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Philadelphia, Aug. 18, 1794.

The Secretary of the Treasury submits to the President the
draft of a letter on the subject of the proscribed privateers.
Would it not be advisable to communicate the matter to the
French Minister, and to request his co-operation in causing our
ports to be no longer affronted by those vessels ?

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

August 21, 1794.

The Secretary of the Treasury presents his respects to the
President. The letter written to the President on the 16th, res-
pecting the publication of the report of the 5th, was written at
the Secretary of State's office, where Mr. H. expected a copy of
it had been taken previous to its delivery. But when Mr. H.
sent to inquire for a copy, in order to the publication of it, he
found none had been taken ; which, it being then too late to ob-
tain a copy in time from the President, left him the dilemma,
either of suftering the report to go out without the letters, or to
draft one as a substitute for that which had been sent. The latter
appeared to him to be most likely to be agreeable to the President,
and he drew one accordingly, a copy of which appears in Dunlap's
paper of to-day, corresponding with the inclosed original, which
the President will find perfectly the same in substance with the
former.

Another circumstance may require explanation. The letters
follow, instead of preceding the report. This happened from
the report having been immediately sent, to promote dispatch,
and the President's answer not having been received till the day
following, so that it went to the jorinter too late for insertion in
the first instance without too great a derangement of his types.

^T. 37.] CABINET PAPERS. 15

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Germantown, August 21, 1794.

Sir:

To your note of this date, in behalf of the Department of
War, asking my opinion or direction respecting the advisableness
of sending, in the existing circumstances of the western counties
of Pennsylvania, two months' pay to the army under the imme-
diate orders of General Wayne, I answer, that under my present
impressions the measure had better be delayed, at least until the
commissioners, who were sent into those counties, make their
report. It certainly would, from all the information that has
been received from that quarter, be too hazardous to send a sum
of money by the way of Pittsburgh, through counties that are in
open rebellion; and besides, the circuitousness of the route
through what is called the Wilderness, and the length of time
required to send it by a messenger that way, there would be, in
my opinion, no small risk in the attempt. But as I shall be in
the city to-morrow, I will converse with you on the subject
I am, &c.

HAMILTON TO CRAIG.

War Department, Aug. 25, ITQ-i.

Sir:

Your letter of the 17th instant to the Secretary of War has
been received and duly attended to.

The suggestions respecting additional measures of defence
have been considered ; but the danger of the means falling into
the hands of the insurgents appears at present an objection.

It is hoped that every thing at Pittsburgh, or Avhich shall
come there, not necessary to the post itself, has been forwarded
down the river, and will continue to be so, as long and as fast as

16 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 31

it can be done with safety. The friends of government at Pitts-
burgh ought to rally their confidence, and if necessary, manifest
it by acts. They cannot surely doubt the power of the United
States to uphold the authority of the laws ; and they may be as-
sured, that the necessity of doing it, towards preserving the very
existence of government, so directly attacked, will dictate and
produce a most vigorous and persevering effort, in which the
known good sense and love of order of the quiet body of the
people, and all the information hitherto received of their senti-
ments and feelings with regard to the present emergency, author-
ize a full expectation of their hearty co-operation.

SECEETABY OF STATE TO MIFFLIN.
Draft by Hamilton.

Philadelphia, August 30th, 1794.

Sie:

I am directed by the President to acknowledge the receipt on
the 17th of your excellency's letter, dated the 12th instant.

The President feels with you the force of the motives which
render undesirable an extension of correspondence on the subject
in question. But the case being truly one of great importanc
and delicacy, these motives must yield in a degree to the propriety
and utility of giving precision to every part of the transaction,
and guarding effectually against ultimate misapprehension.

To this end it is deemed advisable, in the first place, to state
some facts, which either do not appear, or are conceived not to
have assumed an accurate shape in your excellency's letter.
They are these :

1. You were informed at the conference that all the informa-
tion which had been received had been laid before an associate
justice, in order that he might consider and determine whether
such a case as is contemplated by the second section of the actj

iET.37.] CABINET PAPERS. 17

which provides for calling forth the militia to execute the laws of
the Union, suppress insurrections and repel invasions, had oc-
curred ; that is, whether combinations existed too powerful to be
suppressed by the ordinary course of judicial proceedings, or by
the powers vested in the marshal by that act ; in which case the
President is authorized to call forth the militia to suppress the
combinations and to cause the laws to be duly executed.

2. The idea of a preliminary proceeding by you was pointed
to an eventual co-operation with the Executive of the United
States, in such plan as, upon mature deliberation, should be
deemed advisable, in conformity with the laws of the Union.
The inquiry was particularly directed towards the possibility of
some previous accessory step in relation to the militia, to expedite
the calling them forth if an acceleration should be judged expe-
dient and proper, and if any delay on the score of evidence
should attend the notification from a judge, which the laws make
the condition of the power of the President to require the aid of
the militia, and turned more especially upon the point whether
the law of Pennsylvania, of the 22d September, 1783, was or
was not still in force. The question empha,tically was : Has the
Executive of Pennsylvania power to put the militia in motion,
previous to a requisition from the President, under the laws of
the Union, if it shall be thought advisable so to do ? Indeed, it
seems to be admitted by one part of your letter, that the prelimi-
nary measure contemplated did turn on this question, and with
,^ particular eye to the authority and existence of the act just
mentioned,

3. The information contained in the papers, read at the con-
ference, besides the violence offered to the marshal, while in
company with the inspector of the revenue, established that the
marshal had been afterwards made prisoner by the insurgents,
put in jeopardy of his life, had been obliged to obtain safety and
liberty by a promise, guaranteed by Colonel Presby Neville, that
he would serve no other process on the west side of the Allegany
mountains ; that, in addition to this, a deputation of the insur-
gents had gone to Pittsburgh, to demand of the marshal a surren-
der of the processes in his possession, under the intimation that

E 2

18 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 37.

it would satisfy the people and add to his safety; which necessarily
implied that he would be in danger of further violence without
such a surrender. That under the influence of this menace, he
had found it necessary to seek security by taking, secretly, and in
the night, a circuitous route.

This recapitulation is not made to invalidate the explanation
offered in your last letter of the view of the subject, which you
assert to have led to the suggestions contained in your first, and
of the sense which you wish to be received as that of the obser-
vations accompanying those suggestions. It is intended solely
to manifest that it was natural for the President to regard your
communication of the 5th instant, in the light under which it is
presented in the reply to it.

For having informed you that the matter was before an asso-
ciate justice, with a view to the law of the United States, which
has been mentioned, and having pointed out what was said
respecting a preliminary proceeding on your part to a call of the
militia under the authority of a state law, by anticipation of a
requisition from the general government, and in co-operation
with an eventual plan to be founded upon the laws of the Union,
it was not natural to expect that you would have presented a
plan of conduct entirely on the basis of the State government,
even to the extent of resorting to the legislature of Pennsylva-
nia, after its judiciary had proved incompetent "to prescribe by
their wisdom and authority the means of subduing the spirit of
insurrection and of restoring tranquillity and order," a plan which,
being incompatible with the course marked out in the laws of
the United States, evidently could not have been acceded to
without a suspension, for along and indefinite period, of the move-
ments of the federal Executive pursuant to those laws. The
repugnancy and incompatibility of the two modes of proceeding
at the same time cannot, it is presumed, be made a question.

Was it extraordinary, then, that the plan suggested should
have been unexpected, and that it should even have been thought
liable to the observation of having contemplated Pennsylvania
in a light too separate and unconnected ?

The propriety of the remark, " that it was impossible not to

^T. 37.] CABINET PAPERS. 19

think that the current of the observations in your letter might
be construed to imply a virtual disapprobation of that plan of
conduct on the part of the government of Pennsylvania, if arrived
at a similar stage," must be referred to the general tenor and
complexion of those observations, and to the inference they were
naturally calculated to inculcate. If this inference was, that
under the known circumstances of the case, the employment of
force to suppress the insurrection was improper, without a long
train of preparatory expedients ; and if, in fact, the government
of the United States (which has not been controverted) was at
that point where it was admitted that the government of Penn-
sylvania being arrived the resort to force on its part would be
proper, the impression which was made could not have been
effaced by the consideration that the forms of referring what
concerned the government of the Union to the judgment of its
own Executive, were carefully observed. There was no diffi-
culty in reconciling the intimation of an opinion unfavorable to
a particular course of proceeding with an explicit reference of
the subject (officially speaking) to the judgment of the officer
charged by the Constitution to decide, and with a sincere recog-
nition of the subjection of the individual authority of the State
to the national jurisdiction of the Union.

The disavowal by your excellency of an intention to sanc-
tion the inference, which was drawn, renders what has been said
a mere explanation of the cause of that inference, and of the im-
pressions which it at first made.

It would be foreign to the object of this letter to discuss the
various observations, which have been adduced to obviate a mis-
apprehension of your views, and to maintain the propriety of
the course pursued in your first communication. It is far more
pleasing to the President to understand you in the sense you de-
sire, and to conclude that no opinion has been indicated by you
inconsistent with that which he has entertained of the state of'
things and of his duty in relation to it. And he remarks, with
satisfaction, the effect which subsequent information is supposed
to be calculated to produce favoring an approximation of sen-
timents.

20 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 37.

But there are a few miscellaneous points, wliicb, more efFec-
tually to prevent misconceptions any where, seem to demand a
onrsory notice.

You observe that the President had already determined to ex-
ercise his legal powers in drafting a competent force of the mili-
tia. At the point of time to which you are understood to refer,
namely, that of the conference, the President had no legal power
to call forth the militia. No judge had yet pronounced that a
case justifying the exercise of that power existed. You must be
sensible, sir, that all idea of your calling out the militia by your
authority, was referred to a state of things antecedent to the lawful
capacity of the President to do it by his own authority ; and when
he had once determined upon the call, pursuant to his legal pow-
ers, it were absurd to have proposed to you a separate and uncon-
nected call. How, too, it might be asked, could such a determi-
nation, if it had been made, and was known to you, have com-
ported with the plan suggested in your letter, which presupposes
that the employment of force had not already been determined
upon ?

This passage of your letter is, therefore, considered to mean
only that the President had manifested an opinion predicated
upon the event of such a notification from a judge as the law
prescribes, that the nature of the case was such as would proba-
b)ly require the employment of force. You will also, it is be-
lieved, recollect that he had not at the time finally determined
upon any thing, and that the conference ended with referring
the whole subject to further consideration.

You say, that if you had undertaken not only to comply
promptly with the President's requisition, but to embody a dis-
tinct corps for the same service, a useless expense would have
been incurred by the State, an unnecessary burden would have
been imposed on the citizens, and embarrassment and confusion
would probably have been introduced instead of system and co-
operation. But hath were never expected. Your embodying the
militia independent of a requisition from the President, was
never thought of, except as a preliminary and auxiliary step.
Had it taken place when the requisition came, the corps em-

^T. 37.]

CABINET PAPERS. 21

bodied would have been readj towards a compliance with it, and
no one of the inconveniences suggested could possibly have arisen.

You say, in another place, that you " were called upon to act,
not in conformity to a positive law, but in compliance with the
duty which is supposed to result from the nature and constitu-
tion of the executive office." It is conceived that it would have
been more correct to have said, " you were called upon to be con-
sulted whether you had power in the given case to call forth
the militia, without a previous requisition from the general gov-
ernment." The supposition that you might possess this power
was referred to a law of Pennsylvania, which appeared, on ex-
amination, to have been repealed. A gentleman who accompa-
nied you thought that the power, after a due notification of the
incompetency of the judiciary, might be deduced from the nature
and constitution of the executive office.

It has appeared to your excellency fit and expedient to ani-
madvert upon the nature of the evidence produced at the confer-
ence, and to express some doubts which had occurred to your
mind concerning it.

As the laws of the United States have referred the evidence
in such cases to the judgment of a district judge, or associate
justice, and, foreseeing that circumstances so peculiar might arise
as to render rules relating to the ordinary and peaceable state of
society inapplicable, have forborne to prescribe any, leaving it
to the understanding and conscience of the judge, upon his re-
sponsibility, to pronounce what kind and degree of evidence
should suffice, the President would not sanction a discussion of
the standard or measure by which evidence in those cases ought
to be governed. He would restrain himself by the reflection
that this appertains to the province of another, and that he might
rely as a guide upon the decision which should be made by the
proper organ of the laws for that purpose.

But it may be no deviation from this rule to notice to you
that the facts stated in the beginning of this letter, under the
third head, appear to have been overlooked in your survey of
the evidence, while they seem to be far from immaterial to a just
estimate of it.

22 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [tEt. 37.

You remark that " when you found that the marshal had,
without molestation, executed his office in the county of Fayette,
that he never was insulted or opposed till he acted in company
with General Neville, and that the virulence of the rioters was
directly manifested against the person and property of the latter
gentleman, and only incidentally against the person of the for-
mer, you thought there was ground yet to suppose that a spirit
of opposition to the officers employed under the excise law, and
not a spirit of opposition to the officers employed in the administration
of justice^ was the immediate source of the outrages which are
deprecated."

It is natural to inquire how this supposition could consist
with the additional facts which appeared by the same evidence,
namely, that the marshal having been afterwards made prisoner
by the rioters, had been compelled, for obtaining safety and
liberty, to promise to execute no more processes within the dis-
contented scene ; and that subsequently again to this, in conse-
quence of a deputation of the rioters deliberately sent to demand
a surrender of the processes in his possession, enforced by a
threat, he had found it necessary to seek security in withdrawing
by a secret and circuitous route; did not these circumstances
unequivocally denote that officers employed in the administration
of justice were as much objects of opposition as those employed
in the execution of the particular laws, and that the rioters were
at least consistent in their plan ?

It must needs be, that these facts escaped your excellency's
attention, else they are too material to have been omit-
ted in your review of the evidence, and too conclusive not
to have set aside the supposition which you entertained, and
which seemed to have had so great a share in your general
view of the subject.

There remains only one point on which your excellency will
be longer detained — a point, indeed, of great importance, and
consequently demands serious and careful reflection. It is the
opinion you so emphatically express, that the mere dispersion of
the insurgents is the sole object for which the militia can be

JEt. 37.]

CABINET PAPERS. 23

called out, or kept in service after they may liave been called
out.

The President reserves to the last moment the consideration
and decision of this point.

But there are arguments weighing heavily against the opinion
you have expressed, which, in the mean time, are offered to your
candid consideration.

The Constitution of the United States (article 1, section 8)
empowers Congress " to provide for calling forth the militia to
execute the laws of the Union, suppress insurrections, and repel
invasions," evidently from the wording and distribution of the
sentence, contemplating the execution of the laws of the Union,
as a thing distinct from the suppression of insurrections.

The act of May 2, 1792, for carrying the provision of the
Constitution into effect, adopts for its title the very words of the
Constitution, being " An act to provide for calling forth the
militia to execute the laws of the Union, suppress insurrections,
and repel invasions," continuing the constitutional distinction.

The first section of the act provides for the cases of invasion,
and of insurrection, confining the latter to the case of insurrec-
tion against the government of a State. The second section pro-
vides for the case of the execution of the laws being obstructed
by combinations too powerful to be suppressed by the ordinary
course of judicial proceedings, or by the powers vested in the
marshals.

The words are these : " Whenever the laws of the United
States shall be opposed, or the execution thereof obstructed, in
any State, by combinations too powerful to be suppressed by the
ordinary course of judicial proceedings, or by the powers vested
in the marshals by this act, the same being notified to the Presi-
dent of the United States by an associate judge, or the district
judge, it shall be lawful for the President of the United States to
call forth the militia of such State to suppress such combinations^
and to cause the laws to he duly executed:' Then follows a provi-
sion for calling forth the militia of other States.

The terras of this section appear to contemplate and describe
something that may be less than insurrection. " The combina-

24 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 37.

tions" mentioned may indeed amount to insurrections, but it is
conceivable that tliey may stop at associations not to comply
with the law, supported by riots, assassinations, and murders,
and by a general spirit in a part of the community, which may
baffle the ordinary judiciary means, with no other aid than the
posse comitatus, magistrates and officers in the execution of their
duty. And the objects for which the militia are to be called are
expressly not only to suppress these combinations, (whether
amounting to insurrections or not,) hut to cause the laws to he duly
executed.

It is therefore plainly contrary to the manifest general intent
of the Constitution and of this act, and to the positive and express
terms of the second section of the act, to say that the militia
called forth are not to be continued in service for the purpose of
causing the laivs to be duly executed, and, of course, till they are so
executed.

What is the main and ultimate object of calling forth the
militia? " To cause the laws to be executed." Which are the
laws to be executed ? Those which are oppc^ed and obstructed
in their execution by the combinations described in the present
case — the laws laying duties upon spirits distilled within the
United States, and upon stills; and incidentally those which up-
hold the judiciary functions. When are the laws executed?
Clearly, when the opposition is subdued; when penalties for dis-
obedience can be enforced ; when a compliance is effectuated.

Would the mere dispersion of insurgents^ and their retiring
to their respective homes, do this? Would it satisfy either
member of the provision — the suppression of the combinations
or the execution of the laws? Might not the former, notwith-
standing the disp)ersion, continue in fall vigor, ready at any mo-
ment to break out into new acts of resistance to the laws ? Are
the militia to be kept perpetually marching and counter-march-
ing towards the insurgents while they are embodied, and from
them when they have separated and retired ? Suppose the in-
surgents, hardy enough to wait the experiment of a battle, are
vanquished, and then disperse and retire home, are the militia
immediately to retire also? to give them an opportunity to re-

^T. 37.] CABINET PAPERS. 25

assemble, recruit, and prepare for another battle ? And is this
to go on, and be repeated without limit ?

Such a construction of the law, if true, were certainly a very
unfortunate one, rendering its provisions essentially nugatory,
and leading to endless expense, and as endless disappointment.
It could hardly be advisable to vex the militia, by marching
them to a distant point, where they might scarcely be arrived
before it would be legally necessary for them to return, not in
consequence of having effected their object — of having " caused
the laws to be executed" — but in consequence of the mere stra-
tagem of a deceitful dispersion and retiring.

Thus far the spirit as well as the positive letter of the law,
combats the construction which you have adopted. It remains
to see if there be any other part of it which compels to a renun-
ciation both of the letter and spirit of the antecedent provisions.

The part which seems to be relied upon for this effect, is the
third section, which byway of proviso enjoins, "That whenever
it may be necessary, in the judgment of the President, to tise the
military force by that act directed to be called forth, he shall
forthwith, and previous thereto, by proclamation, command the
insurgents to disperse and retire peaceably to their respective
abodes, within a limited time." But does this afiirm, does it ne-
cessarily even imply, that they, after the dispersion and retiring,
are not to be used for the purpose for which they are authorized
to be called forth, that is, " to cause the laws to be duly exe-
cuted," to countenance by their presence, and, in case of further
resistance, to protect and support by their strength, the respec-
tive civil officers in the execution of their several duties, whether
for bringing delinquents to punishment, or otherwise for giving
effect to the laws? May not the injunction of this section be
regarded as a merely humane and prudent precaution, to distin-
guish, previous to the actual application of force, a hasty tumult
from a deliberate insurrection? To give an opportunity for
those who may be accidentally or inadvertently mingled in a tu-
mult or disorderly rising, to separate and withdraw from those
who are designedly and deliberately actors ? To prevent, if
possible, bloodshed in a conflict of arms, and, if this cannot be

26 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 37.

done, to render the necessity of it palpable, by a premonition to
tbe insurgents to disperse and go home ? And are not all these
objects compatible with the further employment of the militia
for the ulterior purpose of causing the laws to be executed in the
way which has been mentioned ? If they present a rational end
for the proviso, without defeating the main design of the antece-
dent provision, it is clear they ought to limit the sense of the
former, and exclude a construction which must make the prin-
cipal provision nugatory.

Do not the rules of law and reason unite in declaring that the
different parts of a statute shall be so construed, as, if possible,
to consist with each other ; that a proviso ought not to be under-
stood or allowed to operate in a sense tending to defeat the prin-
cipal clause ; and that an implication (if, indeed, there be any
such implication as is supposed in the present case) ought not to
overrule an express provision, especially at the sacrifice, at the
manifest general intent of a law, which, in the present case, un-
doubtedly is, that the militia shall be called forth " to cause the
laws to he duly executed T''

Though not very material to the merit of the argument, it
may be remarked, that the proviso which forms the third section,
contemplates merely the case of insurrection. If the combinations
described in the second section may be less than insurrection,
then the proviso is not commensurate with the whole case con-
tained in the second section, which would be an additional cir-
cumstance to prove that it cannot work an effect which shall be
a substitute for the main purpose of the first section.

I have the honor to be, with perfect respect, sir, your excel-
lency's most obedient servant.

jet.31.] cabinet papers. 27

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Wednesday, Sept. 3. 1794.

Dear Sir :

As I know nothing that calls me to the city to-day, I shall
not be there until to-morrow, which will be in time for common
occurrences.

The contents of the inclosed are agreeable.
Yours always.

jay to HAMILTON.

London, Sept. 11, 1794.

Dear Sir :

I had last week the pleasure of receiving from you a few
lines by Mr. Blaney. You will receive this letter by the hands
of Mr. Morris. He will also be the bearer of my dispatches to
Mr. Randolph ; they will be voluminous, particular, and in many
respects interesting. It should not be forgotten, that there is ir-
ritation here as well as in America, and that our party proces-
sions, toasts, rejoicings, &c., &c., have not been well calculated to
produce good will and good humor. The government neverthe-
less distinguishes between national acts and these party effusions,
and have entertained hitherto an opinion and belief, that the
President, and our government and nation in* general, were really
desirous of an amicable settlement of differences, and of laying
a foundation for friendship, as well as peace, between the two
countries.

The Secretary's letters by Mr. Monroe, and his speech on his
introduction to the convention, have appeared in the English
papers. Their impression in this country may easily be conjec-
tured. I wish they had both been more guarded. The language
of the United States at Paris and at London should correspond

28 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 37.

with their neutrality. These things are not favorable to my
mission.

A speedy conclusion to the negotiation is problematical,
though not highly improbable. If I should be able to conclude
the business on admissible terms, I shall do it, and risk conse-
quences, rather than by the delays of waiting for, and covering
myself by opinions and instructions, hazard a change in the dispo-
sition of this court ; for it seems our country, or rather some
parts of it, will not forbear asperities. I hear that Virginia is
taking British property by escheat ; and other things which in
the present moment are unreasonable are here reported.

As the proposed articles are under consideration, as they
have already undergone some alterations, and as I am not with-
out hopes of other and further amendments, I really think they
ought not to be published in their present crude state ; especially
as in the course of a few weeks I expect to be able to communi-
cate their ultimate form. If then they should not appear to me
to be such as I ought to sign, I will transmit them and wait for
further instructions.

I am, dear sir, yours sincerely.

JAY TO HAMILTON".

London, Sept. 17, 1794.

Dear Sir :

There is something very pleasant in the reflection that while
war, discord, and oppression triumph in so many parts of Europe,
their domination does not extend to our country. I sometimes
flatter myself that Providence, in compassion to the afflicted in
these countries, will continue to leave America in a proper state
to be an asylum to them.

Among those who have suffered severely from these evils, is
Mons. De Eochefoucauld Liancourt, formerly President of the
National Assembly of France. His rank and character are

^T. 37.] CABINET PAPERS. 29

known to you. He will be tlie bearer of this letter, and I am
persuaded that his expectations from it will be realized.
Yours sincerely.

HAMILTON TO RANDOLPH.

Remarks on Lord Grenville^s project of a commercial treaty^ made at
the request of E. Randolph^ Esq.^ Secretary of State.

1794.

A. — Inasmuch as the light-house duties which are excepted^
constitute an additional charge on vessels of the United States
beyond those of Great Britain in British ports, this article, which
puts British vessels in our ports exactly upon the same footing
with ours, wants reciprocity. But the most important considera-
tion will be, that as the distinctions which now exist between
foreign and our own vessels are really of importance to our
trade, our merchants will see them relinquished with reluctance,
unless there be some clear equivalent. If the stipulation ex-
tends to duties on goods brought in British bottoms, the conclu-
sion is so much the stronger.

B. — Tliis article in its operation wants reciprocit}^ The
British system contains noio numerous prohibitions, ours none.
To fix this state of things is to renounce an important right to
and place ourselves on an unequal footing. It gives a claim to
some equivalent.

C. — It may be supposed that the equivalent in both cases is
to be found in this article. It would be so, (excepting one cir-
cumstance that will be presently mentioned,) if the duration of
the privileges granted was coextensive with that of the other
parts of the treaty. But the short term of the privileges here
proposed to be granted renders them of inconsiderahle value.
The proviso, too, prohibits vessels of the United States from
carrying " West India " productions from the British Islands or

30 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^x. 37.

the United States to any other parts of the world. If this pro-
hibition is to be taken in a literal sense and to extend to the
West India possessions of other countries than Great Britain, it
would be to renounce a valuable branch of trade now enjoyed,
and probably more than would be gained.

D. — The article giving a duration of twelve years to the
treaty as it respects the trade with Europe, and of only two years
as it respects the West Indies, will be very unacceptable. It
will be more so as the project does not even secure the status quo
with the European dominions of Great Britain ; that is, it does
not secure the particular privileges and exemptions which we now
enjoy by proclamation comj^ared with other foreign nations.

Mr. Hamilton communicates these remarks in personal confi-
dence to Mr. Kandolph, with this request, that no cojiy of them
may be taken, and that this paper may be returned, after it serves
the purpose for which these remarks were requested.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Philadelphia, Sept. 19th, 1794.

Sie:

Upon full reflection I entertain an opinion, that it is advisable
for me, on public ground, considering the connection between the
immediate ostensible cause of the insurrection in the western
country and my department, to go out upon the expedition
against the insurgents. In a government like ours, it cannot but
have a good effect for the person who is understood to be the
adviser or proposer of a measure, which involves danger to his
fellow-citizens, to partake in that danger: while, not to do it,
might have a bad effect. I, therefore, request your permission
for the purpose.

My intention would be not to leave this till about the close
of the month, so as to reach one of the columns at its ultimate
point of rendezvous. In the mean time, I take it for granted,

iET. 37.] CABINET PAPERS. 81

General Knox will arrive, and the arrangements which will be
made will leave the Treasury Department in a situation to suffer
no embarrassment by my absence ; which, if it be thought neces-
sary, may terminate about or shortly after the meeting of Con-
gress.

With perfect respect, and the truest attachment, I have, &c.

PROCLAMATION".

September 25th, 1794.
By the President of the United States of America.

A PROCLAMATION.

Whereas, from a hope that the combinations against the Con-
stitution and laws of the United States, in certain of the western
counties of Pennsylvania, would yield to time and reflection, I
thought it sufficient, in the first instance, rather to take measures
for calling forth the militia than immediately to embody them ;
but the moment is now come when the overtures of forgiveness,
with no other condition than a submission to law, have been only
partially accepted ; when every form of conciliation, not incon-
sistent with the being of government, has been adopted without
effect ; when the well-disposed in those counties are unable by
their influence and example to reclaim the wicked from their
fury, and are compelled to associate in their own defence ; when
the proffered lenity has been perversely misinterpreted into an
apprehension that the citizens will march with reluctance ; when
the opportunity of examining the serious consequences of a
treasonable opposition has been employed in propagating princi-
ples of anarchy, endeavoring, through emissaries, to alienate the
friends of order from its support, and inviting its enemies to
perpetrate similar acts of insurrection ; when it is manifest that
violence would continue to be exercised upon every attempt to
enforce the laws ; when, therefore, government is set at defiance,

32 H A M 1 L T O N ' S W O R K S . [JEt. 37.

tlie contest being whether a small portion of tlic United States
shall dictate to the whole Union, and, at the expense of those
who desire peace, indulge a desperate ambition. Now, therefore,
I, George Washington, President of the United States, in obe-
dience to that high and irresistible duty consigned to me by the
Constitution, " to take care that the laws be faithfully executed,"
deploring that the American name should be sullied by the out-
rages of citizens on their own government ; commiserating such
as remain obstinate from delusion ; but resolved, in perfect
reliance on that gracious Providence which so signally displays
its goodness towards this country, to reduce the refractory to a
due subordination to the law, do hereby declare and make known
that, with a satisfaction which can be equalled only by the merits
of the militia summoned into service from the States of New
Jersey, Pennsylvania, Maryland, and Virginia, I have received
intelligence of their patriotic alacrity in obeying the call of the
present, though painful, yet commanding necessity ; that a force,
which according to every reasonable expectation is adequate to
the exigency, is already in motion to the scene of disaffection ;
that those who have confided, or shall confide in the protection
of government, shall meet full succor under the standard and
from the arms of the United States ; that those who, having
offended against the law, have since entitled themselves to in-
demnity, will be treated with the most liberal good faith, if they
shall not have forfeited their claim by any subsequent conduct,
and that instructions are given accordingly. And I do moreover
exhort all individuals, officers, and bodies of men, to contemplate
with abhorrence the measures leading directly or indirectly
to those crimes which produce this resort to military coercion ;
to check, in their respective spheres, the efforts of misguided or
designing men to substitute their misrepresentations in' the place
of truth, and their discontents in the place of stable government;
and to call to mind, that, as the people of the United States have
been permitted, under the Divine favor, in perfect freedom, after
solemn deliberation, and in an enlightened age, to elect their own
government, so will their gratitude for this inestimable blessing
be best distinguished by firm exertions to maintain the Constitu-

^T.37.] CABINET PAPERS. 33

tion and the laws. And, lastly, I again warn all persons whom-
soever and wheresoever, not to abet, aid, or comfort the insur-
gents aforesaid, as they will answer the contrary at their peril ;
and I do also require all officers and other citizens, according to
their several duties, as far as may be in their power, to bring
under the cognizance of the law all offenders in the premises.

In testimony whereof, I have caused the seal of the United
States of America to be affixed to these presents, and signed the
same with my hand. Done at the city of Philadelphia, the
twenty-fifth day of September, one thousand seven hundred and
ninety-four, and of the independence of the United States of
America the nineteenth.

Gr. "Washington.

By the President,

Edm. Randolph.

HAMILTON TO THE GOVERNOR OF GEORGIA.

War Department, September 25, 1794.

Sir:

In the absence of the Secretary of War, I have the honor to
acknowledge the receipt of your letters to his department, of the
5th, 19th, and 30th of August, and to reply to such parts as are
the most pressing, referring the others to the return of that
officer.

Among the posts which have been established, that of Doc-
tor's Town creates a question, in consequence of Lieutenant
Colonel Gaither's information that it is within the Indian boun-
dary.

This is a matter which ought to be unequivocally ascertained,
and if found to be within the Indian line, or if it be even doubt-
ful whether that be the case, the post must be immediately
removed. It is deemed essential that no encroachment should
E 3

34 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 37.

take place. And your excellency is relied upon for a strict and
scrupulous adherence to this principle.

Under the circumstances which led to it, the President has
thought proper to authorize the adoption by the United States,
of the new troop ordered by you into service, from the time of
its commencement, and to continue until the first of November
ensuing, when it is to be disbanded.

And you are at liberty, if the state of things shall render it,
in your judgment, essential, to substitute at that time a company
of infantry for the same service. Corps of horse, upon the terms
on which that in question is engaged, are expensive in the ex-
treme ; and in a much greater proportion, compared with infan-
try, than any supposable superiority of usefulness can justify.
Indeed, it would require a treasury much better supplied than
that of the United States, to support the expense of a multiplica-
tion or extension of such corps. Consequently, that multiplica-
tion or extension would tend to defeat its own object; for our
instruments of defence, to be durable, must be relative to our
means of supporting them. And when we find, as in the in-
stance of the insurrection now existing in the western parts of
Pennsylvania, that those for whose immediate benefit the ob-
jects of military expenditure occur, are among the first to resist,
even to violence, the necessary means of defraying them, it is
easy to appreciate the perplexing dilemma to which the govern-
ment is reduced, between the duty and the meaiis of affording
protection, and the necessity, consequently, of economy in the
modes of effecting it.

Your excellency is pleased to express your concern, at being
so repeatedly compelled to solicit protection for the State of
Georgia.

This is not understood as implying any want of due disposi-
tion on the part of the Executive of this government, to afford
all the protection which is within the compass of the means
placed within its power, having regard to all the objects which,
along a very extended frontier, equally demand attention. It is
not doubted that you render justice, in this respect, to the views
of the Executive.

^T. 37.] CABINET PAPERS. 35

But tlie observation you have made in tliis particular, natur-
ally leads to anotlier, which calls for the most serious attention of
the governments of the States, exposed to Indian depredations.
It is this, that there is a reciprocal duty in the case. The obliga-
tion upon the United States, to afford adequate protection to the
inhabitants of the frontiers, is no doubt of the highest and most
sacred kind. But there is a duty no less strong upon those in-
habitants, to avoid giving occasion to hostilities, by an irregular
and improper conduct; and upon the local governments, sin-
cerely and effectually to punish and repress instances of such
conduct, and the spirit which produces them. If these inhabit-
ants can, with impunity, thwart all the measures of the United
States for restoring or preserving peace ; if they can, with im-
punity, commit depredations and outrages upon the Indians, and
that, in violation of the faith of the United States, pledged not
only in their general treaties, but even in the special (and among
all nations, peculiarly sacred) case of a safe conduct, as in the
instance of the attack upon the Indians, while encamped within
our protection, on the 10th of May last ; can it be surprising if
such circumstances should abate the alacrity of the national
councils to encounter those heavy expenses, which the protec-
tion of the frontiers occasions, and of the readiness of the citizens
of the United States, distant from the scenes of danger, to acqui-
esce in the burdens they produce ? It is not meant, by these
remarks, to diminish the force of the excuse within due limits,
which is drawn from the conduct of the Indians towards the
frontier inhabitants. It cannot be denied, that frequent and
great provocations to a spirit of animosity and revenge are given
by them ; but a candid and impartial survey of the events, which
have from time to time occurred, can leave no doubt that in-
juries and provocations have been too far mutual ; that there is
much to blame in the conduct of the frontier inhabitants, as well
as in that of the Indians. And the result of a full examination
must be, that, unless means to restrain, by punishing the vio-
lences which those inhabitants are in the habit of perpetrating
against the Indians, can be put in execution, all endeavors to
preserve peace with them must be for ever frustrated.

36 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 37.

An example, worthy of imitation, in its spirit, lias lately been
civen, by tlie surrender to Governor Blount of some Indians
wlio lately committed a murder upon one Jolin Isb, an inhabit-
ant of the south-western territory, and who have been tried and
executed. The record of such an example of justice and fair deal-
ing, will give occasion to us to blush, if we can cite no instance
of reciprocity, amidst the numerous occasions which are given
for the exercise of it.

These reflections, your excellency may be assured, are merely
designed to present to consideration some very important truths
— truths, a due attention to which is of the most serious con-
cern to those States which have an exposed frontier. To give
full weight to their claims, upon the exertions of the Union to
afford the requisite protection, it is of great moment to satisfy
the United States, that the necessity for them has not been
created, or promoted by a culpable temper, not sufficiently re-
strained, among those to whom the protection is immediately to
be extended.

The President learns, with great pleasure, the measures your
excellency had begun, and was about to pursue, for the removal
of the settlers under General Clarke. It is impossible to con-
ceive a settlement more unjustifiable in its pretexts, or more dan-
gerous in its principle, than that which he is attempting. It is
not only a high-handed usurpation of the rights of the General
and State governments, and a most unwarrantable encroachment
upon those of the Indians ; but, proceeding upon the idea of a
separate and independent government, to be erected upon a
military hasis^ it is essentially hostile to our republican systems
of government, and is pregnant with incalculable mischiefs. It
deeply concerns the great interests of the country that such an
establishment should not be permitted to take root, and that the
example should be checked by adequate punishment ; in doing
which, no time is to be lost : for, such is the nature of the estab-
lishment, that it may be expected rapidly to attain to a formidable
magnitude, involving great expense and trouble to subvert it.

The President, therefore, depends absolutely upon measures,
equally prompt and efficacious, to put an end to it.

^T. 37.] CABINET PAPERS. 37

Mr. Habersham, agent for supplies, is instructed to co-oper-
ate ; and the Governor of South Carolina is requested to afford,
upon your application, the aid of the militia of that State, if cir-
cumstances, as does not appear probable, should require it.

No agreement or arrangement which may be made, or pre-
tended to be made between these settlers and the Indians, ought
to be suffered to make any alteration in the plan of suppressing
the settlement: for, no such agreement, or arrangement, can
possibly be legal ; or, considering the manner in which the set-
tlement has been commenced, can, without affording a most per-
nicious example, receive the future sanction of government.

You desire instructions with regard to the prisooers that may
be made, in the event of the employment of force. You will be
pleased to cause them to be delivered over to the custody of the
judiciary, and in preference, to that of the United States; as
their laws define and prescribe particular punishments in such
cases.

Alex. Hamilton.

WOLCOTT TO WILKES.

Treasury Department, October 8th, 1794.

Sir:

I have had the pleasure to receive your letter of the 6th in-
stant, addressed to the Secretary of the Treasury, announcing
that the President, Directors and Company of the New- York
Bank, have generously complied with his proposals for a loan of
two hundred thousand dollars for the public service.

I inclose a contract for the repayment of this sum on the
terms proposed, when the counterpart has been executed on the
part of the corporation of the bank. I must request you to
transmit it to the Treasury.

The proceeds of the loan may be passed to the credit of the

38 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 37.

United States at New- York, and held subject to the drafts of
the Treasurer.

I am, with consideration, sir, your obedient servant.
For the Secretary of the Treasury.

Oliver Wolcott, Jun.

HAMILTON TO LEE.

Bedford, October 20, 1794.

Sir:

I have it in special instruction from the President of the
United States, now at this place, to convey to you the following
instructions for the general direction of your conduct in the com-
mand of the militia army, with which you are charged.

The objects for which the militia have been called forth
are —

1st. To sujDpress the combinations which exist in some of
the western counties in Pennsylvania, in opposition to the laws
laying duties upon spirits distilled within the United States, and
upon stills.

2d. To cause the laws to be executed.

These objects are to be effected in two ways.

1. By military force.

2- -^J judiciary process and and other civil proceedings.

The objects of the military force are two-fold.

1. To overcome any armed opposition which may exist.

2. To countenance and supj)ort the civil ofl&cers in the means
of executing the laws.

With a view to the first of these two objects, you will pro-
ceed, as speedily as may be, with the army under your com-
mand, into the insurgent counties, to attack, and as far as shall
be in your power, subdue, all persons whom you may find in
arms in opposition to the laws above mentioned. You will
march your army in two columns, from the places where they

^T. 37.]

CABINET PAPERS. 39

are now assembled, by the most convenient routes, having re-
gard to the nature of the roads, the convenience of supply, and
the facility of co-operation and union ; and bearing in mind
that you ought to act, till the contrary shall be fully developed,
on the general principle of having to contend with the whole
force of the counties of Fayette, Westmoreland, Washington,
and Allegany, and of that part of Bedford which lies west of
the town of Bedford ; and that you are to put as little as possible
to hazard. The approximation, therefore, of your columns, is
to be sought, and the subdivision of them, so as to place the
parts out of mutual supporting distance, to be avoided as far as
local circumstances will permit. Parkinson's Ferry appears to
be a proper point towards which to direct the march of the
columns for the purpose of ulterior measures.

When arrived within the insurgent country, if an armed
opposition appear, it may be proper to publish a proclamation,
inviting all good citizens, friends of the Constitution and laws, to
join the standard of the United States. If no armed opposition
exist, it may still be proper to publish a proclamation, exhorting
to a peaceable and dutiful demeanor, and giving assurances of
performing, with good faith and liberality, whatsoever may have
been promised by the Commissioners to those who have com-
plied with the conditions prescribed by them, and who have not
forfeited their title by subsequent misconduct.

Of those persons in arms, if any, whom you may make pris-
oners, leaders, including all persons in command, are to be deliv-
ered up to the civil magistrate ; the rest to be disarmed, admon-
ished, and sent home, (except such as may have been particularly
violent, and also influential,) causing their own recognizances
for their good behavior to be taken, in the cases in which it
may be deemed expedient.

With a view to the second point, namely, "the countenance
and support of the civil officers in the means of executing the
laws," you will make such dispositions as shall appear proper to
countenance and protect, and, if necessary, and required by
them, to support and aid the civil officers in the execution of
their respective duties ; for bringing offenders and delinquents

40 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 37.

to justice ; for seizing the stills of delinquent distillers, as far as
the same shall be deemed eligible by the supervisor of the
revenue, or chief officer of inspection ; and also for conveying to
places of safe custody such persons as may be apprehended and
not admitted to bail.

The objects of judiciary process, and other civil proceedings,
will be —

1. To bring offenders to justice.

2. To enforce penalties on delinquent distillers by suit.

3. To enforce the penalty of forfeiture on the same persons,
by the seizure of their stills and spirits.

The better to effect these purposes, the judge of the district,
Eichard Peters, Esquire, and the attorney of the district,
"William Rawle, Esquire, accompany the army.

You are aware that the judge cannot be controlled in his
functions ; but I count on his disposition to co-operate in such a
general plan as shall appear to you consistent with the policy of
the case. But your method of giving a direction to legal pro-
ceedings, according to your general plan, will be by instruction
to the district attorney.

He ought particularly to be instructed, (with due regard to
time and circumstances,) 1st. To procure to be arrested all influ-
ential actors in riots and unlawful assemblies relating to the
insurrection, and combinations to resist the laws, or having for
object to abet that insurrection and those combinations, and who
shall not have complied with the terms offered by the Commis^
sioners, or manifested their repentance in some other way, which
you may deem satisfactory. 2d. To cause process to issue for
enforcing penalties on delinquent distillers. 3d. To cause
offenders who may be arrested, to be conveyed to jails where
there will be no danger of rescue ; those for misdemeanors, to
the jails of York and Lancaster ; those for capital offences, to the
jail of Philadelphia, as more secure than the others. 4th. To
prosecute indictable offences in the courts of the United States ;
those for penalties on delinquents, under the laws before men-
tioned, in the courts of Pennsylvania.

As a guide in the case, the district attorney has with him. a

^T. 37.] CABINET PAPERS. 41

list of the persons wlio liave availed themselves of the offers of
the commissioners on the day appointed.

The seizure of stills is the province of the supervisor and
other officers of inspection. It is difficult to chalk out the pre-
cise line concerning it. There are opposite considerations which
will require to be nicely balanced, and which must be judged of
by those officers on the spot. It may be found useful to confine
the seizures to stills of the most leading and refractory distil-
lers. It may be advisable to extend them far in the most
refractory county.

When the insurrection is subdued, and the requisite means
have been put in execution to secure obedience to the laws, so as
to render it proper for the army to retire, (an event which you
will accelerate as much as shall be consistent with the object,)
you will endeavor to make an arrangement for detaching such a
force as you deem adequate, to be stationed within the disaffected
country, in such a manner as best to afford protection to well-
disposed citizens and to the officers of the revenue, and to repress,
by their presence, the spirit of riot and opposition to the laws.

But before you withdraw the army, you will promise, on be-
half of the President, a general pardon to all such as shall not
have been arrested, with such exceptions as you shall deem
proper. The promise must be so guarded as not to affect
pecuniary claims under the revenue laws. In this measure, it is
advisable there should be a co-operation with the Governor of
Pennysylvania.

On the return of the army you will adopt some convenient
and certain arrangement for restoring to the public magazines, the
arms, accoutrements, military stores, tents, and other articles of
camp equipage and intrenching tools, which have been furnished,
and shall not have been consumed or lost.

You are to exert yourself by all possible means to preserve
discipline among the troops, particularly a scrupulous regard to
the rights of persons and property, and to a respect for the
authority of the civil magistrate ; taking especial care to inculcate
and cause to be observed this principle : that the duties of the
army are confined to the attacking and subduing of armed oppo-

42 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 37.

nents of the laws, and to the supporting and aiding of the civil
officers in the execution of their functions.

It has been settled that the Governor of Pennsylvania will be
second, the Governor of New Jersey third in command, and that
the troops of the several States in line, on the march and upon
detachment, are to be posted according to the rule which pre-
vailed in the army during the late war; namely, in moving
towards the sea-board, the most southern troops will take the
right; in moving westward, the most northern will take the
right.

These general instructions, however, are to be considered as
liable to such alterations and deviations in the detail, as from
local and other causes may be found necessary, the better to
effect the main object upon the general principles which have
been indicated.

With great respect, I have the honor to be, sir.
Your obedient servant,

Alexander Hamilton.

To Major General Lee.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON,

Hartley's, Tuesday evening, 21st October. 1794.

Dear Sir :

From Colonel Mentges' information, there are detachments of
militia a considerable distance in the rear, composed in part, of
those whose march was designed to be arrested. He adds, many
of them are illy clad. This being the case, it appears to me,
that an expense without an equivalent advantage, would result
from bringing them forward ; and that the clothes which they
must draw to fit them for service, would be actually thrown
away.

Under this view of the matter, and a full persuasion that the
army which is already advanced, is more than competent to any
opposition that can be given by the insurgents — I request that

yET. 37.]

CABINET PAPERS. 43

you would advise with Governors Mifflin and Howell, (after
receiving the fullest information from Mentges,) and cause all
which in your opinions cannot be up in time — all who are inade-
quately clothed in the rear — and in a word, all who do not upon
mature consideration of circumstances appear to be essential, to
return, that the country may not be unnecessarily burthened
with the clothing, pay and rations of them.

Open all letters of a public nature which may come to the
army addressed to me, and such as are in the military line and
relating to the business you are upon, hand over to the Com-
manding General.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Berlin, 3d day's march, October 25th, 1794,

7 o'clock in the evening.

Sir:

We arrived here this afternoon. A very heavy rain has ren-
dered the march extremely arduous and distressing; but we
find here much better shelter than was foreseen. Our baggage
and stores are just beginning to arrive. The Jersey line and
brigade of cavalry took the right-hand road, about five miles
back.

To-morrow we shall continue our march, and I hope that we
shall conform to the general arrangement, though we must
shorten to-morrow's march, and lengthen that of the day fol-
lowing.

The troops have shown all the patience that could have
been expected. In short, I perceive nothing amiss.

Bradford and Fulton, it is said, are gone off. By tracing
time, it is not probable they were at all influenced by the arrests
of Husbands and Phelson.

With the highest respect, and truest attachment, I have the
honor to be, &c.

44 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 37.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Berlin, October 26th, 1794.

Sir:

The very late arrival of the wagons, the injury to a number
of them, and the dispersed situation of the troops, render it im-
practicable to leave this place to-day, as was intended ; but the
baggage and stores go forward, and to-morrow the troops must
move. I apprehend no material derangement of the general
plan. An express has been dispatched to Governor Lee, advising
him of the state of things here.

Nothing from the Western country.

With the greatest respect and attachment, &c.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

SusauEHANNA (Wright's Ferry), Oct. 26th, 1794.

Dear Sir:

A little advanced of this, yesterday afternoon, I met an ex-
press with the letters herewith inclosed for you, with others for
the army, with which I have directed him to proceed.

Thus far, I have proceeded without accident to man, horse,
or carriage, although the latter has had wherewith to try its
goodness; especially in ascending the North mountain, from
Skinner's, by a wrong road; that is, by the old road, which
never was good, and is rendered next to impassable by neglect,

I heard great complaints of Gurney's corps (and some of the
artillery), along the road to Strasburgh ; there I parted from
their route. In some places, I was told, they did not leave a
plate, a spoon, a glass, or a knife ; and this owing, in a great
measure, I was informed, to their being left without oflScers. At
most, if not all, the encampments, I found the fences, in a man-
ner, burnt up. I pray you to mention this to Governor Mifflin

^T. 37.] CABINET PAPERS, 45

(and, indeed, to the Quartermaster-General), with a request (to
tlie former) that the most pointed orders may be given, and every
precaution used, to prevent the like on the return of the army.
If the officers, from impatience to get home, should leave their
respective commands — in a word, if they do not march with, and
keep the soldiers in their ranks, and from straggling or loitering
behind, the borderers on the road will sustain inconceivable
damage from the disorderly troops ; whose names will be exe-
crated for, and the service disgraced by, such conduct.

There were some letters put into the hands of Governor Lee,
which it would be well for you to reposses yourself of; among
these, were two to Messrs. Lynn, Mr. Koss's to you, and Messrs.
Finley's and Eedick's to me. Occasion may require them.

I rode yesterday afternoon, in the rain, from Yorktown to this
place, and got twice, in the height of it, hung (and delayed by that
means) on the rocks in the middle of the Susquehanna ; but I
did not feel half as much for my own situation as I did on ac-
count of the troops on the mountains, and of the effect the rain
might have on the roads through the glades.

I do not intend to proceed further than Lancaster to-day ; but
on Tuesday, if no accident happens, I expect to be landed in the
city of Philadelphia. My best wishes attend you, and all with
you.

Yours, sincerely, &c.

P. S. I hope you will be enabled, by hook or by crooh^ to

send B and H ■, together with a certain Mr. Guthrie, to

Philadelphia, for their winter quarters.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Jones' Mill, October 29th, 1794.

Sir:

The light corps, with the Jersey infantry and brigade of cav-
alry, are at Indian Creek, in Legnoier valley, where they continue

46 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 37.

till tills division gets up, which, will be this evening, as the march
will commence in an hour. This division had, I believe, the
worst road, and was, besides, encumbered with all the spare
stores, which has thrown it a day's march behind the other. But
by a letter received yesterday from Governor Lee, it appears
that the right wing is fully in measure with the left. All is
essentially well with both wings, and the troops continue to
show as much good humor as could possibly have been ex-
pected.

The meeting at Parkinson's Ferry ended, we are told, in a
new appointment of commissioners to dej)recate the advance of
the army, and in new expressions of pacific intentions. But
there is nothing which can occasion a question about the pro-
priety of the army's proceeding to its ultimate destination. No
appearances whatever of opposition occur.

You desired that a table of the routes of the left wing might
be sent you. None was left with any officer of this wing.

With the truest respect and attachment,

I have the honor to be, Sir,

Your obd't serv't, &c.

P. S. It is hoped that the original papers have been for-
warded, as the list furnished from the Secretary of State's office
would be a deceptive guide. Memoranda of the Attorney-Gen-
eral, brought by this express, will greatly aid, perhaps suf-
ficiently ; but the originals would be best.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON".
Camp, li :uiles beyond Cherry's Mill, October 31, 1794.

Sir:

The New Jersey infantry and brigade of cavalry are at this
place. The Pennsylvania infantry will be here this evening.
The light corps is advanced about two miles. No official account

^T. 37.]

CABINET PAPERS. 47

since that heretofore communicated has come from the left wing.
But a person who came from Uniontown, yesterday, informs
that Morgan^ with the advance, was there ; the main body about
twenty miles behind. I propose in about an hour to set out for
Uniontown.

All announces trepidation and submission. The new Com-
missioners have been with Governor Mifflin, charged with new
declarations by townships, battalions of militia, &c., of a disposi-
tion to obey the laws. The impression is certainly for the pre-
sent strong, but it will be stronger and more permanent by what
is to follow. It does not appear that any great number have
fled.

With the truest respect and attachment, I have the honor to
be, &c.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, Slst October, 1794,

Dear Sir:

By pushing through the rain, (which fell more or less on
Saturday, Sunday, and Monday,) I arrived in this city before
noon, on Tuesday, without encountering any accident on the
road, or any thing so unpleasant as the badness of the ways, after
the rain had softened the earth, and made them susceptible of
deep impression of the wheels.

How you passed through the glades, after the various accounts
we had received of them, in such wet weather, I am at a loss to
conjecture, but am extremely anxious to know ; as I am also to
learn the operations of the army, and the state and condition of
it since.

Nothing important or new has been lately received from our
ministers abroad ; and although, accounts from London to the
first of September, and from Ireland of stiU later date, have been
inserted in the gazettes, they are not precise enough to be de-
tailed in a letter. In general, however, the French continue to

48 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JiIt. 37.

be successful by land, and it might be added, by sea also, for
they are capturing a great number of British merchantmen.
Nor does the fate of Robespierre seem to have given more than
a momentary stagnation to their affairs. The armies rejoice at
it, and the people are congratulating one another on the oc-
casion.

Mr. Monroe has arrived in France, and has had his reception
in the midst of the Convention at Paris, but no letter has been
received from him.

Few members have yet come to town. To-morrow, I pre-
sume, will bring many. The papers say Mr. Trumbull is elected
to the Senate, in the room of Mr. Mitchell, who has resigned ;
but who has, or will, supply his place in the other House is
not mentioned.

Husbands and the other prisoners were safely lodged in this
city on Wednesday afternoon. Press the Governor, &c., to be
pointed in ordering the of&cers under their respective commands
to march back with their respective corps, and to see that
the inhabitants meet with no disgraceful insults or injuries from
them. The Secretary of War will, I expect, say something re-
specting the deposit of the arms and public stores in x^roper
places. To him, therefore, I shall refer.

Mrs. Hamilton and your family were very well yesterday
afternoon. Your letter of the 23d has been received.

I am always and affectionately, yours, &c.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Cherry's Mill, November Sd, 1704.

Sir:

I have returned to this place, from Uniontown. A letter
from Governor Lee, which goes with this, probably informs you
of the plan of future operations ; but, lest it should not, I will
briefly state it. The right wing is to take a position with its

^T. 37.] CABINET PAPERS. 49

left towards Budd's Ferrj, and its right towards Greensburgh.
The left wing is to be posted between the Youghiogheny and
Monongahela, with its left towards the latter, and its right
towards the former. Morgan, with his command, including the
whole of the light corps, and perhaps a part of the brigade of
cavalry, will go into Washington county. It is not unlikely
that, in the course of the business, a part of the troops will take
a circuit by Pittsburgh ; for the more places they can appear in,
without loss of time, the better.

In adopting this plan, the circumstance of much delay in
crossing and recrossing waters, has weighed powerfully ; and the
quiescent state of the country renders the plan entirely safe.
Boats, however, will be collected on both waters, to facilitate
mutual communication and support,

I received the letter you was so good as to write me, on the
road, with those that accompanied it.

The rainy weather continues, with short intervals of clear.
The left wing has suffered from sickness, but the right has been
and continues remarkably healthy. The troops also continue to
behave well. A court martial sits to-day, to try one or two riot-
ous fellows, and one or two marauders. The appointment of it
has checked the licentious corps.

With the truest respect and attachment,

I have the honor to be, &c,

P. S. Not many fugitives from justice as yet.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, 5th Nov.. 1794.

Dear Sir :

Since my last to you, I have received your several letters of
the 25th, 26th and 29th of last month, and am glad to hear that
the troops continue to be in good health and spirits, notwith-
E 4

50 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 37.

standing tlie bad weather and tlie roads, and that farther
indications of submissioti were likely to be manifested by the
insurgents,

I have not received the route of either column of the army,
nor a copy of the order establishing them issued on the day of
my departure from Bedford,

Upon inquiry I find that it was copies only of papers that
had been sent from the Secretary of State's ofiice, the originals
being adjudged necessary for the archives.

Tor want of a quorum in the Senate, Congress have not yet
proceeded on business, and it is questionable it seems whether it
will make a house to-day — five members being wanting for this
purpose yesterday afternoon.

Bache, as I expected, has opened his batteries upon your
motives for remaining with the army. As the papers (I presume)
are sent to you, I shall not repeat them. Although there are
some late arrivals, the gazettes have not as yet announced any
thing new,

Mrs, Hamilton and your family were well yesterday, Mrs.
Schuyler and son (John) and daughter are there, but talk of
going away to-day or to-morrow.

I am your affectionate, &c.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON,
Head Quarters, Roshaven Township, November 8, 1794.

Sir:

Morgan, with the whole of the light troops, has crossed into
Washington county. Dispositions of different corps are making
to strike at once into the most disaffected scenes.

It appears evident, that to wait for preliminary investigations

to apprehend the guilty upon process, would defeat the object,

and produce delay beyond the patience of the troops, or the time

- allowed by the season for operation. With the advice of the

^T. 37.] CABINET PAPERS. 51

district attorney, the Commander-in-Chief has concluded to take
hold of all who are worth the trouble in a more summary way,
that is, by the military arm, and then to deliver them over to the
disposition of the judiciary. In the mean time, all possible
means are using to obtain evidence, and accomplices will be
turned against the others.

This step is directed by that principle of common law that
every man may of right apprehend a traitor.

I hope good objects will be found notwithstanding many have
gone off. It is proved that Breckenridge did not subscribe till
after the day, and that he has been the worst of all scoundrels.
The only question is how far the candor of the government,
owing to the use made of him by the commissioners, might be
compromited.

The Commander-in-Chief is taking measures, with a good
prospect of success, to engage a competent corps to be stationed
in the country — a regiment of infantry and four troops of horse.
The plan is to engage them for nine mouths, but a suit of clothes
must be allowed.

Being not very well, I am obliged to be brief.

"With the truest respect and attachment, I have the honor to
be, sir, &c.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

RosHAVEN Township, November 11, 1794.

Sir:

I have the honor of your note of the 5th instant.

To-morrow the measures for apprehending persons and seizing-
stills will be carried into effect. I hope there will be found
characters fit for examples, and who can be made so. Colonel
Hamilton, sheriff, is now at our quarters — come to make a volun-
tary surrender of himself It is not yet certain how much can
be proved against him ; but otherwise he is a very fit subject.

I observe what Mr. Bache is about. But I am the more

52 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 37.

indifferent to it as experience has proved to me, (however it may-
be in ways which I could not allege in my justification,) that my
presence in this quarter was in several respects not useless. And f
it is long since I have learned to hold popular opinion of no
value. I hope to derive from the esteem of the discerning, and
an internal consciousness of zealous endeavors for the public
good, the reward of those endeavors.

I propose, if no urgent reason to the contrary occurs, to leave
this country for Philadelphia about the 15th instant, and I shall
lose no time in reaching it. Meanwhile I trust the business of
my department will suffer no injury from my absence.

Before I go I will try to see that a good arrangement is made
with regard to arms, stores, &c.

With true respect and affectionate attachment, &c.

p^ S, — Poor Lenox has been on the torture so long, and has
lately received such unpleasant accounts, that we have all advised
him to return to Philadelphia. The substitutes devised will
guard against injury to the service. Intelligence having been
received of some of the insurgents having embodied about
Beaver Creek — a plan is laid provisionally for giving them a
stroke — the execution of which will be speedily attempted if
nothing to the contrary occurs.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Town of Washington, November 15, 1794.

Sir:

I had the honor of writing to you three days since by Mr.
Vaughan. Nothing material has since occurred except that a
number of persons have been apprehended. Twenty of them
are in confinement at this place ; others have not yet arrived.
Several of those in confinement are fit subjects for examples,
and it is probable from the evidence already collected, and what

^T. 37.]

CABINET PAPERS. 53

is expected, that enough for that purpose will be proved. The
most conspicuous of these for character or crime, are understood
to be the Eev. John Corbly, Colonel Crawford, Colonel John
Hamilton, Thomas Sedgwick, David Lock, John Munn, John
Laughery.

The evidence has not yet fixed the situation of Colonel Ha-
milton.

A warrant has been sent after Colonel Gaddis, of Fayette,
another very fit subject ; but, from the lapse of time, I fear he
has escaped.

The bad spirit is evidently not subdued. Information is just
received, that within the last three days a pole has been erected
about sixteen and a half miles from this place, on the road to
Muddy Creek ; measures are taken on the subject.

But it is more and more apparent, that for some considerable
time to come, a military force in this country is indispensable. I
presume the temporary one meditated will be accomplished.

To-morrow I leave this place for Pittsburgh. If nothing ex-
traordinary happens, I shall leave that place for Philadelphia on
the 19th. By that time every thing will have taken its shape.

With true respect and affectionate attachment, I have the
honor to be, &c.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Pittsburgh, November 17, 1794.

Sir:

I wrote to you two days since by express from Washington.
The judiciary corps with myself arrived here last evening. The
list of prisoners has been very considerably increassd, probably
to the amount of one hundred and fifty, but it is not yet so di-
gested as to be forwarded. Governor Lee just informs me, that
he has received a letter from Marietta, advising him of the ap-
prehending of John Holcroff, the reputed Tom the Tinker y and
one Wright, a notorious offender.

54 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [iEx. 37.

Subsequent intelligence shows that there is no regular assem-
blage of the fugitives where it is supposed ; there are only small
vagrant parties in that quarter, affording no point of attack.

Every thing is urging on for the return of the troops. The
engagement of a corps to remain here goes on, it is said, well.

With perfect respect and true attachment, I have the honor
to be, &c.

JAY TO HAMILTON.

London, 19th November, 1794.

My dear Sir :

My task is done ; whether finis coronat opus, the President,
Senate, and public, will decide. This letter goes by the packet,
and the treaty with it. Some parts of it require elucidation to
common readers. I have not time for comment. Lord Gren-
ville is anxious to dismiss the packet. If this treaty fails, I de-
spair of another. If satisfactory, care should be taken that pub-
lic opinion be not misled respecting it ; for this reason the sooner
it is ratified and published, the better. I really think the good
disposition of this coimtry should be cherished. I came here in
the moment of exultation and triumph on account of Lord
Howe's victory ; from that day to this, I have experienced no
change in sentiment or conduct relative to the negotiation, I
must, though not without reluctance, conclude. Not being fit
for a winter's voyage, I shall stay here till spring ; indeed I shall
want repairs before I am quite fit for any voyage. God bless you.
Yours, John Jay.

.-Et. 37.] CABINET PAPERS.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

PiTTSBCRGH, Novembei" 19th, 1794.

7 o'clock in the morning.

Sir:

I wrote you the day before yesterday, by express. Notbing
material remains to be said. The army is, generally, in motion
homeward— the Virginia line, by way of Morgantown, to Win-
chester, &c.— the Maryland line, by way of Uniontown, to Wil-
liamsport, &c.— the Pennsylvania and New Jersey, by the old
Pennsylvania route, to Bedford. The judiciary is industrious in
prosecuting the examinations of prisoners— among whom, there
is a suf&cient number of proper ones for examples, and with suf-
ficient evidence. Col. Gaddis has been brought in.

With perfect respect, and true attachment, I have the
honor, &c.

P. S. In five minutes I set out for Philadelphia.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Philadelphia, December 1st,. 1794.

Sir:

I have the honor to inform you, that I have fixed upon the
last of January next as the day for the resignation of my ofiice
of Secretary of the Treasury. I make the communication now,
that there may be time to mature such an arrangement as shall
appear to you proper to meet the vacancy when it occurs.
With perfect respect, and the truest attachment,

I have the honor to be. Sir,

Your very obd't serv't, &c.

56 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 37.

HAMILTON TO THE SPEAKER OF THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.

Philadelphia, December 1st, 1794.

Sir:

I beg leave, througli you, to make known to the House of
Kepresentatives, that I have signified to the President of the
United States my intention to resign my office of Secretary of
the Treasury on the last day of January next. I make this com-
munication, in order that an opportunity may be given, previ-
ous to that event, to institute any further proceeding which may
be contemplated, if any there be, in consequence of the inquiry,
during the last session, into the state of this Department.

With perfect respect, &c.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

December 2d, 1794.

The Secretary of the Treasury has the honor respectfully
to make the following representation to the President of the
United States, in order that he may determine on the expedi-
ency of laying the subject of it before Congress.

The procuring of military supplies generally is, with great
propriety, vested by law in the Department of the Treasury.
That department, from situation, may be expected to feel a more
habitual solicitude for economy than any other, and to possess
more means of information respecting the best modes of obtain-
ing supplies.

It is, however, important, that the particular arrangement
should be such as to enable the department to execute the trust
in the best manner. This branch of business forms a very con-
siderable one of the public expenditure. Including supplies for
the navy, it is so extensive as, to be well executed, would occupy
the whole time and attention of one person, possessing the requi-

jet.31.] cabinet papers. 57

site qualifications. This, witli the growth of the country, must
be every year more and more the case. It cannot, therefore, be
conducted in detail by the head of the department, or by any
existing officer of it, now charged with other duties, and without
being less well executed than it ought to be, or interfering with
other essential duties, or without a portion of both these in-
conveniences, to the material detriment of the public service.
Experience has already verified the position.

It must then, of necessity, either be confided to a special
agent, employed by the head of the department, or to a new
officer of the department, to be constituted by law, and to act
under the discretion and superintendence of that head. The
last mode is preferable to the first, for obvious reasons.

Whenever an object of public business is likely to be perma-
nent, it is more fit that it should be transacted by an officer of
the government, regularly constituted, than by the agent of a
department, specially intrusted.

The officer can be placed, by law, under more effectual
checks. In the present case, that idea is particularly important.
The person intrusted ought to be prohibited, under penalties,
from all dealing, on his own account, in the objects of supply.

The duration and emoluments of mere agency being pre-
carious, a well qualified man, disposed to make the necessary
sacrifices of other pursuits, and to devote himself exclusively to the
business, could with much greater difficulty, if at all, be found.

The compensation to such an officer ought, it is conceived,
to weigh nothing as an objection. Independent of the equiva-
lent expense, arising from the necessity of employing and com-
pensating an agent, it is morally certain that the close, constant,
undivided attention of a person, charged exclusively with this
object, and in condition, for that reason, to make the minute as
well as extensive inquiries and investigations which are often
requisite, would produce savings to the United States with which
the salary of the officer could bear no comparison. It is equally
evident that it would contribute greatly to punctuality, dispatch,
and efficiency, in procuring the supplies.

All which is humbly submitted.

A. Hamilton.

58 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 37.

J. Q. ADAMS TO HAMILTON.

The Hague, Dec. 5th, 1794.

Sir:

The bankers of the United States at Amsterdam have writ-
ten to you upon the present state of affairs, in this country, which
would in their opinion render the negotiation for eight hundred
thousand dollars, for which they have been commissioned, alto-
gether impracticable, even if they had received from Col.
Humphreys the information for which they are instructed to
wait.

Under these circumstances, therefore, I find myself deprived
not only of the happiness of contributing to the success, but
even of the satisfaction of making all the exertions in my power
for the attainment of an object so near to the wishes of the Pres-
ident and so important to the interests of the United States. As
the contingency upon which the loan was at any rate to be at-
tempted has not happened, it would have been perfectly unne-
cessary to dispute the opinion of the commissioners. As the
management of this business has been committed to them entire-
ly, it would have been improper. As their means of information
upon this point are so much superior to mine, it would have been
indecorous. I have therefore only observed to them that the ob-
ject to which the money was intended to be applied, was of ex-
treme urgency and importance ; and that I hoped they would
take advantage of the first favorable moment that should offer to
make their dispositions so as to be prepared for the receipt of the
order from Lisbon.

The zeal and fidelity with which these gentlemen have served
the United States from the time they were first interested in their
affairs, has been so thoroughly tried and proved that it will cer-
tainly not be deficient on the present occasion. Their personal
interest will also concur with their public duty to animate their
activity if they see a possible chance of succeeding. So that
when they tell me that the negotiation of the proposed loan
would be impracticable, I cannot doubt but that the fact is really

^T. 37.] CABINET PAPERS. 59

SO, and tliat with the whole latitude of powers given them as to
the terms, they will not venture to undertake it.

It is with much pleasure however that I learn from them, an^
from many other quarters, that in point of credit here, the United
States stand upon a higher footing than any other power. That
their obligations at 4 per cent, with premium are ten per cent,
above par ; and their 5 per cents, at par : while those of the Em-
peror and of Kussia are vibrating rom 75 to 90, and some others
bear no price at all.

By the capture of Antwerp, a difficulty has occurred upon
which the gentlemen at Amsterdam have no doubt already writ-
ten you. The annual interest upon the loan made there of three
millions of florins, is by the tenor of the obligations made payable
at the counting-house of Mr. De Wolff, and the bankers here
have annually remitted the money to Antwerp for the purpose.
As the circulation of assignats is compulsive, the Brabanters,
holders of the American obligations, are apprehensive of receiving
their interest in that currency, and our bankers have not trans-
mitted the money for the interest that becomes due for the last
year. It may be added, that many of these creditors are now
emigrants, and may possibly have other apprehensions for the
fate of the principal as well as of the interest. One of them
called upon me at Amsterdam last week, to inquire whether I
could give him any relief. I told him that I had neither instruc-
tions nor power relating to that loan, but would readily transmit
any representation he wished to make, and I did not doubt but
the United States would do their creditors full justice. He said
an expedient had already been adopted by the court of Denmark
upon the same occasion, which had been satisfactory to their
creditors, in their Brabant loans, and which, if equally adopted
by the United States, would very much accommodate him and
many others in the same predicament. It was to declare that
the holders of their obligations might receive their interest at
Copenhagen instead of Antwerp, and that they might exchange
the obligations themselves for others bearing the same interest.

The communication between Antwerp and this country is
interrupted, and I do not know whether Mr. De Wolff has paid

60 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 37.

the interest due upon the loan this year. The money for the
purpose has certainly not been remitted from hence. I hope
before the revolution of another year some settled order of things
will take place, which will render any measures on the part of
the United States in favor of their Netherland creditors unne-
cessary. I suspect that the impossibility of obtaining the two
million guilders here must arise altogether from the dread of con-
fiscation or requisition to which they imagine their obligations
may be liable.

I have the honor to be, with the highest sentiments of respect,
Sir, your very obedient, humble servant,

John Q. Adams.

Hamilton to Washington.

Treasury Department, Dec. 23, 1794.

Sir :

The present state and prospects of the Treasury render it ne-
cessary, without delay, to exercise the power vested in the Pres-
ident by the act passed the 18th instant, entitled " An act author-
izing a loan of two millions of dollars."

To enable him to determine this, a probable view of receipts
and expenditures distributed quarter-yearly is herewith present-
ed, and the form of a power as usual to the Secretary of the
Treasury to make the loan is submitted.
With perfect respect, &c.

^T. 38.] CABINET PAPERS. 61

PROCLAMATION.

Draft by Hamilton.

United States, January 1, 1795.
By George Washington^ President of the United States.

When we review tlie calamities whicli afflict so many other
nations, and trouble the sources of individual quiet, security, and
happiness, the present condition of the United States aifords
much matter of consolation and satisfaction.

Our exemption hitherto from the evils of foreign war, an in-
creasing prospect of the continuance of that precious exemption,
the great degree of internal tranquillity we have enjoyed, the
recent confirmation of that tranquillity by the suppression of an
insurrection which so wantonly threatened it ; the happy course
of our public affairs in general ; the unexaMpled prosperity of
all classes of our citizens ; are circumstances which mark our
situation with peculiar indications of the Divine beneficence
towards us.

In such a state of things, it is in an especial manner our
duty as a people, with devout reverence and affectionate grati-
tude, to acknowledge our many and great obligations to Almighty
God, and to implore Him to continue and confirm the blessings
we experience.

Deeply penetrated with this sentiment, I, George Washington,
President of the United States, do recommend to all religious
societies and denominations, and to all persons whomsoever in
the United States, to set apart and observe Thursday, the 19th
day of February next, as a day of public thanksgiving and
prayer, and on that day to meet together and render their sin-
cere and hearty thanks to the great Euler of nations, for the
manifold and signal mercies which distinguish our lot as a nation,
particularly for the constitutions of government which unite, and
by their union establish liberty with order for the preservation
of our peace, foreign and domestic, for the seasonable check
which has been given to a spirit of disorder, in the suppression

62 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 38.

of tlie late insurrection, and generally, for tlie prosperous course
of our affixirs, public and private ; and at the same time humbly
and fervently to beseech the kind Author of these blessings gra-
ciously to prolong them to us ; to imprint in our hearts a deep
and solemn sense of our obligations for them ; to teach us rightly
to estimate their immense value ; to preserve us from the wan-
tonness of prosperity from jeopardizing the advantages we enjoy,
by culpable or delusive projects ; to dispose us to merit the con-
tinuance of His favors by not abusing them, by our gratitude for
them, and by a correspondent conduct as citizens and as men to
render this country more and more a safe and propitious asylum
for the unfortunate of other countries ; to extend among them
true and useful knowledge ; to diifuse and establish habits of so-
briety, order, morality, and piety : and finally, to impart all the
blessings we possess or ask for ourselves, to the whole family of
Mankind, that so men may be happy and God glorified through-
out the earth. Dgne, &c.

WASHINGTON TO CONGRESS.

United States, January 7, 1795,
Gentlemen of the Senate, and of the House of Representatives.

Experience has shown that it would be useful to have an
officer particularly charged, under the direction of the Depart-
ment of "War, with the duties of receiving, safe keeping, and
distributing the public supplies, in all cases in which the laws
and the course of service do not devolve them upon other ofl&cers ;
and also with that of superintending in all cases the issues in
detail of supphes, with power, for that purpose, to bring to ac-
count all persons intrusted to make such issues, in relation
thereto.

An establishment of this nature, by securing a regular and
punctual accountability for the issues of public supplies, would
hQ a great guard against abuse, would tend to insure their due
application, and to give public satisfaction on that point.

^T. 38.] CABINET PAPERS. 63

I therefore recommend to the consideration of Congress, the
expediency of an establishment of this nature, under such regu-
lations as shall appear to them advisable.

G-. Washington.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Treasury Department, Jan. 12th, 1795,

Sir:

For a considerable time past the Commissioner of Loans for
New- York, has labored under a degree of bodily infirmity, little
suited to the arduous duties of his station. A belief that his
demise would speedily have terminated the embarrassment,
united with other considerations, has hitherto prevented me from
ofl&cially representing his situation to you, and the possible incon-
venience to the public service from it. Hitherto nothing has
materially suffered. But some new shocks of his complaint have
added to his inability, and the disease being of the paralytic
kind, there is no prospect of any considerable amendment.

Fearing that the public service may henceforth suffer, and
unwilling to leave to my successor a disagreeable task, I feel it a
duty, though with extreme regret and reluctance, to state to you
that the ofl&cer in question is now incapable of doing justice to
the duties of his station ; that there is no prospect of his restora-
tion to a competent condition, and that in my opinion it is indis-
pensable he should be changed with all convenient dispatch.
With perfect respect, &c.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

January 14th, 1795,
Mr. Hamilton presents his respects to the President. He has
written the letter to Mr. Clarkson, which the President desired,

64 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 38.

and wliicli, if not countermanded, will go by post. But, in the
course of writing it, the following reflection has pressed upon his
mind with so much force that he thinks it his duty to submit it
to the President.

Clarkson held the office of marshal, a troublesome and ^un-
profitable place. He resigned it (as it is believed) in a short
time. Giles has taken and kept it for a considerable time, and
during a j)eriod when disagreeable things were to be done, no
doubt looking forward to something better. Clarkson is a man
of considerably better fortune, and smaller family than Giles.
Giles is as capable and trustworthy as Clarkson. Will he not
have some cause to be dissatisfied if he sees an opportunity of
doing something for him turn to the benefit of his predecessor ?

No answer is expected unless the President should change his
view of the subject.

CLARKSOISr TO HAMILTON.

New-York, January 19th, 17S5.

My Dear Sir:

Your letter of the 15th instant met me last Saturday at this
place on my return from Poughkeepsie. The offer of the office
of Commissioner of Loans by the President of the United States,
demands my warmest acknowledgments and meets my wishes

provided the appointment can be deferred until the 27th

instant. To you, sir, I will detail my reasons for wishing a post-
ponement of it till that period. Being a member of the legisla-
ture for this State, and the appointment of Senator of the United
States being fixed by law to the 27th instant, I conceive it of
the utmost importance that the gentleman who has so faithfully
served his country in that station should be re-elected. The ac-
ceptance of the office previous to that day, would vacate my seat
in the Senate, and I have reason to believe, as relative to that
business, it is of consequence that I should remain in the legisla-
ture. Indeed, sir, I consider it of so much importance, that

jet.zs.] cabinet papers. 65

however desirous I may be of tlie office whicli the President "has
thought proper to offer me, I must not hesitate to say that if a
new appointment presses, so as to preclude the postponement of
it to the period mentioned in my letter, I consider it my duty to
sacrifice my own good to what I conceive for the good of my
country, and to decline the appointment. In either case, sir, be
pleased to tender my best acknowledgments to the President for
this mark of his confidence, which, under his administration, is
rendered peculiarly valuable ; and accept for yourself the best
wishes of one who, with real esteem, has the honor of being your
obliged friend and very humble servant.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Treasury Department, January 21, 1795.

Sir:

Pursuant to the 13th section of the act, entitled " An act
making further provision for securing and collecting the duties
on foreign and domestic distilled spirits, stills, wines, and teas,"
passed the 5th of June, 1794, the commissioner of the revenue,
in consultation with me, has prepared a plan for additional com-
pensations to the supervisors and other officers of inspection, and
for compensations to such new officers of these descriptions as
result from the laws, and as the experience which has been had
of their operation is believed to recommend ; which plan, thrown
into the usual form of an act of the President, is now submitted
to his consideration, with estimates of the resulting expense,
which, it is not doubted, will be found within the limits of the
laws.

This plan has been delayed longer than was desirable, by
the necessity of previous information from the supervisors, and
by an excess of occupation on the officers in this department,
which unavoidably postpones the less to the more urgent objects
of public business.
E 5

66 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 38.

It may happen that the President, after considering the plan,
may desire some further explanation. For this purpose, I will
•wait upon him on Monday next, 12 o'clock.

"With perfect respect, &c.

HAMILTON TO WILLINK, ETC.

Treasury Department, January 25th, 1795.

Gentlemen :

I acknowledge the receipt of your letters of the first and
twenty-sixth of September of the last year.

Eemittances from this country to Amsterdam, at the present
juncture, and with the anticipations here of your possible situa-
tion, are attended with unusual difficulty and embarrassment.
After maturely considering all the modes which occurred to re-
flection, for effecting the payments of principal and interest on
the first of June next, I have concluded on the following :

To purchase 500,000 dollars of 6 per cent, stock, to transfer
them into your names, and to send them to our Minister Pleni-
potentiary in London, to wait your orders, to the end that you
may cause them to be disposed of as, according to circumstances,
shall appear to you advisable. Measures have been taken for
this purpose. The numbers and particular amounts of the cer-
tificates of stock, are noted at foot. They will be forwarded in
duplicates.

You will concert, with our Minister resident in Holland, the
best mode of disposing of this stock ; and if the market of Lon-
don be preferable, you will forward there the necessary powers
and directions for sale of so much as it shall be concluded to sell,
according to eventual circumstances.

If the stock can be sold, so as to net par for principal and
interest to the time of sale, this will be the most agreeable mode of
proceeding. By par, I mean 40 current guilders at Amsterdam,
or 4 shillings and 6 pence sterling, at London, per dollar ; pre-

^T. 38.]

CABINET PAPERS. 67

ferring, of course, the sale at one place or the other, as the state
of exchange may render most for the interest of the United
States, if events of war do not overrule this consideration.

If this cannot be done, it will be preferred, if practicable,
that the instalment of one million of principal should be post-
poned by a new loan, as on a former occasion ; in which case,
the interest only will be to be provided for by sale of so much
stock as may be necessary.

On this, as on all other occasions, I confide in your judgment
and tried zeal for the interest of the United States. I am sure I
rest on a good foundation to the utmost extent of possibility.

With great consideration and esteem,

I have the honor to be, gentlemen, your obd't serv't.

P. S. It is possible our Minister, Mr. Pinckney, may have
left London, temporarily, for Madrid. In that case, his secre-
tary will become possessed of my letter and directions to him,
and will receive your communication.

Description of the stock mentioned in the foregoing letter,

VIZ.

One hundred certificates of 6 per cent, stock, No. 2911 to
8010, both numbers inclusive, dated the 31st January, 1795, and
of five thousand dollars each, issued in the names of Wilhelm
and Jan Willink, and Nicholas and Jacob Van Staphorst and
Hubbard, agents for the United States at Amsterdam.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Philadelphia, January 26th, 1795.

Sir:

Mr. Wolcott has just informed me that the Secretary of
State had called upon him as by your direcion, to confer on the

68 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. ^8.

subject of a person to be appointed comptroller, in the event of
his appointment as Secretary of the Treasury ; and intimated
that you had concluded to take some gentleman from the south ;
that Mr, Habersham (brother of the collector of Savanah) was
more particularly in your eye, and that if he or I had any differ-
ent view of the subject, it was your wish that it might be speedily
communicated, as you were desirous of coming to a conclusion.

This I accordingly feel it my duty to do.

It is of the greatest importance to the proper conducting the

business of the Treasury Department that the comptroller should

?/ be a man of the following discription : of strong sense, of clear

' discernment, sound judgment, indefatigable industry, firmness

and prompt decision of temper; possessing a comprehensive

knowledge of accounts, and of course good principles.

As well from the nature of the office as from the particular
situation of the department, as it will stand at the moment of
my resignation, it is of peculiar consequence that there should
be no mistake in the selection of the proper character for comp-
troller. It will be easy for the de]3artment to run into disorder if
such a mistake should happen.

From all the light I have been able to obtain on the subject,
though it results in a favorable impression of Mr. Habersham
generally, yet it leaves a considerable doubt on my mind that he
would be an eligible appointment as comptroller of the Treasury.
I cannot, therefore, add my opinion to the rest of the opinions
which may favor it.

There is one gentleman south, whom I have before men-
tioned, of whose fitness in every respect, from trial of him in dif-
ferent public situations, it appears to me impossible to entertain
a doubt — I mean Colonel Edward Carrington. I will pledge my
reputation to the President for his proving, if appointed, an ex-
cellent comptroller, and a valuable acquisition to the department.

I have fully reflected on the objection which, from the
distributive geographical rule, is supposed to be against him —
and I beg leave to submit, as my opinion, that it ought not to be
conclusive. This rule is doubtless a good one ; but if carried so
far as to hazard the appoiiftment of unqualified persons to ofl&ces

iET. 38.] CABINET PAPERS. 69

of material importance to the general administration of the gov-
ernment, it will become a bad one, sacrificing primary to second-
ary considerations.

I have offered my opinion with the less reserve, because I
ought to be explicit, in a case not only of much moment to the
public service, but where the arrangements which may be made
may, naturally from situation^ be presumed to have had the con-
currence of my o|)inion, and where, therefore, my reputation is
more particularly concerned.

With perfect respect, &c.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

January 31, 1795.

Sm:

I have the honor to send you the copy of a letter of the 27th
instant, from the collector of Philadelphia ; of another letter of
the 30th ultimo, from that officer, to the attorney of the district
of Pennsylvania, and of a deposition of Charles Homes, taken
before Judge Peters.

These documents establish an improper attempt of Mr. Petri,
the French Consul, to evade a law of the United States, and
allow a suspicion of the privity of a higher official character.
It is impossible to avoid the reflection that there is too much
connection between the affair of the powder and the unlawful
equipment of the privateer Les Jumeaux. I fear that agents of
France have not ceased to countenance proceedings which not
only contravene our neutrality, but may prove a source of very
serious expense to the United States.

With perfect respect, I have the honor to be, &;c.

70 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Treasury Department, Jan. 31, 1795.

Sir:

Previous to the leaving my present office, there are a few
points which I think it my duty to bring under the consideration
of the President.

The first regards the jDresent state and arrangement of the
mint.

It is certain that this establishment is capable of producing
very important benefits to the community. At this moment, when
an unusually large and sudden exportation of silver has produced
a very inconvenient scarcity of that species of money, the full
activity of the mint would be of primary utility. Large quanti-
ties of silver lie in the banks and other places in ingots, which,
if turned into coin, would be of the greatest advantage to trade,
and to all pecuniary operations public and private.

Hitherto the mint has comparatively done nothing. This is
matter both of surprise and complaint with all that part of the
community whose dissatisfactions are the less known, because
they are not lightly promulgated. The institution itself, by not
fulfilling the public expectation, grows into discredit, and those
who have had the principal agency in its establishment are
wounded by a growing disrepute, which is attributable truly to
an insufficient execution. The President probably knows better
than I do, what have been the causes of the deficiency. They
may afford a justification ; but, uninformed as I am, I cannot
help thinking that with due exertion the business of the mint
might have been far more matured, and its present powers of
action far greater than they are. And I am led to fear that as
long as it continues under its present management the public
expectation will be disappointed. The director, though a most
respectable and excellent man, can hardly be expected on several
accounts to give that close and undivided attention to it, which
in its first stages is indispensable.

There is another point in relation to the same subject, on

JEt. 38. 1 CABINET PAPERS. 71

wliich I sliould have been silent as long as I could have been
supposed to have any personal motive to influence my opinion.
But now that this is at an end, I yield without hesitation to my
convictions of the public interest, in presenting with the greatest
deference those convictions to the consideration of the President,
They amount to this, that the mint establishment will be most
advantageously for the service of the United States placed under
the superintendence of the department of the Treasury,

It is obvious that that establishment forms a most material
link in the money system of the country. This system, as it
regards public operations, is in the management of the depart-
ment of the Treasury. It follows, that in the theory of the case,
there is an intimate relation between this department and that
establishment.

The law constituting the mint, also establishes some relations
between them.

The fifth section refers to the judgment of the Secretary of
the Treasury, the competency of the sureties to be given by the
officers of the mint.

The fourteenth section, providing for the exchange of the
bullion for money, with the deduction of one-half per cent,,
towards defraying the expenses of the mint, makes it the duty
of the Secretary of the Treasury to furnish the mint from time
to time, whenever the state of the Treasury will admit of it, with
such sums as may be necessary for effecting those exchanges.
To engage the Secretary to dispossess the Treasury with confi-
dence of large sums for such exchanges, it is necessary that he
should be very certain of their regular and punctual return.
The assurance of this would be not a little strengthened by that
intimate knowledge of situation which would result from the
duty of superintending. The efficient operation of this provision
is of uo small consequence to the economy of the establishment.
Hitherto its situation has been such as to preclude absolutely the
effect of it.

Moreover, the Secretary of the Treasury, called daily and ha-
bitually, to observe the progress of money transactions, awake to
every thing which can affect them well or ill, because the credit

72 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Ex. 38.

of lais department depends upon it, must be more likely tlian any
other officer, to feel a due sensibility to the efficient and proper
course of the mint, and consequently to exert himself to give it
such a course.

The Post Office, on the other hand, if the idea which has re-
peatedly appeared in Congress be adhered to, that of rendering
it an instrument of the improvement of the public roads instead
of a means of revenue, may without inconvenience be placed
under the department of State, while the mint establishment is
transferred to the Treasury.

These observations proceed on the supposition that the Presi-
dent has adopted in principle and practice, the plan of distribu-
ting all the particular branches of the public service, except that
of the law, among the three great departments ; a plan which is ,
believed to be founded on good reasons.

Another point, to which I would invite the attention of the
President, is the scheme of mounted volunteers, as established
in the law, and as it has operated in practice.

The expense of it is enormous, and from the nature of the
thing, has a tendency to continue so. Though the compensation
of a dollar per man is not fixed absolutely, but as a limit not to
be exceeded, the effect is, that extent of the sum is expected^ and
that from this expectation, the men could not probably be ob-
tained for less. The Executive, too, in an emergent service, will
never be willing to incur the responsibility of failing by a re-
striction of the sum, and thus the ultimatum becomes the ordi-
nary rule.

It will be happy if a revision of the measures for defensive
protection should issue in a conviction, that the number of vol-
unteer horse can be reduced by a substitution of infantry. It
is imagined that on calculation it would appear, that a more
than proportional increase of infantry would cost less.

In the last place, I beg leave to submit an impression, that
advantages would accrue, in the view of economy at least, if the
agents for Indian affairs, in the Southwestern and Northwest-
ern Territories, were distinct from the Governors. These might
still retain the political direction of affairs, and there would result
a check in the business of supplies.

^T. 38.] CABINET PAPERS. TS

HAMILTON TO WILLINK, ETC.

Treasury Department, Jan. 31, 1795.

Gentlemen :

It is probable that before this readies you, you -will have
heard of my determination to resign my office of Secretary of
the Treasury as on this day. The event will accordingly take
place.

I could not permit myself to renounce my official situation
without placing among my last acts the expression of the high
sense 1 continue to entertain of the fidelity and ability with
which you have uniformly served the United States. This tes-
timony is due to you, and it is with great pleasure I give it.

The gentleman whom the President has determined to nomi-
nate as my successor, and who will be no doubt appointed, is
Oliver Wolcott, Esquire, the present Comptroller of the Treasu-
ry. I do him no more than justice by assuring you, that he is a
gentleman of undoubted intelligence, probity, and good princi-
ples with regard to public credit. The confidence of yourselves
and your countrymen may be safely reposed in him.

With sincere wishes for your future welfare, and with in-
creased consideration and esteem,

I am, gentlemen, your most obedient servant,

Alex. Hamilton.

Messrs. Wilhelm & J. Willink, and

Nicholas & J. Van Staphorst & Hubbard.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Treasury Department, Jan. 31, 1795.

Sir:

Agreeably to the intimation heretofore given, I have the
honor now to tender you my resignation of the office of Secreta-

74 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 38.

ry of tlie Treasury, and to be with sincere respect and affection-
ate attachment, Sir,

Your most obedient and humble servant, &c.

The President of the United States.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Sunday, 1st February, 1795.

Dear Sir :

I received the inclosed letter, with the document therein, last
night.

For reasons which will appear obvious, I make you acquainted
with the contents of them — being yours,

G. Washington.

Endorsement on this letter hy A. H. —

This covered a letter from Mr. Coxe, of the 31st January,
1795, containing a charge against Mr. Wolcott, for my having
committed to him, and he having exercised, the duties of Secre-
tary of the Treasury in my absence on the western expedition.

A. H.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, Feb. 2, 1795.

Dear Sir:

After so long an experience of your public services, I am
naturally led, at this moment of your departure from office —
which it has always been my wish to prevent — to review them.

In every relation, which you have borne to me, I have found
that my confidence in your talents, exertions and integrity, has
been well placed.

yET. 38.]

CABINET PAPERS. 75

I the more freely render this testimony of my approbation,
because I speak from opportunities of information which cannot
deceive me, and which furnish satisfactory proof of your title to
public regard.

My most earnest wishes for your happiness will attend you
in your retirement, and you may assure yourself of the sincere
esteem, regard and friendship of
Dear Sir,

Your affectionate

Gr. Washington.

Alexander Hamilton, Esq.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Philadelphia, February 3d, 1795.

Sir:

My particular acknowledgments are due for your very kind
letter of yesterday. As often as I may recall the vexations I
have endured, your approbation will be a great and precious con-
solation.

It was not without a struggle that I yielded to the very urgent
motives which impelled me to relinquish a station in which I
could hope to be in any degree instrumental in promoting the
success of an administration under your direction, a struggle
which would have been 'far greater, had I supposed that the pros-
pect of future usefulness was proportioned to the sacrifices to be
made.

Whatsoever may be my destination hereafter, I entreat you to
be persuaded (not the less for my having been sparing in pro-
fessions) that I shall never cease to render a just tribute to those
eminent and excellent qualities which have been already pro-
ductive of so many blessings to your country ; that you will al-
ways have my fervent wishes for your public and personal fe
licity, and that it will be my pride to cultivate a continuance of
that esteem, regard, and friendship, of which you do me the

76 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 38.

honor to assure me. With, true respect and affectionate attach-
ment,

I have the honor to be,

Sir, your obhged, and ob't servant,

A. Hamilton.

The President of the United States.

WILLING TO HAMILTON.

Bank United States, Feb. 3d, 1795.

Sir:

The President and Directors of the Bank of the United States
acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 31st ult., and feel
with peculiar sensibility the notification of your resignation;
with sincerity they offer their best wishes, that you may be as
happy in private, as your administration has rendered you use-
ful in public life.

They recollected, with extreme satisfaction, the liberal and
enlightened principles on which you have conducted the great
and various operations of your department with this institution :
such as tend to cement a connection which it is their mutual in-
terest to maintain, and which can only be permanent whilst
founded on reciprocal advantage.

It must be to you a source of the most pleasing sensations to
reflect on the extensive utility of an institution which you had
such an essential agency in organizing, which has been strikingly
evident as well in the aid it has afforded to the fiscal administra-
tion, as in the important support it has given to public and pri-
vate credit.

They will again recur to the consideration of the propriety of
establishing a branch in Virginia, and if it should appear that the
advantages that will result therefrom, will supersede the obsta-
cles and inconveniences that have hitherto retarded the opera-
tion, they will not hesitate in carrying it into prompt effect.
In discussing the subject, the arguments which you have suggest-

,Et. 38;] CABINET PAPERS. 11

ed, and which have been derived from experience, will have
their due weight in influencing their determination. They an
ticipate with confidence, in the person who is contemplated by
the President as your successor, the possession of those qualities
which will lay claim to every facility and support, which an at-
tention to the interests of their constituents, combined with a
wish to promote the public service, will enable the President and
Directors to afford.

In behalf of the President and Directors of the Bank of the
United States.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Philadelphia, February 4th, 1795.

Sir:

The circumstance of having offered my late report to Con-
gress to the two Houses, which rendered two copies necessary,
and the extreme press of business in the of&ce, in preparing for
my resignation, prevented my sending you a manuscript copy of
that report.

I have now corrected a printed copy for you, which I have
the honor to send herewith.

With true respect and attachment, &c.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.
(private.)

Philadelphia, February 12th, 1796.

Sir:

I have maturely reflected on the subject of the within paperis.
I do not hesitate to give^t as my opinion, that if it were not for

"fS HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 38.

very peculiar 'personal circumstances, tile fittest arrangement,
upon tlie whole, would be to consign the temporary execution
of the comptroller's office to the commissioner of the revenue.
But I could not advise this, because it could not fail, for strong
reasons, to be unpleasant to Mr. Wolcott, and because there is
real danger that Mr. Coxe would first perplex and embarrass,
and afterwards misrepresent and calumniate.

The treasurer would by no means answer ; because, as the
keeper of the money^ it is particularly essential that all the checks
upon him should be maintained in full vigor ; and the comptrol-
ler is the officer who, in the the last resort, settles his accounts as
well as concurs, in the first instance, in authorizing^ by the war-
rants which are issued by the secretary, and countersigned by
the comptroller, the payments and receipts of the treasurer.

The register is also one of the principal checks of the depart-
ment; first, upon the secretary and comptroller, whose warrants
he must register and sign, before they can take effect; and,
secondly, upon the settlements of the comptroller and auditor,
by recording their acts, and entering them on the books to the
proper accounts.

Of any of the officers of the department, except the commis-
sioner of the revenue, the business can be best managed through
the auditor, consistently with the preservation of the most mate-
rial checks, with the restriction I mentioned this morning, of his
not deciding^ as comptroller^ upon any account he may have settled as
auditor. The temporary suspension of the final conclusion of
the accounts — all the previous examinations going on — cannot
be attended with any serious inconvenience. If the laws admit
of it (which I doubt, as they now stand), the appointment of the
auditor's first clerk to act as auditor in his stead will be a con-
veniency. I do not think this would be liable to the same ob-
jections as the appointing a clerk to act as comptroller, whose
office imports the second trust in the department. In one sense,
to appoint the auditor to act as comptroller will comport best
with the spirit of the constitution of the department. This is,
that the officer ivho is to settle the accounts, by countersigning the
warrants for receipts and payments, shall have an opportunity to

^T. 38.] CABINET PAPERS. 79

observe their conformity with the course of business, as it ap-
pears in the accounts ; and shall have notice, in the first in-
stance, of all payments and receipts, in order to the bringing all
persons to account for public moneys. This reason operates to
make the auditor, who is the coadjutor of the comptroller in
settlements, his most fit substitute in this particular view.

On the whole, I am of opinion that it is most advisable to
appoint the auditor.

A clerk, for reasons already mutually adverted to, does not
appear to me expedient.

I have the honor to be. Sir,

Your affectionate and obedient servant,

A. Hamilton.

P. S. The restriction above suggested, for greater caption,
had best be in writing, in a letter to the Secretary of the
Treasury. The instrument appears to me in proper form.

BIRD, SAVAGE AND BIRD, TO HAMILTON.

LoND )N, February 23d, 1795.

Sir:

In your retreat from the oflSLce of Secretary of the United
States, it can be of little moment to you to have any addition
to the public and private testimonies you have received of the
high opinion your country entertains of your distinguished in-
tegrity and abilities, which have been so successfully employed
in restoring her public credit, and placing it on the most favor-
able footing to her future prosperity. We cannot, however, re-
fuse ourselves the gratification of communicating to you the ap-
plause that the wisdom of your financial measures hus procured
from all persons in this country, where the subject is so well
known and understood.

Joining in the general regret at your retreat, we beg leave to

80 HAMILTON'S WORKS. \JE.t.31.

offer you our best services, in whatever future walk of life you
may fix on, and, with great respect, Sir,

Your most obedient servants,

BiED, Savage & Bird.

COMMEECIAL EELATIONS.

OUTLINE OF smith's SPEECH ON MADISON's RESOLUTIONS OF
JANUARY 3, 1794

Draft by Hamilton.

January, 1794.

The table which is annexed takes the year 1790 as the pro-
per period to show the commercial policy of France previous to
the revolution just terminated. The notes accompanying that
table explain the alterations which have since taken place. There
is, however, no mention of the expiration of the time limited
for the premium on French fish imported into the French colo-
nies, which happened in 1790, because this makes no alteration
in the general complexion of the policy of France in this parti-
cular. It is usual for greater caution to limit the duration of
premiums to a certain period, even where it is supposed that a
further continuation may be necessary, and if the premim in
question has not been removed, it affords no proof of an inten-
tion to relincjuish it, as the situation of France at the time of the
cessation, and since, may be presumed to have precluded arrange-
ments affecting the trade of the colonies.

If any have been made, it may be inferred from Commeres'
pamphlet, that though the duty on foreign fish has been reduced
from three to five livres, the premium on French fish has been
raised from ten to twelve, which makes the aggregate of duty
and premium, operating as a bounty on French fish, the same as
before, namely, fifteen livres.

^T. 37.] COMMERCIAL RELATIONS. 81

General Observations.

1. The commercial system of Great Britain makes no discri-
minations to the prejudice of the United States as compared with
other foreign powers.

There is therefore no ground for a complaint on the part of
the United States, that the system of Great Britain is particu-
larly injurious or unfriendly to them.

2. The commercial system of Great Britain makes important
discriminations in favor of the United States as compared with
other foreign nations. This is exemplified in the instance of to-
bacco, lumber, pot and pearl ash, tar and pitch, pig and bar iron,,
which, when carried from the United States to Great Britain, are
either exempt from duties, which are paid on the same articles
brought from other foreign countries, or pay so much less duty
as to give them a clear advantage in the competition for th&
British market. Our vessels in the direct trade with Great Britain^
are in various instances exempted from duties, which are paid
by the ships of other nations, and .in general are on the sam&
footing in that trade with the vessels of the British colonies.
Admission is also given to a variety of the commodities of the-
United States in the British West Indies, which is not given ta
similar commodities of other foreign countries.

There is therefore ground to assert, that the commercial sys-
tem of Great Britain is more favorable and friendly to the United
States than to other foreign countries.

3. The commercial system of France previous to the revolu-
tion, made fewer and less important discriminations in favor of
the United States, as compared with other foreign nations, than
that of Great Britain. In the West Indies our privileges were
the same. The same commodities only, and upon the same
terms, might be carried thither, and brought from thence from
and to the United States, which might be carried thither and
brought from thence from and to other foreign nations. The
discriminations in favor of the United States in direct trade with
France, are not known to have extended beyond the articles of

fish oils.

* -x- * -K- * *

82 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 37

and vessels of tlie built of the United States when oivned by French
subjects, which were admitted to naturalization, and so far pro-
moted the building of ships as an article of trade with France.
This last discrimination is now abolished, and no new ones have
been made in our favor.

There is therefore ground to assert that the commercial sys-
tem of France towards the United States as compared with other
foreign nations, has been and now is less favorable and friendly
than that of Great Britain.

Particular Observations.

I. As to flour. This article, previous to the revolution in
France, was subject to but a very light duty on its importation
there. At present it is free to all the world. But unless mate-
rial changes take place in the state of France, the United States
are likely to derive little benefit from this circumstance.

The ordinary price of flour in France is about $5 66 cents per
barrel (of Pennsylvania).

In Pennsylvania it may be stated at upon an aver-

age; the freight to France is ; other charges

amount to about , which would make the costs

and charges of a barrel of American flour in France $6 33 cents;
of course it cannot, except on extraordinary occasions, be sent
there without loss.

In Great Britain it has been stated that flour was subject to a
prohibitory duty till the price there was about 48 shillings the
quarter. The flour of the United States can therefore only be
■ carried occasionally to Great Britain as well as to France, but
the occasions have hitherto been more frequent in Great Britain
than in France.

Accordingly, in the course of the years 1786 and 1788, the
whole quantity of flour sent from Pennsylvania to France
amounted to 2396 barrels ; that sent to Great Britain, to 828
barrels.

But the act of Parliament of the , puts this article

upon a worse footing than heretofore, and experience only can
decide, whether flour can be henceforth sent with most advan-
. tage to Great Britain or to France.

^T. 37.] COMMERCIAL RELATIONS. 83

The quarter, however, which in relation to both nations, it
most interests the United States to have access to, as a market
for their flour, is the West India Islands. Here the comparison
is decidedly in favor of Great Britain. The general system of
France, is to prohibit the reception of our flour in her West India
markets — that of Great Britain to permit it.

It is true, that occasional suspensions of the prohibition take
place ; but these suspensions being confined to cases of necessity,
the system of France, tuhich excludes us as far as possible, cannot
on this account be viewed as less unfavorable to the United
States, than if no such suspensions took place.

Flour appears to be the principal staple of the United States.
This principal staple, is, upon the whole, more favored by the
regulations of Great Britain than of France. Accordingly, in
the year 1790, the exportations to the British dominions, amount-
ed to 11,534,276; to the French dominions to $1,483,195.
The comparison is the stronger in favor of Great Britain, from
the circumstance, that this year was one of extreme scarcity in
France. In ordinary years, the difi:erence must be far greater.

II. As to tobacco. It may be presumed, that this is an arti-
cle of such a nature, that it is immaterial to the United States,
what duty is laid upon it in either of the two countries, if the
same duties affect all other imported tobacco. 'Tis a case in
which neither of the countries produces itself the article, to enter
into competition with that of the United States. The duty, there-
fore, must essentially fall upon the buyers, not the sellers.

Previous to the French Eevolution, there was no import duty
in France, upon tobacco, but it was under a monopoly of the
Farmers General ; a situation far more disadvantageous to the
United States, than any tolerable duty could be, by destroying
a free competition among purchasers.

The decree of January, 1791, has laid a duty upon this arti-
cle, if brought from the United States to France in American
vessels, of 25 livres per kental ; if brought in French ships, of
only 18 livres and 15 sous. The tobacco of the United States
has been, and is, upon no better footing, than that of some other
foreign nations.

84 HAMILTON'S WORKS, [^t. 37.

In Great Britain, as has been stated, a considerably bigber
duty is paid on other foreign tobacco, tban on tbat of the United
States ; and it may be carried to Great Britain, in vessels of tbe
United States, upon tbe same terms as in Britisb bottoms, while
tbe ships of other nations, bringing tobacco, are subjected to a
greater duty on the tobacco which they bring than the ships
of Great Britain.

Although, therefore, there is a higher duty on tobacco in
Great Britain than in France ; yet as in France the duty is the
same on other foreign tobacco as on ours ; as in Great Britain a
liigher duty is charged on other foreign tobacco than upon ours ;
as the comparative rate, not the quantum of the duty in either
country, is the only thing which concerns us, it is evident that
our tobacco is much more favored by Great Britain than by
France. Indeed the difference of duty operates as a positive
bounty upon the tobacco of the United States.

As it regards our navigation, the comparison is still more
striking. Here, too, we are more favored by Great Britain than
other countries ; while the existing regulation of France is in
the degree the most exceptionable to be found in the code of
any country. It amounts to a prohibition of carrying our own
tobacco to France in our own ships.

Several European nations have aimed at a monopoly of tbe
carrying trade of their colonies, but the spirit has not extended
to their home dominions. Slight differences have been made be-
tween foreign and national ships in favor of the latter ; but a
difference amounting to an exclusion of the former is perhaps
without example, except in the regulation in question.

The principle of this regulation would prostrate the naviga-
tion of the United States more effectually than any which is to
be found in the system of any other country.

Hence, in respect to the article of tobacco, the staple of the
United States which may be deemed second in importance, th 3
regulations of Great Britain are far more favorable than those of
France.

Great Britain took from us in the year 1790, $2,777,808,
while Franca took only $427,746.

^T. 37.] COMMERCIAL RELATIONS. 85

Hence also it appears that Great Britain is a far better cus-
tomer for the article than France.

III. As to fish and fish oil. The regulations of France as to
these articles are incomparably more favorable in their operation
than those of Great Britain, though there is no material differ-
ence in principle.

Great Britain lays a prohibitory duty on oil, which excludes
all but the finest kinds occasionally, and absolutely prohibits fish.

France lays such duties on the fish and oil of other countries,
and grants such premiums and encouragements in relation to the
products of her own fisheries, as amount completely to a prohibi-
tion, so far as her capacity to supply her own dominions extends.

The duty on foreign fish in the French West Indies, and the
premium on French fish, as stated in the table, amount virtually
to a bounty on French fish of nearly 100 per cent, of the value.
In France the duty alone is about 75 per cent,, and it is under-
stood that the premiums andbounties in favor of the French fish-
eries are enormous.

The distinctions, nevertheless, which have been made in favor
of the whale fisheries of the United States have been of material
aid to them ; but there is reason to apprehend that the means
which have been successfully used to detach our fishermen, and
the vast encouragements which are given by the government,
that the whale fishery of France is establishing itself on the ruins
of that of the United States.

The cod fishery stands on a different footing. Our natural
advantages are so great as to render it difiicult to supplant us;
but as far as we have been able to maintain, in this respect, a com-
petition with the French fisheries in the French markets, it is to
be attributed to their incapacity to supply themselves, which
has counteracted the effect of a system manifestly prohibitory in
its principle.

The real spirit of the system of France on this head, not
only appears from what has been done, but from the manner of
doing it.

In August, 1784, the arret giving admission \o foreign fish in

86 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 37.

the West India markets was passed. In September, 1785, an-
other arret was passed, granting a premium of ten livres per
kental on French fish. Seven days after, so great was the anx-
iety, another arret was passed raising the duty on foreign fish
from tliree to five livres. An arret of the 29th of December, 1787,
grants a right of storing for six months in France all the produc-
tions of the United States, in order to re-exportation, paying only
a duty of one per cent. In February following, another arret
passed, excepting from this right all the products of the fisheries
evidently from a jealousy of our interference with the French
fisheries.

A further explanation of the spirit of the French system on
this point, is to be found in the passage of a report to the Na-
tional Assembly,in the year 1789, from the Committees of Agri-
culture and Commerce. After stating a diminution of the pro-
duct of the French cod fishery, during the year 1789, the report
proceeds thus : " This diminution ought to be attributed to the
collusion of the English and free Americans who contrived to
disappoint the French fisheries, by finding means to supply us
with their fish, while they eluded the payment of the duty imposed
on importation, in order to establish a preference in favor of the cod
of the French fishery.

But however similar the principle of the French and English
regulations may be, in regard to their fisheries, the result to the
United States is vastly different.

The dominions of France take of the fisheries of the United
States to the extent of $724,224 ; those of Great Britain to the
extent only of $88,371.

IV. As to wood, particularly lumber. The regulations of
France have not made, and do not make, any distinction as to the
articles of this kind in favor of the United States.

Those of Great Britain make material distinctions in favor of
the United States and their ships, putting the citizens and ships
of the United States, in this respect, upon the same footing as
those of their own colonies, as far as regards the European
market.

.Et. 37.] COMMERCIAL RELATIONS. 87

Great Britain is also a much, better customer than France for
articles of this kind.

The amount in value taken from us by the dominions of the
former in 1790 was $622,635; that of the latter, $476,039.

V. As to rice. This article has stood and now stands upon a
better footing in France than in Great Britain, being free in the
former country, and subject to a high duty in the latter. And
there being no discrimination in either country in favor of the
rice of the United States.

It is to be observed, however, that as the article is produced
in neither country, and as the rice of the United States is
on the same footing in the British market as that of other coun-
tries, the observation made in respect to the duty on tobacco may
in some sort be applied to this article.

But it applies with far less force, because tobacco has no
competitor, while rice, as far as it is a substitute for bread or
vegetables, has competitors in all the articles which fall under
either description.

This article, however, stands upon a somewhat better footing
in the British than in the French West Indies, being free in the
former, and subject to a duty of one per cent, in the latter. The
difference, however, is not considerable.

The British dominions took in 1790 of this article, in value,
$953,939 ; the French, $322,926.

VI. As to grain, namely, wheat, rye, Indian corn, oats. As
they respect the European dominions of France and Great Britain,
they may be considered nearly in the same light with flour.

All these articles are free in the British "West Indies; wheat
and rye are prohibited in the French ; but Indian corn and oats
are admitted upon a duty of one per cent. The result upon the
whole is, that the English have been better customers than the
French.

The British dominions took of these articles in the year 1790,,
in value, $685,071 ; the French, $280,792.

The act of Parliament of

88 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 37.

is likely to make a difference hereafter in the British European

market. According to that act

But experience alone can determine with certainty the effect.

VII. As to pot and pearlash. These articles have stood and
still stand upon a better footing by the British regulations than
by the French.

By the regulations of France, the pot and pearlash of other
countries are upon the same footing with those of the United
States.

By the regulations of Great Britain, those of the United
States are free, while those of other countries are subject to a duty
of about five per cent.

Great Britain, in 1790, took from the United States of these
articles in value $747,078 : France, $20,720.

YIII. As to indigo. This article (eighth in value of our ex-
ports) stands upon decidedly a better footing in the system of
Great Britain than in that of the United States. France is her-
self our competitor in the supply of her own market, and she
aims at securing to herself the monopoly of it, by adding to the
advantage of a superior quality of her own indigo, as stated by
the Secretary of State, the discouragement to ours of double the
duty paid on her own. Great Britain admits the article into
her home market free of duty. Both countries exclude it from
their West India markets. Neither make any distinction for or
against us. In 1790 Great Britain took of this article in value
$479,530: France, $12,649.

IX. As to live animals. The regulations of both countries
.may be considered as pretty equal in respect to these articles ;
the duty of one per cent, paid in the French West Indies, while
,none is paid in the English, being of no consequence in relation
.to articles in which the French themselves can maintain no com-
petition.

The dominions of France took in 1790 of these articles in
walue $362,795 : those of Great Britain, $62,415.

yET. 37.] COMMERCIAL RELATIONS. 89

X. As to naval stores, namely, pitch, tar, and turpentine,
the regulations of Great Britain are more favorable than those
of France ; for though the duties are higher in the former than
in the latter, yet France places these articles from all countries on
the same footing, while England lays higher duties on them
when brought from other countries, than when brought from the
United States. The difference as remarked in other cases is a
bounty upon the productions of the United States. The rate of
duty here is of no consequence for the reason assigned in respect
to tobacco. Great Britain, in 1790, took from us of these articles,
$196,832 : France, $7,366.

XI. As to salted provisions. The regulations of France as to
these articles are evidently more favorable than those of Great
Britain ; being tolerated by the former, and prohibited by the
latter.

The duties, however, are high, and even in respect to beef,
are a serious incumbrance upon the sale with a living profit.
In respect to pork, they amount essentially to a prohibition in
France, which has great means of internal supply, and in the
French West Indies the article is prohibited.

The dominions of France took of these articles in 1790, in
value $318,454 : those of Great Britain only $7,557.

XII. As to flax-seed. It does not appear that any difference
exists in the regulations of the two countries in respect to this
article, but Great Britain is by far the better customer. Her
dominions took in value in 1790, $219,924 : the French, $3,290.

XIII. As to iron. The regulations of Great Britain are more
favorable to the United States in respect to this article, than those
of France ; for France admits the iron of other countries upon
the same footing with that of the United States, and lays a small
duty upon bar iron.

Great Britain admits the iron of the United States free from
duty, and lays a considerable duty on the article brought from
other countries.

90 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 37.

Great Britain took from us of this article in to tlie

amount of $196,832 : France to the amount of $2,143.

XIV. As to ships built in the United States. The regulations
of France did favor more the building of ships for sale than those
of Great Britain ; for ships built in the United States and pur-
chased by the French, were capable of being naturalized in
France. This distinction in our favor is now done away. In
England ships built in the United States have been and are enti-
tled to be recorded, and being recorded and owned by British
subjects, enjoy the same privilege as British built ships in the
trade between the United States and Great Britain.

A general distinction in favor of the United States runs
through the regulations of Great Britain in this particular, that
most articles of foreign countries brought in foreign ships, pay a
higher duty than if brought in British ships ; but not so of the
same articles if brought in ships of the United States.

In the West India trade of France, the United States stand
upon the same footing with other foreign nations — in one in-
stance, perhaps, upon a worse, as it regards the operation of the
thing — namely, as to salted beef, which though foreign^ if brought
from France in French ships, is exempted from the duty which
is paid on the same article carried from the United States directly
to the Islands. The proximity of Ireland to France seems to
render this an advantage to her over the United States.

In the West India trade of Great Britain, the United States
have the peculiar advantage of their commodities being intro-
duced upon the same footing as if brought from the British
dominions in America, except as to the article of carried

in ships of the United States. Here is a distinction in favor of
the United States.

Note. — Mr. Jefferson's table refers to an arret of 9th of May, 1789, as making
certain alterations in the trade of the United States with the French West Indies.

But this arret (which is merely an ordinance of the Governor General of St. Do-
mingo) is confined wholly to the south part of the Island of St. Domingo on very spe-
cial reasons relative to the improvement of that particular spot, and with very severe
restrictions to prevent an extension. It is no permanent part of the system of

JEt.31.] commercial RELATIONS. 91

France — no part of the general sj'stem of the West Indies, and is not linown to
have received the sanction of the king. It was, besides, passed at a moment of
revolution.*

* This paper contains the outline of the speech of Wm. Smith on the Madison
resolutions. It is incomplete— and the accuracy of the figures cannot be vouched
for, as they were supplied by the editor from that speech to fill up the blanks.
They are believed to be correct.
HAMILTON'S WORKS.

[^T. 37.

Comparative footing of the Commerce of the United States with the Do

FRANCE.

GREAT BRITAIN.

-

EXPORTS

FOOnXG.

DISCRIMINATIONS.

FOOTING.

msCK.MI>-.T,0«s

OP THE

UNITED STATES.

Favor of U. S.

Aj^ainst U. S.

Favor of U. S.

Against

Arranged accordinff to
their respective im-
portanee.

''^fkt

s

J_2
c ^

|||

— ^ ?

Bread Stuffs, sav
Flour

Duty Is. 8d. p. cf.,
ad valorem

Prohib. duties, (4>.
Do

Wheat ..•.

Do

Rye

Do

Do.

Indian Corn

Do

Do.

Oats

Do

Do

Tobacco

No duty but under
monopoly to the
Farmers General

Duty Is. 8d. per ct..
ad val

Dutyls.3d. p.lb.(c)
Duty 3s. 4d. p. ct..
Free

3s. 6d.

Rice

.■^s.lOd.
p.c.(d)
high &
fre.pr,..
duties.

Duty Is. 8d. per ct.

Duty 8 livres per.
kental (a)

Wood

Fisheries, viz :
Salted Fish

Prohibited

Fish Oil

Duty 7 liv. 10 sous
per barrel of 500
lb. (a)

prohi-
bited.

Duty of 18s. 3d. per
tun of 252 gal

Is. 8d. p. ct. ad val.

Pol and Pearl Ash.

o^ 3d

Duty 5 liv. p. kental

Duty 5 liv. p. ken-
tal in some ports,
prohib. in others.

Duty 5 liv. p. kental

per ct.

Salted Meats, viz :
Beef

Pork

Indigo

Free. .

J.ive animals

Fla.x-Seed

Duty Is. 8d. per. ct.
ad. val

Free

Naval Stores, viz :
Tar and Pitch

Duty 2^d p. ct., ad
val

Duty lis. per last. .
Diity2s. 3d. p.ct. int
Duty Is. 6d. do.

l'.'s.4d.

Do

Turpentine

I2s.9d.
per ct.
2s. 4d.

Do

Rosin

Iron

Do

Free...

5(is.2d

ST3.-2 p.3
569.6 p.3

Pig Iron

Do

Free

la all cases where nothing is inserted in a column und

/Ex. 37.]

COMMERCIAL RELATIONS.
/ France and Great Britain p^^or to the pending Revolution of France.

FRENCH WEST INDIES.

BRITISH WEST INDIES.

REMARKS.

DISCRIMINATIONS.

POOTIHG.

MSCErMIKATIONS.

(a) It is known
(though data for
stating them pre-
•isely are wanting) ,
that high premiums

Favor of U. S.

Against U. S.

Favor of U. S.

Against U. S.

OoTisa.

I'll
■- ? G

Lit

a.— 2:

''%'Z's

•3 ° £

=1

■2 g02

ill

d ^

— S
-= ^ r

lid
t. -

III

ill

n

III

a'

m French fish co-
operated with the
iiigh duty on ours to
exclude us as far as
|)0^sib!e, from the
market of France.

(i) Great Britain
lias two scales of
duties, one high the
other low ; the for-

ted

Free

Pro'd .
Do. .

mer prohibitory, the
latter not so ; but
these last apply only
when the price of

Do

the British article,

Do

Do. .

bv scarcity or e.xtra-

Do

Do. .

ordinarv demands is

Do

Do. .

particularly high,

ed

Free

Do. .

ihe rale was 48s. str.
the quarter, but a
late act has in-
creased it. The same

p. ct., ad val

p. ct.,ad val

liv. p. kent ,
a bounty of
. on French

Do

Do. .

act gives a right of
deposit or storing,

Do

Do. .

without paying the
high duties, with
permission to export

Prohibited

free from duties and
with the option of
waiting for the mar-
ket price to arrive at
the point at which

fd

Do

the low duties take

ed

Do

place. The same
system essentially

Do

extends to other
kinds of grain. <

Do

(c) The rates men-

ed

Do

tioned in this and
the adjoining col-
umn are sterling

ted

Prohibited

money.

Free

(d) These duties

ted

Prohibited

on several kinds of
wood are as folloAvs :

p. ct, ad val

Free

Pro'd .
Do. .

Oak boards from dis
iOd. to 105s. 8d. the
120. Ditto iilanks,
19*. the 50 cubic ft.

Do

Ditto timber 9s. ll(/.
the 50 cubic feet.

Do

Do. .

Deals from 53s. to
238s. the ]20. Staves

from 4s. to 17s. Gd.

ted

the 120. Timber

t*

Do

generally Os. 8d. the
50 cubic Jeet.

Discriminatio s " t is to be understocd that there are none.
HAMILTON'S WORKS

[^T. 37.

Comparative Footing of the Commerce of the United States with the Domi
of France and Great Britain prior to the pendinrj Revolution of France

FREXCH WEST INDIES.

BRITISH WEST INDIES.

fOOTING.

DISCRIMINATIONS.

FOOTING .

DISCRIMINATIONS.

IMPORTS

Favor of U. S.

Apiiinat U. S.

Favor of U. S.

Agains

PKOM THE FRENCH AND
ENGLISH WEST INDIES
INTO THE UNITED
STATES.

II
"S ° ^

'In ^
11.1

CQ

|l|

■11'*'
ffl'

Prohibited

Pro. to other
for. CO. ex
spec, which
isob. inEng

Duty 1 p. ct. ad val
Do
Molasses

Free from Grenada
and Jamaica

4.W p. ct, duty from
other islands

Prohib

sent

for. (

Do

to be
0 other

Do

Do.

Do

;:::

Do
Do

Do

Salt

Do

May be brought
from Turk's Island
in vessels of the
U. S., i)aying
duty of 2s. Grf.str.

Do

Other productions. .

Prohibited

Ships. — This article is to be viewed in a twofold light, as a saleable
manufacture and as a vehicle to convey the productions of the country.
The laws of France at the period to which this table refers, permitted
vessels built in the United States when purchased and owned by French
citizens to be naturalized, and thereby enjoy the privileges of French
vessels. The laws of Great Britain did not permit the same. Our
vessels owned by our own citizens in the trade between the United
States and France, enjoyed the same privileges with the most favored
nations, and not greater. In the trade between the United States and
Great Britain, they enjoyed equal privileges with British bottoms,
greater than the vessels of other foreign countries in the trade between
those countries and Great Britain (certain productions of those countries
being subject to higher duties when carried in their own than when
carried in British bottoms, which was and is not the case in* respect to
vessels of the United States carrying their own productions). In the
trade between the United States and the French West Indies, our ves-
sels of sixty tons and under might carry thither and bring from thence

iET,37.] ACT TO PUNISH CERTAIN CRIMES, 95

the articles permitted to be imported and exported — but other foreign
vessels enjoyed the same privilege with ours. Between the United
States and the British West Indies, our vessels could carry nothing ex-
cept salt from Turk's Island.

The arr^t of the 29th of December, 1787, gave the citizens of the
United States like privileges with French subjects in the Asiatic
dominions of France. It is also understood that our citizens enjoyed
useless privileges in the Asiatic dominions of Great Britain.

No notice is taken of the trade of exports from France and Grreat
Britain to the United States, because the policy of each country was in
that respect nearly similar and unexceptionable. The exceptions made
from time to time by the French Colonial Grovernment are not taken
notice of — because they were exceptions from the general system of the
mother country, founded on the necessity of particular emergencies.
The true complexion of a system is to be determined by the general
permanent rules which govern it — not by special exceptions from fortui-
tous circumstances and cases of necessity.

The special authorities upon which the foregoing table has been
formed are, with regard to France, the arret of the 29th of December,
1787. With regard to the French West Indies, the letters patent of
October, 1727, and the arrets of the oOth of August, 1784 — 18th and
25th of September, 1785. With regard to Grreat Britain, the procla-
mation of the 26th of December, 1783. yearly continued, explained by
sundry statutes. With regard to the British West Indies, the act of
parliament of the 28th of George III., chap. vi.

ACT TO PUNISH CERTAIN CRIMES,

June 5tli, 1794.

AN ACT IN ADDITION TO THE "ACT FOR THE PUNISHMENT OF
CERTAIN CRIMES AGAINST THE UNITED STATES."

1. Be it enacted, ttc, That if any citizen of the United States
shall, within the territory or jurisdiction of the same, accept and
exercise a commission to serve a foreign prince or state in war,
by land or sea, the person so offending shall be deemed guilty of
a high misdemeanor, and shall be fined not more than two
thousand dollars, and shall be imprisoned not exceeding three
years.

96 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [tEt. 37.

2. That if any person shall, within the territory or jurisdic-
tion of the United States, enlist or enter himself, or hire or re-
tain another person to enlist or enter himself, or to go beyond
the limits or jurisdiction of the United States with intent to be
enlisted or entered, in the service of any foreign prince or state,
as a soldier, or as a marine or seaman, on board of any vessel of
war, letter of marque, or privateer ; every person so offending
shall be deemed guilty of a high misdemeanor, and shall be
fined not exceeding one thousand dollars, and be imprisoned not
exceeding three years.

Provided^ That this shall not be construed to extend to any
subject or citizen of a foreign prince or state, who shall transient-
ly be within the United States, and shall, on board of any vessel
of war, letter of marque, or privateer, which, at the time of its
arrival within the United States, was fitted and equipped as
such, enlist or enter himself, or hire or retain another subject or
citizen of the same foreign prince or state, who is transiently
within the United States, to enlist or enter himself to serve such
prince or state, on board such vessel of war, letter of marque, or
privateer, if the United States shall then be at peace with such
prince or state.

And 'provided further^ That if any person so enlisted shall,
within thirty days after such enlistment, voluntarily discover,
upon oath, to some justice of the peace or other civil magistrate,
the person or persons by whom he was so enlisted, so as that he
or they may be apprehended and convicted of the said oflence ;
such person so discovering the offender or offenders shall be in-
demnified from the penalty prescribed by this act.

3. That if any person shall, within any of the ports, harbors,
bays, rivers, or other waters of the United States, fit out and
arm, or attempt to fit out and arm, or procure to be fitted out
and armed, or shall, knowingly, be concerned in the furnishing,
fitting out, or arming of any ship or vessel, with intent that such
ship or vessel shall be employed in the service of any foreign
prince or state, to cruise or commit hostilities upon the subjects,
citizens, or property of another foreign prince or state with
whom the United States are at peace, or shall issue or deliver a

^T. 37.] ACT TO PUNISH CERTAIN CRIMES. 97

commission, within the territory or jurisdiction of the United
States, for any ship or vessel, to the intent that she may be em-
ployed as aforesaid ; every such person so offending shall, upon
conviction, be adjudged guilty of a high misdemeanor, and shall
be fined and imprisoned at the discretion of the court in which
the conviction shall be had, so as the fine to be imposed shall in
no case be more than five thousand dollars, and the term of im-
prisonment shall not exceed three years ; and every such ship or
vessel, with her tackle, apparel, and furniture, together with all
materials, arms, ammunition, and stores, which may have been
procured for the building and equipment thereof, shall be for-
feited one half to the use of any person who shall give informa-
tion of the offence, and the other half to the use of the United
States.

4. That if any person shall, within the territory or jurisdic-
tion of the United States, increase or augment, or procure to be-
increased or augmented, or shall be knowingly concerned in in-
creasing or augmenting the force of any ship of war, cruiser, or
other armed vessel, which, at the time of her arrival within the
United States, was a ship of war, cruiser, or armed vessel, in the
service of a foreign prince or state, or belonging to the subjects
or citizens of such prince or state, the same being at war with,
another foreign prince or state with whom the United States are
at peace, by adding to the number or size of the guns of such
vessel prepared for use, or by the addition thereto of any equip-
ment solely applicable to war ; every such person so offending
shall, upon conviction, be adjudged guilty of a misdemeanor, and
shall be fined and imprisoned at the discretion of the court in
which the conviction shall be had, so as that such fine shall not
exceed one thousand dollars, nor the term of imprisonment be
more than one year.

5. That if any person shall, within the territory or jurisdic-
tion of the United States, begin or set on foot, or provide or pre-
pare the means for, any military expedition or enterprise, to be
carried on from thence against the territory or dominions of any
foreign prince or state with whom the United States are at
peace; every such person so offending shall, upon conviction,

E 7

98 HAMILTON'S WORKS, [^t. 37.

be adjudged guilty of a high misdemeanor, and shall suffer fine
and imprisonment at the discretion of the court in which the
conviction shall be had, so as that such fine shall not exceed
three thousand dollars, nor the term of imprisonment be more
than three years.

6. That the district courts shall take cognizance of com-
plaints, by whomsoever instituted, in cases of captures made
within the waters of the United States, or within a marine
league of the coasts or shores thereof

7. That in every case in which a vessel shall be fitted out and
armed, or attempted so to be fitted out or armed, or in which the
force of any vessel of war, cruiser, or other armed vessel, shall
be increased or augmented, or in which any military expedition
or enterprise shall be begun or set on foot, contrary to the pro-
hibitions and provisions of this act ; and in every case of the cap-
ture of a ship or vessel within the jurisdiction or protection of the
United States, as above defined, and in every case in which any
process issuing out of any court of the United States, shall be dis-

• obeyed or resisted by any person or persons having the custody
of any vessel of war, cruiser, or other armed vessel, of any foreign
prince or state, or of the subjects or citizens of such prince or
state, in every such case it shall be lawful for the President of
the United States, or such other person as he shall have empow-
ered for that purpose, to employ such part of the land or naval
forces of the United States, or of the militia thereof, as shall be
judged necessary for the purpose of taking possession of, and de-
taining any such ship or vessel, with her prize or prizes, if any,
in order to the execution of the prohibitions and penalties of this
. act, and to the restoring such prize or prizes, in the cases in
which the restoration shall have been adjudged, and also for the
purpose of preventing the carrying on of any such expedition or
enterprise, from the territories of the United States, against the
territories or dominions of a foreign prince or state, with whom
the United States are at peace

8. That it shall be lawful for the President of the United

, States, or such other person as he shall have empowered for that

purpose, to employ such part of the land or naval forces of the

yET.37.] CARRIAGE TAX. 99

United States, or of the militia thereof, as shall be necessary to
compel any foreign ship or vessel to depart the United States, in
all cases in which, by the laws of nations, or the treaties of the
United States, they ought not to remain within the United
States.

9. That nothing in the foregoing act shall be construed to
prevent the prosecution or punishment of treason, or any piracy,
defined by a treaty, or other law of the United States.

10. That this act shall continue and be in force, for and dur-
ing the term of two years, and from thence to the end of the
next session of Congress, and no longer.

Approved, June 5th, 1794.

CAEEIAGE TAX.

June 5, 1794.

AN ACT LAYING DUTIES UPON CARRIAGES FOR THE CONVEY-
ANCE OF PERSONS.

1. Be it enacted, &c.^ That there shall be levied, collected, and
paid, upon all carriages for the conveyance of persons which shall
be kept by, or for, any person, for his or her own use, or to be
let out to hire, or for the conveying of passengers, the several
duties and rates following, to wit : For and upon every coach,
the yearly sum of ten dollars ; for and upon every chariot, the
yearly sum of eight dollars ; for and upon every phaeton and
coachee, six dollars ; for and upon every other four-wheel, and
every two- wheel, top carriage, two dollars; and upon every
other two-wheel carriage, one dollar. Provided always^ That no-
thing herein contained shall be construed to charge with a duty,
any carriage usually and cSiefly employed in husbandry, or for
the transporting or carrying of goods, wares, merchandise, pro-
duce, or commodities.

2. That the duties aforesaid shall be levied, collected, re-

100 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 37.

ceived, and accounted for, by and under the immediate direction*
of the supervisors and inspectors of the revenue, and other offi-
cers of inspection, subject to the superintendence, control, and
direction, of the department of the Treasury, according to the au-
thorities and duties of the respective officers thereof.

3. That every person having or keeping a carriage, or car-
riages, which, by this act, is or are made subject to the payment
of duty, shall, within the month of September, in each year,
make entry of the same, with the officer of inspection of the dis-
trict in which he or she shall reside, and pay the duty thereon :
and such entry shall be in writing, subscribed by the owner of
such carriage or carriages, and shall describe each by its proper
denomination, and number of wheels. And for the purpose of
receiving such entry and payment, it shall be the duty of the
supervisor of the district, or of some officer of inspection, to at-
tend within the month of September, in each year, at one of the
most public and convenient places in each county, within their
respective districts, and to give public notice, at least one month
previous to such day, of the time and place of such attendance.
And if any person, having or keeping a carriage or car-
riages, charged with a duty or duties by this act, shall neglect
or omit to bring, or send and deliver such list thereof, at or
within any monthly period aforesaid, in manner above mentioned,
or to pay the duty or duties thereupon payable, he or she shall,
for every such neglect or omission, forfeit and pay a sum equal
to the duty or duties payable upon the said carriage or carriages,
in addition to the said duty or duties.

4. That if any person having or keeping a carriage or car-
riages, chargeable with any duty by this act, shall prefer, to the
mode of payment hereinbefore directed, that of paying the
amount of the duties, by him or her payable, upon demand of
him or her made at his or her usual place of habitation, it shall
be at his or her option to make payment in manner last men-
tioned, upon the condition following, that is to say : that he or
she, if having or keeping a carriage or carriages, so liable to duty,
on the first day of September next, shall, within the said month
of September, or, if beginning to have or keep such carriage or

JEr. 37.]

CARRIAGE TAX. 101

carriages at any time after the said first day of September, shall
within thirty days after he or she shall so begin to have or keep
such carriage or carriages, give notice thereof, in writing at the
office of inspection nearest to his or her said place of habitation,
by transmitting a list thereof, of the like kind and description
with that directed and described in the third section of this act,
and expressing thereupon that he or she doth elect to pay the
yearly duty or duties, 'payable upon the carriage or carriages
therein mentioned, upon demand of him or her, at his or her
said place of habitation, and upon this further condition, that
he or she shall pay, upon such demand, in addition to the said
duty or duties, a commission of one per centum upon the amount
thereof^ for the benefit of the ofiicer or person by whom the said
demand shall have been made.

5. That every person who shall make such election as afore-
said, shall pay, or cause to be paid, yearly, and every year, after
the month of September, upon the calling for that purpose, at
his or her said place of habitation, of any ofiicer of inspection, or
person thereunto authorized, the amount of duty or duties by
him or her payable, upon the carriage or carriages, whereof he
or she shall have transmitted a list, as aforesaid, so long as he or
she sha,ll continue to have or keep the same, and until he or she
shall give notice in writing, at the ofiice of inspection, to which
the said list shall have been transmitted, that he or she hath sold,
or otherwise assigned, or alienated, any carriage or carriages
therein mentioned ; in default of which payment, the duty or
duties, and commission, thereupon, in respect to which any such
default shall be made, shall and may be sued for and recovered
in any court of the United States, or either of them, or shall
and may be levied, together with reasonable charges, by distress
and sale of the goods and chatties of the person making such
default.

6. That if any person, by whom such election as aforesaid
shall have been made, shall omit to notify in manner hereinbe-
fore directed, any carriage or carriages liable to duty, by this
act, which he or she shall, at any time, have or keep, he or she
shall in respect to such carriage or carriages, stand and be in the

102 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 37.

same predicament as persons by whom no such election shall
have been made, and shall incur the like penalties and forfeit-
ures, as such persons are by this act made liable to, for neglect-
ing or omitting to bring, or send and deliver, true and exact lists
of the carriages by them, respectively, had or kept, and paying
the duties thereupon, in the manner herein directed.

7. That it shall be, at any time, lawful for any person who
shall have made any such election as aforesaid, by notice in writ-
ing, under his or her hand, sent to, and delivered at, the same
oflS.ce of inspection, where the notice of such election shall have
been given, to revoke the said election ; after which revocation,
he or she shall stand and be, as to all matters and things directed
and prescribed by this act, in the same situation as if no such
election had been made.

8. That the supervisors of the revenue shall have power,
from time to time, to examine, upon oath or affirmation, any
ofl&cers or persons employed under them in the collection and
receipts of the duties aforesaid.

9. That if any person shall wilfully swear or affirm falsely,
touching any matter hereinbefore required to be verified by oath
or affirmation, he or she shall suffer the pains and penalties,
which by law are prescribed for wilful and corrupt perjury ; and,
if an officer, shall forfeit his office, and be incapable of afterwards
holding any office under the United States.

10. That all fines, penalties, and forfeitures, which shall be
incurred pursuant to this act, shall be divided and distributed,
one half thereof to the use of the United States, and the other
half thereof to the use of the person, who, if an officer of in-
spection, shall first discover, if not an officer of inspection, shall
first give information of, the cause, matter, or thing, whereby
any of the said penalties or forfeitures shall have been in-
curred ; and as well the duties hereby laid, as the said fines,
penalties, and forfeitures, all or any of them, shall and may
be sued for, and recovered, in any court of the United States,
or before any magistrate, or State court, having competent
jurisdiction.

11. That this act shall continue and be in force, for and dur-

jet.zs.] act calling forth militia.
ing the term, of two years, and from thence to the end of the
next session of Congress, and no longer.

ACT AS TO CALLING FOETH MILITIA.

February 28tli, 1795.

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR CALLING FORTH THE MILITIA, TO
EXECUTE THE LAWS OF THE UNION, SUPPRESS INSURREC-
TIONS, AND REPEL INVASIONS, AND TO REPEAL THE ACT NOW
IN FORCE FOR THOSE PURPOSES.

1. Beit enacied^ c&c, That whenever the United States shall
be invaded, or be in imminent danger of invasion, from any
foreign nation or Indian tribe, it shall be lawful for the President
of the United States to call forth such number of the militia of
the State or States most convenient to the place of danger or
scene of action, as he may judge necessary to repel such invasion,
and to issue his orders for that purpose to such officer or officers
of the militia as he shall think proper. And in case of an insur-
rection in any State, against the government thereof, it shall be
lawful for the President of the United States, on application of
the legislature of such State, or of the Executive (when the legis-
lature cannot be convened), to call forth such number of the
militia of any other State or States, as may be applied for, as he
may judge sufficient to suppress such insurrection.

2. That whenever the laws of the United States shall be op-
posed, or the execution thereof obstructed, in any State, by com-
binations too powerful to be suppressed by the ordinary course
of judicial proceedings, or by the powers vested in the marshals .
by this act, it shall be lawful for the President of the United
States to call forth the militia of such State, or of any other ■
State or States, as may be necessary to suppress such combina-
tions, and to cause the laws to be duly executed ; and the use of

104 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

militia so to be called forth may be continued, if necessary, until
the expiration of thirty days after the commencement of the then
next session of Congress.

3. That whenever it may be necessary, in the judgment of
the President, to use the military force hereby directed to be
called forth, the President shall forthwith, by proclamation, com-
mand such insurgents to disperse, and retire peaceably to their
respective abode, within a limited time.

4. That the militia employed in the service of the United
States shall be subject to the same rules and articles of war as
the troops of the United States ; and that no officer, non-com-
missioned officer, or private, of the militia, shall be compelled to
serve more than three months after his arrival at the place of
rendezvous, in any one year, nor more than in due rotation with
every other able-bodied man of the same rank in the battalion to
which he belongs.

5. That every officer, non-commissioned officer, or private, of
the militia, who shall fail to obey the orders of the President of
the United States, in any of the cases before recited, shall forfeit
a sum not exceeding one year's pay, and not less than one
month's pay, to be determined and adjudged by a court martial;
and such officer shall, moreover, be liable to be cashiered by sen-
tence of a court martial, and to be incapacitated from holding a
commission in the militia, for a term not exceeding twelve
months, at the discretion of the said court ; and such non-com-
missioned officers and privates shall be liable to be imprisoned,
by a like sentence, on failure of payment of the fines adjudged
against them, for one calendar month for every five dollars of
such fine.

6. That courts martial for the trial of militia shall be com-
posed of militia officers only.

7. That all fines to be assessed as aforesaid, shall be certified
by the presiding officer of the court martial before whom the
same shall be assessed, to the marshal of the district in Avhich
the delinquent shall reside, or to one of his deputies, and also to

■the supervisor of the revenue of the same district, who shall re-
tcord the said certificate in a book to be kept for that purpose.

tEt. 38.] ACT CALLING FORTH MILITIA. 105

The said marshal, or his deputy, shall forthwith proceed to levy
the said fines, with costs, by distress and sale of the goods and
chattels of the delinquent; which costs, and the manner of pro-
ceeding with respect to the sale of the goods distrained, shall be
agreeable to the laws of the State in which the same shall be, in
other cases of distress. And where any non-commissioned officer
or private shall be adjudged to suffer imprisonment — there being
no goods or chattels to be found whereof to levy the said fines —
the marshal of the district, or his deputy, may commit such de-
linquent to gaol, during the term for which he shall be so ad-
judged to imprisonment, or until the fine shall be paid, in the
same manner as other persons condemned to fine and imprison-
ment at the suit of the United States may be committed.

8. That the marshals and their deputies shall pay all such
fines by them levied, to the supervisor of the revenue in the dis-
trict in which they are collected, within two months after they
shall have received the same, deducting therefrom five per
centum as a compensation for their trouble ; and in case of fail-
ure, the same shall be recoverable by action of debt or informa-
tion, in any court of the United States, of the district in which
such fines shall be levied, having cognizance thereof, to be sued
for, prosecuted, and recovered, in the name of the supervisor of
the district, with interest and costs.

9. That the marshals of the several districts, and their depu-
ties, shall have the same powers, in executing the laws of the
United States, as sheriifs and their deputies, in the several
States, have by law in executing the laws of the respective
States.

10. That the act entitled, " An act to provide for calling
forth the militia to execute the laws of the Union, suppress in-
surrections, and repel invasions," passed the second day of May,
one thousand seven hundred and ninety-two, shall be, and the
same is, hereby repealed.

106 HAMITLON'S WORKS. [^t. 38.

TREATY WITH GREAT BRITAIN.

REMARKS ON THE TREATY OF AMITY, COMMERCE AND NAVI-
GATION, MADE BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES AND GREAT
BRITAIN-

Hamilton to Washington.

July 9, 1795.

Article I. This being simply a declaration of peace and friend-
ship, is liable to no observation.

Article II. This article, by fixing a precise period for the eva-
cuation of the posts, namely, the first of June 1796, secures that
important event as far as a stipulation can do it.

It is objected that the period is too remote, and that reason-
ing from the past there can be no reliance upon a fulfilment at
the time.

It were desirable that a shorter period could have been lim-
ited, not only because it is interesting to repossess the posts as
early as possible, but because the chances of interfering events
which may create impediments are multiplied in proportion to
the delay.

But the reasons assigned for it as contained in one of Mr.
Jay's letters, though not satisfactory with regard to us, are not
without force with regard to the other party, and it may be
added to them, that the British would naturally wish time to
establish counter posts within their territories, and that some
time would really be requisite to prepare, without prejudice to
their traders, for the future course of their business.

Yet whatever may be the degree of force which may be con-
ceded to the reasons assigned for the delay, this circumstance
does not appear to me a good ground of suspicion, that the post-
ponement is with a secret intent to evade the surrender. I
rather resolve its principal motive into the desire of preserving
the friendship and confidence of the Indians within our territory

vEt. 38.] TREATY WITH GREAT BRITAIN. 107

by the gradual preparation of their minds for the event, and also
by giving them sufficient time to close their quarrel with us,
leaving things on a footing which it was imagined would incline
us to better terms of peace than if we were previously in actual
possession of the posts.

The extreme profligacy and contempt of appearances — which
are implied in the supposition of an intention to evade the sur-
render of the posts, after a second and precise stipulation, in a
treaty which adjusts all the points of difference in a former treaty
are so palpable, that the supposition cannot be indulged without
such a distrust of the faith of the party as would forbid an at-
tempt to treat with him. For after all, some future period must
have been fixed — and that as well as a more remote one might
have been evaded.

Besides, that it appears to be extremely probable that the
course of events will fortify the disposition to observe good faith
in this particular,

I therefore venture to count with confidence on the surrender
of the posts, according to the stipulation, if the treaty is mutu-
ally ratified. And this is in my view a matter of signal import-
ance. Besides opening to us the Indian trade which is of some
value, relieving us effectually from the expenses and mischiefs
of Indian wars in that quarter, and giving a secure course to our
western settlements, it breaks up the great and dangerous project
of Great Britain to confine us to the Ohio and to possess the in-
termediate country, and it tends most powerfully to establish the
influence and authority of the general government over the
western country. The different ways in which it will have this
effect will readily occur. The firm possession by the general
government of the western posts, may be considered as a very
strong link of connection between the Atlantic and western coun-
try, to maintain which, with the necessary controls, is the knotty
point of our affairs as well as a primary object of our policy.

Moreover, it is to be remarked that the conditional ratifica-
tion of the treaty as advised by the Senate, will occasion delays
which would render it scarcely jDOssible to effect the surrender
sooner than is stipulated, in consequence of the treaty ; and at

108 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 38.

any rate the event could only be retarded, not accelerated, by
not closing with the treaty as it stands.

The reservations of this article, with respect to the ^'■precincts
and jurmliction'''' of the posts, are criticised on account of the
vagueness of the terms. But this criticism does not appear very
well founded. It would have been difficult to have hit upon a
definition whicli would have suited all the circumstances of the
present occupation ; and as any construction which is not entirely
absurd, will leave full latitude for the progress of settlement dur-
ing the short period of the further detention of the posts, a defini-
tion was not a matter of moment. In my opinion the true con-
struction will be, that those places where there are settlements
and establishments in the vicinity of the posts over which a
jurisdiction in fact has been exercised since the peace, are to be
understood to be comprehended within the terras " precincts and
jurisdictions of the posts," and that where there have been no
settlements, gun shot must be the rule.

Article III. This article appears on the whole to be advanta-
geous to the United States. Our Indian trade, to which it gives
the British access, is unimportant. Theirs, to which wc acquire
access, is important, and it is believed by persons conversant in
the business, that our local situation will enable us to maintain
the competition within the British territories on favorable terms.
As to other trade, the advantage will be still more clearly with
us. The superior facilities of transportation on our side, will
enable us to supply their possessions with European and East
India goods, as well as domestic articles, far more extensively
than they can us.

It is objected to this article that the clauses which regard
"the admission of British vessels from the sea into the rivers of
the United States," &c., and the mutual navigation of the Mis-
sissippi, will interfere with the regulations which the United
States may hereafter think fit to establish, in order to bring
Great Britain to better terms of commerce, &c.

But the ground of this objection appears to be erroneous.
The main and affirmative object of the first clause of the article
is to secure an intercourse between the territories situated on each

.Et. 38.] TREATY WITH GREAT BRITAIN. 109

side of the boundary line, by land passage and inland naviga-
tion, with a right to each for the purpose of this inland naviga-
tion " to navigate all the lakes, rivers, and waters thereof," But
lest on the one hand this should be construed to admit by impli-
cation a communication from the sea with Canada or Nova Sco-
tia, or through those countries with the sea, (a thing not now
permitted,) it is declared negatively that this shall not be under-
stood to be implied ; and lest on the other hand the same provi-
sion should be construed to admit by implication that British
vessels coming from the sea might go beyond the highest ports
of entry, to tvhidi our laivs now subject foreign vessels^ it is in like
manner declared negatively^ that this shall not be understood to
be implied. But this negative of an implication which might
have arisen from the principal provision, can by no just rules of
reasoning or construction be turned into a grant of a positive
privilege ; especially being foreign to the object of that princi-
pal provision — that is to say, to the grant of a right to navi-
gate by sea to and from our seaports; the subject of the main
provision being land passage and inland navigation.'^'

The absurdity of such a provision becomes the more mani-
fest by considering that the trade to be regulated by the main
provision concerns only that portion of the British territories
which is on the continent of America ; while the right pretended
to be grafted upon it would extend to all the other British terri-
tories, in whatever part of the world. With as much reason,
and on the same principle, might we contend under the article
for an access hy sea to any possessions which Great Britain might
have or acquire on the opposite coast of our continent.

The clause with regard to the Mississippi merely admits, as
far as depends upon us, a positive right to navigate that river to
any port or place which the British may have bordering upon

* Those terms have no precise legal sense ; but they are always used as eontra-
distinguished from sea-navigation, or navigation to and from the sea. I should
say, then, that inland navigation begins where navigation from the sea ends ;—
that navigation from the sea ends at our ports of entry from the sea, where inland
navigation begins. This construction is strengthened by the reflection, that, ac-
cording to the laws of Great Britain and the United States, rivers, as far as the
tide flows, are arms of the sea.

110 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 38

it, and a revocable right to navigate it to any port or place which.
we may have bordering upon it. They may use it to come to
any such port or place, in as ample a manner as they may go to
an Atlantic port ; but not in a more ample manner ; consequently,
a prohibition to come to an Atlantic port, will annihilate the
conditional permission to go to a port on the Mississippi.

We may, therefore, freely, as to any thing in this article, pro-
hibit British vessels from coming by sea from any part of the
world to the United States.

The latter part of the clause gives permission to bring and
carry into the respective territories mentioned in the article in
manner aforesaid^ that is to say, by land passage and inland navi-
gation, all such goods and merchandise whose importation shall not
be entirely prohibited, paying such duties only as the respective
subjects and citizens are liable to pay. But we may entirely
prohibit any articles we please of the produce or manufacture of
Great Britain. And we may prohibit the exportation to Great
Britain of any articles whatsoever. Thus will there be ample
room to make regulations of the kind alluded to, notwithstand-
ing any thing in this article.

Article IV. This article, as far as it is operative, is right.
A survey is a necessary previous step to determine whether the
former treaty can be literally executed ; and if not, the adjust-
ment of the matter is referred to future negotiation, which leaves
it in the power of both parties to come to such an agreement as
they deem reasonable and conformable to the true intent of the
former treaty.

Article V. This article also provides a good mode of set-
tling the controverted point.

Article VI. It was ever my opinion that no adjustment of
the controversy on the inexecution of the former treaty was
ever likely to be made, which would not embrace an indemnifi-
cation for losses sustained, in consequence of legal impediments
to the recovery of debts : and indeed it always appeared to me
just that an indemnification should be embraced.

The article of the former treaty on this head was, as I con-
ceive, nothing more than the formal sanction of a doctrine which

iET. 38.] TREATY WITH GREAT BRITAIN. Ill

makes part of tlie modern law or usage of nations. The confis-
cation of private debts in time of war is reprobated by the most
approved writers on the laws of nations, and by the negative
practice of civilized nations, during the present century. The
free recovery of them, therefore, on the return of peace, was a
matter of course, and ought not to have been impeded, had there
been no article.

Admitting that the first breaches of the treaty were commit-
ted, as we alleged, by Great Britain, still it would not follow
that the impediments which the laAvs of certain States opposed to
the recovery of debts were justifiable.

First^ Because it manifestly lay with the general government,
to which belonged the powers of treaty, war and peace, to decide
whether, in consequence of the breaches of treaty on the other
part, it would elect to consider as void the whole, or any article
of the treaty. The general government never did so decide, but
on the contrary, repeatedly and wisely manifested a different
disposition ; wisely, because it was inexpedient to set afloat so
important a treaty, which terminated the question of the revo-
lution with the government with which we had contended, and
to widen a breach which might at an early stage involve us anew
in war. Consequently, the only competent authority having de-
clined to pronounce, it was a usurpation in any State to take
upon itself the business of retaliation.

Secondly^ Because the interruption of the recovery of debts
is contrary (as before observed) to the modern usage of nations,
immoral in itself, against the opinions of the generality of en-
lightened men, and disreputable to the nation which has recourse
to it. The practice of most of the States is in conformity with,
and a comment upon this doctrine.

But the question. Who committed the first breach of the
treaty ? if candidly examined, does not admit of as clear a solu-
tion in our favor as many imagine or assert.

Two breaches of treaty are imputed to Great Britain ; one
respecting the carrying away of the negroes, and the other re-
specting the retention of the posts.

As to the first, Great Britain has much to say with truth and
justice.

112 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 38.

Her proceedings in seducing away our negroes during tlie
war were to the last degree infamous, and form an indelible stain
on her annals.

But having done it, it would have been still more infamous
to have surrendered them to their masters.

The reply to this may be, that they ought not then to have
stipulated it. This is just ; but still the inquiry is, whether they
have stipulated it, and the odiousness of the thing, as applied to
them, is an argument of weight against such a construction of
general expressions in the treaty as would imply the obligation
to restitution. Odious things are not favored in the interpreta-
tion of treaties ; and though the restoration of iwo;perty is a favor-
ed thing, yet the surrender of persons to slavery is an odious
thing, speaking in the language of the laws of nations.

The words of the article are, that his Britannic Majesty shall,
with all convenient speed, and without causing any destruction or
carrying away any negroes or other property of the American in-
habitants, withdraw all his armies, &c.

There are two constructions of this article ; one that the
evacuation should he made without depredation^ that is, without
causing any destruction or carrying away any property^ which
continued to be such {having undergone no change hy the laws of
war) at the time of the evacuation ; the other, that there was to
be, besides a forbearance to destroy or carry away, a positive
restitution of all property tahen in the war, and at the time of the
evacuation which then existed in kind.

In favor of the last construction is the most obvious sense of
the words ; and as it applies to the negroes merely as an article
of property, the justice of restoring what had been taken away
in many instances by unwarrantable means.

Against it, and in favor of the first construction, are these
considerations.

1. That the expressions are, negroes and other property ; which
puts negroes, cows, horses, and all other articles of property, on
the same footing, and considers them, if at all liable, equally
liable to restitidion, and all as having equally the common quality
oil^roperty of the American inhabitants.

iET. 38.] TREATY WITH GREAT BRITAIN. 113

Could any thing be considered as property of the American
inhabitants, at the time of the treaty, and in contemplation of the
treaty, which, by the ordinary rules of the laws of war, had pre-
viously become the absolute property of the captors ? Is there
any thing which exempts negroes more than other articles of
personal property, from capture and confiscation as booty? If
there is not, why should negroes have been claimed under this
article, more than the vessels which had been captured and con-
demned? Is that a probable sense of the treaty which would
require such a restitution ?

2. If negroes were objects of capture in war, the captor
might proclaim their liberty when in his possession. If once de-
clared free, could the grant be recalled ? Could the British gov-
ernment stipulate the surrender of men made free to slavery ?
Is it natural to put such a construction upon general words, if
they will bear another ? Is not this, as it regards the rights of
humanity, an odious sense ?

3. The treaty will bear another construction — that which is
put upon it by the British — a provision ybr greater caution against
depredation or the carrying away of property not changed by
the laws of war. It is observable, in confirmation of this, that
there is no stipulation to restore^ but negatively not to carry away /
whereas, immediately after, in the same article, there follows a
clause which stipulates that "archives, records, &c.," shall be
restored and delivered up. This different mode of expression seems
to denote a different sense in the two cases.

Let it be observed that I do not mean to advocate this sense
in preference to the other. I have at different times viewed the
matter in different lights, and our ablest lawyers differ concern-
ing it. I even entertain a clear opinion that the article was in-
tended to operate in our sense of it. But, still, this does not
obviate the doubt as to its true legal signification.

All I mean to say is, that there is really a well-founded
doubt as to the true legal construction ; and, in such case, the
acting of the other party, on a construction different from ours,
could not be deemed such a clear manifest breach of treaty as to

114 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 38.

justify retaliation. Tne point was merely a matter of amicable
discussion and negotiation.

If this was a breacli of tlie treaty, it is necessary to note tliat
it was committed in 1783.

The affair of the posts is more embarrassing.

It is necessary, in the first place, to settle when it became the
duty of the British to surrender them. The stipulation is, that
it shall be done "with all convenient speed." But from which
of the treaties are we to date, the provisional or the definitive ?
The principle of this question is a point of great difficulty not
settled either by the opinions of writers, or by the practice of
nations.

I remember that I contended in Congress, shortly after the
arrival of the provisional treaty, and when it was known that
preliminaries had been signed between France and England,
that the execution of the treaty was to date from this epoch, and
on this position I grounded a motion to recommend to the States
a compliance with the article.

But on the vote upon this motion, I was left alone, and Con-
gress did not act upon the subject till after the arrival of the de-
finitive treaty — that is, 1784,

This amounts to a construction by our government, that the
execution was to date from the definitive treaty.

Lord Grenville contends with Mr. Jay for the same position,
and urges, consequently, that it was not till after the notice of
the ratification by us in England, or, in other words, the ex-
change of ratifications there, that it could be deemed incumbent
upon them to give orders for the evacuation of the posts ; which
orders could not well have been given before May, nor have
arrived in Canada till July.

After the course pursued by us, as already stated, it is difiicult
to see what can be objected to this construction. It is true the
Atlantic posts were evacuated shortly after the provisional
treaty ; but it may be justly observed, upon this, that it was
done for mutual convenience, and in the spirit of conciliation —
not on the score of strict obligation ; that, however inconsistent
with the spirit of an act for restoring peace, it might have bees

^T. 38.] TREATY WITH GREAT BRITAIN. 115

to have detained places in the heart of our settled country ; be-
ing, besides, the capitals of the States in which they were, there
was entire liberty to pursue a stricter rule as to the Western posts,
some delay concerning which could not have been of material
inconvenience to us ; and that it was reasonable to pursue the
strict rule here, to see what course the execution of the treaty
was likely to take on our part.

But our dilemma is this: that if the delay of orders for
evacuating the posts till after the exchange of ratifications of the
definitive treaty, was a breach of the treaty, as contended for hy
Mr. Jefferson, the delay of acting upon the fifth article till after
the ratification of the definitive treaty in this country, was
equally a breach of the treaty on our part, and a prior, at least, a
cotemporary breach.

Let us now see how, in point of time, the breaches will
stand on our part. In this I shall not aim at an accurate enu-
meration, but shall select particular instances.

1. An act of New- York for granting a more effectual re-
lief in cases of certain trespasses, passed the 17th of March,
1783.

This act takes away from any person within the British
lines who had occupied, injured, or destroyed the property,
real or personal, of an inhabitant without the lines, the plea
of a military order for so doing; consequently, the justification
which he might derive from the laws and usages of war, in con-
travention of the treaty of peace.

It is true, it preceded for a short time the arrival of the pro-
visional treaty in this country ; but it is notorious that it was in
expectation'and contemplation of the event.

This circumstance of priority of time, leads Mr. Jefferson to
put this act out of the question ; but in fair reasoning this is
hardly admissible.

It continued to have, in fact^ an extensive operation^ from the
time of the evacuation of the city of New-York till the repeal
of the exceptionable clause, by an act of the 4th of April,
1787.

It hardly appears a satisfactory answer to this, to say, as Mr.

116 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 38.

Jefferson has done, tliat the courts did not sanction the principle
of the act ; that in one instance, the case of Eutgers and Wad-
dington, the mayor's court overruled it.

The fact is, that from the very express terms of the act, a
general opinion was entertained, embracing almost our whole
bar, as well as the public, that it was useless to attempt a de-
fence; and, accordingly, many suits were brought, and many
judgments given, without the point being regularly raised, and
many compromises were made, and large sums paid, under the
despair of a successful defence. I was for a long time the only
practicer who pursued a different course, and opposed the treaty
to the act ; and though I was never overruled in the Supreme
Court, I never got my point established there. I effected many
easy compromises to my clients, afraid myself of the event in
the Supreme Court, and produced delays till the exceptionable
part of the act was repealed. The Supreme Court frequently, in
a studied manner, evaded the main question, and turned their
decision upon the forms of pleading.

'Tis perhaps enough for the other party to say that here was
a positive law of a state, unrepealed, and acted upon so as in fact
to defeat, in a material degree, the operation of the treaty. The
injury was suffered, and there ought never to have existed so
critical a conflict between the treaty and the statute law of a
state.

If the operation of this law was a breach of the treaty, it was
a breach from the first moment of the ratification of the provi-
sional articles till the 4:th of April, 1787. Nothing could be
anterior to it.

Another act of the 4th of May, 1784, provided, a mode by
which the foregoing act should have effect upon the estates of
absentees, which in several instances produced judgments with-
out opportunity of defence. It is to be observed that the
British commander-in-chief early remonstrated against this act
as inconsistent with the treaty, and yet it continued unre-
pealed.

Another act of New- York, of the 12th of May, 1784, in the
.strongest and most express terms, confirms all confiscations before

.Et.38.] treaty with GREAT BRITAIN. 117

made, notwithstanding any errors in the proceedings, and takes
away the writ of error upon any judgment before rendered.

This is substantially a new confiscation. If the judgments
before rendered were from error invalid, the confiscations were
nullities — to take away the writ of error which was the mode of
annulling them, was equivalent to making new confiscations.
This act was an undoubted breach of the treaty, and is prior to
the time when the breach by the non-surrender of the posts can
be dated.

An act of South Carolina, March 26, 1784, suspends the
recovery of British debts for nine months, and then allows them
to be recovered in four yearly instalments.

This also was a plain contravention of the treaty, and dates
before the breach by non-surrender of the posts.

Virginia, in June, 1784:, resolved that her courts should be
opened to British suits as soon as reparation should be made with
regard to the negroes and posts, or otherwise as Congress should
judge it indispensably necessary.

If her courts were before closed, which this resolution admits,
it was in consequence of acts passed prior to the treaty, which
her courts had deemed obligatory upon them after the treaty —
and it folloAvs that there was a continual violation of the treaty
from its ratification till 1787, when Virginia repealed all acts
repugnant to the treaty.

Taking, therefore, the carrying away of the negroes to be a
breach of treaty, 'tis a very moot point whether some of the laws
of the States did not produce antecedent breaches.

Putting that out of the question and taking the definitive
treaty, according to the construction just put upon it by our own
conduct, as the act from which the execution was to date, and
allowing reasonable time for the ratification to be notified and
exchanged — it is certain that the first breaches were committed
by us.

The use of these remarks is to show, that a candid and un-
prejudiced view of the subject tends to moderate the sanguine
pretensions which have been built on the suggestion of the first
breach having been committed by Great Britain, and to manifest

118 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 38.

tlie reasonableness of having stipulated compensation in the
cases of the breaches made by us.

Indeed, admitting the first breaches by Great Britain, I do
not see that it would affect the conclusion that compensation was
to be made.

The following seems to be the fair view of the subject.

Mutual infractions of the treaty had taken place. Either our
infractions were to be considered as the equivalents for those of
Great Britain, and then having enjoyed the equivalents we had
no right to ask reparation in addition — or, if we preferred repa-
ration for the infractions by Great Britain, we were to renounce
the equivalents for them.

Then it will follow, that the surrender of the posts on their
side would draw with it a right of compensation for the losses
suffered by impediments to the recovery of the debts on our
side.

In other words, the treaty was to remain mutually broken and
unexecuted in certain points, or it was to be reinstated by mutual
performance. Performance as to the article of the debts is com-
pensation for the losses sustained by impediments to the recovery,
and the removal of those impediments.

In fine, it would, in my judgment, independent of the treaty,
have been dishonorable and unjust in us to have interfered with
the recovery of private debts — it was dishonorable and unjust to
have interfered with them on the grounds which were the pre-
texts, and it is honorable and just to make compensation. The
reputation of the country as well as its peace required the stipu-
lation.

It is not perceived that there is any thing exceptionable in
the mode of determining and adjusting the compensations to be
made in the cases in which this may be deemed proper — or that
any better mode could be substituted. The article appears in
general sufficiently well guarded.

Article VII. This article appears to me as well arranged as
could have been expected.

It is objected to as too dilatory, but no reasonable substitute
bas occurred.

^T.38.] TREATY WITH GREAT BRITAIN. 119

The United States could not have demanded a gross sum,
because they had no adequate standard by which to ascertain
what was proper. They might have asked too much or too
little.

G-reat Britain, for the same reasons, could not have been
expected to agree to the demand of a gross sum. This is not the
way that nations deal with each other, unless where one is in
a situation to dictate to the other. This was not our situation.

Indemnification on equitable principles was all that could be
expected. This necessarily supposes a mode of ascertaining loitli
due investigation the real losses.

But one of three modes can well be thought of ; to refer the
adjustment to the tribunals of the United States — to refer it to
the tribunals of Great Britain, or to submit it to referees mutu-
ally appointed.

Either of the first two modes was inadmissible, because lia-
ble to partiality. The tribunals of the United States could never
get hold of these cases without inverting entirely the course of
similar transactions. Those of Great Britain will now in many
cases decide in the first instance, but no American would choose
to leave the ultimate decision there. Referees have therefore a
comprehensive power to do justice in all cases in which it could
not be obtained in the ordinary course.

But, it is said, 'twere better commissioners should have de-
cided in the first instance without reference to the courts for the
greater despatch.

This might have had a contrary tendency to that of promot-
ing dispatch. Appeals, in a great number of cases, will have
gone forward ; and it was better they should have had their course
than to be arrested to be turned over to the referees. 'Tis pro-
bable, from the expedition of admiralty proceedings, that the
courts will have done their part by the time the referees are
ready to begin.

It is to be observed too, that this article follows closely the
provision with regard to the debts; and it was material this
should be the case.

"We certainly must prefer that our courts of justice should

120 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 38.

have a free course in tlie affair of the debts, in all the cases in
whch it is now practicable.

The latter clause of this article respects the prizes made
within our territorial j arisdiction, or bj privateers originally
fitted out in our ports, is confined to the cases in which the prizes
having been brought within our ports, we forbore to make resti-
tution, and is purely in execution of the opinion of the Presi-
dent conveyed in the letter from Mr. Jefferson, which is annexed
to the treaty, and which, by being annexed and referred to, be-
comes a part of this article.

Agreeing, then, with the laws of nations, with the obliga-
tions which our treaties with other nations impose upon us in
respect to them, and carrying into effect the expectation previ-
ously given by the President, it is liable to no just objection.

Article VIII. This article seems in all respects unexception-
able.

Article IX. This article, from having been misunderstood,
caused at first much uneasiness. It was considered as giving a
permanent reciprocal right to the citizens of the two countries
indefinitely to acquire and hold lands in either. But this is mani-
festly an error, which haviog been pointed out, the uneasiness
has subsided.

It is expressly confined to those holding lands prior to the
treaty, (the words are those* "who noio hold lands,") and makes
no alteration in the antecedent state of things which can be at
all material in a national light.

It is not certain that it makes any other alteration than
that those who now laiofully hold lands may convey tliose lands to
aliens.

It may, however, give rise to this question, whether aliens
who noiu hold lands by a defeasible title acquired since the
treaty of peace, in States whose laws do not authorize it, are
not protected in their acquisitions ? But however this question
may be decided, it is of little importance ; for in fact the alien
laws are never enforced, nor likely to be so ; and the quantity

* Mr. King, who has critically examined these points, is of opinion that it does
not apply to such cases.

^T. 38.] TREATY WITH GREAT BRITAIN. 121

of lands so holden, whicli are daily changing owners, is not con-
sidered enough to have any consequence in a national scale.

An objection seems to have been raised in the Senate against
the constitutionality of this article, as though it entrenched upon
the authorities of the States.

But this objection is inadmissible. It would totally subvert
the power of making treaties. There can hardly be made a treaty ■
which does not make some alteration in the existing laws, which
does not, as its objects, control the legislative authority ; and
from the nature of our Constitution, this must apply to the State
laws and legislatures as well as to those of the Union.

A treaty cannot be made which alters the constitutions of the
country, or which infringes any express exceptions to the power
in the 'Constitution of the United States. But it is difficult to
assign any other bounds to the power. It may certainly alter
the provisions of the statute and municipal laws, and modify the
rules of property.

There are stipulations in our treaty of peace with Great Bri-
tain, analogous to the one under consideration ; the validity of
which has never been disputed.

Of this kind is that which stipulates that all persons who have
any interest in confiscated lands either by debts, marriage settle-
ments or otherwise, shall meet with no lawful impediment in the
prosecution of their just rights; and that which stipulates that
there shall he no future confiscations.

But a much stronger case is found in the 11th article of our
treaty of amity and commerce with France, which is generally
understood and practised upon, as removing in toto, the disa-
bility of alienism from all Frenchmen, so far as respects acquir-
ing and holding lands; and certainly gives them important
rights with regard to lands which they would not have but for
this treaty on account of their alienism.

Indeed, the protection of aliens in the enjoyment of the
landed property they hold, is a familiar article in treaties of
peace ; so also stipulations as to rights in lands more or less qua-
lified are common in treaties of commerce. And the power of
making treaties is plenary under our present Constitution ; more

122 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 38.

SO than it was under the confederation, where it has been deemed
adequate to do much more in this respect than has been done by
the treaty in question.

In fine, the objection to the constitutionality of this article,
is manifestly futile.

Article X, In my opinion this article is nothing more than
an affirmance of the modern law and usage of civilized nations,
and is valuable as a check upon a measure which, if it could
ever take place, would disgrace the goveriiment of the country,
and injure its true interests.

The general proposition of writers on the laws of nations is,
that all enemy's property, wherever found, is liable to seizure
and confiscation ; but reason pronounces that this is with the
exception of all such property as exists in the faith of the laws of
your own country ; such are the several kinds of property which
are protected by this article.

And though in remote periods the exception may not have
been duly observed, yet the spirit of commerce, diffusing more
just ideas, has been giving strength to it for a century past, and
a negative usage among nations, according with the opinions of
modern writers, authorizes the considering the exception as
established.

If there have been deviations from that usage in the actual
war of Europe, they form no just objection to this reasoning:
for this war has violated, in different instances, most of the most
sacred laws of nations.

It is said that the power which is given up by this article,
was the only effective check upon Great Britain. I answer,
1st. That there existed before no rightful or moral power ; and,
notwithstanding the treaty, there will still exist a power without
right or morality. The treaty only adds the sanction of an ex-
press, to what was before an implied pledge of the public faith.
The one may be still violated as well as the other ; and the only
use of the article will be, to give prudent and good men an ardi-
tional argument against an act of national iniquity.

2d. That the fear of the exercise of this power has not hitherto
appeared to be a check upon Great Britain ; and the menace of

Mt. 38.] TREATY WITH GREAT BRITAIN.
its exercise can never take place witliout doing ourselves more
harni than good, by tarnishing our honor and shaking our
credit.

3d. That war itself acts as a virtual sequestration of pro-
perty, by interrupting the course of remittances ; and the gov-
ernment by interfering does little more than render itself liable
for the dilapidations of vicious individuals who take advantage
of the circumstance; since treaties of peace, unless one party is
totally prostrate, will never fail to reinstate private debts.

What benefit did those States derive which had recourse to
the expedient of sequestrations in our war? How much wiser
and less embarrassing to themselves was the policy of those
States who refrained from it. And why did they refrain from
it, but because they thought it unwarrantable and impolitic ?

I have not the State laws by me, and cannot speak with cer-
tainty from memory; but as far as I recollect, a majority of the
States, including the most commercial, abstained from the se-
questration or confiscation of private debts, except in the case of
convicted or attainted criminals, which may be regarded as an
indication of the general opinion. For if ever a war warranted
such a measure, it was our Revolution war.

I conclude from the whole, that no honest or truly politic
objection lies against this article ; and that a willingness to enter
into the stipulation is reputable to the country, while an unwil-
lingness would be disreputable to it.

These ten are all the permanent articles. They close the
various matters of controversy with Great Britain, and, upon the
whole, they close them reasonably. Compensation for the ne-
groes, if not a point of doubtful right, is certainly a point of no
great moment. It involves no principle of future operation. It
terminates in itself; and the actual pecuniary value of the ob-
ject is in a national sense inconsiderable and insignificant.

The remaining articles are temporary. I proceed to review
them in their order.

Article XI. This article is a mere introduction to the suc-
ceeding articles.

Article XII. This article is in my judgment an exception-

124 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 38.

able one. The principle of a restriction upon any thing which
is not the produce of the treaty itself, is unprecedented and
wrong. Had it been confined to articles from the British islands,
it would have been justified ; but extending to articles from
other countries, and, according to the letter, to one which is the
growth of our own country, it appeared to me from the begin-
ning inadmissible. It might also have proved a source of dissat-
isfaction to France, by interrupting in the midst of the war a
regular and just source of supply through us. And though I
would not omit any measure which I thought for the national
interest, because any foreign power might capriciously dislike it,
yet I would do no act giving a reasonable cause of dissatisfac-
tion. And for these reasons I am glad, though at the risk of the
treaty, that the Senate has accepted it.

I do justice to Mr. Jay's reasoning on this subject. He
thought rightly that the re-exportation of the articles in ordinary
times was a matter of little consequence to this country, and that
it was of importance by a formal treaty to establish the precedent
of a breach in the navigation system of Great Britian, which
might be successively widened. These reasons were not light
ones, but they are in my judgment outweighed by the other con-
siderations.

Article XIII. This article is a valuable one. In considering
it, it is necessary to reflect that the privileges we now enjoy in
the British East Indies are by the mere sufferance of the local gov-
ernment, and revocable at pleasure. This article converts into a
right hy stipulation^ not all that we before enjoyed by sufferance,
but the most essential and extensive part of it — the direct trade
between India and the United States. Heretofore by sufferance
we have been occasionally let into the coasting trade, and have
been permitted to go from India to other countries than the
United States. The treaty, though it permits a circuitous trade
to India, permits only a direct trade from India to the United
States ; but when the articles arrive within the United States, we
may re-export them, or do whatever else we please.

But though the treaty does not secure to us an indirect trade
from India, nor the coasting trade there, I do not see but that

Mt. 38.] TREATY WITH GREAT BRITAIN,
these matters will be left just where they were before ; that is,
depending on the sufferance or free permission of the British
government in India. "When two parties agree that a certain
thing shall not be done, it is always with this tacit exception,
unless the party for ivhose benefit the restriction is imposed shall con-
sent io waive it. If the British government finds it expedient to
continue to us the advantages not granted by treaty, its permis-
sion ad hoc will release the restriction in the treaty and confer the
right. 'Tis by the same permission we have hitherto enjoyed it,
and by its continuance we may enjoy it still.

The interest of the other party was the only ground upon
which we heretofore enjoyed any privilege in the British East
Indies. That interest without the treaty would continue the
privilege so long, and so long only, as the interest continued. It
will still do the same as to what is not included in the treaty, and
the result of the whole is this — that the treaty converts into matter
of right the most extensive and most valuable part of a trade, which
before was wholly matter of sufferance, leaving the residue noiv as
it was before^ matter of sufferance, to be continued or discontinued
according to the interest of the party.

Some alarm has been attempted to be excited as if under this
article, the British merchants could enter into competition with
us in the India trade, and by the superiority of their capitals,
supplant us. But there is not a syllable in this article which
renders this at all more possible now than it was before.

There is a clause which says negatively that our vessels shall
pay in India no other or higher duties than are payable on British
vessels in the ports of the United States. But as it is at the
option of the other party under this article, not to make us pay
as much tonnage in India as British vessels pay in the United
States, so before the treaty it was in their power to make us pay
not only as much but more ; now by the treaty they are restrained
from making us pay more, so that something is gained, nothing
lost. There is a clause which immediately follows, very impor-
tant in a contrary sense to the object. This clause secures us
from paying higher duties in India on articles imported and ex-
ported in our vessels than are paid on the same articles in British

126 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 37.

vessels; whereas before tliey miglit have imposed at pleasure,
higher duties on our cargoes, and very reasonably could have
gone so far as to countervail the higher duties which we lay on
foreign vessels bringing goods from India.

In fine this article is all on one side, and favorable to us.

Article XIV. This article is a general formula without any
special or remarkable feature.

Article XY. This article, with more precision than is usual,
only establishes reciprocally the rule of the most favored nation.
It stipulates that as to the points enumerated. Great Britain shall
be on no worse footing than other nations, but it gives her no
preferences. It was impossible to expect that a treaty could be
formed of which this was not the basis.

The last clause but one assures to Great Britain the right of
imposing on American vessels entering into her j^orts in Europe^ and
their cargoes^ duties which shall countervail the differences made
in our ports between British and American vessels and their
cargoes. This right Great Britain enjoyed before the treaty, and
it depended then upon her option as it does still to exercise or
not to exercise it. And it is now in our option to defeat the
reservation if we choose it by equalizing the duties.

The last clause stipulates on our side a continuance of the
status quo as to the tonnage duty on British vessels, and as to the
proportional difference of duties on articles imported in British,
and American vessels. This status quo is such as we have no
interest to vary, unless on the plan of coercive regulations^ an idea
which is certainly incompatible with the being of the treaty
while it continues in force.

Article XVI. This article merely relates to consuls, and is
on the common and a harmless footing.

Article XYII. This article, recognizing the right of a bellige-
rent nation to take its enemy's goods out of a neutral vessel,
establishes the usual grounds against abuse.

It is impossible to deny that the principle recognized is con-
formable with the laws of nations. It is the uniform doctrine of
writers, and was the uniform and universally allowed practice of
nations before the armed neutrality brought it into controversy.

.Et. 38.] TREATY WITH GREAT BRITAIN
A combination like this, formed in the midst of a war of tempo-
rary duration, and on special motives of policy, not acceded to
by all the powers of Europe — not having acquired the sanction
of time — is clearly not sufficient to alter a rule in the law of na-
tions. This might be done by common consent, or by long
and general usage. Neither is the case here. On the contrary,
some of the powers which combined to introduce the innovation,
now support in arms a contrary principle ; and all the neutral
powers— the United States included— have expressly or virtually
relinquished the ground in the whole course of the present war.
None, that I know of, has seriously contended for it, even in
argument.

Our government, at an early day, on full and mature exami-
nation and reflection, by an unanimous opinion of those con-
sulted, gave up the ground as untenable. The President's files
of Mr. Jefferson's letters are evidence of this. Indeed it is not
very probable that the new principle will ever become an es-
tablished one of the laws of nations. It is too contrary to the
spirit of war.

Where, therefore, the rule exists, it must depend on treaty,
and apply only to the powers who are parties to it.

This article, therefore, does no more ihan was done before,
and rightly and wisely done.

For besides that one or a few nations cannot justly make and
attempt to enforce a new principle, it is folly in a young and
weak country like ours to take a ground which cannot clearly
be maintained on precedent and principle.

The dilemma was to renounce the pretension, or to insist
upon and maintain it. To have attempted the last would have
been madness.

It were to have been wished that this article had stipulated,
with regard to contraband goods, what has been stipulated with
reo-ard to enemy's goods, to wit, that the contraband only should
be detained— the rest of the cargo liberated; since it is con-
tended, in certain cases, that the contraband articles will infect
the ship and the residue of the cargo. But though such a stipu-
lation would have been a point gained, the want of it relinquishes

128 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 38.

nothing. The point is left where it was before — to the decision
of the laws of nations.

Article XVIII. The first clause of this article specifies the
articles to be deemed generally contraband. This specification
agrees with the laws of nations, as laid down by writers, and
sanctioned by long practice, in all cases in which there are not
limitations or exceptions in particular treaties.

The enumeration, however, comprises articles as contraband
which are excepted in our other treaties, and is so far less well
than might be Avished, though probably as well as circumstances
would permit to be done at the present juncture.

In embracing, generally, articles for ship-building, it affects
some of the staples of some of the States ; but it is to be ob-
served, that it only leaves them, in this respect, where they are
at present. It is, however, our interest to narrow, upon all oc-
casions, as much as possible, the list of contraband.

The second clause recites the difiiculty of agreeing on the
precise cases in which alone provisions and other articles not
generally contraband, may be regarded as such ; to prevent in-
convenience and misunderstandings, provides, that in the cases in
which, hy the existing laws of nations^ they do become contraband,
they shall not be confiscated ; but, being taken, shall he paid for
at their full value, with a reasonable mercantile profit, freight,
and demurrage.

But one case in which such articles may be deemed contra-
band is, by the succeeding clause, subjected to a particular and dif-
ferent regulation. A vessel with her cargo, going to a port or
place, blockaded, besieged, or invested, if without notice, cannot
be seized or detained, but must be turned back. If she contu-
maciously persists, and makes a second attempt, she may then
be seized, and she and her cargo confiscated.

The last sentence guards our property found in places after-
wards besieged, &c., from vexations and depredations to which
they have been in some cases liable.

The second clause has been the subject of much censure, as
though it sanctioned generally the seizing of provisions and
other articles not generally contraband, on the condition of pay-

^T. 38.] TREATY WITH GREAT BRITAIN. 129

ing for them ; for it is said that all the cases in which the
acknowledged laws of nations authorize such seizure, are differ-
ently provided for in the third clause (those of blockades, sieges,
and investments), and that consequently the provision in the
second must be understood virtually to admit that there are
other cases, and must be referred to the general position set up
and acted upon by Great Britain, in her order of June.
But this argument is erroneous in principle and in fact.

1. The cases in which articles not generally contraband may
be seized, even with compensation, are expressly those in which
"they become contraband according to the existing laws of nations. ^^
The appeal is then to these laws, as the criterion ; and the gov-
ernment will be as free after the treaty as before it, to deny any
arbitrary construction which Great Britain may think fit to put
upon these laws, and to maintain its opposition in all the ways
it may think fit.

2. It is not true that the third clause provides for all the
cases where the acknowledged laws of nations authorize seizure
of such articles. It provides for only one single case — that of a
vessel going without notice to a place blockaded, besieged, or in-
vested. The case of a vessel going to such a place with notice is
not included. Other cases in which provisions &c. may be prop-
erly contraband may be conceived. That of carrying them with
the direct intent of supj)lying a besieging army in the act of car-
rying on the siege, is one ; for there is no reason why the party
besieged should not intercept and seize supplies going to the be-
siegers, as well as the last those which are destined for the be-
sieged.

Various combinations of circumstances, which do not at first
sight occur, may beget other cases in which the seizure may be
justified.

The clause in question, then, speaks simply this language ;
that inasmuch as cases may exist, in which j^rovisions and other
articles not generally contraband become so ; as it is difiicult be-
forehand to define them, as even in the admitted cases of block-
ades, sieges, and investments, it may not always be easy to pro-
nounce what is a blockade, siege, or investment ; as the parties
E 9

130 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 38.

cannot at this time agree upon a definition of the doubtful eases,
they agree at least (with one exception, which has been noticed)
that in all cases of the seizure of such articles as contraband, full
compensation shall be made to the end that in doubtful cases, the
inconvenience being thereby much lessened, the danger of rup-
ture may be diminished by inclining the party which conceives
itself injured to acquiesce in the pecuniary compensation.

But though I have no doubt that this is the true and genuine
sense of the clause, and that it does by no means warrant the
construction put upon it, yet as it may possibly become the pre-
text of abuses on the side of Great Britain, and of complaint on
that of France, I should have liked the treaty better without it.
On the whole, I think this article the worst in the treaty, except
the 12th, though not defective enough to be an objection to its
adoption.

Articles XIX. and XX. These articles require no comment.
They are usual and every way unexceptionable provisions.

Article XXI. This article is liable to no just objection. The
first part of it restrains generally the citizens of each party from
participating in hostilities against the other. This is implied in
the leading article of every treaty of peace, is conformable with
every moral idea — and though more comprehensive in the extent
of the inhibition, is agreeable to the principle of the law of Con-
gress on this subject.

It is also agreeable to the true policy of the United States,
which is, to keep its citizens as much as possible from being
implicated in the quarrels and contests of other nations, in foreign
feelings, interests and prejudices. This is an idea of great impor-
tance to our security in various ways. The only case, if at all, in
which it can be our interest that our citizens should engage in
foreign service, is that of young men of education entering into
foreign service to acquire military knowledge and experience.

But it is conceived that the doing of this in time of peace is
not forbidden. The citizens of each party are not to accept com-
missions from, nor to be permitted to be enlisted by, the enemies
of the other. This seems to suppose a state of war when the
forbidden act is done. The punishment for infractions of this

iET. 38.] TREATY WITH GREAT BRITAIN. 131

part of the article is referred to the laws of the party whose
citizens commit them. No precise one is defined.

The latter part of the clause subjects to the penalties of
piracy the citizens of one party accepting commissions from the
enemy of the other for arming any vessel to act as a privateer.

A similar provision is to be found in all our commercial
treaties heretofore made, and is familiar in the commercial
treaties of other powers during the present century. It has
wisely become the policy of nations to confine the mischievous
practice of privateering to the belligerent parties. This is pecu-
liarly our true policy; as from situation the contrary would
never fail to compromise our peace.

It is to be observed that this crime of piracy does not extend
to land service, nor to service on board of public ships of war,
conynonly called men-of-war.

Article XXII. This is a reasonable and usual provision in
affirmance of the laws of nations, and calculated to prevent war.

Article XXIII. This article merely stipulates those rights of
hospitality which the courtesy and humanity of nations owe to
each other, and which it has been the endeavor of our govern-
ment to observe. It does not extend to privateers, which are
never denominated ships of war, and consequently does not
interfere with our treaty with France as hitherto interpreted and
acted upon.

Articles XXIV. and XXV. These articles, which are com-
patible with the rules of neutrality and the rights of belligerent
nations, are becoming formulas in most modern treaties. They
are to be found essentially in our treaties with France, Sweden,
and partly if not wholly in that with Prussia, and in the treaty
of 1786 between France and Great Britain. They stipulate :

I. That the enemies of one party shall not arm their priva-
teers in the ports of the other.

II. That they shall not sell their prizes there.

III. That they shall not be allowed to purchase more provi-
sions than are sufficient to carry them to the nearest port of the
prince or state to which they belong.

IV. That the ships of war or privateers of the two contracting

132 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 38,

parties may carry whithersoever they please the prizes made of
their respective enemies, without being obliged on entering the
ports of each other to pay fees, or being detained or seized or
subject to search, except to prevent infractions of the laws of
revenue, navigation, and commerce, or having cognizance taken
of the validity of their prizes, and with free liberty to depart to
the places mentioned in their commissions which they are ta
show.

V, That no shelter or refuge shall be given to such as have
made prizes of each other's ships or vessels, but if forced by
stress of weather to enter, their departure is to be hastened.

yi. That while the parties continue in amity, they will make
no future treaty inconsistent with these two articles. But there
is this express proviso^ that nothing in the treaty shall be construed
or operate contrary to former and existing public treaties with qther
sovereigns or states.

Hence while on the one hand these articles make no unrea-
sonable stipulations in favor of Great Britain, they can by no
possibility interfere with j)rior stipulations to France or any
other power. If, consequently, there is any repugnancy, the
treaty with Great Britain must give way to those prior treaties.
There is only one particular in the conduct hitherto observed
towards France in which the treaty with Great Britain will pro-
duce an alteration, that is the sellhig of prizes in our ports ; be-
cause this indulgence has been granted not upon the ground of
any obligation to do it to be found in our treaty with France^
but upon that of there being no law of the United States against
it. The 24th article of the present treaty will be a law against
it, and will restrain it.

But nothing can be more proper ; and I well remember, that
when it was concluded to permit the selling of prizes, it was
unanimously regretted that the Executive, for want of law, could
not do otherwise. Because the measure had an unneutral as-
pect, permitting to one party a military advantage which our
treaty with that party did not leave us at liberty to extend to
the other ; and was of very questionable propriety. The per-
mission was of a nature to give much dissatisfaction to the other

Mt. 38.] TREATY WITH GREAT BRITAIN.
powers. A revocation of it, therefore, by a treaty with, one of
those powers, is unexceptionably equitable. The clause which
restrains the making of future treaties in the given case, has been
grossly misunderstood. It is expressly confined to the two arti-
cles, and, for aught I see, is nugatory. For a treaty implies of
itself, that while the contracting parties remain in amity, they
shall make no subsequent treaty inconsistent with the prior one
between those parties.

Articles XXVI., XXVII. These articles need no particular
comment. They are liberal and equitable, and interfere with no
interest or duty. The part which regards ambassadors and min-
isters, is calculated to avoid very delicate embarrassments, and
to exclude intrigues and bad conduct in foreign ministers. It
would be a valuable article in all our treaties.

Article XXVIII. The effect of this article is to enable either
party in two years after the termination of the existing Eu-
ropean war, to put an end to all the articles of the treaty except
the first ten.

This, upon the whole, is a desirable ingredient. It makes
the commercial part of the treaty a mere experiment of short du-
ration, and enables each party, if any part of it should be found
to work amiss, or if it thinks that upon the whole the treaty is
not sufficiently advantageous, to put an end to it unless the parts
not satisfactory can be amended, or the additional provisions
which are desired can be- agreed upon.

Article XXIX. This, which is the last article, provides merely
for the ratification, and looks to future negotiations for more be-
neficial arrangements.

To these particular views of the different articles of the treaty,
the following general views may be added.

The truly important side of this treaty is, that it closes, and
vipon the whole as reasonably as could have been expected, the
controverted points between the two countries; and thereby
gives us the prospect of repossessing our western posts, an object
of primary consequence in our affairs, of escaping finally from
being implicated in the dreadful war which is ruining Europe,

134 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [tEt. 38.

and of preserving ourselves in a state of peace for a considera-
ble time to come.

Well considered, the greatest interest of this country in its
external relations, is that of peace. The more or less of commer-
cial advantages which we may acquire by particular treaties, are
of far less moment. With peace, the force of circumstances will
enable us to make our way sufficiently fast in trade. War, at
this time, would give a serious wound to our growth and pros-
perity. Can we escape it for ten or twelve years more, we may
then meet it without much inquietude, and may advance and
support with energy and effect, any just pretensions to greater
commercial advantages than we may enjoy.

It follows that the objects contained in the permanent articles
are of real and great value to us. The price they will cost us
in the article of compensation for the debts, is not likely to bear
any proportion to the expenses of a single campaign to enforce
our rights. The calculation is therefore a simple and a plain
one. The terms are no way inconsistent with national honor.
As to the commercial arrangements in the temporary articles,
they can be of no great importance either way ; if it were only
for the circumstance that it is in the power of either party to ter-
minate them within two years after the war. So short a dura-
tion renders them unimportant, however considered as to in-
trinsic merit.

Intrinsically considered, they have -no very jDositive charac-
ter of advantage or disadvantage. They will in all probability
leave the trade between the two countries where it at present is.

Supplementary Remarhs.

There is however one material circumstance in which this
will not happen. The XVth article declares that there shall be
no prohibition of the importation of, or exportation to and from
the respective territories of the contracting parties, which shall
not equally extend to all other nations. This permits us to carry
to the British dominions any article the growth or manufacture
of another country, which may be carried from such coun-

jEt. 38.] TREATY WITH GREAT BRITAIN. 135

try to those dominions. This is a serious innovation on the
British navigation act, and an important privilege to us.

It is to be remarked, however, that it does not secure to us
the continuance of these discriminations in our favor, compared
with foreign powers, which have in practice existed ; but as
these discriminations have always been revocable at the pleasure
of the other party, and are evidently founded on the interest that
party has to procure the supply from us, rather than from other
quarters, the inference is that the security for the continuance of
the advantage is as great as before.

The obstacle to its becoming matter of stipulation was, that
it was deemed to be inconsistent with treaties with other powers.

Comparing this treaty with the commercial treaties heretofore
entered into by the United States, the real advantage is on the
side of the former.

As to the European dominions of the different powers, the
footing will be essentially equal.

As to their colonies, Great Britain gives us greater advan-
tages hy this treaty^ than any other nation having colonies hy its
treaty. There is nothing in any of our other treaties equivalent
to the advantages granted to us in the British East Indies. To
this may be added the advantages contained in the Canada
article.

Against this may be set the stipulation that free ships shall
make free goods ; and the extended enumeration of contraband ;
but besides that these are provisions relative to a state of war,
our experience in the present war, in reference to France, has
shown us that the advantages expected are not to be counted
upon.

Since then the permanent articles are of material conse-
quence, the temporary ones of small importance ; since our faith
is preserved with other powers; since there are no improper
concessions on our part, but rather more is gained than given, it
follows that it is the interest of the United States that the treaty
should go into effect.

But will it give no umbrage to France ?

It cannot do it, unless France is unreasonable ; because our

136 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 38.

t

engagements with lier remain unimpaired, and because she will

still be upon as good a footing as Great Britain. We are in a

deplorable situation if we cannot secure our peace, and promote

our own interests, bj means which not only do not derogate

from our faith, but which leave the same advantages to France

as to other powers with whom we form treaties. Equality is all

that can be claimed from us. It is improbable that France will

take umbrage, because there is no cause given for it; because

there is no disjDOsition on her part to break with us, and because

her situation forbids a breach.

But will it not hinder us from making a more beneficial
treaty with France ?

This can only turn upon the question of equivalents to be
given by us.

As to this, though our treaty with England would prevent
in many particulars our giving preferences to France ; yet there
are still important points from the natural relations of commerce,
which are open to arrangements beneficial to France, and which
might serve as equivalents.

There is not leisure to enter into the detail, or this might be
shown. It may however be mentioned, by way of example,
that we may lower, or remove wholly, the duties on French
wines, which would be one important item.

But it would be always very unwise to refrain from doing
with one power, a thing which it was our interest to do, because
there was a possihUity that some other power might be willing
to make a better bargain with us.

What evidence has France given that she is disposed to
make such better bargain ? All that she has hitherto proffered
under her present government, has contemplated as the consi-
deration our becoming parties to the war. As she will and ought
to calculate her own interest, we ought to dismiss the expecta-
tion of peculiar favors. Favors, indeed, in trade, are yerj ab-
surd, and generally imaginary things. Let it be remembered,
too, that the short necessary duration of our treaty, leaves us a
wide field future and not remote. But upon the whole, we shall
be least likely to be deceived, by taking this as the basis of our

iET. 41.]

MILITARY PAPERS. 137

commercial system, that we are not to make particular sacrifices
to, nor expect particular favors from any power.

It is conceived, therefore, upon the whole, to be the true in-
terest of the United States, to close the present treaty with
Great Britain in the manner advised by the Senate.

A. Hamilton.

MILITAKY PAPERS.

SECEETARY OF WAR TO HAMILTON.

War Department, July 25th, 1798.

Sir:

I am directed to inform you that the President of the United
States, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, has
appointed you Inspector-General, with the rank of Major-Gene-
ral, and to transmit you your commission made out accordingly.

It may be proper to mention, that the nominations to the
Senate for the general officers of the established and provisional
army, were presented on the same day, and in the order in which
they appear in the annexed list ; and that in registering them in
this department, the same order will be observed.

Permit me to add to this information, that as no command
can be immediately given to the general officers, the President
conceives they will consider it proper that the pay and emolu-
ments of their respective commissions ought not to commence
previous to their being called into actual service, and to flatter
myself that all considerations of a private nature will yield to
the crisis, and afford me the pleasure of communicating your
acceptance to the President.

I am, sir, with great respect, your obedient servant,

James McHenry.

138 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 41.

HAMILTON TO M'HENRY.

Philadelphia, July 28, 1798.

Sir:

I last evening had the honor of receiving your letter of the
25th inst., announcing to me my appointment as Inspector and
Major-General. At a crisis like the present, I esteem it my
duty to obey the call of the government. Feeling, too, as I
ought, the value of the high confidence which is reposed in me,
I beg you to convey to the President my most cordial acknow-
ledgments, and the assurance of my best endeavor to merit it.
With great respect and esteem, I am, sir, &c.

HAMILTON TO M'HENRY.

July 28tli, 1798.

Allow me to remind you of my nephew, Philip Church,
whom I warmly recommend for a captaincy in the infantry.

He is the eldest son of his father ; has had a good education ;
is a young man of sense, of genuine spirit and worth — of consi-
derable expectations in point of fortune. I shall esteem his ap-
pointment to this grade a personal favor, while I believe that it
will consist with every rule of propriety.

HAMILTON TO M'HENRY.

Philadelphia, July 30th, 1798.

Dear McHenry:

Scruj)les of delicacy have occasioned me to hesitate about
offering to you certain ideas which it appears to me, on mature

^T. 41.] MILITARY PAPERS. V69

reflection, cannot be witliheld consistently either with friendship
to you, or regard to the service.

I observe you plunged in a vast mass of details. I know from
experience, that it is impossible for any man, whatever be his
talents or diligence, to wade through such a mass, without ne-
glecting the most material things, and attaching to his operations
a feebleness and sloth of execution. It is essential to the suc-
cess of the minister of a great department, that he subdivide the
objects of his care, distribute them among competent assistants,
and content himself with a general but vigilant superintendence.
This course is particularly necessary when an unforeseen emer-
gency has suddenly accumuMed a number of new objects to be
provided for and executed.

Hence you will give me leave, in all the frankness of friend
ship, to express to you an opinion that you will do well to call
effectually to your aid the Inspector- General, and likewise Ma-
jor-General Knox, and to charge them with the management of
particular branches of the service.

You already contemplate, and very properly, that the Inspec-
tor-General shall occupy himself in preparing a system of tactics
and discipline. But will it not be expedient and natural to
charge him also with superintending the recruiting service?
and may he not be made useful in other ways to the business of
the department ? General Knox, if he can be drawn to the seat
of government, may be rendered extensively useful, especially in
whatever relates to the artillery branch.

But you will perceive that ideas of this sort presuppose an
abandonment of the plan of suspending the emoluments of these
officers. They cannot aiford to give their time and attention
without compensation. As to myself, I must be free to confess
that this is utterly impossible, I have the less embarrassment
in making the declaration, because it must be obvious that the
plan is against my pecuniary interest. Serious occupation in
my military office must involve the relinquishment substantially
of my profession ; and the exchange of from three to four thou-
sand pounds for the compensation of Inspector-General, is evi-1
dently but a sorry bargain.
Yours, truly, &c.

140 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 41.

ADAMS TO HAMILTON.

QciNCY, September 4, 1798.

Sir:

I have received your favor of the 22d of August, recom-
mending Colonel Toussard to be Inspector of Artillery.

I liave no reason to suspect that your entire confidence in his
honor and fidelity is misplaced. But as his native country is
France, and his speech betrays his original, I am very apprehen-
sive that in a French war, neither the army nor the people
would be without their jealousies 'and suspicions, which might
be very injurious to the service.

I shall take the subject into consideration, and your judg-
ment will have great weight. There has been already so much
uneasiness expressed on account of the French officers in the
artillery, that I expect much difficulty.

I have the honor to be. Sir,

Your most obedient servant,

John Adams.

ADAMS to HAMILTON.

QaiNCY, October, 17, 1798.

Sir:

I have received, last night, a letter from his Excellency Gov-
ernor Jay, enclosing a copy of an act of the legislature of New-
York, for the further defence of that State, and for other pur-
poses.

The Governor observes that it appears to be the intention of
that act, that the money appropriated in it, 150,000 dollars, shall
be laid out only in the manner which the national government
will recognize as useful and advisable, and His Excellency pro-
poses to my consideration whether it would not be expedient to
authorize Major-General Hamilton, as a national officer in whom

JEt. 41.]

MILITARY PAPERS. 141

great confidence may be placed, to concert with the Governor the
plan of laying out the money to the best advantage, and to ap-
point the General to superintend the execution of it.

I have not hesitated to comply with the Governor's request,
saving all right of the legislature of the United States.

Accordingly I hereby request you, sir, to concert with His
Excellency the plan, and to superintend the execution of it, at
least, until some other arrangement shall be made, if any other
should hereafter be thought expedient.

With great esteem, I have the honor to be. Sir,

Your obedient and humble servant,

John Adams.

Major-General Alexander Hamilton. New-York.

HAMILTON TO M'HENRY.

New-York, October 19, 1798.

Sir:

I was yesterday honored with your letter, transmitting my
commission as Inspector and Major-General.

Agreeably to your desire, I hold myself prepared to attend
you within the period you assign. But as the object appears to
embrace a concert of advice and assistance with General Knox
(who cannot be expected in much less than the utmost limit of
the time prescribed), I shall permit myself to defer my journey
so as to reach you about the first of November, unless I am told
that an anticipation of that day is deemed requisite.

I cannot but observe with satisfaction the conclusion of your
letter as to the relative rank of the three Major-Generals.

I received at the same time your letter of the 11th instant,
having been absent from the city for five days past.

I shall to-day confer with Major Hoops and Colonel Stevens
on the subject of it, chiefly to ascertain the actual state of things,
and by to-morrow's post will communicate my opinion.

142 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 41.

HAMILTON TO GOVERNOR JAY.

New-York, October 29, 1798.

Sir:

I received this day a letter from tlie President of the United
States, requesting me to concert with you the plan and to super-
intend the execution of it, for giving effect to the act of the legis-
lature of this State, and for other purposes. This I am accord-
ingly ready to do whenever you shall be pleased to require it.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

New-York, October 29, 1798.

Dear Sir :

Some ill health in my family, now at an end, as I hope, inter-
fered with an earlier acknowledgment of your favor of the 21st
instant. The contents cannot but be gratifying to me. It is my
intention, if not prevented by further ill health in my family, to
proceeed on the first of ISTovember, to Trenton. My aid to the
Secretary to the full extent of what he shall permit me to afford,
will not be withheld. But every day brings fresh room to ap- j
prehend that, whatever may be the props, the administration of
the War Department cannot prosper in the present very well dis-
posed but very unqualified hands.

Most respectfully and affectionately,

I have the honor to remain, dear Sir,

Your obliged and obedient,

A. H.

G. Washington.

^T. 41.] MILITARY PAPERS. 143

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, Nov. 12th, 1798.

Sir:

Herewith you will be furnislied with a copy of a letter from
the Secretary of War to me, suggesting many very important
matters for consideration and to be reported on.

It is my desire that you will bestow serious and close atten-
tion on them, and be prepared to offer your opinion on each
head, when called upon.

I also propose, for your consideration and opinion, a number
of queries which had been noted by me, previous to the receipt
of the Secretary's letter (now inclosed). In stating these, I had
endeavored to avoid, and make them additional to, the objects
which the Secretary of War, in a letter to me, dated the 16th
ultimo, informed me would be subjects for my consideration. I
find, however, that several of them, in substance, are contained
in his last letter ; but as they were digested previous thereto,
and written, I shall, to save copying, lay them before you as
they are, without expunging those parts which now appear in
the Secretary's statement.

With very great esteem and regard,

I am, Sir,

Your most obd't servant,
George Washington.

M'^HENRY TO WASHINGTON.

Questions submitted to the Commander-in- Chief.

War Department, November 10, 1798.

Sir:

It appears by a letter from the President, dated Quincy, Oc-
tober 22d, 1798, that it will not be in his power to be in Phila-

144 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 41.

delpliia till near the time fixed upon for the meeting of Congress.
In order, however, to prevent any injury to the public service, as
it respects officering the troops directed to be raised by the late
acts of Congress, he has written to me as follows : " If you and
the generals judge it necessary to appoint the officers of battalions
before we can have opportunity to nominate them to the Senate,
you may fill up the commissions with the blanks you have, or,
if you have not enough, send new ones by post."

I have thought it proper, in pursuance of this authority, to
submit to you a list of all those persons, who have been recom-
mended for commissions in the army, with their letters of pre
tensions, and also a list of all the officers of the revolutionary
army ; and to request that you will, with the aid of Generals
Hamilton and Pinckney, prepare from these, and any other
sources of information, a list of the most deserving and suitable
characters, in your estimation, to fill the difierent grades to which
the authority cited applies.

I have also, in conformity with my letter to you, dated the
16th of August ultimo, to request that you would submit to Gen-
erals Hamilton and Pinckney (General Knox having declined his
appointment) the following questions, and that you would be
pleased to take the same into mature consideration, and report to
me the result of your deliberations.

1. Will it be expedient and proper to select the officers and
raise the men for the twelve regiments of infantry and six com-
panies of cavalry from the following districts, and in the follow-
ing proportions, or as nearly so as circumstances will admit?
First ; the officers and men for four regiments of infantry from
within the States of New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Connecti-
cut, Rhode Island, and Vermont. Secondly; the officers and
men for four regiments of infantry from within the States of
New- York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware, and Maryland.
Thirdly ; the officers and men for four regiments of infantry
from within the States of Virginia, Kentucky, North Carolina,
Tennessee, South Carolina, and Georgia. Fourthly ; the whole
or a principal part of the officers and men of the six companies
of cavalry from within the district where it is most likely they
will have to serve.

Mt. 41.]

MILITARY PAPERS,
2. If these questions are determined in the affirmative, then
whether, in making the selection of OxHcers, the least exception-
able rule for determining the numbers to be taken from each
State within the respective divisions aforesaid will not be by
their relative number of inhabitants according to the census,
whenever the application of this rule will not introduce the least
worthy, to the exclusion of more meritorious characters.

According to this rule, the fbllowmg table will exhibit pretty
nearly the proportion of officers and men to be drawn from the
respective States for the twelve regiments of infantry.

States.

Infantry.

Lt.-Cole.

Majors.

Captains.

Licuta.

Ensigns.

New Hampshire
1
4
4

Massachusetts
2
20
20

Rhode Island .
3
3

Connecticut
1
10
10

Vermont ....
1
3
New-York ....
1
10
10

New Jersey
1
6
6

Pennsylvania
1
13
13

Delaware
1
1
Maryland ....
1
10
10

Virginia ....
2
20
20

North Carolina .
1
9
9

South Carolina
1
6
6

Georgia ....
1
2
Kentucky
2
2

Tennessee ....
1
4

3. Whether, in the present state of things, it is expedient
and proper to proceed immediately to the appointment of the
officers, or to suspend their appointment until the meeting of
Congress.

4. Whether, in the present state of our foreign relations, it is
expedient and proper to proceed, immediately after the appoint-
ment of the officers, to recruit the whole of the twelve regiments
of infantry, and six companies of cavalry. If inexpedient to re-
cruit the whole, then what part thereof will it be proper to
recruit, and in which district or districts of the Union ?

E 10

146 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 41.

5. Whether, if determined that a part only ought to be forth-
with recruited, it will be expedient, notwithstanding, to appoint
the whole of the officers ; and whether it ought to be signified to
them, that they are not to be entitled to pay, &c., previous to
being called into actual service.

6. Will it be expedient and proper to withdraw any of the
troops stationed upon the northwestern and southern frontiers,
namely, on the Lakes, between the Lakes and the rivers Ohio
and Mississippi, and on the Tennessee and Georgia frontier
bounding on the Indians and the river St. Mary's, with a view
to reinforce the troops on the seaboard frontier ?

7. The stations of the before mentioned troops and their
numbers will be seen by the annexed return and letters from
Brigadier General Wilkinson. If inexpedient that any of these
should be withdrawn, will it be proper to reinforce them with
the two companies, directed by a late act of Congress to be added
to each of the old regiments of infantry ?

8. What distribution, under the present aspect of affairs,
ouo-ht to be made of the troops and recruits noiv on our sea-
board frontier, the description, places of rendezvous, stations^
and numbers of which are exhibited in the annexed return ?

9. What number of the troops to he raised ought to be sta-
tioned in the respective divisions aforesaid, and in what places ?

10. Will it be best for the service and discipline, that the re-
cruits should be supplied by contracts at the enlisting rendezvous,
as now practised ; or to allow to each recruit a fixed sum per
diem in lieu of his ration, previous to his joining the general
rendezvous or encampment within his division ?

11. Ought the army when in the field to be supplied with ra-
tions by means of purchasing and issuing commissaries, or by
contract, as at present '/

12. What quantity and kinds of cannon, field-artillery, mili-
tary stores, and other articles necessary to an operating army,
such as may be raised, will it be proper to procure, in addition
to what is exhibited as on hand, agreeably to the annexed return
by the superintendent of military stores, and that may be ex-
pected to be procured in consequence of the annexed letter from
the Secretary of the Treasury ?

^T. 41.] MILITARY PAPERS. 147

13. Our greatest deposits of artillery and military stores are
at Springfield in Massaclmsetts, and Philadelphia in Pennsyl-
vania. We, are besides forming magazines near Harper's Ferry,
on the Potomac, in Virginia, and at Fayetteville, in North Caro-
lina. Ought there to be any other places established for princi-
pal magazines than these four, and the subordinate deposits
mentioned in the aforesaid return ?

As it will be proper, in the course of your deliberations, to
ascertain from the Secretary of the Treasury whether he can fur-
nish the moneys necessary for the military service, I inclose an
estimate made out some time since, showing the money which I
thought would be required, and the periods at which it might
be wanted, for the maintenance of the old and new army ; and
to provide certain military articles, for which appropriations
have been made by late acts of Congress, and for clothing for the
provisional army.

It may also be proper, that you should confer with the Sec-
retary of State on the subject of our foreign relations, as well as
the Secretary of the Treasury on the extent and reliance which
may be placed on our resources and finances, to assist you to
mature your opinion upon some of the points submitted. I need
not add, that the Secretary of State and the Secretary of the
Treasury will cheerfully give you every information, which you
may think it necessary to request.

With the greatest respect,

I have the honor to be, Sir,

Your most obedient and humble servant,

James M'Henry.

148 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 41.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON AND PINCKNEY.

Queries propounded hij the Commander-in-Cidef to Majors General
Hamilton and Pinchney.

Philadelphia, November 10th, 1798.

1st. Is an invasion of the United States, by France, to be
apprehended, whilst that power continues at war with Great
Britain ?

2d. In case such an invasion should take place, what part of
the United States, in their opinion, is most likely to be first
attacked ?

8d. Is it probable that the French will, in the way of ex-
change, or by other means, become possessed of the Floridas and
Louisiana ? .

4th. In case of such an event, what, probably, will be the con-
sequences, as they relate to the United States ? What measures
will be best to counteract them ? And can those measures be
carried into effect promptly^ by the Commander-in-Chief of the
armies? Or, must they be previously submitted to the AVar
OfQce ? 1^" This question, it will be perceived, presupposes a
force in existence.

5th. What can be done to supply our present deficiency of
engineers ? From whence and by what means are they to be
obtained ? Should a Frenchman be employed at any ratef

6th. Would not riflemen, in place of light infantry, be eligible
as a component part of each regiment ; and, in that case, would
Ferguson's Kifles claim a preference?

7th. Under the idea that each grand division of the United
States is to furnish four regiments of the augmented forces, and
each State, according to the census, the population, or medium
between the two, is to raise its proportion ; how many places in
each (its extent being considered), and where, ought to be as-
signed as rendezvouses, during the recruiting service ? At what
place ought the general rendezvous in each State to be fixed,
during the said period ? And at what place or places in the

^T. 41.]

MILITARY PAPERS. 149

United States ought the augmented force to assemble? If at
more than one place, how many, where, and the number at
each?

8th. Of how many pieces of ordnance, of what sorts, and of
what calibre, ought the park of artillery to consist, independently
of what is attached to brigades or regiments ? And how many
ought each of these to have ?

9th. Would it be advisable (after an adequate force is re-
cruited) to withdraw the troops which at present occupy the
posts on our northern and western frontiers, and replace them
with new raised corps?

10th. Of how many ranks do the French form their line of
battle generally f Do they make much use of pikes? And
would it be an eligible weapon with which to arm part of our
soldiery, as that is the nation with which we expect to contend ?
General Pinckney may, from personal observation, be enabled
to solve these two questions ?

Queries relative to smaller matters, but meriting considera-
tion, as an army is now commencing more systematically than
formerly ; the rules, regulations, and distinctions in which, may
give a tone to measures which may prevail hereafter,

1st. If the clothing of the regiments, and the fashion of their
clothing, with distinctions between one regiment and another,
are not already ordered by the proper authority, and in track of
execution, what had they best be ?

2d. Would not cotton or (still more so) flannel be advisable
for shirting and linings for the soldiery ?

3d. What had best be the distinctions in dress, in the badges,
and other peculiarities, between the Commander-in-Chief and
his suit, and the Majors General and their aids? Between the
latter and the Brigadiers and theirs ? And between these, again,
and the regimental officers? Also among the regimental offi-
cers themselves, commissioned and non-commissioned? And
whether the staff (not in the line of the army) of the different
departments, both commissioned and warrant officers, ought not
to be designated by their dress, or some appropriate mark or

150 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 41.

badge? and in every case, and at all times, in the camp or
field, be compelled to wear them, as well for tbe purpose of de-
noting the corps to which they belong, as a mean by which
irregularities, rioting, and improper conduct may be discovered
with more ease ?

4th. As there has been many objections to, and remarks made
upon, the black cockade (being that of Great Britain), might not
something be devised, by way of annexation thereto, to distin-
guish it from that of any other nation ? I have seen — and it
appeared to have no bad effect — a small eagle (of pewter, tin,
and, in some instances, silver), fixed by way of button in the
centre of a rose cockade, which was not only very distinguish-
able, but somewhat characteristic.

The sooner these queries are taken into consideration, and
opinions given on them, more agreeable will it be to

George Washington.

HAMILTON TO JAY.

Philadelphia, Nov. 19, 1798.

Sir:

Your letter of the 5th November has recently reached me at
this place, and found me amongst avocations that scarcely leave
me a moment to spare.

You will probably have learned from General Clarkson that
the survey of the port has been completed.

But I do not recollect that I have had any answer to a sug-
gestion in one of my letters respecting the employment of engi-
neers to assist in forming the desired plan.

This appears to me an essential preliminary. It is very pos-
sible the contrary may have been said to you by persons of
whose intelligence you may have a good opinion. Self-sufficiency, ."
and a contempt of the science and experience of others are too/I .
prevailing traits of character in this country. '

^T.41.] MILITARY PAPERS. 151

But as far as I am to he concerned auxiliary lights are a sine
qvui non.

I do not feel myself adequate to tlie complicated task of an
engineer unaided by men of more teclinical knowledge than
myself.

JAY TO HAMILTON.

Albany, 26th November, 1798.

Dear Sir :

I was this morning favored with yours of the 19th instant, in
which you observe that you do not recollect to have had any
answer to a suggestion in one of your letters respecting the em-
ployment of engineers to assist in forming the desired plan for
fortifying the port of New- York. No letter containing such a
suggestion has reached me, those of the 8th of September and
29th of October, being the only ones on the subject of fortifying
New-York which I have received from you since the passing of
the act, do not contain any thing about engineers.

The plan, doubtless, should be formed under all attainable
advantages, and I not only agree, but desire, that you avail your-
self of all the important aids within your reach, and I will
provide for the expense. It is proper, however, to bear in mind
the provision of the act, that the money appropriated by it to
this object, be expended under the direction of the President of
the United States. It is therefore proper that the plan in ques-
tion should be formed as much as possible under the auspices
of the national government, and with the aid and approbation of
the officers they most confide in. I presume the President will,
on your application, readily direct any of the engineers in the
service to assist in it, and I shall, on receiving the least hint from
you, be ready to request that favor from him.

If, in the course of business, you should think any measures
on my part necessary or useful, I will thank you to mention them.

152 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [tEt. 41.

HAMILTON TO MCHENRY.

Philadelphia, November, 1798.

Sir:

I now communicate the result of my conference with the
Commander-in-Chief and General Pinckney, on the subject of
extra allowance to ofl&cers detached on service, so as to be obliged
to incur expenses on the road, and at places where there are no
military posts.

We are all of opinion, that in such cases an extra allowance
ought to be made, and this even to ofl&cers who receive extra
compensations for peculiar duties, such as inspectors, quarter-
masters, &c. These extra compensations are considered as rela-
tive to ideas of greater skill or greater trouble^ rather than to that
of greater expense, in the execution of the offices to which they
are annexed. Without extra allowance in the cases in question,
it is easy to see that officers may exhaust in extra expenses their
whole pay, and that great difficulty must be experienced in find-
ing fit characters to execute employments which may expose
these persons to frequent journeys. It is useless to say that the
principle will not apply where the law shall have specifically
provided for travelling expenses.

But the greatest embarrassment is to settle the rule of extra
allowances. Shall they be left at large on the ground of reasona-
ble expenses according to circumstances, or shall fixed rates be
attempted ? The former is liable to great abuse, and the latter is
not easy to be regulated so as to unite economy with justice. It
is, however, our opinion that it ought to be attempted.

In adjusting a rate or rates, it is to be remembered, that the
officer receives established allowances for his time, service and
expenses. A full compensation is not therefore to be aimed at
in the extra allowances, but something proportioned to the
probable excess of expense. This has governed the estimate
which is now submitted, viz. a dollar and a quarter per day for
man and horse for each day, that the ofiicer must sleep at a place
not a military post, and when the officer is of a rank to be

Mt.41.] military papers. 153

entitled to a servant, then tlie addition of tliree quarters of a
dollar per day for the servant and his horse. This to apply to
all but the seat of government and the principal town in each
State. At such places the allowance to be a dollar and a half for
the officer and his horse, and a dollar for the servant and his
horse. It is understood that the established allowances to the
officer go on at the same time.

The case of an officer detached from one military post to
another which he may reach the same night, but yet so far dis-
tant as to incur expense on the road, was not provided for in
the above arrangement.

It is my opinion that half a dollar per day will suffice for
such cases, and this only where the distance is not less than forty
miles. The servant may in such cases, without inconvenience,
take his provisions with him.

It may, perhaps, be expedient to regulate a day's journey by
a number of miles, and for this the following proportions may
not be improper: forty miles to a day, when the whole distance
does not exceed two hundred miles ; thirty to a day for all above
two hundred, and not exceeding three hundred and fifty, and
twenty-five to a day for all above three hundred and fifty, and
not exceeding six hundred ; twenty to a day for all above six
hundred.

But while these rates are offered as the general rule, it is
foreseen that there may arise extraordinary cases where greater
allowances may be indispensable. Such cases must be referred
to the special discretion of the head of the War Department, to be
assisted by a certificate from the commanding officer, by whom
the officer claiming was detached on the special service, stating
the reasons and circumstances. It is my opinion too, on which
point also I have not consulted any other, that the rates ought
not to retrospect but ought to be established for the future, and
that in all past and intervening cases, applying only the general
principle, reasonable expenses, according to circumstances, ought
to govern. The application of a new rule may produce hardship
and injustice when the service may have been performed in the
expectation that practice on former occasions would prevail.

154 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [iEx. 41

HAMILTON" TO WASHINGTON.

December 13th, 1798.
General Hamilton presents his respects to the Commander-in-
Chief, and sends the sketch of a letter, in conformity to what
passed this morning.

WASHINGTON TO MCHENRY, SECRETARY OP WAR.
Draft by Hamilton.

Philadelphia, December 13th, 1798.

Sir:

Since my arrival at this place, I have been closely engaged,
with the aid of Generals Hamilton and Pinckney, in fulfilling
the objects of your letter of the 10th of November. The result
is now submitted.

The first two questions you propose, respecting the appoint-
ment of the officers and men of the troops to be raised, in virtue
of the act of Congress of the 16th of July last, among districts
and States, will naturally be answered together.

1. As to the appointment of the commissioned officers of the
infantry, no particular reason is discovered to exist at the present
period for combining the States into districts ; but it is con-
ceived to be expedient to adopt as a primary rule the relative
representative population of the several States. The practice of
the government on other occasions in the appointment of public
officers, has had regard, as far as was practicable, to the same
general principle, as one which, by a distribution of honors and
emoluments among the citizens of the different States, tends
both to justice and to public satisfaction. This principle, how-
ever, must frequently yield to the most proper selection of char-
acters among those willing as well as qualified to serve, and
sometimes to collateral considerations, which, arising out of par-

^T. 41.] MILITARY PAPERS. 155

ticular cases, do not admit of precise specification. In the ap-
plication of the rule in this, as in other instances, qualifications of
it must be admitted. The arrangement, which will be now
offered, proceeds on this basis. You will observe, that it does
not deviate from the table you have presented.

2. As to the non-commissioned officers and privates, it is con-
ceived to be both unnecessary and inexpedient to make any ab-
solute appointment among the States. It is unnecessary, be-
cause, contemplating it as desirable that the men shall be drawn
in nearly equal proportions from the respective States, this
object, where circumstances are favorable, will be attained by
the very natural and proper arrangement of assigning to the
officers, who shall be appointed, recruiting districts within the
States to which they belong. It is inexpedient, because if it
shall happen, that the proportion of fit men cannot easily be had
in a particular State, there ought to be no obstacle to obtaining
them elsewhere.

3. As to the ofl&cers of the dragoons, it does not seem advisa-
ble to confine the selection to any subdivision of the United
States. Though very strong conjectures may be formed, as to
the quarter in which they would probably be employed in the
case of invasion, there can be nothing certain on this point, if
this were even the criterion of a proper arrangement. And it
may be presumed, that it will conduce most to the general satis-
faction to exclude considerations of local aspect. But from the
small number of this corps, which is to be raised, it would be
found too fractional, and, for that among other reasons, incon-
venient to aim at a proportional distribution among all the
States. It is therefore supposed most advisable to be governed
principally by a reference to the characters, who have occurred
as candidates; leaving the inequality in the distribution to be
remedied in the event of a future augmentation of this descrip-
tion of troops. The proportion at present is in various views
inadequate ; a circumstance, which it may be presumed will of
course be attended to, should the progress of public danger lead
to an extension of military preparations.

The materials furnished by you, with the addition of those

156 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 41.

derived from other sources, are insufficient for a due selection of
the officers, whom it is proposed to allot to the States of Con-
necticut, North and South Carolina, and Georgia. Hence the
selection for these States must of necessity be deferred. It is
conceived, that the best plan for procuring the requisite informa-
tion and accelerating a desirable conclusion, as to the three last
mentioned States, will be to choose Major General Pinckney, who
will avail himself of the assistance of Brigadier Generals Davie
and Washington, to make the arrangement of those officers pro-
visionally, and subject to the ratification of the President. It
will be in their power to ascertain who are best qualified among
those willing to serve ; which will at the same time assure a good
choice, and avoid the disappointment and embarrassment of re-
fusals. As to Connecticut, you are aware of the progress that
has been made, and of the misapprehension which has occasioned
an obstacle to a definitive arrangement. You will, it is presumed,
be speedily in possession of the further information necessary,
and, having it, can without difficulty complete the arrangement
for this State.

The third, fourth, and fifth of your questions may likewise
be answered together.

The act for augmenting the army is peremptory in its pro-
visions. The bounds of executive discretion, as to the forbear-
ance to execute such a law, might perhaps involve an investiga-
tion nice in its own nature, and of a kind which it is generally
most prudent to avoid. But it may safely be said negatively,
for reasons too plain to be doubted, that the voluntary suspen-
sion of the execution of a similar law could not be justified but
by considerations of decisive cogency. The existence of any
such considerations is unknown.

Nothing has been communicated respecting our foreign re-
lations to induce the opinion, that there has been any change in
the situation of the country, as to external danger, which dic-
tates an abandonment of the policy of the law in question. It
needs not now be examined how far it may be at any time pru-
dent to relinquish measures of security, suggested by the experi-
ence of accumulated hostility, merely because there are probable

^T. 41.] MILITARY PAPERS. 157

symptoms of approaching accommodation. It needs not be
urged, that, if such symptoms exist, they are to be ascribed to
the measures of vigor adopted by the government, and may be
frustrated by a relaxation in those measures, affording an argu-
ment of weakness or irresolution. For, has it not been in sub-
stance stated from the highest authority, that no decisive indica-
tions have been given by France of a disposition to redress our
past wrongs and do us future justice ; that her decree, alleged to
be intended to restrain the depredations of French cruisers on
our commerce, has not given, and from its nature cannot give,
relief; that the most hostile of the acts, by which she has op-
pressed the commerce of neutrals, and that which subjects to
capture and condemnation neutral vessels and cargoes, if any
part of the latter be of British production or fabric, not only has
not been abrogated, but has recently received an indirect con-
firmation ; and that hitherto nothing is discoverable in the con-
duct of France, which ought to change or relax our measures of
defence ?

Could it be necessary to enforce by argument so authorita-
tive a declaration, as it relates to the immediate object of con-
sideration, these, among other reflections, would at once present
themselves.

Though it may be true, that some late occurrences have ren-
dered the prospect of invasion by France less probable or more
remote, yet, duly considering the rapid vicissitudes, at all times,
of political and military events, the extraordinary fluctuations,
which have been peculiarly characteristic of the still subsisting
contest in Europe, and the more extraordinary position of most
of the principal nations of that quarter of the globe, it can never
be wise to vary our measures of security with the continually
varying aspect of European affairs. A very obvious policy dic-
tates to us a strenuous endeavor, as far as may be practicable, to
place our safety out of the reach of the casualties, which may be-
fall the contending parties, and the powers more immediately
within their vortex. The way to effect this is to pursue a
steady system, to organize all our resources, and put them in a
state of preparation for prompt action. Eegarding the over-

158 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [tEt. 41.

throw of Europe at large as a matter not entirely chimerical, it
will be our prudence to cultivate a spirit of self-dependence, and
to endeavor by unanimity, vigilance, and exertion, under the
blessing of Providence, to hold the scales of our destiny in our
own hands. Standing as it were in the midst of falling empires,
it should be our aim to assume a station and attitude, which will
preserve us from being overwhelmed in their ruins.

It has been very properly the policy of our government to
cultivate peace. But, in contemplating the possibility of our
being driven to unqualified war, it will be wise to anticipate,
that frequently the most effectual way to defend is to attack.
There may be imagined instances of very great moment to the
permanent interests of this country, which would certainly re-
quire a disciplined force. To raise and prepare such a force will
always be a work of considerable time, and it ought to be ready
for the conjuncture whenever it shall arrive. Not to be ready,
then, may be to lose an opportunity, which it may be difficult
afterwards to retrieve.

While a comprehensive view of external circumstances is be-
lieved to recommend perseverance in the precautions, which
have been taken for the safety of the country, nothing has come
to my knowledge in our interior situation, which leads to a dif-
ferent conclusion. The principal inquiry in this respect concerns
the finances. The exhibition of their state from the department
of the Treasury, which you have transmitted, as I understand it,
opposes no obstacle ; nor have I been apprized, that any doubt
is entertained by the officer, who presides in that department, of
the sufficiency of our pecuniary resources. But on this point
I cannot be expected to assume the responsibility of a positive
opinion. It is the province of the Secretary of the Treasury to
pronounce definitively, whether any insuperable impediment
arises from this source.

The sound conclusion, viewing the subject in every light, is
conceived to be, that no avoidable delay ought to be incurred in
appointing the whole of the officers, and raising the whole of the
men, provided for by the act which has been cited. If imme-
diately entered upon, and pursued with the utmost activity, it

Mt.41.] military papers. 159

cannot be relied upon, that the troops will be raised and disci-
plined in less than a year. What may not another year produce ?
Happy will it be for us, if we have so much time for preparation,
and ill-judged, indeed, if we do not make the most of it! The
adequateness of the force to be raised, in relation to a serious in-
vasion, is foreign to the present examination. But it is certain,
that even a force of this extent, well instructed and well disci-
plined, would in such an event be of great utility and importance.
Besides the direct effects of its own exertions, the militia rallying
to it would derive, from its example and countenance, additional
courage and perseverance. It would give a consistency and sta-
bility to our first efforts, of which they would otherwise be des-
titute ; and would tend powerfully to prevent great, though per-
haps partial calamities.

The Senate being in session, the ofiicers to be appointed must
of course be nominated to that body.

The pay of all who shall be appointed ought immediately to
commence. They ought all to be employed, without delay, in
different ways in the recruiting service ; but, were it otherwise,
there ought to be no suspension of their pay. The law annexes
it as a matter of right. The attempt to apply a restriction by
executive discretion might be dissatisfactory ; and justice to the
public does not seem to require it, because the acceptance of an
ofl&ce, which makes the person liable at pleasure to be called into
actual service, will commonly from the moment of that accept-
ance interfere with any previous occupation, on which he may
have depended. This observation cannot be applicable to my-
self, because I have taken a peculiar and distinct ground, to
which it is my intention to adhere.

On the subject of your sixth question, the opinion is, that,
under existing circumstances, it is not advisable to withdraw any
of the troops from the quarter of the country, which you men-
tion, towards the Atlantic frontier. But the disposition in those
quarters probably requires careful revision. It is not impossible,
that it will be found to admit of alterations favorable both to
economy and to the military objects to be attained. The local
knowledge of General Wilkinson would be so useful in an inves-

160 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Ex. 41.

tigation of this sort, that it is deemed very important to direct
him forthwith to repair to Philadelphia. If this be impracticable
by land, he may, it is presumed, come by way of New Orleans.
It is observed, that in his late communications with the Governor
he has taken pains to obviate jealousy of the views of the United
States. This was prudent, and he ought to be encouraged to
continue the policy. It will also be useful to employ a judicious
engineer to survey our posts on the Lakes, in order that it may
be ascertained, in the various relations of trade and defence,
what beneficial changes, if any, can be made. In this examina-
tion Presque Isle and the southwestern extremity of Lake Erie
will demand particular attention.

The reply to your seventh question is, that the companies
directed to be added to the regiments of the old establishments
ought, as soon as convenient, to reinforce the western army. It
is probable, that, in the progress of events, they will not be less
useful there than on the seaboard. Their destination in the first
instance may be Pittsburg.

The following disposition of the artillery (the subject of your
eighth question) is recommended. The two regiments by their
establishment consist of twenty-eight companies. Of these nearly
a battalion, in point of number, forms part of the western army.
A complete battalion there will sufiice. Let there be assigned to
the fortifications at Boston one company, to those at New- York
two, to those at Newport two companies, to those at West Point
one, to those at Mud Island two, to those at Baltimore one, to
those at Norfolk two, to those on Cape Fear river one, to those
at Charleston two, to those at Savannah one, to those at the
mouth of the St. Mary's one. The remaining two battalions had
best be reserved for the army in the field. During the winter
they may retain the stations they now occupy. But, as soon as
they can conveniently go into tents, it will be advisable to assem-
ble them at some central or nearly central point, there to be put
in a course of regular instruction, together with successive de-
tachments of the ofiicers and non-commissioned officers of the
seaboard garrisons, until their services shall be actually required.
The field-officers of course will be distributed proportionally,

JEt.41.] military PAPERS. 161

assigning to each tlie superintendence of a certain number of
companies, and, as to those in garrison, of the posts at which they
are stationed.

The permanent distribution of the troops, after they shall
have been raised, which is understood to be an object of your
ninth question, Avill probably be influenced by circumstances
yet to be unfolded, and will best be referred to future con-
sideration.

An arrangement for the recruiting service is the point of
primary urgency. For this purpose each State should be divided
into as many districts, as there are companies to be raised in it,
and to every company a particular district should be allotted,
with one place of rendezvous in it, to which the recruits should
be brought as fast as they are engaged. A certain number of
these company districts, whenever it can be done, should be
placed under the supervision of a field-ofiicer. During the win-
ter, in most of the States, it would be inconvenient to assemble
in larger corps than companies. Great cities are to be avoided.
The collection of troops there may lead to disorders, and expose,
more than elsewhere, the morals and principles of the soldiery.
But though it might now be premature to fix a permanent dis-
position of the troops, it may not be unuseful to indicate certain
stations, where they may be assembled provisionally, and may
probably be sufiered to continue while matters remain in their
present posture. The stations eligible in this view may be found
for two regiments in the vicinity of Providence river, somewhere .
near Uxbridge ; for two other regiments, in the vicinity of
Brunswick, in New Jersey; for two other regiments, in the
vicinity of the Potomac, near Harper's Ferry ; for two other
regiments, in the vicinity of Augusta, but above the falls of the
Savannah. This disposition will unite considerations relative to
the discipline and health of the troops, and to the economical
supply of their wants by water. It will also have some military
aspects, in the first instance, towards the security of Boston and
Newport ; in the second, towards that of New- York and Phila-
delphia ; in the third and fourth, towards that of Baltimore,
Charleston, Savannah, and the southern States generall}^ ; and,

E 11

162 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [iEx. 41.

in the third, pa^'ticularly towards the reinforcement of the west-
ern army in certain events. But the military motives have only
a qualified influence; since it is i:ut d< ubted, that, in the pros-
pect of a serious attack upon this country, the disposition of
the army ought to look emphatically to the southern region,
as that which is by far the most likely to be the scene of
action.

As to your tenth question, the opinion is, that the govern-
ment itself ought to provide the rations. The plan of furnishing
money to the recruits, as a substitute for this, is likely to be at-
tended with several inconveniences. It will give them a pre-
tence for absence injurious to discipline and order, and facilita-
ting marauding and desertion. Many of the soldiery will be
disposed to lay out too much of their money in ardent spirit',
and too little in provisions, which, besides occasioning them to
be ill, will lead to habits of intemperance.

The subject of your eleventh question is peculiarly important
The two modes have severally their advantages and disad-
vantages. That of purchases by agents of the government is
liable to much mismanagement and abuse, sometimes from want
of skill, but much oftener from infidelity. It is too frequently
deficient in economy; but it is preferable, as it regards the
quality of the articles to be supplied, the satisfaction of the
troops, and the certainty of the supply, which last is a point of
the utmost consequence to the success of any military operation.
• The mode by contract is sometimes found more economical;
but, as the calculations of contractors have reference primarily
to their own profit, they are apt to endeavor to impose on the
troops articles of inferior quality. The troops, suspecting this,
are apt to be dissatisfied even when there is no adequate cause,
and when defects may admit of reasonable excuse. In the at-
tention to cheapness of price, and other savings of expense, it
from time to time happens, that the supplies are not laid in as
early as the service requires, or not in sufficient quantity, or are
not conveyed with due celerity to the points where they are
wanted. Circumstances like these tend to embarrass and even
to defeat the best concerted military plans ; which, in this mode,

^T. 41.] MILITARY PAPERS. 163

depend for their execution too mucli upon the combinations of in-
dividual avarice. It also occasionally happens, that the public,
from the failures of the contractors, is under the necessity of in-
terposing with sudden and extraordinary efforts to obviate the
mischiefs and disappointments of those failures, producing, in
addition to other evils, an accumulation of expense, which
the fortunes of the delinquent contractors are insufficient to
indemnify.

The union of the two modes will probably be found safest
and best. Prudence always requires, that magazines shall be
formed beforehand at stations relative to the probable or ex-
pected scene of action. These magazines may be laid in by con-
tract, and the transportation of the supplies from the magazines,
and the issuing of them to the army, may be the business of the
military agents, who must be likewise authorized and enabled to
provide for the deficiencies of the contractors, and for whatever
may not be comprehended in the contracts. This plan will to a'
great extent admit the competition of private interest to furnisk,
the supplies at the cheapest rate. By narrowing the sphere of
action of the public agents, it will proportionably diminish the
opportunities of abuse, and it will unite, as far as is attainable,,
economy with the efiiciency of military operations.

But, to obtain the full advantages of this plan, it is essential,,
that there shall be a man attached to the army, of distinguished'
capacity and integrity, to be charged with the superintendence-
of the department of supplies. To procure such a man, as mili-
tary honor can form no part of his reward, ample pecuniary
compensation must be given; and he must be intrusted with;
large authority for the appointment of subordinate agents, ac-
companied with a correspondent responsibility. Proceeding on^
this ground, there would be a moral certainty of immense
savings to the public in the business of supplies ; savings, the
magnitude of which will be easily understood by any man,,
who can estimate the vast difference in the results of extensive
money transactions between a management at once skilful and.
faithful, and that which is either unskilful or unfaithful.

This suggestion contemplates, as a part of the plan, that the

164 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 41.

procuring of supplies of every kind, which, in our past experi-
ence has been divided between two departments, of quarter-
master and commissary, shall be united under one head. This
unity will tend to harmony, system, and vigor. It will avoid
the discordant influence of civil with military functions. The
quartermaster-general, in this case, instead of being a purveyor
as formerly, will, besides the duties purely military of his sta-
tion, be confined to the province of calling for the requisite sup-
plies, and of seeing that they are duly furnished ; in which he
may be rendering a very useful check upon the purveyor.

The extent of your twelfth question has been matter of some
doubt. But no inconvenience can ensue from answering it with
greater latitude than may have been intended. It is conceived,
that the strongest considerations of national policy and safety re-
quire, that we should be as fast as possible provided with arsenals
and magazines of artillery, small arms, and the principal articles
of military stores and camp equipage, equal to such a force as
may be deemed sufficient to resist with effect the most serious in-
vasion of the most powerful European nation. This precaution,
which prudence would at all times recommend, is peculiarly
indicated by the existing crisis of Europe. The nature of the
case does not furnish any absolute standard of the requisite force.
It must be more or less a matter of judgment. The opinion is,
that the calculation ought to be on the basis of fifty thousand
men ; that is, forty thousand infantry of the line, two thousand
riflemen, four thousand horse, and four thousand artillerymen.
And, with regard to such articles, as are expended by the use,
not less than a full year's supply ought to be ready. This will
allow due time from internal and external sources to continue
the supply, in proportion to the exigencies which shall occur.
As to clothing, since we may always on a sudden emergency
find a considerable supply in our markets, and the articles are
more perishable, the quantity in deposit may be much less than
of other articles ; but it ought not under present circumstances to
be less than a year's supply for half the above mentioned force,
especially of the woollen articles.

I proceed to the last of your questions, that which respects

Mr. 41.]

MILITARY PAPERS. 165

the stations for magazines. It is conceived that three principal
permanent stations will suffice, and that these ought to be Spring-
field and Harper's Ferry, which are already chosen, and the
vicinity of Eocky Mount, on the Wateree, in South Carolina.
These stations are in a great measure central to three great sub-
divisions of the United States ; they are so interior as to be en-
tirely safe, and yet on navigable waters, which empty into the
ocean and facilitate a water conveyance to every point on our
sea-coast. They are also in well-settled and healthy districts of
country. That near Harper's Ferry, it is well known, possesses
extraordinary advantages for founderies and other manufac-
tories of iron. It is expected, that a canal will ere long effect
a good navigation between the Wateree and the Catawba, which,
whenever it shall happen, will render the vicinity of Rocky
Mount extremely convenient to the supply of North Carolina by
inland navigation. Pittsburg, West Point in New-York, the
■neighborhood of Trenton in New Jersey, and Fayetteville in
North Carolina, may properly be selected as places of particular
and occasional deposit. Large cities are as much as possible to
be avoided.

The foregoing comprises, it is believed, a full answer to the
questions you have stated. I shall in another letter offer to
your consideration some further matters, which have occurred,
and are deemed to be of importance to our military service.
With respect and esteem, I have the honor to be. Sir, &c.

WASHINGTON TO MCHENRY.

Draft by Hamilton.

Philadelphia, December 13tli, 1798.

Sir:

I shall now present to your view the additional objects al-
luded to in my letter of this date.

166 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 41.

A proper organization for the troops of the United States is
a principal one. In proportion as the policy of the country is
adverse to extensive military establishments, ought to be our
care to render the principles of our military system as perfect as
possible, and our endeavors to turn to the best account such
force as we may at any time have on foot, and to provide an
eligible standard for the augmentations to which particular
emergencies may compel a resort.

The organization of our military force will, it is conceived,
be much improved by modelling it on the following plan :

Let a regiment of infantry, composed as at present of two
battalions, and each battalion of five companies, consist of these
officers and men, namely, one colonel ; two majors, a first and
second ; one adjutant, one quartermaster, and one paymaster,
each of whom shall be a lieutenant ; one surgeon and one sur-
geon's mate ; ten captains ; ten first and ten second lieutenants,
besides the three lieutenants above mentioned ; two cadets, with
the pay and emoluments of sergeants; two sergeant-majors;
two quartermaster-sergeants ; two chief musicians, first and
second, and twenty other musicians ; forty sergeants ; forty cor-
porals ; and nine hundred and twenty privates.

Let a regiment of dragoons consist of ten troops, making five
squadrons, and, of these, officers and men, namely, one colonel ;
two majors, a first and second; one adjutant, one quartermaster,
and one j^aymaster, each of whom shall be a lieutenant; one
surgeon and one surgeon's mate ; ten captains ; ten first and ten
second lieutenants, besides the three lieutenants above men-
tioned ; five cadets, with the pay and emoluments of sergeants ;
two sergeant-majors ; two quartermaster-sergeants ; two chief
musicians, first and second, and ten other musicians ; forty ser-
geants ; forty corporals ; and nine hundred and twenty privates ;
the privates including, to each troop, one saddler, one black-
smith, and one boot-maker.

Let a regiment of artillery consist of four battalions, each
battalion of four companies, and, of these, officers and men,
namely, one colonel ; four majors ; one adjutant, one quarter-
master, and one paymaster, each of whom shall be a lieuten-

iEx. 41.] MILITARY PAPERS.

16Y

ant; one surgeon and two surgeon's mates; sixteen captains;
sixteen first and sixteen second lieutenants, besides the three
lieutenants above mentioned; thirty-two cadets, with the pay
and emoluments of sergeants ; four sergeant majors ; four quar-
termaster-sergeants; sixty-four sergeants; sixty -four corporals;
one chief musician and ten other musicians; eight hundred
and ninety-six privates, including, to each company, eight
artificers.

The principal reasons for this organization will be briefly
suggested.

It will be observed, that the proportion of men to officers in
the infantry and cavalry is considerably greater than by the
present establishment. This presents, in the first place, the ad-
vantage of economy. By the proportional decrease of the
officers, savings will result in their pay, subsistence, and the
transportation of their baggage. The last circumstance, by les-
sening the impediments of an army, is also favorable to the
celerity of its movements.

The command of each officer will become more respectable.
This will be an inducement to respectable men to accept mili-
tary appointments, and it will be an incentive to exertion
among those, who shall be engaged, by upholding that justi-
fiable pride, which is a necessary ingredient in the military
spirit.

A company will then admit of an eligible subdivision into
platoons, sections, and demi-sections, each of a proper front.
Each battalion will then be of the size judged proper for a ma-
nojuvring column in the field, and it is that portion of an army,
which, in the most approved system of tactics, is destined to ful-
fil this object. A battalion ought neither to be too unwieldy for
rapid movements, nor so small as to multiply too much the sub-
divisions, and render each incapable either of a vigorous impulse
or resistance-

The proportion of officers to men ought not to be greater
than is adequate to the due management and command of them.
A careful examination of this point will satisfy every judge, that
the number now proposed will be equal to both. This conclusion

168 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [tEt. 41.

will be assisted bj tlie idea, that our fundamental order, in con-
formity with, that of the nations of Europe generally, ought to
place our infantry in three ranks, to oppose to an enemy, who
shall be in the same order, an equal mass for attack or defence.

These remarks explain summarily the chief reasons for the
most material of the alterations suggested.

But it is not the intention to recommend a present augmenta-
tion of the number of rank and file to the proposed standard.
It is only wished, that it may be adopted as that of the war es-
tablishment. The regiments, which have been authorized, may
continue in this respect upon the footing already prescribed ;
leaving the actual augmentation to depend on events, which
may create a necessity for the increase of our force. The other
alterations recommended have relation rather to systematic pro-
priety, than to very important military ends.

The term lieutenant-colonel^ in our present establishment, has
a relative signification, without any thing in fact to which it re-
lates. It was introduced during our revolutionary war, to facili-
tate exchanges of prisoners ; as our then enemy united the
grade of colonel with that of general. But the permanent form
of our military system ought to be regulated by principle, not
by the changeable and arbitrary arrangement of a particular
nation. The title of colonel, which has greater respectability, is
more proper for the commander of a regiment, because it does
not, like the other, imply a relation having no existence.

The term ensign is changed into that of lieutenant, as well be-
cause the latter from usage has additional respectability, offering
an inducement to desirable candidates, as because the former, in
its origin, signified a standard-bearer, and supposed that each
company had a distinct standard. This, in practice, has ceased
to be the case, and for a variety of good reasons a stand of colors
to each battalion of infantry is deemed sufficient. This stand-
ard is intended to be confided to a cadet, in whom it may be
expected to excite emulation and exertion. The multiplica-
tion of grades, inconvenient with regard to exchanges, is thus
avoided.

In the cavalry it is proper to allow a standard to each

^T. 41.]

MILITARY PAPERS. 169

squadron, and hence it is proposed to have five cadets to a
regiment.

The nature of the artillery service, constantly in detachment,
renders it proper to compose a regiment of a greater number of
battalions than the other corps. This our present establishment
has recognized. But there is now want of uniformity, which
leads to disorderly consequences ; one regiment being composed
of four battalions, the other of three. The same organization
ought to be common to all.

The diminution of the number of musicians, while it will
save expense, is also warranted by the pecuhar nature of the
artillery service. They answer in this corps few of the purposes
which they fulfil in the infantry.

The existing laws contemplate, and with good reason, that
the aids-de-camp of general ofiicers, except the commander-in-
chief and the ofiicers in the department of inspection, shall be
taken from the regiment. But they do not provide, that, when
so taken, their places shall be supplied by others. It is con-
ceived that this ought to be the case. The principles of the
establishment suppose, for example, that three ofiicers to a com-
pany of a given number are the just and due proportion. If,
when an ofl&cer be taken from a company to fill one of the sta-
tions alluded to, his place be not filled by another, so that the
number of ofiicers to a company may remain the same, it must
follow that the company will be deficient in ofiicers. It is true,
that the number of a company is continually diminishing, but it
diminishes in ofiicers as well as men ; and it is not known that
the proportion is varied. Practice in every institution ought to
conform to principle, or there will result more or less of disorder.
An army is in many respects a machine ; of which the displace-
ment of any of the organs, if permitted to continue, injures its
symmetry and energy, and leads to disorder and weakness.
The increase of the number of rank and file, while it strengthens
the reasons for replacing the ofiicers, who may be removed, will
more than compensate in point of economy for the addition of
ofi&cers by the substitution. This may be reduced to the test of "
calculation. But, though the place of an officer in his regiment

ITO HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 41.

ought to be supplied upon any sucli removal, he ought not to
lose his station in the regiment, but ought to rank and rise as if
he had continued to serve in it.

The provision, that the aids-de-camp and the officers of in-
spection shall be drawn from the line of the army, is not re-
stricted as to grade. There ought to be such a restriction. The
aids of major-generals ought not to be taken from a rank supe-
rior to that of captain, nor those of brigadiers from a rank su-
perior to that of first lieutenant. The inspectors ought in like
manner to be limited, those of brigadiers to the rank of captain,
those of divisions to that of major. This will guard against
the multiphcation of superior grades by removals to fill such
stations.

The judicious establishment of general rules of promotion,
Hable to exceptions in favor of extraordinary service or merit, is
a point of the greatest consequence. It is conceived, that these
rules are the most convenient that can be devised ; namely, that
all officers shall rise in the regiments to which they respectively
belong up to the rank of major inclusively ; that afterwards they
shall rise in the line of the army at large, with the limitation,
however, that the officers of artillery, cavalry, and infantry shall
be confined to their respective corps until they shall attain the
rank of colonel.

It is very material to the due course of military service, that
the several classes of an army shall be distinguished from each
other by certain known badges, and that there shall be uni-
formity in dress and equipment subject to these distinctions.
The dress itself will indeed constitute a part of them. It is of
inferior moment, what they shall be, provided they are conspicu-
ous, economical, and not inconsistent with good appearance,
which in an army is far from being a matter of indifference.
The following uniforms and badges are recommended ; but, if
any of them are supposed liable to exception, they may be
changed at pleasure.

The uniform of the commander-in-chief to be a blue coat,
'with yellow buttons and gold epaulets (each having three silver
stars), with linings, cape, and cufis of bufii" ; in winter, buff vest

iET. 41.]

MILITARY PAPERS. ' iTl

and breeches ; in summer, a white vest, and breeches of nankeen.
The coat to be without lapels, and embroidered on the cape,
cuffs, and pockets. A white plume in the hat to be a farther
distinction. The adjutant-general, the aids, and secretaries of the
commander-in-chief to be likewise distinguished by a white plume.

The uniform of the other general officers to be a blue coat
with yellow buttons, gold epaulets, the lining and facings of
buff"; the under clothes the same as those of the commander-in-
chief. The major-generals to be distinguished by two silver
stars on each epaulet, and, except the inspector-general, by a
black and white plume, the black below. The brigadiers to be
distinguished by one silver star on each epaulet, and by a red
and white plume, the red below. The aids of all general
officers, who are taken from regiments, and the officers of inspec-
tion, to wear the uniforms of the regiments from which they are
taken. The aids to be severally distinguished by the like
plumes, which are worn by the general officers to whom they
are respectively attached.

The uniform of the aids and secretaries of the commander-in-
chief, when not taken from regiments, to be a blue coat with
yellow buttons and gold epaulets, buff lining and facings ; the
same under clothes as the commander-in-chief.

The inspector-general, his aids, and the officers of the in-
spection generally, to be distinguished by a blue plume. The
quartermaster-general and other military officers in his depart-
ment to be distinguished by a gTeen plume.

The uniform of the infantry and artillery to be a blue coat,
with white buttons and red facings, white under clothes, and
cocked hats. The coats of the infantry to be lined with white ;
of the artillery, with red.

The uniform of the cavalry to be a green coat, with white
buttons, lining, and facings ; white vest and breeches ; with
helmet caps.

Each colonel to be distinguished by two epaulets, each
major by one epaulet on the right shoulder, and a strap on
the left. All the field-officers, except as above, and the regi-
mental staff, to wear red plumes.

172 HAMILTON'S WORKS.

[^T. 41.

Captains to be distinguisliecl by an epaulet on the right
shoulder. Lieutenants by one on the left shoulder. Cadets by
a strap on the right shoulder. The epaulets and straps of the
regimental officers to be of silver.

Sergeant-majors and quartermaster-sergeants to be distin-
guished by two red. worsted epaulets. Sergeants by a like
epaulet on the right shoulder. The flank companies to be dis-
tinguished by red wings on the shoulders.

The coats of the musicians to be of the color of the facings of
the corps to which they severally belong. The chief musicians
to wear two white worsted epaulets.

All the civil staff of the army to wear plain blue coats, with
yellow buttons and white under clothes. No gold or silver lace,
except in the epaulets and straps, to be worn.

The commissioned officers and cadets to wear swords.

All persons belonging to the army to wear a black cockade,
with a small white eagle in the centre. The cockade of the non-
commissioned officers, musicians, and privates, to be of leather,
with eagles of tin.

The regiments to be distinguished from each other numeri-
cally. The number of each regiment to be expressed on the
buttons.

It cannot fail to happen, that clothing made at a distance
from the army will in numerous instances be ill fitted to the
persons to whom it is issued. This is an inconvenience, as it re-
spects appearance, comfort, and use. It merits consideration,
whether it may not be remedied by making provision by law for
the necessary alterations at the cost of the soldiery. As there
are always to be found tailors in an army, the alterations may be
made there during seasons of inactivity ; and moderate compen-
sations may be established, to be deducted out of the pay. The
tailors, when so employed, being exempted from military duty,
will be satisfied with very small allowances ; and the soldiers will
probably prefer this expense to the inconvenience of wearing
clothes which do not fit them.

On this subject of clothing, it is remarked with regret, that
the returns which have been received, exhibit none on hand ;

^T.41.] MILITARY PAPERS. 173

tliousli from verbal communications it is understood, that meas-
ures are in train for obtaining a present supply. It is desirable
that some more effectual plan, than has hitherto been pursued,
should be adopted to procure regular and sufficient supplies on
reasonable terms. While we depend on foreigners, will it not
be advisable to import the materials rather than take the chance
of markets ? And will it not be expedient, with a view to
economy, to have the clothing made up in the countries from
which it may be brought ? The matter certainly deserves seri-
ous attention. Our supply in the mode hitherto practised is not
only very precarious, but must doubtless be obtained at a very
dear rate.

Another point, no less deserving of particular attention, is
the composition of the ration of provisions. It was in the last
session augmented beyond all former example. It is not recol-
lected, that the ration, which was allowed during the war with
Great Britain, was found insafiicient by troops once formed to
military habits, and acquainted with the best methods of manag-
ing their provisions. The present ration, estimating by price, is
understood to be greater than the ration in that war by at least
forty per cent. This is evidently a very important augmenta-
tion. Various disadvantages attend it ; a great increase of ex-
pense ; additional diflSiculty in furnishing under all circumstances
the stipulated allowance, consequently a multiplication of the
possible causes of discontent, murmur, and perhaps even mu-
tiny ; the necessity of a greater number of wagons for transporta-
tion, and of course the extension of this always serious source of
embarrassment to military operations.

The quantity of spirituous liquors, which is a component
part of the ration, is so large as to endanger, where they might
not before exist, habits of intemperance, alike fatal to health and
discipline. Experience has repeatedly shown, that many sol-
diers will exchange their rum for other articles ; which is pro-
ductive of the double mischief of subjecting those, with whom
the exchange is made, to the loss of what is far more necessary,
and to all the consequences of brutal intoxication. The step
having been once taken, a change is delicate ; but it is believed

174 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 41.

to be indispensable, and that the temporary evils of a change
can bear no proportion to the permanent and immense evils of a
continuance of the error.

it may not perhaps be advisable to bring back the ration to
the standard of the late war, but to modify it in some respects
differently, so as not materially to affect the aggregate expense.
It may consist of eighteen ounces of bread or flour, one pound
and a quarter of fresh beef, or one pound of salted beef, or three
quarters of a pound of salted pork; salt, when fresh meat is
issued, at the rate of one quart, and candles at the rate of a
pound, for every hundred rations. With regard to liquor, it may
be best to exckide it from bein a component part of the ration ;
allowing a discretion to commanding officers to cause it to be is-
sued in quantities not exceeding half a gill per day, except
on extraordinary occasions. Vinegar also ought to be furnished,
when to be had, at the rate of two quarts, and soap at the rate of
two pounds, per hundred rations.

There are often difficulties in furnishing articles of this des-
cription, and the equivalent in money is frequently pernicious,
rather than beneficial. Where there is a contract, the promise of
such articles is apt to prove more beneficial to the contractor than
to any other person. He commonly so manages it, that the sub-
stitute is not a real equivalent. But it need not be observed, that
whatever is to be done in this respect must be so conducted, as
not to infract the conditions on which the troops now in service
were enlisted.

It is deeply to be lamented, that a very precious period of
leisure was not improved towards forming among ourselves en-
gineers and artillerists ; and that, owing to this neglect, we are
in danger of being overtaken by war, without competent charac-
ters of these descriptions. To form them suddenly is impossible.
Much previous study and experiment are essential. If possible
to avoid it, a war ought not to find us wholly unprovided. It is
conceived to be advisable to endeavor to introduce from abroad
at least one distinguished engineer, and one distinguished officer
of artillery. They may be sought for preferably in the Austrian,
and next in the Prussian armies. The grade of colonel, with ade-

^T. 41.] MILITARY PAPERS. 175

quate pecuniary compensation, may attract officers of a rank in-
ferior to that grade in those armies, who will be of distinguished
ability and merit. But in this, as we know from past experience,
nothing is more easy than to be imposed upon, nothing more dif-
ficult than to avoid imposition, and that therefore it is requisite to
commit the business of procuring such characters to some very
judicious hand, under every caution that can put him upon his
guard.

If there shall be occasion for the actual employment of mili-
tary force, a corps of riflemen will be for several jDurposes ex-
tremely useful. The eligible proportion of riflemen to infantry
of the line may be taken at a twentieth. Hence in the apportion-
ment of an army of fifty thousand men, in my letter of this date,
two thousand riflemen are included, and, in the estimate of arms
to be provided, two thousand rifles. There is a kind of rifle com-
monly called Fergusoii's, which will deserve particular attention.
It is understood that it has in different European armies sup-
planted the old rifle, as being more quickly loaded and more
easily kept clean. If the shot of it be equally sure, or nearly so,
those advantages entitle it to a preference. It is very desirable,
that this point, and its comparative merit in other respects, be
ascertained by careful examination and experiment.

Perhaps generally, but more certainly when the troops shall
serve in southern climates, flannel shirts will be most conducive
to health. Will it not be advisable to make provision for retain-
ing a discretion in such cases ; either to allow a less number of
flannel shirts equivalent to the present allowance of linen, or, if
this cannot be, to furnish the soldiery with the requisite number,
deducting the difference of cost out of their pay ?

The only provision for the appointment of i quartermaster-
general is to be found in the act of the 28th of May, authorizing
the President to raise a provisional army, which limits his rank
and emoluments to those of lieutenant-colonel. This provision is
conceived to be entirely inadequate. The military duties of the
office are of a nature to render it of the first importance in an
army ; demanding great abilities and a character every way
worthy of trust. Accordingly it is the general practice, founded

176 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 41.

upon very substantial reasons, to confide it to an otlficer of high
military rank. The probability is, that, without a similar
arrangement on our part, we shall not be able to command a fit
character ; and in taking one of inferior pretensions we shall sub-
ject the service to disadvantages, out of all proportion to any
objections which may be supposed to militate against the confer-
ring of such rank. It is feared, that an appointment under the
existing provision would only create embarrassment, should
there be real necessity for military exertions ; and that the alter-
native must be either to leave the army destitute of so necessary
an organ, or to give it one likely in the progress of things to
prove unequal to the task.

It was much desired, for preventing future controversy, to
fix in the first instance the relative grades of the regimental offi-
cers. That of the field officers has been rendered impossible,
without injustice and the hazard of much dissatisfaction, by the
impossibility of completing the arrangement in Connecticut and
the three most southern States. But, upon close examination,
many obstacles opposed a definitive establishment of the relative
rank, even of the officers of companies, in the regiments which
have been organized. Numerous circumstances, which ought to
influence the decision, are unknown ; and without this know-
ledge a final arrangement might lead to very awkward and per-
plexing results. In consideration of this difficulty, no more than
a temporary one, liable to future revision, has been adopted. It
will be necessary to attend to this in the appointments, and to
signify to the persons, that they are to obey according to the
order of nomination ; but that the President reserves to himself
the right, where cogent reasons for it shall appear, to change the
relative rank which that order may seem to recognize. He will
judge whether, in making the nomination to the Senate, a like
reserve is necessary.

I am well aware, that several of the matters suggested in this
letter will require legislative provision. If the whole or any of
them shall be approved by the Executive, no time ought to be
lost in recommending them to the consideration of Congress.
As to some of them, it is very desirable that the necessary pro-

Mt.u.] military papers. 177

vision by law should precede the enlistment of the men, to
avoid the obstacle to a change, which may result from con-
tract.

With great respect and esteem,

I have the honor to be, &c.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Answer to questions of the Secretary at War of November 10, 1798.

December, 1798.
No. 1. First and second questions. — The rule which appears
proper as a, primary one, is the relative population of the States
severally. In the application of this rule, the distribution made
by the Secretary, appears so far correct as to be deemed an eligi-
ble standard.

Improper to tie down the recruiting service by an absolute
apportionment of the men among the States,

The officers will naturally be assigned to recruit in the
States of which they are \ if the men can be found there they
will be had ; but it is possible they may not be obtainable, and
there ought to be liberty to obtain them elsewhere.

The troops of horse not to be confined to any division of the
United States ; but an exact distribution of so small a number
would be inconvenient. It is therefore deemed proper to let the
arrangement be governed principally by the characters who have
occurred as officers. It is proposed to assign to Virginia and
Maryland 3 troops ;. Pennsylvania 1 ; New Jersey 1 ; New-
York and Connecticut 1.

The number of horse inadequate. Presuming that an in-
crease will be found eligible, the distribution can be made with
an idea to the other States. Consideration has been had as a se-
condary motive to the fitness of character.

Third question. — The fact solves this question.
E 12

178 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 41.

Fourth question. — Provisions of law peremptory. Will not
examine bounds of executive discretion ; but it must be evident
tliat a suspension cannot be justified but by a very urgent mo
tive. None such are known to exist.

ISFotliing bas been communicated as to foreign relations, to in-
duce an opinion that the ground upon which the act for aug-
menting the army was passed has been changed. As far as can
be inferred from the Treasury documents communicated, no ob-
stacle is perceived to arise from financial considerations; but
this is a point on which it cannot be expected that the responsi-
bility of any definitive opinion will be assumed. The head of
the proper department will no doubt explicitly pronounce.

Fifth question. — The opinion is, that they ought all to be im-
mediately appointed, and immediately to receive their pay and
be put into activity. This is with the exception, from want of
adequate information, of the two Carolinas, Georgia, and Ten-
nessee.

It is conceived that it will be expedient to confide to General
Pinckney, with the aid of Generals Davie and Washington, to
prepare the arrangement for these States, subject to the ratifica-
tion of the President, but with as large a discretion to fix the
arrangement as propriety will permit.

Sixth question. — Inexpedient at present to withdraw the troops
in question, with a view to reinforce those on the seaboard.
But our whole plan on the northwestern and southwestern fron-
tier may require revision, and it is deemed eligible to require Ge-
neral Wilkinson to repair as soon as possible to the seat of the
government, in order that it may have the benefit of his local
knowledge and advice. He should be cautioned to avoid any
demonstrations of hostility towards the Spaniard ; but, on the
contrary, as far as may be, to assume a difl'erent complexion.

Seventh question. — It is conceived best that the additional
companies shall reinforce the western army.

Eighth question. — As to artillery. It is understood that the
two regiments comprise twenty-eight companies ; that of these,
eight are in the western country. The remaining companies may
•temporarily be thus disposed of: one to Boston, three to New-

JEt. 41.1

MILITARY PAPERS. 1T9

port, one to West Point, tliree to New- York, two to Fort Mifflin,
two to Baltimore, two to Norfolk, one to Cape Fear Kiver, three
to Charleston, one to Savannah, one to St. Marys.

It is desirable that entire companies be stationed, and the
mingling of different corps be avoided. The field ofl&cers will,
of course, be distributed proportionally.

Ninth question. — The permanent disposition of the troops
after they shall have been raised, may be influenced by circum-
stances yet to be developed. The first object of attention is the
distribution, with a view to the recruiting service. To this end,
each State should be divided into districts, equal to the number
of companies to be recruited therein. The men to be brought
to the company rendezvous as soon as may be after they are re-
cruited ; and a certain number of these rendezvous, where it can
conveniently be done, to be put under the superintendence of a
field officer. During the winter it would be inconvenient in
most of the States, to assemble in larger corps than companies.

Tenth question. — The public ought to provide the rations by
contract or otherwise, as it may be found best.

The giving money to the recruit would have many inconve-
niences, by giving pretext of absence to provide supply, unfa-
vorable to discipline, tending to disputes with the inhabitants,
and to desertion. Many of the men will apply their money to
strong drink, rather than to food.

Eleventh question. — Contracts for stationary posts are to be
preferred ; but for an army operating in the field, purchasing is
to be preferred, except that the magazines, which are to be
formed at particular places, may be best formed by contract.

Tivel/th (^i^es^wn.— Springfield, Harper's Ferry, Kocky Mount
on the Wateree.

180 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [iEx. 41.

HAMILTON TO GUNN.

New- York, December 16th, 1798.

Deae Sir:

I regretted that my excessive avocations did not permit me, as
I intended, to call upon you before I left Philadelphia. In ad-
dition to the pleasure of doing it, I was desirous of knowing the
state of your mind with regard to military service. It was not
that there was any thing worth your acceptance, upon the dis-
posal of which at the time I could have had any influence ; but I
wished to understand what would be agreeable to you, with a
view to the progress of affairs. If we are to be seriously engaged
in military operations, 'tis not a compliment to you to say that
you are one of those men who must be in the field. With such
an enemy, we shall want men who will not harely do their duty^
but will do it with an energy equal to all dangers.
With very great regard, &c.

HAMILTON TO M'^HENRY.

New- York, December 16, 1708,

Dear Sir:

I regretted that I was detained to the last moment of being
in time for the stage in which my baggage had been previously
sent, and thereby prevented from calling upon you before my
final departure from Philadelphia.

If the recruiting service is to be confided to me, I ought as
soon as possible to be definitely apprised of it, and in the mean
time I shall be glad to have the instructions heretofore prepared
for that purpose, that I may endeavor to obtain, for your final
decision, new lights from of&cers who have had experience in
this branch of the service. My own was very limited, and it is
of great importance to proceed upon a right plan.

^T. 41.]

MILITARY PAPERS. 181

You recollect that, shortlj after my first appointment, I was
desired to turn my attention to a system of regulations for the
tactics and discipline of the army. From that moment I have
devoted much of my time to the preliminary investigations, and
I shall devote a much larger proportion, if I am to consider my-
self as now in service, and entitled to the emoluments of the sta-
tion ; for, to be frank with you, it is utterly out of my power to
apply my time to the public service without the compensations,
scanty enough, which the law annexes to the of&ce. If I were
to receive them from the day of the appointment, I should be at
least a thousand pounds the worse for my acceptance. From the
time that it was fully known that I had re-engaged in military
life, the uncertainty of my being able to render services for which
I might be retained drove away more than one-half of my pro-
fessional practice, which I may moderately estimate at four thou-
sand pounds a year. My pecuniary sacrifices already to the
public ought to produce the reverse of a disposition every where
to compel me to greater than the law imposes. This remark, I
am well aware, is not necessary for you personally.

Again, if I am to discharge with effect the duties of my
present ofiice, I must make frequent journeys from one part of
the army to another. Every body knows that the expenses of
such journeys would quickly eat out the narrow allowances of a
Major-General.

It will be disagreeable to be exposed to the dilemma of com-
promijing my reputation and that of the government by not
producing the results to be expected from the department, or of
ruining myself once more in performing services for which there
is no adequate compensation.

The precedent of the last war is a full comment on the pro-
priety of an extra allowance to the Inspector-General. It is in-
deed indispensable, if he is to be useful.

It is always disagreeable to speak of compensations for one's
I self, but a man past forty, with a wife and six children, and a
i very small property beforehand, is compelled to waive the scru-
ples which his nicety would otherwise dictate.

With great esteem and regard, I remain, &c.

182 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 41.

P. S. I imagine it may be of service to communicate to Wbl-
cott the two letters received from the Commander-in-Chief con-
taing the results of our deliberation.

HAMILTON TO M'^HENRY,
(private.)

New-York, Dec. 19th, 1798.

Dear Sir:

You are informed that Mr. Hill is in possession of drafts of
surveys made during our last war, of our harbor and bay. It is
very interesting that the government should acquire these drafts.
You will, I presume, think that they ought to be deposited in
your department, as an item in the general mass of information
necessary towards plans of general defence. If so, you will pur-
chase them, if it be not already done, and in this case, I will
thank you for the immediate loan of them ; having been charged
by the Governor of this State, under the sanction of the Presi-
dent, with preparing a plan for the fortification of our port,
which plan, when digested, Avill be sent to you. Should you
decline the purchase, be so good as to say so to General M'Pher-
son, who will be requested to procure the drafts for the use of
this State.

GENERAL GUNN TO HAMILTON.

December 19th, 17£

Dear Sir:

I have received your very friendly and obliging favor of the
17th instant. I was very solicitous to converse with you on the
subject of our military establishment. But it appears to me that
during your stay in this city, your whole time was occupied with

^T. 41.] MILITARY PAPERS. 183

public business, and I was unwilling to interrupt you ; the only
moment I had the pleasure of your conversation, I certainly un-
derstood it to be your intention to return to this city in the
course of a very few weeks. Indeed, it appears to me indis-
pensable.

You are not accustomed to engage in objects of much mo-
ment without consideration ; and, sir, I am persuaded it can be no
part of your plan merely to execute the feeble arrangements of
other men. The President has no talent for war, and M'Henry
is an infant in detail; and, if I am correct. General "Washing-
ton is not to take the field, but in the event of the provi-
sional army being called into service. You are of course not
only charged with the command of the army, but in a great de-
gree, the direction of the AVar Department ; and, sir, you will
permit me to add, that the legislative aid necessary for the sup-
port of that department, must be arranged by yourself I there-
fore conclude that it is yet your intention to visit Philadelphia,
which precludes the necessity of my going into detail.

Trained up in the honorable pursuit of a military life, I
frankly confess my regard for you as a commander, and my pas-
sion for military service. But, my worthy sir, I have seen such
dishonorable means employed to wound the feelings of men of
unblemished integrity, and have witnessed so many efforts to
render the profession of arms disreputable, that I am disgusted
with every thing connected with public life. Situated in a coun-
try, in the event of war, which, most probably, will be the scene
of action, I have no wish or expectation that it will be my lot to
keep out of the field. But, sir, I am sincere when I assure you,
that it is my fixed determination not to be commanded by some
men now in commission. By this declaration, I wish it to be
understood that my objection does not extend beyond in

the provisional army, and ihe field officers in array. In

any event, I entreat you to believe that it will give me infinite
pleasure to do you all the service in my power.

Have the goodness to communicate your wishes with regard
to the invigoration of the measures of defence.

184 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 41.

HAMILTON TO GUNN.

New-York, December 22, 1798.

My Dear Sir :

The post of yesterday brought me your favor of the 19th inst.
The sentiments in it personal to me are extremely gratifying,
and I am very glad to ascertain the military ground upon which
you are not unwilling to stand. If things progress, I trust there
will be no obstacle to your occupying it.

As to the further military arrangements, my ideas are these :
Considering how little has been done towards raising the force
already voted, that an important tax is yet in the first stage of
an essay, that a prospect of peace is again presented by the tem-
porizing conduct of France, that serious discontents exist in
parts of the country with regard to particular laws, it appears to
me advisable to postpone any actual augmentation of the army
beyond the provisions of the existing laws, except as to the regi-
ment of cavalry, which I should be glad to see increased by the
addition of two troops, and by the allowing it to be recruited to
the complement which has been proposed by the Commander-in-
Chief, as that of the war establishment. "What this is, will pro-
bably be communicated by the Secretary at War.

But a considerable addition ought certainly of be made to
our military supplies. The communications of the Commander-
in-Chief will also afford a standard for the increase in this respect,
as far as concerns the force to be employed in the field. There
are, however, some other objects of supply equally essential,
which were not within the view of those communications —
heavy cannon for our fortifications, and mortars for the case of
a siege. Of the former, including those already procured and
procuring, there ought not to be fewer than one thousand, from
eighteen to thirty-two pounders, chiefly of twenty -fours ; of the
latter, including those on hand, there ought to be fifty of ten-
inch calibre. This, you perceive, looks to offensive operations.
If we are to engage in Avar, our game will be to attack where we
can. France is not to be considered as separated from her ally.
Tempting objects will be within our grasp.

^T. 41.]

MILITARY PAPERS. 185

Will it not likewise be proper to renew and extend tlie idea
of a provisional army ? The force which, has been contemplated
as sufficient in any event, is 40,000 infantry of the line, 2,000
riflemen, 4,000 cavalry, and 4,000 artillery, making in the whole
an army of 50,000. Why should not the provisional army go to
the extent of the difference between that number and the actual
army ? I think this ought to be the case, and that the President
ought to be authorized immediately to nominate the officers, to
remain without pay until called into service. The arrangements
can then be made with sufficient leisure for the best possible
selection, and the persons designated will be employed in ac-
quiring instruction.

It will likewise deserve consideration, whether provision
ought not to be made for classing all persons from eighteen to
forty-five inclusively, and for draughting out of them, in cct.se of
invasion, by lot, the number necessary to complete the entire
army of fifty thousand. In the case of invasion, the expedient
of draughting must be resorted to, and it will greatly expedite
it if there be a previous classing with a view to such an event.
The measure, too, will place the country in a very imposing atti-
tude, and will add to the motives of caution on the part of our
enemies.

These measures are all that appear to be advisable with re-
gard to our military establishment under present appearances.
A loan as an auxiliary will of course be annexed.

HAMILTON TO M'PHERSON".

New-York, December 26, 1798.

Dear Sir :

A Captain Hill, formerly of the British service, now in Phil-
adelphia, is in possession of drafts of surveys, which were made
during our war, of the port and harbor of New-York. If the
Secretary at War, of whom you will please to inquire, has not

186 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 42.

procured them for the United States, you will oblige me by pur-
chasing them for the use of this State. The money which you
may pay will be reimbursed upon notice of the amount. If se-
parable, I wish for those only from the Narrows downward to
the Hook. But if an entire draft, it must be purchased together.

HAMILTON TO M'HENRY.

New-York, January 7, 1799.

Sir:

The unascertained situation in which I have been since my
acceptance of the military appointment I now hold, has been not
a little embarrassing to me. .1 had no sooner heard of the law
creating the oflEice, than I was told by members of Congress that
I was generally considered as the person designated by circum-
stances to fill that of&ce, and that the expectation of those who
most actively promoted the passing of the law was, that the
Inspector-General would be brought into immediate activity, par-
ticularly to superintend the raising and organizing of the troops.

This is mentioned as a mere item in the incidents which in-
fluenced my calculations and arrangements.

Very soon after, if not at the time, you communicated to me
my appointment, you intimated, though not officially, your de-
sire that I might occupy myself in preparing for the considera-
tion of the Executive a system of tactics and discipline ; and not
long after, you expressed to me your intention to commit to me
the supervision of the recruiting service.

In October I received your summons to attend at the seat of
government with the Commander-in-Chief. I obeyed, and de-
voted to the purposes of this summons about a month and a half.

I received, in due course, a letter from your department, stat-
ing the expectation of the President that the Generals would
think it proper to waive the emoluments of their stations till
called into service. In my reply I acquiesced.

^T. 42.]

MILITARY PAPERS. 187

But presuming that I would speedily be officially charged
with the execution of duties, which would draw along with them
the compensations attached by the law to the station, I have acted
on that presumption. I have discontinued my practice as attor-
ney and solicitor, from which I had derived a considerable part
of my professional profits ; and I have applied no small portion
of my time to preliminary investigations, in order to the collec-
tion of the best lights for forming a system of tactics and disci-
pline as perfect as exists any where else.

. The very circumstance of my having accepted a military ap-
pointment, from the moment it was known, withdrew from me a
large portion of my professional business. This, it will be per-
ceived, was a natural effect of the uncertainty of my being able
in the progress of suits to render the services for which I might
be engaged, at the customary previous expense to the parties.

The result has been, that the emoluments of my profession
have been diminished more than one half, and are still diminish-
ing, and I remain in perfect uncertainty whether or when I am
to derive from the scanty compensations of the office even a par-
tial retribution for so serious a loss.

Were I rich, I should be proud to be silent on such a subject.
I should acquiesce without an observation as long as any one
might think the minutest public interest required an accumula-
tion of sacrifices on my part. But after having to so advanced
a period of my hfe devoted all my prospects of fortune to the
service of the country, and dependent, as I am, for the mainte-
nance of a wife and six children on my professional exertions,
now so seriously abridged, it is essential for me to forego the
scruples of delicacy, and to ask of you to define my situation,
that I may determine whether to continue or to change my pre-
sent plan.

It will easily be imagined that I should not accept compen-
sations withheld from any other in a similar situation. If actual
employment is to be the criterion in any other instance, it must
be so in mine ; but then it is material to me to understand wheth-
er, in the contemplation of the Executive, I now am, or immedi-
ately am to be employed, or not. In the negative of this, my

188 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 42.

honor will compel submission to the consequent sacrifice, so far
as it is unavoidable ; but mj arrangements will be different from
what they are at present, and will aim at making the sacrifice as
small as possible.

An early answer to this inquiry will particularly oblige me.
With great respect, &c.

M'HENRY TO HAMILTON".

9th January, 1799.

Dear Hamilton:

An ofiicial letter of this date fixes the commencement of
your pay and emoluments. I shall, as soon as possible, define
your duties and command. In the meanwhile I should be glad
to have your own ideas on the subject. You will proceed in
your report for a system of tactics and discipline. You will also
endeavor to ascertain the best positions for your recruiting par-
ties, and general rendezvous, &c., within the several grand sub-
divisions— and will not forget the bill conformably to my report.
Church's nomination is concurred in — several of the nominations
for inferior grades postponed by the Senate for further informa-
tion.

M^'HENEY TO HAMILTON.

War Department, 10th January, 1799.

Dear Sir:

I wrote you on the to request you to prepare conforma-

bly to the propositions contained in my report of the 24th of
December, ultimo, to the President. This morning. General
Gunn, of the Committee of the Senate, to whom this report has
been committed, waited upon me with a request from the Com-

^T. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 189

mittee, that I should prepare and furnisli them with a draught of
two bills, one comprising whatever in the report relates to new
provisions for the regular peace and war establishment, the other
all new matters appertaining to the provisional armj. He added,
if I thought it proper, I might comprehend in these bills all the
existing provisions relative to the provisional and regular army.
I think the idea judicious ; and request you to be so kind as to
turn to the existing laws and incorporate into the two bills all
that ought to he retained of them.

MCHENRY TO HAMILTON.

War Department, Jan. 11, 1799,

Dear Sir :

Permit me, in addition to what I said yesterday, to request,
that laying aside other business you will occupy yourself on the
two military bills only. The session is short, and but little of it
to come. If possible, let me have the bills by Monday's mail, or
at furthest Tuesday's.

I have not been able to ascertain what part some of your
friends in the House mean to take respecting the appropriations
necessary for the new army. Upon an examination of the laws,
I was obliged to relinquish the opinion that they had provided
for other expenditures on account of the new army than what
might be incurred before the end of the next session of Congress,
that is, the present. You know the causes and obstructions
which have prevented me doing any thing to carry the law for
raising the army into effect during the last year.

190 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Ex. 42.

HAMILTON" TO M'^HENRY.

New-York, January 15, 1799.

Dear Sir:

I find I cannot liave ready for this day's post tlie bill for tlie
provisional army. Inclosed are some additional clauses relating
to organization, consequently to be inserted in the bill sent by
yesterday's post. You will easily determine their proper position
there. They are necessary to systematic propriety. General
provisions of this kind will prevent continued repetitions in
every new law respecting the military force.

HAMILTON TO MCHENRY.

New-York, January 16th, 1799.

Dear Sir :

You will receive herewith the draft of a bill for a provisional
army. It includes only those things of a former bill which are
appropriated to this object ; the other parts of that bill being
now in full force. The operation of the bill, which has been al-
ready sent you, renders the repetition of several clauses in the
present unnecessary. The aim, indeed, ought to be to have a
fundamental arrangement which will attach of course upon all
subsequent provisions of force, so that the law for every augmen-
tation need only define the number to be raised, and the dura-
tion of service, and the mode of raising.

An eye has been had to this in the draft of the first bill,
and one of the two additional clauses now sent for the same bill
has the same view. This will be more deliberately and correctly
attended to in the plan of a bill which I shall begin to work
upon from this time, but which cannot be ready for a considera-
ble time. A bill for the hospital establishment will follow in
two or three days.

Yours truly, A. H.

^T. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 191

P. S. The considerable mutilation of the nominations pro-
posed by the Commander-in-Chief, as it appears in the result,
naturally excites curiosity. It ought to be presumed, and yet
the mind naturally distrusts the presumption, that there are good
reasons for it, and that the service will be finally benefited.
But I confess it would be a relief to me to know a little in
detail, what has influenced the departure, how the unfitness of
those who have been declined, has appeared, and what means
are in train to do any better. Pray be particular, and confiden-
tial. You will not consider any letter of mine, beginning "Dear
sir," as ofiicial.

Measures in the War Department ivhich it may he expedient to adopt.
To organize anew the militia, on a plan something like the follow-
ing, viz. :

To be divided into five classes.

First class, consisting of all unmarried men from 18 to 25,
except apprentices under 21 to merchants, mechanics, and manu-
facturers, and students under the same age in universities, col-
leges, and academies, and of divinity, law, and medicine.

Second class, consisting of all unmarried men from 25 to 40.

Third class, consisting of all married men from 18 to 25, ex-
cept as excepted in the first class.

Fourth class, consisting of all married men from 25 to 40.

Fifth class, consisting of all men above 40, and not exceed-
ing 50.

Each class to be formed into corps of infantry, artillery, and
cavalry, combined into legions to consist of four regiments of
infantry, one regiment of horse, and a battalion of artillery. All
who choose to enter into the cavalry and provide themselves
with horses, arms, and accoutrements, to be at liberty to do it.
Each class to be called out in succession as numbered ; in whole
or in part, liable to serve for a year. None of a higher number
to be called out until all of any preceding lower number have
been called out and served their tour.

192 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 42.

In case of domestic insurrection, no man ahle to serve shall
be excused on any condition.

In case of foreign war, any man may be excused, paying //o
dollars.

No militia (except those inhabiting frontier counties) shall be
obliged to serve against Indians, nor those inhabiting frontier
counties for more than in one year.

Any man who shall refuse to serve his tour when required,
to be imprisoned during the term of service, or compelled to
labor at some public work at the option of the government.

Cases of exempts to be defined in the laws.

The respective classes to be liable to be called out for inspec-
tion and exercise as follows :

First class, days in a year.

Second class, days in a year.

Third class, days in a year.

Fourth class, days in a year.

Fifth class, one day in a year.

The militia, vjhen in service^ to be subject to the same rules of
discipline and government as the army of the United States.

II. A regiment to be raised consisting of commissioned offi-
cers and persons engaged as sergeants, and with the pay of such,
that is to say, in their own corps, they shall serve by rotation as
sergeants, corporals, and privates ; but out of their regiment they
shall only be employed as sergeants. All new regiments which
may be raised shall have their sergeants from this corps, which
shall have a fixed station, and be carefully instructed in all the
parts of camp, field, and garrison service. It may be considered,
whether this idea may not be extended to artillery and cavalry.
This corps to constitute the basis of an army in case of need.

III. To establish a provisional or auxiliary army, composed
of four regiments of infantry, one regiment of cavalry, and one
battalion of artillery, formed into a legion of two brigades, each
brigade commanded by a Brigadier, and the legion by a Major-
General.

This legion to be raised by voluntary enlistment, according
to a certain distribution in the following parts of the United

.Et. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 193

States, In the part of Pennsylvania and Virginia lying west of the
Alleghany, the northwestern and southwestern governments,
Kentucky, South Carolina, and Georgia.

The consideration of enlistment to be a suit of clothes of the
value of ten dollars per annum, and when in the field the same
pay and allowance as other troops of the United States.

To be engaged for a term of j^ears, but except in case

of domestic insurrection or foreign invasion, not to be obliged to
serve in the field more than months in one year. One

brigade to be raised in the western parts of Pennsylvania and
Virginia, the Northwestern Territory, and the State of Ken-
tucky. The Brigadier to be immediately charged with all the
military afiairs of the United States in that scene. The other
brigade to be raised in the other part of the country above de-
scribed, with the same immediate charge to its Brigadier of the
military afiairs of the United States in that scene.

The Major-General to have the general direction.

IV. The following miscellaneous objects to be aimed at.

1. The establishment of a system of trade with the Indians
under the agents of government ; a plan in detail for this pur-
pose.

2. The establishing it as a principle, that every man in arms
to attack or resist Indians, excej)t in some county under the ac-
^i^aZ jurisdiction of the laws, shall be ipso facto liable to the rules
for the government of the army.

3. The establishment of manufactories under public autho-
rity, of cannon, muskets and other arms, powder and ball. All
articles of clothing except hats and shoes.

1^^ The organization of the army to be revised ; it is pre-
sumed to be susceptible of one more perfect.

E 13 *

194 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 42.

HAMILTON TO irHENRY.

New- York, February 21, 1799.

Dear Sir:

I send you tlie draft of a bill for regulating the medical estab-
lishment. (I avoid purposely the term department^ which I would
reserve for the great branches of administration.) You will see
that nothing but an organization with a general outline of duty
is provided for. Detailed regulations will properly come from
the President and the departments ; and the less these are legis-
lated upon, in such cases, the better. When fixed by law, they
cannot be varied, as experience advises.

This particular establishment, is one to the right fashioning
of which I feel myself more than ordinarily incompetent.

You mention in one of your letters, that by the law of the
16th of July, the appropriation for the augmented army ceases
at the end of the present session. This is one construction of that
law. A different might perhaps be mentioned. But be this as
it may, you will find by a subsequent act of the same date, enti-
tled, " An act making certain appropriations, &c.," that 900,000
dollars are there appropriated for the same object, without any
qualifications ; and I take it for granted that whatever money
should have been issued from the Treasury for the use of the
War Department, previous to the end of the session — upon the
first of those acts, might be expended afterwards by this depart-
ment without any question about its regularity.

M HENRY TO HAMILTON.

War Department, January 22d, 1799.

Dear Sir:

I omitted to inclose you yesterday the annexed schedule,
upon which my letter was a commentary.

^T. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 195

The General-in-Chief has mentioned to me in explicit terms,
" That it is a part of his plan to decline the occupation of the
office, unless, and until his presence in the field should be re-
quired for actual operations, or other imperious circumstances
should require his assistance. That, jDersevering in this plan, he
cannot undertake to assume a direct agency incompatible there-
with, and that a half-way acting might be more inconvenient
than totally declining it. He then advises, in conformity with
my opinion given to him in Philadelphia, a division of the mili-
tary command between the existing General officers. I mention
this that you may experience no embarrassment in giving your
ideas upon the distribution most proper to be adopted.

I have this moment received your note of the 21st, and the
sketch of the hospital bill, and am ever your affectionate friend.

GENERAL GUJSTN TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, January 23d, 1799.

Dear General:

In haste I inclose you by this day's mail a printed copy of
the military bill reported to the Senate. The bill was handed
me by M'Henry, and he is engaged in drawing a bill for regulat-
ing the hospital dej)artment. Have the goodness to return the
bill, with such amendments as you think proper to make. I
do not see the utility of a full Colonel to a regiment.

If your other engagements are not too pressing, you will
greatly oblige me by inclosing a plan for the provisional army.
It is my opinion that every State ought to officer one regiment,
at least, and that the President be authorized to commission all the
officers immediately. The policy of the thing will not be
doubted. Our friends in the House of Eepresentatives permit
•the enemy to gain time by long speeches.
With very great regard, &c.

1«:)6 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 42.

HAMILTON TO ^rHENRY.

New-York, January 24th, 1799.

Dear Sir:

You ask my opinion as to a proper arrangement for the com-
mand of the military force, on the ground that the Commander-
in-Chief declines at present an active part.

This is a delicate subject for me ; yet in the shape in which it
presents itself. I shall waive the scruples which are natural on
the occasion.

If I rightly understood the Commander-in-Chief, his wish was
that all the military points and military force every where,
should be put under the direction of the two Major-Generals,
who alone should be the organs of the department of war.

The objects of this plan are to disburthen the head of that
department of infinite details, which must unavoidably clog his
general arrangements, and to establish a vigilant military super-
intendence over all the military points. There is no difficulty in
this plan, except as to the western army.

It will be a very natural disposition to give to the Inspector-
Greneral the command of all the troops and posts north of Mary-
land, and to General Pinckney the command of all the troops
and posts south of the district assigned to the Inspector-General.
How will this plan as to the western army answer ?

Let all the troops upon the lakes, including those on the Mi-
ami, which communicate with Lake Erie, be united under the

command of one officer, to be stationed at . Let all the

troops in Tennessee be united under the command of one officer,

to be stationed at . Let them consider themselves under

the order of the General who commands the western army, and
let the whole be placed under the Inspector-General. The offi-
cers commanding on the lakes, and in Tennessee, to be permitted
to correspond immediately with the Inspector-General, and re-
ceive orders from him.

All the communications, as well of these officers as of the
General of the western army, to be sent open, under cover of the

^T. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 197

Secretary of War, wlio, in urgent cases, will himself give orders,
if the Inspector-General be not on the spot, which he will com-
municate for his future government to the Inspector-General, and
in cases not urgent, will leave matters to the agency of the In-
spector-General, according to the instructions which he shall re-
ceive from the Department of AYar.

It is easy to perceive that there are objections to this plan.
I am not sure that it ought to be adopted. The pour and the
contre will readily occur to you, and you will take and reject, as
shall appear to you proper ; assured always that personally, I
shall be content with any arrangement you may think advisable.

HAMTRANCK TO HAMILTON.

Fort Wayne, January 25th, 1799.

Dear General :

It gives me a singular pleasure to have an opportunity of
congratulating you on the choice that the President and Senate
have made in the appointment of the Inspector-General of the
army.

America will see once more those military talents which were
formerly confined in their execution to too small a compass, now
diffuse themselves into every department of the profession, and
display themselves on a much larger scale, and the pupil under
your tuition will rejoice in having an opportunity of making
himself perfect in the art of Avar.

I hope, my dear General, that you will not give a wrong in-
terpretation to my letter. It is not flattery ; it is the real senti-
ment I have always entertained of your abilities since I had the
honor of serving under your immediate command, and on all
occasions I have proclaimed to the western army. Long and
long have I wished to introduce those principles you taught me.

198 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 42.

HAMILTON TO

(circular.)

New-York, January 30tli, 1799.

Sir:

A letter from the Secretary at War, of yesterday, places un-
der my superintendence the posts and troops under your imme-
diate command. All future communications therefore respecting
them, including reports and returns, are to be addressed to me ;
not as heretofore to the Secretary at War.

It is my wish, as soon as possible, to receive a full and parti-
cular communication of the state of things within your com-
mand, embracing the number and condition of the works and
buildings ; the quantities and kinds of artillery, arms, and stores ;
the number of the troops and their situations ; as to discipline,
equipment, and supply ; and that you will in future keep me
regularly advised of whatever may be material for the successful
discharge of your trust or the advancement of the service.

I cannot let this first opportunity pass, without calling your
attention in an official manner to the discipline of the troops.
The cursory observation which I have been hitherto able to
make, has been sufficient to satisfy that there exists in this re-
spect too general a relaxation ; an evil which must, at all times,
be corrected by the union of care, prudence, and energy.

No argument is necessary to prove how essential is discipline
to the respectability and success of the service, and consequently
to the honor, interest, and individual importance of every officer
of the army. To the exertions for maintaining it, my firm sup-
port at all times may be absolutely counted upon, as it will be
my steady aim, on the one hand, to promote, to every reasona-
ble extent, the comfort of the troops ; on the other, to secure a
strict observance of their duty.

With great consideration,

I am, Dear Sir,

Your obedient Servant.

To the Commanding Officer of West Point and its dependencies.

^T. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 199

M HENRY TO HAMILTON.

War Department, February 4th, 1799.

Sir:

Lieutenant-General Washington having declined, agreeably
to the condition upon which he accepted of his appointment, any
command whatever of the army of the United States, until such
time as his presence in the field shall be required for actual
operations, or his services demanded by peculiar and urgent cir-
cumstances ; it is therefore proper to make such arrangements,
respecting the distribution of the existing military authority, as
shall most conduce to the good of the service, and is best adapted
to our present situation, and to the objects to which our force
may eventually be applied.

Before entering into particulars upon the principal subject at
present contemplated, it will be useful to enumerate the stations
of the troops of the United States, and the course taken to com-
municate with them.

1. There are, on the Lakes, namely, on Lake Ontario, the
garrisons of Oswego and Niagara ; on Lake Brie and Lake St.
Clair, the garrisons of Presque Isle and Detroit ; on Lake Hu-
ron, at the entrance of the strait leading to Lake Michigan,
the garrison of Miehilimackinac ; on the Miami River, Fort
Wayne; on the Ohio, Fort Franklin, Fort Washington, and
Fort Massac.

2. There are, on the Mississippi, garrisons at the Chickasaw
Bluffs, Walnut Hills, and Natchez, or Loftus Heights.

3. There are several posts on the Creek frontier of the State
of Georgia.

4. There are several posts on the Indian frontier of the State
of Tennessee.

5. There are several garrisons on the seaboard from Maine to
Georgia, inclusive.

The first enumerated posts (except Oswego and Niagara),
while General Wilkinson was at certain stations in the North-
western Territory, have communicated through him with the
Department of War. The second, do now communicate through

200 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 42.

General Wilkinson, who is on the Mississippi. The third,
through Lieutenant-Colonel Butler. The fourth, through Lieu-
tenant-Colonel Gaither. The fifth, through the medium of the
commandants of the several garrisons.

I have said that the first described garrisons communicated
through General Wilkinson while at certain stations. For ex-
ample, when the General was stationary at Pittsburg, or Fort
Washington, on the Ohio, the whole of these garrisons above
and below him, except Oswego and Niagara, communicated di-
rectly with the Genera], and the General with the Secretary of
War. Again ; when the General held a position at Detroit, all
the garrisons between him and the seat of government, though
within his sphere of command, communicated directly with the
Secretary of War. Lastly ; since the General entered into the
Mississippi, all the garrisons above him communicated directly
with the Secretary of War.

Oswego and Niagara being, in all the aforesaid positions of
the General, too distant to enable him to give quick information
respecting them, were always allowed to hold direct communica-
tions with the Department of War.

A slight view of the map of the country, over which troops
are stationed, the distance between the garrisons, the routes by
which it is practicable for them to communicate with each other
and with the seat of government, added to a consideration of the
serious inconveniences that might have resulted during the un-
settled state of things, which has existed for some time past gen-
erally on the frontiers, rendered an adherence to the rule of
making no communications to any of them unless through the
commanding General, whatever might have been his position,
dilatory beyond measure, and too dangerous for practice during
such a period.

It has been deemed equally inconsistent with situation, and
dangerous to tranquillity, to make the General, who is now at
Loftus Heights, on the Mississippi, the organ by which the De-
partment of War should communicate with the garrisons and
troops on the seaboard, and the frontiers of Georgia and Ten-
nessee.

JEt. 42.]

MILITARY PAPERS. 20l

The state of things common to an Indian frontier, such as
that of Georgia and Tennessee, has rendered it indispensable to
the success of the measures of government to obtain the earliest
information of every circumstance that might lead to war in
those quarters, or to serious embarrassments, if not early coun-
teracted. That a rapid communication might at all times take
place, the frontiers of Georgia and Tennessee have been formed
into two districts, and the commandant of the military force
within each made the organ of communication for his respective
district.

Few of the fortifications on the seaboard having been garri-
soned before the law passed for raising a second regiment, or
corps of artillerists and engineers, the whole of these garrisons
have been permitted to correspond directly with the Secretary of
War.

. You will see in the project of regulations, which I sketched
some time since, and which was put into your hands by General
Washington, that I contemplated to arrange in separate districts
the force and posts on the seaboard, as well as on the western
frontiers, and to combine as many of them, as could be so done
with convenience to the service, under the superintendence of
the then General-in-Chief This part of the regulations had for
its basis the French ordinances relative to the same subject, was
intended to introduce more order and system into our military
affairs, and abridge, as far as consistent with the general interest,
the epistolary labors of the department. The execution of this
project met with some obstructions, and has been procrastinated
by causes, which it is deemed unnecessary to relate.

While the ideas presented to you exhibit the difliculties that
would attend the imposing upon any General of&cer the entire
correspondence with the army, unless indeed he was to be ab-
stracted wholly from the troops, and to reside constantly at the
seat of government, they point, nevertheless, to the practicability
of dividing the army into subordinate commands, and of placing
a certain number of such commands under the control and super-
intendence of district officers.

The President has accordingly directed me to make such an

202 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 42.

arrangement for our military force, as may correspond witli our
situation, and to assign to tlie Major-Generals, who are to com-
mand it, the superintendence of such portions thereof, as may
best tend to promote military discipline, the general interests of
the service, and the objects of the military establishment.

You will therefore be pleased, until otherwise instructed, to
consider yourself invested with the entire command of all the
troops in garrison on the northern Lakes in the Northwestern
Territory, including both banks of the Ohio, and on the Missis-
sippi. You will, as an organ of communication between you and
the garrisons on the Lakes in the Northwestern Territory, and
occasionally those on the Mississippi, direct, if you judge it
proper, Brigadier-General Wilkinson to establish his head-
quarters at Pittsburg, or such other position as you may deem
best calculated to facilitate his communications to you, and also
with the garrisons you may place under his superintendence.
You will, if you find it can be arranged to advantage, establish
subordinate districts within his command, with each a command-
ant, who shall alone communicate with General Wilkinson, and
receive your orders through him, relative to the garrisons under
their superintendence respectively. You will make similar dis-
positions on the Mississippi, for the superintendence of the gar-
risons within that district.

In deciding upon these arrangements, you will be particu-
larly careful, that they do not occasion inconvenient delays in
the transmission of information to the seat of government, or
throw obstructions in the way of immediate succors being given
to the most remote garrisons, in cases of urgency ; and will
direct your corresponding officers in the Northwestern Territory
and on the Mississippi to pass all letters, which they address to
you, open, and through the Secretary of War, at least so long as
your position shall be such as to aftbrd to the Secretary an op-
portunity to know their contents sooner, than if they were to be
received by you in the first instance. By this arrangement, it
will be at all times in the power of the Secretary of War to give
orders in emergencies, which can afterwards be communicated to
you for your future government.

^T. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 203

Besides the command of the troops and garrisons in the
tract of country before described, you will assume that of all
the troops and posts which are, or may be, within the State of
Maryland, and all the States to the northward and eastward
thereof

Major-General Pinckney will be instructed to take the com-
mand of all the troops and posts that are or may be within the
States of Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia,
Kentucky, and Tennessee.

It is expected, and you will give orders accordingly, that the
garrisons and troops within your command and superintendence
make returns and observe the inclosed regulations.

The recruiting service is an object of primary importance; it
is conceived to be particularly connected with the duties of the
Inspector-General ; the sole direction of it is therefore, with a
view to order and efl&ciency, confided to you alone.

It is to be lamented that circumstances have prevented the
obtaining of an early supply of necessary clothing for the troops,
directed to be raised by the act passed the 16th of Julj^, 1798,
and that the progress made, since it was practicable to enter
upon the business, does not justify our immediately commencing
the recruiting service. Inclosed is a report by the purveyor of
the public supplies, which shows the quantities of the different
articles of clothing, which he thinks may be relied on, and the
times at which he presumes it will be ready for delivery.

Although, however, the impracticability of obtaining a
proper supply of clothing may impose the necessity of some
delay in the actual commencement of the recruiting service,
nevertheless certain preparatory arrangements, it is thought,
may greatly facilitate the same. You are invited, therefore, to
lose no time in dividing, at least, the States from which officers
have lately been appointed, into as many districts as there are
companies to be raised in them, and forwarding to the officers to
be emploj^ed respectively in each district, through the command-
ant, their recruiting instructions, with orders, either to hold
themselves prepared to enter upon the service the moment they
receive your ulterior directions, or to engage provisionally as

204 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 42.

many recruits as are willing to enroll tliemselves on their lists,
and who may be promised pay from the day of their being en.
rolled and sworn, with their bounty, upon the officer receiving
his final instructions, or (which perhaps is safer) uiDon their
arrival at the general rendezvous.

The instructions advert to the qualifications of recruits in
general terms. It may be proper to be more particular than the
instructions are respecting enlistments for the cavalry.

The important services to which the cavalry are destined
(the event of actions sometimes depending solely upon their
valor and impression), render it indispensable, that such corps
be composed of the best materials, and, in proportion to the
small number assigned to the army and the effects' expected to
be produced by them, that the utmost care be observed in their
selection.

Let the regulations, then, upon this point restrict the recruit-
ing ofl&cer to engage none except natives for this corps, and, of
these, such only as, from their known character and fidelity, may
be trusted to the extent of their powers.

The size of the cavalry recruit deserves a degree of attention.
Warnery observes very justly, in his remarks on cavalry, "that,
in every species of cavalry, the man ought to he pmportioned to the
size of his horse^ and the arms with which he is to serve adapted
and proportioned to them both, and to the nature of the service
to be performed ; consequently the cuirassier should be larger
and his arms heavier than the dragoon, and these more so than
the light-horse or hussars. A small man has great difficulty to
mount a large horse, particularly with a cuirass ; they should
all, however, be muscular and robust, but not heavy ; the Prus-
sian dragoons are too heavy for their horses ; and it is ridiculous
to see a large man upon a small horse, which, by being strained
with too much weight, is very soon ruined, and the trooper dis-
mounted ; a man who is more than five feet eight inches ought
not to be received into the cavalry."

It will be proper that Major-General Pinckney should attend
to the recruiting service in the division of country assigned to
his command, and that he should receive from you all the neces-
sary instructions upon the subject.

^T. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 205

You will report monthly to the Secretary of War an ab-
stract of the number of men recruited, the clothing which may
be wanted, and the necessary moneys to be remitted for the
service.

Inclosed is a schedule of the officers, who have accepted their
appointments, with their respective places of residence annexed.
Inclosed also is a list of the officers at present employed in the
recruiting service, and their places of residence.

Should you think the existing instructions to recruiting offi-
cers require revision, or that additional articles are necessary
for the extensive field we are entering upon, to give more
system to the business, you will report the alterations or ad-
ditions, that they may be submitted to the President for his
decision, incorporating therein those which respect the cavalry.

You will also indicate to me, as soon as possible, the several
stations where rations must be provided, that measures may be
taken accordingly.

Connected with this subject is another of considerable im-
portance ; I mean the permanent disposition of the troops after
they shall have been raised.

Having taken the opinion of General "Washington on this
point, it is thought advisable that it should be adopted, until a
change of circumstances shall render a different disposition
proper. The General observed, that, though it might now be
premature to fix a permanent disposition of the troops, it might,
nevertheless, be useful to indicate certain stations, where they
may be assembled provisionally, and may probably be suffered
to continue while matters remain in the present posture. The
stations eligible in this view may be found for two regiments in
the vicinity of Providence Eiver, near Uxbridge ; for two other
regiments in the vicinity of Brunswick in New Jersey ; for two
other regiments in the vicinity of the Potomac near Harper's
Ferry ; for two other regiments in the vicinity of Augusta, but
above the Falls of the Savannah. This disposition, the General
observed, will unite considerations relative to the discipline and
health of the troops, and to the economical supply of their wants.
It will also have some military aspects ; in the first place, towards

206 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 42.

the security of Boston and Kewport ; in tlie second, towards that
of New- York and Philadelpliia ; in the third and fourth, towards
that of Baltimore, Charleston, Savannah, and the southern States
generally ; and, in the third, particularly towards the reinforce-
ment of the western army in certain events. But, he subjoined,
the military motives have only a qualified influence, since it is
not doubted, that, in the prospect of a serious attack upon this
country, the disposition of the army ought to look emphatically
to the southern region, as that which is by far most likely to be
the scene of action.

It was also the General's opinion, which is concurred in, that
the companies directed to be added to the regiments of the old
establishment ought, as soon as is convenient, to reinforce the
western army, and that their destination in the first instance
may be Pittsburg,

His opinion is also in general to be adopted relative to the
disposition of the artillery. He proposed to assign a complete
battalion to the western army ; to the fortifications at Boston,
one company ; to those at New- York, two companies ; to those
at Newport, two companies ; to those at West Point, one ; to
those at Mud Island, two ; to those at Baltimore, one ; to those
at Norfolk, two ; to those on Cape Fear River, one ; to those at
Charleston, two; to those at Savannah, one; to those at the
mouth of the St. Mary's, one. It is thought there may be some
other fortified places on the seaboard that will require attention,
which is left to you to decide upon, after you have taken a de-
liberate view of the subject. He is further of opinion, that the
remaining two battalions had better be reserved for the army in
the field, and that, during the winter, they may retain the sta-
tions they now occupy; but that, as soon as they can con-
veniently go into tents, it will be advisable to assemble them
at some central or nearly central point, there to be put in a
course of regular instruction, together with successive detach-
ments of the ofiicers and non-commissioned officers of the sea-
board garrisons, until their services shall be actually required.

You will therefore give effect to the aforesaid disposition,
and so arrange the companies of artillery, that those belong-

^T. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 207

ing to the same regiment or corps may form contiguous gar-
risons.

You will also make sucli an arrangement of the subalterns
to the captains of artillerists and engineers, as in your opinion
will produce the gTcatest harmony among the officers, and good
to the service. Inclosed is a list of the names of all the ofl&cers
in the army, classed according to their respective regiments or
corps, with the date of their commissions.

A system of regulations being wanted for the government
and discipline of the volunteer companies, you will, as soon as
convenient, report one for the consideration of the President.

Inclosed is the copy of a letter to Brigadier- Greneral Wilkin-
son, dated the 31st of January, 1799, by which you will perceive
that he is instructed to wait your orders.

Considering with what view the posts, which our troops oc-
cupy on the Lakes, were originally erected, it may be useful to
employ a judicious engineer to survey them and the adjacent
country on the Lakes, in order that it may be ascertained, in
the various relations of trade and defence, whether they are sus-
ceptible of any beneficial changes. You will for this purpose
select from the corps of artillerists and engineers, at a convenient
time, a qualified ofUcer to make the necessary survey, and report
the result relative to these objects.

It is required that you report, as soon as it can be done with
convenience, a system of regulations for the government of the
Inspector-General, and the assistant inspectors of every descrip-
tion, expressive of their duties and functions, and comprising
the duties of those officers to whom their functions are ap-
plicable.

I need not urge it upon you, to exercise the most vigilant
superintendence over every branch of the service within the
sphere of your command. I cannot avoid, however, calling
your particular attention to the discovery of the causes, which
may induce irregularity in the police of the armies, in the field,
and in our posts or garrisons upon the different frontiers of the
United States ; and enjoin, that every legal and proper step be
instantly resorted to, which the laws or the usages of armies

208 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 42.

authorize on sucli occasions, to punish, tlie offenders, and pro-
duce a salutary result. It is expected, that you will neglect no
means of obliging, at the stated periods, the proper officers to
make all returns requisite to exhibit the number and state of the
troops in every position ; to forward their muster and pay rolls,
returns of the quantity of clothing delivered, on hand, or due to
the soldiers, of the distribution generally of the public property,
of the quantity and situation of every article in store, of the
supplies which are or may be wanted, and every other exhibit
and return necessary to the information of the Secretary of
War, and indispensable to the accounting officers of the War
Department.

You know precisely how much the regularity and perfection
of such returns depend on the disposition of officers to execute
their orders ; and that a saving to the public, or a judicious and
well-regulated economy, is rather more to be expected from the
integrity, vigilance, and knowledge of those who are intrusted,
or have a control over the army expenditures and property, than
from the wisest general regulations or instructions that can pos-
sibly be devised. Whenever there is found a deficiency of se-
cure deposits for, or a want of requisite qualities in the officer
charged with the care and management of, the public property,
it is expected that you will remedy the evil, if within your law-
ful powers, or point to the circumstance, that it may be con-
sidered by the authority competent to the remedy.

Finally, I cannot conclude these instructions without ex-
pressing my most unlimited confidence in your talents to exe-
cute the high trusts, which the President reposes in you, and
my own most perfect reliance upon your co-operation and as-
sistance in every thing that concerns the army establishment,
and the means to remedy whatever defects may be found to
exist therein ; and that I shall at all times recognize, in the exe-
cution of the orders which you may receive, the most perfect
evidences of your candor and friendship.

I have the honor to be, &c.,

James McHenry.

.Et. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 209

SECRETARY OF NAVY TO HAMILTON.

Navy Department, February 6th, 1799.

Sir:

I tiave tlie honor to inclose a paper containing tlie circum-
stances, and all tlie circumstances connected with the relative
rank of Captains Truxton, Talbot, and Dale.

It appears to me, that Talbot and Dale cannot now be placed
above Truxton, but by dismissing the latter from the service.

Dale, who has permission to make an East India voyage, is
reconciled to what he conceives unavoidable, to rank after Trux-
ton, Entertaining a very high opinion of Talbot, I am anxious
that he should also acquiesce. From conversation with him, I
judge it is in your power alone to satisfy him.

The error was in not selecting the three senior captains for
the three frigates continued in service. The President, I con-
ceive, had no power to continue more captains than frigates.

If Talbot will continue, only Barry, Nicholson, and Truxton

will be above him. Nicholson cannot be long in his way.

Barry is old and infirm, and not satisfied that he is not made an

admiral. It is more than probable, Truxton and Talbot may not

be on the same service.

Stoddert.

HAMILTON TO MCHENRY.

New- York, February 6th, 1799.

Dear Sir:

In one of your letters you desire me to think of the distribu-
tion of the States into recruiting districts. I have accordingly
turned my attention to this subject. But the result is, that it
will be best to assign to each regiment its district and to charge
its commanding ofl&cer with the a lan ment into subdivisions.
If you approve this idea, you had better write me an ofiicial let-
e 14

210 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [iEx. 42.

ter, briefly telling me that the recruiting service is to be put un-
der my direction, and desiring me to make a preliminary arrange-
ment for the distribution of the States into recruiting districts
and rendezvouses ; upon which I will send the proper instruc-
tions to the several commanders of regiments.

I have not yet observed that the places of the officers omitted
in the arrangement reported by the general officers, have been
supplied. I hope the recruiting service will begin with complete,
not with mutilated or defective corps.

I regret that Gibbs was not appointed. There is good reason
to believe that he would command a regiment well ; probably
better than the person whom the objectors to him would approve.
Their rule of judging of military qualification is most likely no
very accurate one,

I regret, also, that the objection against anti-federalism has
been carried so far as to exclude several of the characters pro-
posed by us. We were very attentive to the importance of
appointing friends of the government to military stations; but
we thought it well to relax the rule in favor of particular
merit in a few instances, and especially in reference to the infe-
rior grades. It does not seem advisable to exclude all hope, and
to give to appointments too absolute a party feature. Military
situations, on young minds particularly, are of all others best
•calculated to inspire a zeal for the service, and the cause in which
the incumbents are employed. When the President thinks of
.his son-in-law, he should be moderate in this respect.

The inclosed letter from Colonel Fairlie relates to the second
•son of our late Chief Justice. His father, you know, was anti-
federal. This young man has as yet no fixed political creed.
They tell me there is nothing personally to his disadvantage. I
am clear, therefore, that it will be expedient to give him an ap-
pointment.

Adieu, my dear friend. Yours truly, &c.

;Et. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 211

M^HENEY TO HAMILTON.

War Department, February 8th, 1709.

Your instructions (for recruiting) are, and have been, some
days with the President. The moment he is pleased to decide,
so as to enable me to proceed, you shall have them. I spoke to
him yesterday on the subject ; he had not considered them, and
seemed to intimate the affair need not be hurried.

HAMILTON TO WILKINSON.

New-York, February 12th, 1799.

Sir:

The interesting incidents which have latterly occurred in our
political situation, having rendered it expedient to enlarge the
sphere of our military arrangements, it has in consequence be-
come necessary to regulate the superintendence of our military
force in its various and detached positions, in such a manner, as
while it will serve to disburthen the Department of War of details
incompatible with its more general and more important occupa-
tions, Avill likewise conduce to uniformity and system in the dif-
ferent branches of the service.

The Commander-in-Chief having, for the present, declined
actual command, it has been determined, in pursuance of the
above views, to place the military force every where, under the
superintendence of Major-General Pinckney and myself.

In the allotment for this purpose, my agency is extended to
the garrisons on the northern lakes, and to all the troops in the
Northwestern Territory, including both banks of the Ohio and
upon the Mississippi ; in short, to all the western army, except
the parts which may be in the States of Tennessee and Kentucky.

Of this you will have been informed by the Secretary at War.

212 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 42-

From the relation, which is thus constituted between us, I
allow myself to anticipate great mutual satisfaction. Every dis-
position on my part will certainly facilitate it, and tend to pro-
mote the discharge of your trust in the manner best adapted to
your honor and the advancement of the service.

It was the united opinion of the Commander-in-Chief, General
Pinckney, and myself, when lately convened at Philadelphia,
that your speedy presenc ? in this quarter was necessary, towards
a full discussion of the affairs of the siene in which you have so
long had the direction in their various relations, and towards the
formation, with the aid of your lights, of a more perfect plan for
present and eventual arrangements. Much may be examined in
a personal interview, which, at so great a distance, cannot be
effected by writing.

The actual and probable situation of our public affairs, in
reference to foreign powers, renders this step indispensable.

You will therefore be pleased, with all practicable expedition,
to repair to Philadelphia ; upon your arrival there giving me
immediate advice of it. If this can be most conveniently accom-
plished by way of New-Orleans, you are at liberty to take that
route. On this point you are the best judge, and will no doubt
act with circumspection.

It must rest with you to dispose of the command of the troops
at the different stations during your absence, and to give the
projjcr instructions, in conformity with those which have been
received from the Secretary at War.

On this head, only one remark will be made. The confi-
dence in your judgment has probably led to the reposing in you
discretionary powers too delicate to be intrusted to an ofiicer less
tried ; capable, perhaps, of being so used, as to commit prema-
turely the peace of the United States. Discretions of this ten-
dency ought not to be transferred beyond what may be indispen-
sable for defensive security.

Care must be taken that the nati n be not embroiled, but in
consequence of a deliberate policy in the government.

Of&cial letters from you to me, as you have been apprised by
the Secretary at War, are to be forwarded through him. They

^T. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 213

must be open and under cover. The design of this is, that he
may have an opportunity, in cases of great urgency, which could
not conveniently wait for my direction, to interpose with the
requisite measures.

In your absence, it will be ]}roper that the officer, or officers
you may substitute in the command, should communicate with
you, also transmitting their letters open, under cover, to the Sec-
retary at War. This will preserve unbroken the chain of your
command.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

New-York, February 15tli, 1799.

Sir:

The Secretary at War lias communicated to me the following
disposition with regard to the superintendence of our military
forces and posts.

Ail those in the States south of Maryland, in Tennessee and
Kentucky, are placed under the direction of Major-General
Pinckney ; those every where else under my direction, to which
he has added the general care of the recruiting service.

The commencement of the business of recruiting, however,
is still postponed, for the reason as assigned by the Secretary,
that a supply of clothing is not yet ready.

In conformity with your ideas, I have directed General Wil-
kinson to repair to the seat of government, in order to a more full
■examination of the affairs of the western scene, and to the con-
'Certing of ulterior arrangements.

On this and on every other subject of our military concerns,
I shall be happy to receive from time to time such suggestions
and instructions as you may be pleased to communicate,

I shall regularly advise you of the progress of things, and
especially of every material occurrence.

With perfect respect, I have the honor to be, &c.

214 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 42.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

(private.)

New- York, February 16th, 1799

Dear Sir :

Different reasons liave conspired to prevent my writing to
you since my return to New- York ; the multiplicity of my avo-
cations, an imperfect state of health, and the want of something
material to communicate.

The official letter herewith transmitted will inform you of the
disposition of our military affairs which has been recently adopt-
ed by the Department of War. There shall be no want of exer-
tion on my part to promote the branches of the service confided
to my care.

But I more and more discover cause to apprehend that obsta-
cles of a very peculiar kind stand in the way of an efficient and
successful management of our military concerns. These it would
be unsafe at present to explain.

It may be useful that I should be able to write to you here-
after some confidential matters relating to our administration,
without the mention of names. When this happens, I shall
designate the President by X, the Secretary of State by V, of
the Treasury by I, and of the Department of War by 0. Every
thing in the northern quarter, as far as I can learn, continues
favorable to the government.

Very affectionately and truly,

I remain, &c.

^T. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 215

HAMILTON TO M'HENRY.

New-York, February 16th, 1799.

Sir:

It is very material to me to have, without delay, the distri-
bution of the additional twelve regiments and troops of horse
among the respective States, according to the organization or
arrangement which is contained in the report made to you in
December, by the Commander-in-Chief.

This is requested with reference to the appointment of re-
cruitino; rendezvous.

HAMILTO:^ TO WASHINGTON.

New-York, February 18th, 1799.

My Dear Sir :

Unwilling to take the liberty to ask you to give yourself any
particular trouble on the subject, I have written the inclosed
letters. I beg you to dispose of them as you suppose will best
answer the end in view ; that is, to obtain a speedy distribution
of the State into districts and sub-districts.
With the truest attachment,

I have the honor to be, my dear Sir, &;c.

HAMILTON TO SEDGWICK.

New-York, February 19th, 1799.

Dear Sir :

It is intended to raise in Massachusetts, including the pro-
vince of Maine, two regiments.

216 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 42-

It is desired, for this purpose, to divide the State into four
districts and twenty sub-districts, or company rendezvouses,

to the end, that the recruiting service for each company may in
the first instance be confined within a definite limit.

Will you, after consultation with such of your members
as you deem expedient, favor me with a plan for the above
purpose, and this as soon as may be ? A place as the head-
quarters of rendezvous, to which the recruits may be conveyed,
and where they may be accommodated, is necessary.

Yours truly.

SEDGWICK TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, 22d February, 1799.

Dear Sir :

In answer to yours of the 19th, the gentlemen from Massa-
chusetts have been together. I mean just as I requested, and
have agreed on the following as the most eligible division of that
State for the purpose of recruiting on your plan. Maine, a
district ; four places of rendezvous : Portland, Wiscasset, Au-
gusta, and Castine. The counties of Essex, Suffolk, Bristol,
Dukes County, Nantucket, Barnstable, and Plymouth, a district ;
seven places of rendezvous : Haverhill, Newburyport, Salem,
Boston, Plymouth, Taunton, and Bridgewater. Middlesex, Nor-
folk, and Worcester, a district ; five places of rendezvous : Gro-
ton, Watertown, Petersham, Worcester, and Dedham. Hampshire
and Berkshire, a district; four places of rendezvous : Pittsfield,
Worthington, Northampton, and Springfield.

It was presumed that it was not intended to mark the exact
limits of each sub-district, as this could not be done without an
■ enumeration of all the towns in the State, and if expedient to be
be done at all, may be safely confided to the field ofiicers.

I have seen as far as they are in the ofiice of the Secretary of
.State, Mr. Murray's communications relative to the intercourse

^T. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 217

between him and Piclion, Part of his letters have been immedi-
ately addressed to the President. As far as I have seen, there
is more evidence of integrity than of wisdom. The details I
have not time to write nor you to read.

It is one of the misfortunes to which we are subjected by the
wild and irregular starts of a vain, jealous, and half frantic mind,
that we are obliged to practise an infraction of correct princi-
ples, a direct communication between the President and Senate.
I am this morning to wait on him and solicit an interview be-
tween him and the committee upon his nomination. The objects
are to induce him to alter it, as it respects the person ; and in-
stead of an individual, to propose a commission, — as it respects
the principles on which the negotiation shall commence, — and as
it respects the scene within which it shall be carried on.

On all these points, I am told, and from good authority, he
has formed strong opinions. If they are unalterable, I believe
I must vote against the appointment, but at present I think that
is not the inclination of a majority. A circumstance confirma-
tory of the President's total ignorance of human nature is, that
he frequently declared, that he believed the message would add
to the federal energies of the legislature.

I am most sincerely yours.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Mount Vernon, February 25th, 1799.

Sir:

I have been duly favored with your letter of the 15th instant.

When the disposition was contemplated for assigning to
Major-General Pinckney and to yourself your respective dis-
tricts of superintendence, I was of opinion (as you will see by
the inclosed copy of a letter, which I wrote to the Secretary of
War on my way from Philadelphia to this place), that the tuhole
of General AVilkinson's brigade should be considered as under

218 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 42.

your immediate direction, because if a part of it wliicli is or may
be stationed in the States of Kentucky and Tennessee, should be
under the superintendence of General Pinckney, and the other
part under yours, it might occasion great inconvenience, and
perhaps confusion, for General Wilkinson to have to communi-
cate sometimes with one of the Major-Generals and sometimes
with the other. This, I conceive, will still be the case if the dis-
position which mention to have been communicated by the

Secretary of War should continue. I am therefore decidedly of
opinion that the whole of General Wilkinson's brigade should
be under your superintendence.

If it be determined to pursue the recruiting business at all, I
regret extremely that there should have been so much delay in
it ; for the favorable season is passing off every day, and when
the spring opens, great numbers of those who would readily en-
list now, will be then engaged in other avocations, and we shall
lose the precious moment.

I shall hope to be regularly advised of every occurrence which
takes place in your military arrangements that you may think
essential to communicate.

With very great regard, I am, &c,

P. S. I inclose herewith returns of troops, stores, &c., at Nia-
gara, which have been forwarded to me by Major Eivardi ; and
shall, in acknowledging the receipt of them, desire that the re-
turns in future may pass through you to the War Office,

AN ACT TO REGULATE THE MEDICAL ESTABLISHMENT.

Draft hy Hamilton.

25th February, 1799.

Section 1. Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Eepre-
sentatives of the United States of America, in Congress assem-
bled, that in the medical establishment of the United States there
shall be the following officers : — A physician-general, who shall

^T. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 219

be charged witli the superintendence and direction of all military
hospitals, and generally of all medical and chirurgical practice or
service concerning the army or navy of the United States, and
of all persons who shall be employed in and about the same, in
camps, garrisons, and hospitals.

An apothecary-general, and one or more deputies, who shall
be charged with the safe-keeping and delivery of all medicines,
instruments, dressings, and other articles for the use of the hos-
pital and the army, A purveyor, who shall be charged with
providing medicines, stores, and whatsoever else may be neces-
sary in relation to the said practice or service ; a competent num-
ber of hospital surgeons, who shall be liable to serve in the field,
and who shall have the immediate charge and direction of such
military hospitals as may be committed to their care respectively ;
a suitable number of hospital mates, who are to observe the di-
rections of the hospital surgeons, and shall diligently perform all
reasonable duties required of them, for the recovery of the sick
and wounded.

Section 2. And be it further enacted. That each military
hospital shall have a steward, with a competent number of
nurses and other attendants ; which steward shall be charged
with procuring of such supplies as may not otherwise be fur-
nished, and with the safe-keeping and issuing of all supplies.

Section Z. And be it further enacted. That the said physician-
general, hospital surgeons, purveyor, and apothecary or apothe-
caries, deputy or deputies, shall be appointed as other officers of
the United States ; that the said mates and stewards shall be ap-
pointed by the authority, and at the discretion of the said physi-
cian-general, subject to the eventual approbation and control of
the President of the United States, and shall be removable by
the authority of the said physician-general ; and that the surgeon
of each hospital shall appoint, employ, and fix the compensa-
tions of the nurses and other attendants of such hospital, subject
to the control of the said physician-general, or the hospital-sur-
geon, of senior appointment, with a separate army, or in a sepa-
rate district.

Section 4. And be it further enacted. That as often as the

220 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 42.

regimental sick will not suffer by the employing of regimental
surgeons or mates, in the temporary or other hospitals of the
United States, the physician-general, or the hospital-surgeon of
senior appointment with a separate army, or in a separate dis-
trict, with the consent of the General and Commander-ni-Chief,
or the officer commanding a separate army, may require the at-
tendance of such surgeon or surgeon's mates, as, in his opinion,
can be with safety so withdrawn from their regiments.

Section 5. And be it further enacted. That it shall be the
duty of the physician-general, with two or more hospital-sur-
geons, to frame a system of directions relative to the description
of patients to be admitted into the hospitals ; to the means of
promoting cleanliness in the hospitals ; to the prevention of idle-
ness, skulking, and gambling in the hospitals ; to the prevention
of the spread of infectious distempers in the camps and hospitals,
and the government of nurses, and all others charged with the
care of the sick, in camps or hospitals, subject in the first instance
to the approbation and revision of the Commander-in-Chief, the
commander of a separate army, or in a separate district, as the
case may be, and eventually, the approbation and control of the
President of the United States. Provided always^ That the said
directions havino- received the sanction of the Commander-in-

O

Chief, or the commander of a separate army, shall be operative,
and remain in fall force, unless altered or annulled by the Presi-
dent of the United States.

Section 6. And be it further enacted. That the compensations
of the said several officers shall be as follows : Of the physician-
general one hundred dollars pay per month, and fifty dollars per
month, which shall be in full compensation for forage, rations,
and travelling expenses. Of the purveyor, one hundred dollars
pay per month, in full compensation for his services and all ex-
penses. Of the apothecary-general, eighty dollars pay per month,
and thirty dollars per month in full compensation for rations,
forage, and all expenses : of each of his deputies, fifty dollars
pay per month, and sixteen dollars per month in full compensa-
tion for forage, rations, and all expenses : of each hospital-sur-
geon, eighty dollars pay per month, and forty dollars per month

.Ex. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 221

in full compensation for forage, rations, and all expenses: of
eacli mate, thirty dollars pay per month, and twenty dollars per
month in full compensation for forage, rations, and all expenses :
of each steward, twenty-five dollars pay per month, and eight
dollars per month in full compensation for forage, rations, and
all expenses : Provided^ that none of the officers aforesaid shall
be entitled to any part of the pay or emoluments aforesaid, until
they shall respectively be called into actual service.

Section 7. And be it further enacted, That for the accommo-
dation of the sick of the army and navy of the United States, the
physician-general and hospital-surgeon of senior appointments,
with the approbation of the general commanding the army with-
in the district where he shall be, shall have power to provide
temporary hospitals ; and the physician-general, with the appro-
bation of the President of the IJnited States, shall have power to
provide and establish permanent hospitals.

Section 8. And be it further enacted. That all the said offi-
cers and others, shall, as touching their several offices and duties,
be liable to the rules and regulations for the government and dis-
cipline of the army ; and shall be bound to obey, in conformity
with law, and the usages and customs of armies, the orders and
directions of the chief military officers of the respective armies,
and within the respective districts, in which they shall respec-
tively serve and be.

Section 9. And be it further enacted, that the physician-gen-
eral, or in his absence, the senior medical officer, with the appro-
bation of the Commander-in-Chief, or commanding officer of a
separate army, be, and hereby is authorized and empowered, as
often as may be judged necessary, to call a medical board, which
shall consist of the three senior medical officers then present,
whose duty it shall be to examine all candidates for employment
or promotion in the hospital department, and certify to the Sec-
retary at War the qualifications of each.

222 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [tEt. 42.

HAMILTON TO EIVARDI.

New-York, March 1, 1799.

Sir:

The inclosed letter will inform you, tliat the post j^ou com-
mand has been placed under my superintendence by the De-
partment of War. In consequence of this arrangement, the
returns for December last, which you forwarded to the Com-
mander-in-Chief, have been by him transmitted to me.

As my superintendence extends to all the posts on the north-
ern and northwestern quarters, I am desirous of revising the
reasons upon which they have been established, in order to be
enabled to judge, whether the present disposition ought to be
continued or altered. To this end, I am to request, that you
will, as early as may be, visit the several posts Michilimackinac,
Detroit, Fort Defiance on the Miami, and Presque Isle, together
with such intervening and proximate positions as may present
eligible military points, paying particular attention to the strait
which connects Lakes St. Clair and Erie, and to the southwest-
ern extremity of the latter lake. After doing which, you will
repair to New- York to report to me the result of your observa-
tions, and to confer on the subject at large. In this examina-
tion, you will have an eye to the various considerations of de-
fence, settlement and trade, with reference both to our British
neighbors and to the Indians. I deem it unnecessary to enter
into detail on these heads. The account I have received of your
knowledge and discernment assures me that you will execute
the commission with accurate observation and with comprehen-
sive views. At the same time you will bear in mind that it par-
ticularly suits the state and temper of this country to effect as
much as possible with the least possible expense.

With great consideration, I am, &c.

^T. 42.]

MILITARY PAPERS. 223

AN" ACT FOR THE BETTER ORGANIZING OF THE TROOPS OF THE
UNITED STATES AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES.

* Draft by Hamilton.

March 3d, 1799.

1. Be it enacted, &c. That the troops heretofore authorized, and
which hereafter may be authorized, to be raised, shall be com-
posed and organized as follows, to wit : A regiment of infantry
shall consist of one lieutenant-colonel commandant, two majors,
first and second, one adjutant, one quartermaster, and one pay-
master, each being a lieutenant, one surgeon, and two surgeon's
mates, ten captains, ten first and ten second lieutenants, besides the
three lieutenants before mentioned, ten cadets, two sergeant-ma-
jors, two quartermaster sergeants, two chief musicians, first and
second, twenty other musicians, forty sergeants, forty corporals,
and nine hundred and twenty privates, which, together, shall
form two battalions, each battalion of five companies. A regi-
ment of cavalry shall consist of one lieutenant-colonel command-
ant, two majors, a first and second, one adjutant, one quarter-
master, and one paymaster, each being a lieutenant; one sur-
geon, and two surgeon's mates, ten captains, ten first and ten
second lieutenants, besides the three lieutenants before mention-
ed, ten cadets, two sergeant-majors, two quartermaster-sergeants,
two chief musicians, first and second, ten other musicians, forty
sergeants, forty corporals, and nine hundred and twenty privates,
including ten saddlers, ten blacksmiths, and ten bootmakers;
which, together, shall form five squadrons, each squadron of two
companies. A regiment of artillery shall consist of one lieuten-
ant-colonel commandant, four majors, one adjutant, one quar-
master, and one paymaster, each being a lieutenant; one sur-
geon, and two surgeon's mates, sixteen captains, thirty-two
lieutenants, besides the three lieutenants before mentioned,
thirty-two cadets, four sergeant-majors, four quartermaster-ser-
geants, sixty-four sergeants, sixty-four corporals, one chief musi-
cian, ten other musicians, eight hundred and ninety-six privates,
including one hundred and twenty-eight artificers, which, toge-

224 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 42

ther, sliall form four battailous, eacli battallou of four companies ;
provided, always, that the number of privates raised, and to be
raised, for the regiment of cavalry, and the regiments of Infantry
heretofore authorized, shall not exceed the number, respectively,
for which provision hath been made by law ; nor shall the bat-
talion of riflemen, nor the two additional troops of cavalry autho-
rized by this act, be raised, until further provisions shall be so
made, unless war shall break out between the United States and
some European prince, potentate, or state, in which case it shall
be lawful for the President of the United States, at his discretion,
to cause the said regiments, or any of them, to be severally com-
pleted to their full establishment.

2. That every ensign and cornet, in the regiments hereto-
fore appointed, shall be denominated hereafter second lieuten-
ants.

8. That the officers, non-commissioned officers, and privates
hereinafter mentioned, who now a e, or at any time hereafter
may be, in the actual service of the United States, shall be en-
titled to, and shall receive the following compensations, to wit :
a major-general, one hundred and sixty -six dollars per month,
and fifteen rations of provisions per day, or an equivalent in
money ; and when forage shall not be furnished by the United
States, the further sum of twenty dollars per month. A briga-
dier-general, one hundred and four dollars per month, twelve
rations per day, or an equivalent in money, and sixteen dollars
per month for forage, when not furnished as aforesaid. A lieu-
tenant-colonel commandant, seventy -five dollars per month, six
rations per day, or an equivalent in money, and twelve dollars
for forage, when not furnished as aforesaid, A major of artil-
lery, or cavalry, each fifty-five dollars per month, four rations
per day, or an equivalent in money, and ten dollars per month
for forage, when not furnished as aforesaid. A. major of infantry,
fifty dollars per month, four rations per day, or an equivalent in
money, and ten dollars per month for forage, when not furnished
as aforesaid. A captain of cavalry, forty dollars per month,
three rations per day, or an equivalent in money, and eight dol-
lars per month for forage, when not furnished as aforesaid. A

^T. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 225

captain of artillery, and infantry, forty dollars per month, and
three rations per day, or an equivalent in money. A first lieu-
tenant of cavalry, thirty dollars per month, two rations per day,
or an equivalent in money, and six dollars per month for forage,
when not furnished as aforesaid. Lieutenants of artillery, each,
thirty dollars per month, and two rations per day, or an equiva-
lent in money. A second lieutenant of cavalry, twenty-five dol-
lars per month, two rations per day, or an equivalent in money,
and six dollars per month for forage, when not furnished as
aforesaid. A first lieutenant of infantry, thirty dollars per
month, and two rations per day, or an equivalent in mouey. A
second lieutenant of infantry, twenty-five dollars per month, and
two rations per day, or an equivalent in money. A regimental
surgeon, forty-five dollars per month, three rations per day, or
an equivalent in money, and ten dollars per month for forage,
when not furnished as aforesaid. A surgeon's mate, thirty dol-
lars per month, two rations per day, or an equivalent in money,
and six dollars per month for forage, when not furnished as
aforesaid. A regimental paymaster, quartermaster, and adju-
tant, in addition to their pay, in the line, each, ten dollars, and
six dollars per month for forage, when not furnished as afore-
said. A cadet of cavalry, ten dollars per month, two rations per
day, or an equivalent in money, and six dollars per month for
forage, when not furnished as aforesaid. All other cadets, ten
dollars per month, and two rations per day, or an equivalent in
money. A sergeant-major, and a quartermaster-sergeant, each,
ten dollars per month. A chief musician, eight dollars per
month. A sergeant, eight dollars per month. A corporal, seven
dollars per month. A musician, six dollars per month. An ar-
tificer to the infantry and artillery, a farrier, saddler, and boot
maker to the dragoons, each, ten dollars per month. A private
soldier, five dollars per month. And to each of the said non-com-
missioned officers and privates, one ration of provisions per day.
4. That all non-commissioned ofiicers, artificers, privates, and
musicians, who are, and who shall be, enlisted, and the non-
commissioned ofiicers, artificers, privates, and musicians of the
militia, or other corps, who at any time may be in the actual ser-
E • 15

226 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEi. 42.

vice of tlie United States, shall be, and thej are hereby, exempted
during their term of service, from all personal arrests, for any
debt or contract. And whenever any non-commissioned ofl&cer,
artificer, private, or musician, shall be arrested, whether by
mesne process, or in execution, contrary to the intent hereof, it
shall be the duty of the judge of the district court of the United
States, and of any court or judge of a State, who, by the laws of
such State, are authorized to issue writs of habeas corpus, re-
spectively, on application by an officer, to grant a writ of habeas
corpus, returnable before himself; and upon due hearing and
examination, in a summary manner, to discharge the non-com-
missioned officer, artificer, private, or musician, from such arrest,
taking common bail, if required, in any case, upon mesne pro-
cess, and commit him to the applicant, or some other officer of
the same corps.

5. That each non-commissioned officer, private, artificer, and
musician, who shall hereafter be enlisted for the army of the
United States, shall be able-bodied, and of a size and age suit-
able for the public service, according to the directions which the
President of the United States shall and may establish; and
shall be entitled to a bounty of twelve dollars ; but the payment
of four dollars thereof shall be deferred, until he shall have
joined the army : And each commissioned officer, who shall be
employed in the recruiting service, shall be entitled to receive
for each non-commissioned officer, and private, and artificer, and
for each sufficient musician, duly enlisted and mustered, the sum
of two dollars, the same being in full compensation for his extra
expenses in the execution of this service.

6. That when any officer shall be detached from a regiment,
to serve as an aid to a general officer, or as assistant or other in-
spector, or as an assistant to the quartermaster-general, by what-
soever name, or as an, assistant to the adjutant-general, by what-
soever name, the place of such officer in his regiment shall be
supplied, by promotion or new appointment, or both, as may be
requisite ; but the officer detached shall, nevertheless, retain his
station in his regiment, and shall rank and rise therein, in the
. same manner as if he had not been detached.

/Et. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 227

7. That no officer shall be appointed as the inspector of a di-
vision, who, when appointed, shall be of a rank higher than that
of major, or as the inspector of a brigade, who, when appointed,
shall be of a rank higher than that of captain, or as the aid of
a major-general, who, when appointed, shall be of a rank higher
than that of captain, or as the aid of a brigadier-general, who,
when appointed, shall be of a rank higher than that of first lieu-
tenant, or as the quartermaster of a division, who, when appoint-
ed, shall be of a rank higher than that of captain, or as the quar-
termaster of a brigade, who, when appointed, shall be of a rank
higher than that of first lieutenant, or as an assistant to the adju-
tant-general, who, when appointed, shall be of a rank higher
than that of captain.

8. That in the ordinary arrangement of the army, two regi-
ments of infantry, or cavalry, shall constitute a brigade, and shall
be commanded by a brigadier-general ; two brigades a division,
and shall be commanded by a major-general. Provided always^
That it shall be in the discretion of the commanding general to
vary this disposition whenever he shall judge it proper; and
provided also, That this act shall not render it necessary to ap-
point any greater number of general officers than have been
heretofore authorized by law, sooner than, in the opinion of the
President, the military service of the United States shall require it .

9. That a commander of the army of the United States shall
be appointed and commissioned, by the style of "general of the
armies of the United States ;" and the present office of lieutenant-
general shall thereafter be abolished.

10. That there shall be a quartermaster-general of the army
of the United States, who shall be entitled to the rank, pay,
emoluments, and privileges of a major-general.

11. That it shall be lawful for the President of the United
States, at his discretion, to organize, officer, and raise, a battalion
of riflemen, to consist of the same number of officers and men,
and to be entitled to the same pay and emoluments, whatsoever,
as a battalion of infantry of the line.

12. That to any army of the United States, other than that
in which the quartermaster-general shall serve, there shall be a

228 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 42

deputy quartermaster-general, wbo shall be a field officer, and
who, in addition to his other emoluments, shall be entitled to
fifty dollars per month, which shall be in full compensation for
his extra services and travelling expenses ; but the provisions of
this act are not to affect the present quartermaster-general of the
army of the United States, who, in case a quartermaster-general
shall be appointed by virtue of this act, is to act as deputy quar-
termaster-general, and shall hereafter have the rank of lieutenant-
colonel ; and that, to every division of an army, there shall be a
division quartermaster, who, in addition to his other emoluments,
shall be entitled to thirty dollars per month^ which shall be in
full compensation for his extra services and travelling expenses ;
and that, to every brigade, there shall be a brigade quartermas-
ter, who, in addition to his other emoluments, shall be entitled
to twenty-four dollars per month, which shall be in full compen-
sation for his extra services and travelling expenses, each of
which officers shall be chosen by the quartermaster-general, from
among the regimental officers.

13. That, to any army of the United States, other than that
in which the inspector-general shall serve, there shall be a deputy
inspector-general, who shall be a field officer, and who in addition
to his other emoluments, shall be entitled to fifty dollars per
month, which shall be in full compensation for his extra services
and travelling expenses ; and that, to every division of an army,
there shall be a division inspector, who, in addition to his other
emoluments, shall be entitled to thirty dollars per month, which
shall be in full compensation for his extra services and travelling
expenses ; and that, to every brigade, there shall be a brigade
inspector, who in addition to his other emoluments, shall be en-
titled to twenty-four dollars per month, which shall be in full
compensation for his extra services and travelling expenses;
each of which officers shall be chosen by the inspector-general,
from among the regimental officers. The deputy inspector-gene-
ral to be, in every case, approved by the general commanding
the army to which he shall be annexed.

14. That the adjutant-general of the army shall be, ex officio^
assistant inspector-general, and that every deputy inspector-gene-

^Et. 42.] . MILITARY PAPERS. 229

ral shall be, ex officio^ deputy adjutant-general, and shall perform
the duties of adjutant-general in the army to which he shall be
annexed,

15. That the paymaster-general of the armies of the United
States shall always quarter at or near the head-quarters of the
main array, or at such place as the Commander-in-Chief shall
deem proper ; and that, to the army on the western frontiers,
and to detachments from the main army, intended to act sepa-
rately for a time, he shall appoint deputy paymasters, who shall
account to him for the money advanced to them, and shall each
give a bond, in the sum of fifteen thousand dollars, with suf-
cient sureties, for the faithful discharge of their duties respective-
ly, and take an oath faithfully to execute the ditties of their offices ;
and the several regimental paymasters shall also give bond, in
the sum of five thousand dollars, with one or more sufficient
sureties, and take an oath as aforesaid, for the faithful discharge of
tlie duties of their offixes, respectively ; and that the paymaster-
general shall receive eighty dollars per month, with the rations
and forage of a major, in fall compensation for his services and
travelling expenses ; and the deputy, in addition to his pay and
other emoluments, thirty dollars per month, in fall compensation
for his extra services and travelling expenses.

16. That every major-general of the army of the United
States shall be entitled to two aids, to be chosen by himself,
each of whom, in addition to his pay and other emoluments in
his regiment, shall receive twenty -foar dollars per month, and
ten dollars per month for forage, when not furnished as afore-
said ; and that every brigadier-general of the said army shall be
entitled to one aid, to be chosen by himself, who, in addition to
his pay and other emoluments in his regiment, shall receive
twenty-four dollars per month, and ten dollars per month for
forage, \vhen not furnished as aforesaid.

17. That the President of the United States be authorized to
engage and appoint, distinct from the officers of the corps of
artillerists and engineers, two engineers, with the rank of lieu-
tenant-colonel, and to stipulate and allow to them, respectively,
such compensations as he shall find necessary and expedient.

230 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [tEt. 42.

18. That an inspector of fortifications shall be appointed,
whose duties shall be assigned bj the Secretary of War, nnder
the direction of the President of the United States ; that the com-
pensation to be allowed to the said inspector, if selected from the
corps of artillerists and engineers, in full for his extra services
and travelling expenses, shall, besides his pay and emoluments
in the corps, be thirty-five dollars per month ; and if he shall
not be an ofiicer in the artillery or army, he shall, in full com-
pensation for his services and expenses, be allowed the sum of
seventy-five dollars monthly, and be entitled to the rank of
major in the army of the United States ; and in case the said
inspector shall be chosen from the corps of artillerists and engi-
neers, or army of the United States, his place therein shall be
supplied by promotion, or a new appointment, or both, as may
be requisite ; but he shall, nevertheless, retain his station in the
said corps or army, and shall rank and rise therein, in the same
manner as if he had never been appointed to the said ofiice of
inspector.

19. That a ration of provisions shall henceforth consist of
eighteen ounces of bread or flour, or, when neither can be ob-
tained, of one quart of rice, or one and a half pound of sifted or
bolted Indian meal, one pound and a quarter of fresh beef, or
one pound of salted beef, or three-quarters of a pound of salted
pork ; and, when fresh meat is issued, salt, at the rate of two
quarts for every hundred rations ; soap, at the rate of four
pounds, and candles, at the rate of a pound and half for every
hundred rations. Provided always^ That there shall be no dimi-
nution of the ration to which any of the troops now in service
may be entitled by the terms of their enlistment.

20. That every non-commissioned officer, private, artificer,
and musician, of the artillery and infantry, shall receive, annu-
ally, the following articles of uniform clothing, to wit : one hat,
one coat, one vest, two pair of woollen and two pair of linen over-
alls, four pair of shoes, four shirts, four pair of socks, one blanket,
one stock and clasp, and one pair of buckles.

21. That suitable clothing be provided for the dragoons,
adapted to the nature of the service, and conformed, as near as

^T. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 231

may be, to the value of the clothing allowed to the infantry and
artillery.

22. That it shall be lawful for the Commander-in-Chief of
the army, or the commanding officer of any separate detachment
or garrison thereof, at his discretion, to cause to be issued, from
time to time, to the troops under his command, out of such
supplies as shall have been provided for the purpose, rum, whis-
key, or other ardent spirits, in quantities not exceeding half a
gill to each man per day, excepting in cases of fatigue service,
or other extraordinary occasions ; and that whensoever supplies
thereof shall be on hand, there shall be issued to the troops
vinegar, at the rate of two quarts for every hundred rations.

23. That it shall be lawful for the commanding officer of
each regiment, whenever it may be necessary, to cause the coats,
vests, and overalls or breeches, which may, from time to time,
be issued to and for his regiment, to be altered and new made,
so as the better to fit them to the persons, respectively, for whose
use they shall be delivered ; and for defraying the expense of
such alteration, to cause to be deducted and applied, out of the
pay of such persons, a sum or sums not exceeding twenty-five
cents for each coat, eight cents for each vest and for each pair of
overalls or breeches.

24. That it shall be lawful for the Secretary of War to cause
to be provided, in each and every year, all clothing, camp uten-
sils, and equipage, medicines, and hospital stores, necessary for
the troops and armies of the United States, for the succeeding
year, and for this purpose to make purchases, and enter, or cause
to be entered into, all necessary contracts or obligations for
effecting the same.

25. That whenever any officer or soldier shall be discharged
from the service, except by way of punishment for an offence, he
shall be allowed his pay and rations, or an equivalent in money,
for such term of time as shall be sufficient to travel from the place
where he receives his discharge to the place of his residence,
computing at the rate of twenty miles to a day.

26. That there shall be allowed to the inspector-general, in
addition to his allowance as major-general, and in full compen-

232 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 42.

sation for extra services and expenses in the execution of his
office, the sum of fifty dollars per month, and that he shall be
allowed a secretary, to be appointed by himself, with the pay
and emoluments of a captain.
Approved, March 3, 1799.

HAMILTON" TO

1799.

You are already apprised that the contractors are to furnisb
the means of transportation by land and water. If you find this
plan marked with a spirit of economy, you must recollect that a
strict attention to economy is not less necessary to the true in-
terests of the officers than to that of the country. So great is the
unavoidable expense of every military establishment (greater in
proportion in our country than any other), that unless all the
savings are made which can consist with propriety, it will be im-
possible for the government to maintain the force requisite for
security, or to make and continue those provisions which are
really essential to the comfort and respectability of the army.
These ideas are so important, that they cannot be too deeply im-
pressed upon the minds of officers.

Yet, if any thing more than is contemplated by this letter
shall be necessary to a reasonable accommodation of the troops,
suggestions to that end will be received and carefully examined.

HAMILTON TO PINCKNEY.

New-York, March 7, 1799.

Sir:

The Secretary at "War has informed you that the general su-
perintendence of the recruiting service is confided to me, as an
incident to the inspectorship.

^T. 42.]

MILITARY PAPERS. 233

As a preliminary to this, it is requisite to distribute the States
respectively into districts and sub-districts ; the latter to corres-
pond with the number of companies to be raised in each State,
assigning one company to each sub-district ; and the former to be
proportioned to the number of field-officers.

I request the favor of you, as speedily as may be, to make
the distribution for the States of Georgia and the two Carolinas,
and to communicate to me the result.

I have been told that the commencement of the recruiting
service depended on the completion of an adequate supply of
clothing, and I ought to calculate that this is nearly ready.

Perhaps it may promote expedition to transmit me suc-
cessively the arrangement for each State as it shall be com-
pleted.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

New-York, March 14th, 1799.

Sir:

' I have the honor to send you the extract of a letter of the
8th instant (received two days since) from the Secretary of War,
together with the section of the act to which it relates.

I am entirely of opinion with him as to the expediency of
causing the Paymaster-General to reside at the seat of govern-
ment ; but, as the measure is of importance, and especially as the
act expressly refers the point to the " Commander-in-Chief," I did
not think myself at liberty to act without your previous decision.

I request instruction on the point as soon as shall be conve-
nient, unless you shall think it proper to give yourself the neces-
sary orders to the Paymaster-General.

With perfect respect and attachment, &c.

234 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 42.

HAMILTON TO M'^HENRY.

New-York, March 15, 1799.

Sir:

I liave digested some alterations in and additions to the re-
cruiting instructions, -wliicTi I now send for consideration and
decision.

The nature of each will announce its motive, so as to render
little comment necesssary.

A few remarks will be seen in the margin of some of the
clauses.

I shall be glad of a determination as soon as may be, in order
to the transmission of the instructions, that they may be con-
sidered and understood ; so that the officers may be ready to act
the moment orders shall be given to begin to recruit.

P. S. I agree entirely in the opinion expressed in your letter
of the 8th instant (which was delayed in its transmission), respect-
ing the residence of the Paymaster-General ; but, as the act ex-
pressly requires the intervention of the " Commander-in-Chief,"
I have thought it right to ask the orders of General Washington.
I hope this will appear to you in the same light.

HAMILTON TO M HENRY.

New-York, March 16, 1799.

Sir:

Though I have not as yet complete materials for arranging
all the States into districts and sub-districts, I now submit to you
an arrangement of some of them, in order that the recruiting ser-
vice may begin in these when you deem other things suffi-
ciently mature to commence it. There occurs no important rea-
son why it should not be successively undertaken. On the

iET. 42.] MILITARY TAPERS. 235

contrary, so far as I have tlie means of judging, I slionld con-
clude that it would be expedient to begin partially, and extend
as the provision of supplies extends. An arrangement will now
be submitted for the States of Connecticut, New York, New Jer-
sey, Pennsylvania, and Delaware. But, if necessary, I am pre-
pared to offer what may answer the end for the other States,
except the three most southern, and Kentucky and Tennessee.
A plan for the two Carolinas and Georgia has been asked of
General Pinckney, but there has not been time to obtain his re-
ply. If the business were otherwise prepared, there could be no
inconvenience in referring it to him to make the distribution de-
finitively. The arrangement for Tennessee and Kentucky may
also be referred to persons on the spot.

M'^HENRY TO HAMILTON.

March 18th, 1799.

Sir:

I have received your letter*of the 15th instant, with altera-
tions and additions proposed to be made to the recruiting instruc-
tions. These have been considered, generally adopted, and with
some further alterations will be put into the hands of a printer
to-day, and a sufficient number of copies sent you as soon as they
shall be printed.

HAMILTON TO M<^HENRY.

(private.)

New-York, March 18, 1799.

Beware, my dear sir, of magnifying a riot into an insurrec-
tion, by employing in the first instance an inadequate force.
'Tis better far to err on the other side. Whenever the govern-

236 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 42.

ment appears in arms, it ought to appear like a Hercules, and
inspire respect by the display of strength. The consideration of
expense is of no moment compared with the advantages of energy.
'Tis true, this is always a relative question, but 'tis always impor-
tant to make no mistake. I only offer a principle and a caution.

A large corps of auxiliary cavalry may be had in Jersey, New-
York, Delaware, Maryland, without interfering with farming
pursuits.

Will it be inexpedient to put under marching orders a large
force provisionally as an eventual support of the corps to be
employed to awe the disaffected ? Let all be well considered.

Yours truly.

HAMILTON TO M^'HENRY.
(private.)

9 New-York, March 19th, 1799.

Dear Sir:

I understand that the ofl&cers for Connecticut have been
appointed and their names published, but I have seen no paper
containing them. If so, be so good as to send me the list, and if
there have been other appointments since the lists transmitted to
me, pray let them be added.

Pursuant to your very proper idea of having at the seat of
government the chief of different departments, it seems to me
advisable that you should have some agent for the commissariat
ov provision branch, to whom applications may be addressed, and
from whom orders may issue to the different contractors or sub-
agents.

Did those provisions of the " act for organizing," &c., which
declare that the Adjutant-General shall be ex officio Deputy In-
spector-General, and which allow the Inspector-General a secre-
tary, continue in the bill when passed ? Is there any arrange-

^T. 42.]

MILITARY PAPERS. 237

ment which prevents me from calling for the assistance of the
Adjutant-General when I deem it necessary ?

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Mount Vernon, 25th March, 1799.

Dear Sir:

Your letter of the l-ith instant with its inclosures, came to
hand by the last post.

In the present state of the army, (or more properly the
embryo of one, for I do not perceive, from any thing that has
come to my knowledge, that we are likely to move beyond this,)
and until the augmented force shall have been recruited, assem-
bled, and in the field, the residence of the Paymaster-General
(I did not know there was one until your letter announced it),
will be found most eligible at the seat of the general govern-
ment ; and you will please to give such orders respecting it, as
you shall think proper, for I am unwilling to issue any.

Under this cover you will find a letter which I have just re-
ceived from Colonel Hamtranck, with a short acknowledgment
of its receipt ; which you will be go good as to forward with
your dispatches for the western army. With very great esteem
and regard, I am, dear sir, &c.

M'^PHEESON TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, March 25, 1799.

Dear Sir :

I have the pleasure to acknowledge the receipt of your letter
of the 22d, on the subject of the insurrection in this State, and
should have replied immediately, but knowing that I was to

238 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 42.

receive mj instructions from the War Office on this day, I
thought it best to wait. The fact is, sir, that in the counties of
Northampton, Berks, Montgomery, and part of Bucks, the people
have manifested the strongest determination to oppose the laws,
by openly, and with a military force, rescuing from the marshal
a number of prisoners. I say military force, for they were
headed by officers who are commissioned under the State, and
were completely armed and equipped ; it is also certain that, in
addition to the party that effected the rescue, several detach-
ments were on their march to accomplish the same purpose, when
hearing that the business was done, they retired. In short the
people of the before-mentioned counties seem ripe for any thing,
and I am sorry to add, very strong indications of a similar dispo-
sition have appeared in the county of Northumberland; and
although it is not likely that they have as yet any systematic
mode of operation, it however appears to be a very dangerous
combination, and that the most energetic conduct on the part of
the administration is absolutely indispensable. How far the
Executive accord with my sentiments you will judge when I
have this day received orders to march as soon as the force can
be collected, with 240 horse (to use the Secretary's expression),
to the theatre of insurrection. My supporting parties are the
detachments under Captain Henry, who has arrived at Newton,
in the county of Bucks, and two companies of artillerists, who
are ordered to rendezvous at Reading, in the county of Berks ;
the two most opposite points the Secretary could have hit on, and
which I cannot correct unless I oblige the party at Reading to
take a very circuitous route, or march them through the heart of
the disaffected country — which I should not from the smallness
of their number be justified in doing. I have, therefore, deter-
mined to leave them at that point, and shall to-morrow send
orders to Captain Henry to move across the county of Bucks by
a course I shall point out, which will be perfectly safe, until he
comes in contact with my route, when I shall take post some-
where in the neighborhood of Bethlehem, and use my best
endeavors to accomplish the purpose of my command. I confess
I could have wished a different mode of operation had been

iEx. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 239

adopted, and which I am convinced would have made a more
serious and lasting impression than my scampering through the
country with a few horse. My plan would have been to march
the volunteer infantry of this city, who, with Captain Henry's
detachment, would have given me a sufficient force to take any
post in the disaffected country, from which I could make ex-
cursions with my horse in every proper direction. But the
Secretary thinks otherwise, and I shall obey.

I shall from time to time give you information of my progress,
and of every important occurrence.
I am with great regard,

Most truly yours.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

New-York, March 27th, 1799.

Dear Sir:

At length we are on the point of commencing the recruiting
service in five of the States, Connecticut, New-York, New Jer-
sey, Pennsylvania, and Delaware. It is hoped, that it will not
be long in successfully embracing the others, where officers have
been appointed. But in our affairs, till a thing is actually be-
gun, there is no calculating the delays which may ensue.

You have been informed that the recruiting service has been
put under my directions ; but for many matters of detail, I must
go to the Secretary for a sanction, and it is not always that it is
rapidly obtained. Things however are at last getting into such
a state, that the business may be expected to progress without
interruption.

The letter some time since sent you for General Lee, was in-
tended to be left open. It respected the division of Virginia into
four districts, and twenty sub-districts, or company rendezvouses,
designating a place in each for the bead-quarters of the rendez-

240 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 42.

vous. I have as yet had no acknowledgment of it.' Before
General Morgan left Philadelphia, I got him to give me a plan.
Inclosed is a copy. If you think a better arrangement can be
made, shall I ask the favor of you to have it done ? for I cannot
now rely on the success of my resort to General Lee in any rea-
sonable time.

Will you have the goodness to put the letters herewith in a
train to reach their destination with certainty ? They are open,
that you may perceive their object.

Yery respectfully and affectionately,
I have the honor to be, &c.

M'^HENRY TO HAMILTON.

March 29th, 1799.

The regular troops ordered to the scene of insurrection have
all reached their first points of destination, except the company
from this place, which is to march when ordered by General
McPherson. The General received his instructions on Monday
last ; and every thing dependent on me has been done which re-
gards the expedition. It seems that the adjutant-general for this
State has not yet been able to furnish him with certain necessary
returns. Is it not remarkable that however slightly the j)resent
governor of Pennsylvania comes in contact with insurrection,
that delay becomes unavoidable in quelling it ?

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

New-York, April 3d, 1799.

Dear Sir :

Agreeably to your letter of the 25th of March, which, with its
inclosures have duly come to hand, I have written to the Pay-

^T. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 241

master-General to repair to the seat of government. Your letter
to Colonel Hamtranck goes by the same opportunity.

The arrangements for beginning to recruit in the States of
Connecticut, New-York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, and Dela-
ware are so mature, that it will be very extraordinary if the
business does not actually commence in a week.

Nothing in my power will be omitted to press it forward in
the other States. The prospect of success in the Middle and
Northern States is not bad.

I get nothing very precise about the insurrection. But every
thing continues to wear the character of feebleness in respect to
the measures for suppressing it ; and though I hope it will not
become very serious, yet it will not be astonishing if, from mis-
management, it should become more troublesome than it need '
to be.

With greatest respect and attachment, &c.

HAMILTON TO M'HENRY.

New-York, April 8, 1799.

Sir:

Nothing can be more desirable than a well-digested plan for
connecting the different parts of our military system, in regard to
the procuring and issuing of supplies. I send you the outline of
a scheme for that purpose. It is important that this, or a substi-
tute more eligible, should be without delay established. It is
particularly essential, that the channels through which supplies
are to pass to the troops, and the mode of application for them,
should be designated and understood. The plan now transmitted,
embraces this among other objects. I beg leave to urge a speedy
attention to the subject.

With great respect and consideration,

I have the honor to be, &c.
242 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 42.

Plan for the providing and issuing of Military Supplies,

The business of providing shall constitute one distinct branch
of service ; that of issuing, another.

The Purveyor shall be charged with the procuring of all sup-
plies, except those for which contracts are made directly by the
chiefs of the Treasury or War Departments.

The Superintendent of Military Stores shall superintend the
issues of all supplies.

The Purveyor shall have near him three assistants, by what-
soever denominations ; one, in relation to the supplies, which, ac-
cording to past practice, fall within the department of Quarter-
master-General, including the means of transportation ; another,
in relation to the supplies, which, according to past practice, fall
within the department of Commissary of Provisions, with the ad-
dition of medical and hospital stores ; a third, in relation to the
supplies, which, according to past practice, fall within the de-
partment of Commissary of Military Stores, with the addition of
■clothing. The person who now resides at the seat of govern-
ment, in quality of Quartermaster-General, may perform the duty
of the first-mentioned assistant.

The Superintendent of Military Stores shall have near him
three principal clerks, each of whom particularly to superintend
the issues in one of the above-mentioned branches, aided by as
many storekeepers as may be necessary.

The Purveyor shall have with each army a deputy, to be
charged with the procuring of all supplies necessary to be pro-
cured with the army.

The Superintendent shall have with each army a deputy, who
shall have under him three assistants; one, to superintend the
issues of Quartermaster's stores ; another, to superintend the issues
of provisions ; a third, to superintend the issues of other military
stores and clothing.

The Purveyor and his deputies shall deliver over all that
they provide to the Superintendent and his deputies. The actual
'Custody and issuing of articles to be with the storekeepers, pur-

^T.42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 243

suant to the written orders of the Superintendent and his
deputies.

The Quartermaster-General, with the main army, and the
Deputy Quartermaster-General, with each separate army, shall
have the superintendence of the deputies of the Purveyor, with
the respective armies ; to see that they do their duty according to
their instructions from the heads of their respective branches and
the order of the commander of the army.

The Inspector-General with the main army, and the deputy
Inspector- General with each separate army, shall have a like
charge of the deputies of the Superintendent of Military Stores.

These officers to serve as checks upon the respective depu-
ties, and points of union between the military and civil au-
thorities.

The Paymaster-General shall reside at the seat of govern-
ment, and be the fountain of all issues of money for the pay,
bounty, &c., of the troops. He shall have a deputy with each
army, who shall be charged with the issuing of all moneys to the
Regimental Paymasters.

The Quartermaster of each division shall be charged with the
procuring of all supplies, which may be occasionally necessary
for such division, in addition to the general supplies.

The Quartermaster of each brigade shall be charged with the
like duty, when the brigade is detached only ; and always with
the superintendence of the issues for such brigade, and conse-
quently with the direction of all brigade officers having the cus-
tody of supplies.

Each brigade shall have a Commissary of Forage, and another
of Provisions ; to be charged respectively with the issues of those
articles.

The Regimental Quartermaster shall receive and issue all
supplies for the regiment, except of money and clothing.

The Regimental Paymaster shall issue moneys for the recruit-
ing service to the company officers charged with that service,
pursuant to warrants from the commanding officer of the regi-
ment, or from the superintending officer of the recruiting service
for such regiment, taking from each an accountable receipt.

244 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 42.

Whenever it is practicable, he will himself pay the officers,
non-commissioned officers, and privates of his regiment, individu-
ally; when, by reason of distant detachments, this cannot be
done, he will deliver the money to the officers commanding com-
panies, or to the officers commanding parts of companies, at sta-
tions too distant for the agency of the commanders of companies ;
taking from each an accountable receipt. The money must, in
each case, be paid and issued, pursuant to pay rolls signed by
such commanding officers; and, wherever it is practicable, ac-
companied by the warrants of the commanding officers of the
regiments, or of battalions when detached.

For all moneys which shall be issued to officers, to be dis-
bursed by them, they shall account monthly with the Regimental
Paymaster, producing to him the requisite vouchers. Upon
every such accounting, he shall give a certificate of the substance
thereof to the officers Avith whom such accounting shall be, speci-
fying therein the vouchers which shall have been produced and
left with him. This accounting shall be provisional only, and
liable to the revision and control of the proper officer of the War
Department, to whom the accounts and vouchers must be for-
warded.

The same regulations, as nearly as the subject will admit,
shall be observed in respect to the issuing of clothing and other
articles (provisions excepted), which shall be issued to the non-
commissioned officers and soldiers, and in respect to the account-
ing for the same.

Every receipt for pay, bounty, or other matter, from a non-
commissioned officer or private who cannot write, shall be certi-
fied by a commissioned officer, who, wherever it shall be prac-
ticable, shall be other than the person for whom it is to serve as
a voucher.

All documents or returns, upon which issues of money or
other articles are to be made, must be countersigned by the chief
officer of the regiment or other particular corps for which the
same is to be issued.

The accounts of Regimental Paymasters and Quartermasters
shall, previous to their transmission to the War Department, be

Mt.4'2.] military papers.
presented to the commanders of regiments, or of battalions when
detached, and to the persons from whom respectively they shall
have received the objects for which they are accountable, who
shall summarily examine them, and certify their opinion re-
spectively.

The above regulations shall apply to all persons who may act
as substitutes for the officers to whom they relate.

All returns and requisitions for obtaining supplies from the
Department of War, shall go from the Deputy Superintendent of
Military Stores with each army to the said Superintendent.

Estimates of supplies shall be reported by the Deputy Quar-
termaster-General with each army to the commander of such
army, and shall be by him transmitted to the Secretary of War,
with his opinion.

Each deputy shall send a duplicate of every estimate to the
Quartermaster-General, who shall report to the Commander-in-
Chief general estimates for all the troops of the United States, il-
lustrated by the particular estimates, which general estimates
shall be transmitted by the Commander-in-Chief to the Secretary
of War. with his opinion.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

(private.)

Mount Vernon, April 10th, 1799.

My dear Sir:

I have received your letter of the 27th ult., inclosing a de-
sign of dividing the State of Virginia into divisions and sub-
divisions for the head-quarters of the rendezvouses in each,
asking my opinion of the proper distribution of them, for the
convenience of the recruiting service.

The grand division of the State I conceive to be well allotted,
and, with the following alterations, the subdivision of it may be
so likewise ; but of the latter, I can speak with no precision, be-

246 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 42.

cause of the number of new counties wliicb liave been estab-
lished, the situation of which I know not, and even the names of
some were unknown to me before.

The alterations I propose, are as follow :

1st. To make Hobb's Hole, instead of the Boiling Green, the
8th rendezvous (referring to the plan you sent me), because, as
you will perceive by the map of Virginia, Caroline county is
the uppermost in that sub-district, and the Boiling Green lies at
the upper corner of the said county.

2d. Let Fairfax and Loudon counties (which were formerly
one) form a subdivision in place of Fairfax and Fauquier, which
are separated by other counties. Alexandria or Leesburgh may
be the head-quarters of that rendezvous. The first is (compara-
tively) large and populous, and on navigation ; the other is 40
miles above navigation, and a small village ; both are healthy,,
and well supplied with provisions, &c.

8d. Prince William and Fauquier ought to be annexed, in-
stead of Prince William and Loudon, which join at the extreme
corners only. Dumfries in Prince William or Fauquier Court
House might be the rendezvous. The first is on navigation ; the
latter, 40 miles above, and more central.

4th. Yorktown is more in the centre of the 6th subdivision
than Wiliiamsburgh ; and,

5th. Northumberland Court House is too low for the 9tb
subdivision ; either Westmoreland or Eichmond Court Houses^
in point of centrality, would be more eligible.

General Lee's absence from home, canvassing for the ensuing
election of representatives to Congress, and an indisposition with
which he has (as I have lately heard) been seized^ has been, I
presume, the cause of your not having received an answer to
your letter ; for I am certain Mr. Bushrod Washington would
have left it at his house as he returned home, agreeably to his
promise to me.

Your letters to Colonels Parker and Bently I have forwarded!
by the post — the first, under cover to General Morgan, to whom
Parker is a neighbor ; the other, to Colonel Carrington, who will
be able to give it a safe conveyance to Eichmond — to the post-
ofhce in which it must have proceeded^

iET. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 247

Not an officer in this State (that lias come to my knowledge)
has yet received his commission, to the great dissatisfaction of
all, and relinquishment of many, who would no longer remain
in a state of suspense and idleness.
With great truth,

I remain.

My dear Sir,

Your affectionate humble servant,

Geo. Washington.

HAMILTON TO WILKINSON.

April 15th, 1799'.
April 20th, 1799.
April 25th, 1799.
May 24th, 1799.

General Hamilton presents his compliments to General Wil-
kinson, and sends him at foot, heads for conversations which it
is proposed to have, in order to call the attention of G. W. to
the several points. Most of them have, no doubt, been topics of
communication with the War Department, but the freedom and
particularity of conversation will yield additional lights, and
lead perhaps to a correct system for the management of our
Western affairs in their various relations.

Objects.

1. The disposition of our Western inhabitants towards the
United States and foreign powers.

2. The disposition of the Indians in the same aspect.

3. The disposition of the Spaniards in our vicinity — their
strength in number and fortification.

4. The best expedients for correcting or contracting hostile
propensities in any or all these quarters, including,

5. The best defensive disposition of the Western army, em-

248 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [tEt. 42.

bracing the country of Tennessee and the northern and north-
western lakes, and having an eye to economy and discipline.

6. The best mode (in the event of a mpture ivith Spain) of
attacking the two Floridas. Troops, artillery, &c., requisite.

7. The best plan of supplying the Western army with pro-
vision, transportation, forage, &c.

8. The best arrangement of command, so as to unite facility
of communication with the seaboard, and the proper combina-
tion of all the parts under the General commanding the Western
army.

HAMILTON TO M'HENRY.

New-York, April 17th, 1799.

Sir:

Your letters of the 15th and 16th are duly come to hand ;
that for Lieutenant Leonard, with the money, will be forwarded
without delay.

To-morrow I shall leave this place for Philadelphia. Sev-
eral things will best be settled by personal conference, which
in future will be mutually convenient, and will promote the
service.

With great respect, &c.

HAMILTON TO WALBACH.

New-York, April 17th, 1799.

Sir:

My object is to see exemplified the elementary evolution of
the cavalry, according to the systems of Prussia, France, and
Great Britain, in order to compare them with each other, and
select the best. For this purpose, I wished you to instruct

Mt. 42.]

MILITARY PAPERS. 249

in those different evolutions a troop of volunteer liorse, com-
manded by Captain Giles. I have spoken to this officer on the
subject, and I wish you to see him, and concert a plan to fulfil
the above purpose.

You will clearly understand, that I do not wish to extend
your attention to the more complicated movements, but to the
simple formation into columns, and display in line.

HAMILTON TO MCHENRY.

Philadelphia, April 20th, 1799.

Sir:

Inclosed are the proceedings of a General Court Martial, of
which Major Wilcocks is President. All the sentences except that
of Richard Hunt have been approved, and directed to be
executed. The corporal punishment in the case of Goldsberg, is
remitted agreeably to the recommendation of the court. You
will observe that the pay due to each of the offenders is forfeited.

As I do not conceive the United States to be now at war, in
the legal import of that term, (which I construe to be a state not
of partial but of general hostility,) I considered it as beyond my
power to approve or execute such sentences as by the articles of
war are referred to the President in time of peace. But while I
think it my duty on this ground to transmit the sentence with-
out acting upon it, I feel myself called upon by a profound con-
viction of the necessity of some severe examples to check a
spirit of desertion which, for want of them in time past, has
become too prevalent, and to respectfully declare my opinion
that the confirmation and execution of the sentence are of mate-
rial consequence to the prosperous course of the military service.
The crime of desertion is in this instance aggravated by the con-
dition of the offender, who is a sergeant, and by the breach of
trust, in purloining the money which was in his hands for the
pay of his company.

250 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 42.

HAMILTON TO M'^HENRY.

Philadelphia, April 23, 1799.

Sir:

Upon a careful inspection of tlie articles of war, I entertain
doubts, whether I can act upon, by approving or disapproving
sentences of courts martial, referred to me from the Department
of War in cases in which the courts have been instituted by that
department through organs other than myself.

As there is peculiar delicacy in inflicting punishment upon
questionable authority, I shall be glad to be exempted from the
embarrassment, which references of the above-mentioned kind
will occasion.*

M'^HENRY TO HAMILTON.

(Private.)

War Department, 23d April, 1799.

Dear Sir:

I wish you to state to me, 1st. The rule which in your opinion
will be the least exceptionable, whereby to determine the rela-
tive rank of the field officers of the new regiments and the
reasons for preferring the rule. 2d. Whether any objections
have occurred to you, which ought to induce any alteration in
the general rules of promotion suggested by the general officers
in the Commander-in-Chief's letter, dated the 13th December,
viz., " That all the officers shall rise in the regiments to which
they respectively belong up to the rank of major, inclusively,
that afterwards they shall rise in the line of the army at large,
with the limitation, however, that the officers of artillery, cavalry,

* I have written personally to Col. Strong to abstain from the execution of
martial law at Detroit till further orders, as I desire maturely to reflect on the sub-
ject before a definite step.

^T. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 251

and infantry shall be confined to their respective corps, until
they shall attain the rank of colonel."

HAMILTON TO M^'HENRY.

Philadelphia, April 26th, 1799.

Sir:

It being urgent that the two regiments of artillery should be
organized into companies, and disposed of to the several destina-
tions which you have contemplated, the result is, that a very in-
convenient delay would attend the making of that arrangement'
in concert with General Pinckney, as suggested in your late let-
ter. As, likewise, this arrangement is a mere matter of organi-
zation, the distribution of force having been previously deter-
mined upon, it is presumed there will not appear, on further
consideration, any sufficient motive for incurring the delay of
such a concert ; and that you will think it preferable, by the in-
tervention of your agency, to settle the arrangement, and commu-
nicate it for execution to the two major-generals.

In this expectation, I beg leave to submit to you the plan of
such an arrangement. The result will be seen in the paper here-
with transmitted.

A preliminary basis, in conformity with the rule by which
the twelve regiments have been numbered, is on the seaboard to
give the right to the first regiment, the left to the second. This,
as it happens, will occasion the least possible dislocation of the
companies from the present stations.

You will perceive that a battalion of the first regiment is left
to the western army ; and it so turns out that the number of offi-
cers in that quarter corresponds.

Another battalion of the same regiment is assigned to the
posts in Georgia and South Carolina, and a third to the posts in
North Carolina, Virginia, and Maryland.

The fourth will remain for the troops in the field, and may

252 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^x. 42.

be annexed to tliat part of the army under tlie command of Gene-
ral Pinckney.

One battalion of the second regiment is assigned to the posts
in Delaware, Pennsylvania, New Jersey, and New- York.

Another to the States eastward and northward of New -York.

The third is reserved for the field, and will naturally form a
part of my command.

The -fourth battalion of this regiment not being yet raised,
it of course cannot be comprehended in an immediate disposition.

In the association of officers for the companies, I have availed
myself of all the indications which I was able to discover of their
actual relations. But it may happen when situations and charac-
ters are better ascertained, that some alterations may promote
personal harmony, and benefit the service. It is therefore desi-
rable, that the adoption by you may be qualified by a view to
further information, to be obtained through the field officers, and
to eventual changes.

There were no indications to regulate the association of the
officers with the western army. It is consequently proposed to
refer this to Colonel Burbeck.

When you shall have approved the plan now presented, or
with such alterations as you may judge advisable, it will only
remain to communicate your determination to the two Major-
Generals, who will concert its prompt execution.

It is extremely to be wished that a commandant of the second
regiment may without delay be appointed. You are sensible how
much in the first stages of a military corps the want of the proper
chief must impede the establishment of order and discipline.

M HENRY TO HAMILTON.

(private.)

War Department, Ai)ril, 1799.

Dear Sir:

I have occasionally thought of the plan for providing and
issuing military supplies, submitted in your letter of the 8th in-

^T. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 253

stant. It strikes me that the additional assistants to the purveyor
and superintendent of military stores which it proposes, will tend
to facilitate both purchases and deliveries ; and the powers as-
signed to the inspector-general, and deputy inspector-general, and
quartermaster and deputy quartermaster-general with a separate
army over the deputies of the purveyors and superintendent
with the respective armies, to the discovery and correction of
abuses. The details of the business enjoined upon these officers,
are similar to those under a former establishment. There was
always with the main branch of the revolutionary army, the
quartermaster-general, commissary- general of issues and pur-
chases of provisions, the field commissary of military stores, and
deputy paymaster, whose duties were nearly the same as speci-
fied in the plan. So far, therefore, the plan is founded upon ex-
perience.

The rest of the plan appears to correspond with general prac-
tice and the arrangements suggested by an act of the 3d day of
March, and the position and duties you have concurred in with
respect to the paymaster-general.

I shall request Mr. Wolcott to consider the whole, when I
shall take it up for a final determination.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

(private.)

New-York, May 3d, 1799.

Dear Sir:

At length the recruiting for the additional regiments has
begun in Connecticut^ New-York^ New Jersey^ Pennsylvania^ and
Delaware. The inclosed return of clothing will sufiiciently ex-
plain to you that it has at least commenced as soon as the prepa-
rations by the Department of "War would permit. It might now
also proceed in Maryland and Massachusetts, and the next post
will, I trust, enable me to add Yirginia, but that I do not think

254 HAMILTON'S WORKS. ' [^Et. 42.

it expedient to outgo our supply of clotliing. It will have the
worst possible effect, if the recruits are to wait a length of time
for their clothing.

I anticipate your mortification at such a state of things.
Various causes are supposed to contribute to it.

It is said, that the President has heretofore not thought it of
importance to accelerate the raising of the army, and it is well
understood that the Secretary of the Treasury is not convinced
of its utility. Yet he affirms, that for a long time past he has
been ready and willing to give every aid depending on his
department.

The Secretary of War imputes the deficiency in the article of
clothing to a failure of a contract which he had made, and to the
difficulty of suddenly finding a substitute by purchases in the
market. It is therefore obvious, that the means which have
since been pursued have not been the best calculated for dis-
patch. The materials procured at distant places have been
brought to Philadelphia to be made up. They are stated to be
adequate in quantity.

You will observe that six are numbered 1. This applies to
a regiment in the western country. I proposed to the Secretary
to change the buttons. It has not been done.

Yet, if the Secretary's energies for execution were equal to
his good dispositions, the public service under his care would
prosper as much as could be desired. It is only to be regretted
that good dispositions will not alone suffice, and that, in the na-
ture of things, there can be no reliance that the future progress
will be more satisfactory than the past.

Means, I trust sufficient, have been taken to procure from
Europe a supply of clothing for the next year, and the Secretary
has assured me, that he would immediately take measures for
procuring a supply for the succeeding year.

As to other supplies, I believe things are in tolerable train,
and that there is a certainty of the most essential articles in due
abundance.

The officers for North Carolina have been appointed. No
nominations have come forward from South Carolina.

Mr. 42.]

MILITARY PAPERS. 255

Not a single field-officer has yet been appointed for the regi-
ment to be raised in New Hampshire, Vermont, and Ehode
Island. It seems the members of Congress dissuaded from the
nomination of those who were proposed by the General officers,
and promised to recommend preferable characters; but this
promise has not yet been performed. This want of organiza-
tion is an obstacle to the progress of the affairs of this regi-
ment.

It is understood that the President has resolved to appoint
the officers to the provisional army, and that the Secretary
has thought fit to charge the Senators of each State with the
designation of characters.

With the truest respect and attachment, &c.

HAMILTON TO MCHENRY.

New-York, May 3d, 1799.

Sir:

After mature reflection on the subject of your letter of the
26th of last month, I am clearly of opinion that the President
has no power to make, alone, the appointment of officers to the
battalion which is to be added to the second regiment of artil-
lerists and engineers.

In my opinion, ^^ vacancy" is a relative term, and presupposes
that the office has been once filled. If so, the power to fill a
vacancy is not the power to make an original appointment.
The terms " which may have happened," serve to confirm this
construction. They imply casualty, and denote such offices as,
having been once filled, have become vacant by accidental cir-
cumstances. This, at least, is the most familiar and obvious
sense, and, in a matter of this kind, it could not be advisable to
exercise a doubtful authority.

It is clear that, independent of the authority of a special law,

256 HAMILTON'S WORKS. * [tEt. 42.

tlie President cannot fill a vacancy which happens during a ses-
sion of the Senate.

HAMILTON TO M'^HENEY.

New-York, May 18th, 1799.

Sir:

It is urgent that arms for the troops to be raised be at the
regimental rendezvous as speedily as possible.

Military pride is to be excited and kept up by military
parade. No time ought to be lost in teaching the recruits the
use of arms. Guards are necessary as soon as there are soldiers,
and these require arms.

When I came to see the hats furnished for the 12th regiment,
I was disappointed and distressed.

The Commander-in-Chief recommended cocked hats. This
always means, hats cocked on three sides. I was assured that
cocked hats were provided. I repeated the assurance to the
officers. But the hats received are only capable of being cocked
on one side, and the brim is otherwise so narrow, as to consult
neither good appearance nor utility. They are also without
cockades and loops.

Nothing is more necessary than to stimulate the vanity of
soldiers. To this end, a smart dress is essential. When not at- i
tended to, the soldier is exposed to ridicule and humiliation. If •■
the articles promised to him are defective in quality or appear-
ance, he becomes dissatisfied, and the necessity of excusing the
public delinquency towards him, is a serious bar to the enforce-
ment of discipline. The government of the country is not now
in the indigent situation in which it was during our revolution-
ary war. It possesses, amply, the means of placing its military
on a respectable footing, and its dignity and its interest equally
require that it shall act in conformity with this situation. This
course is indeed indispensable, if a faithful, zealous, and well

jEt. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 257

regulated army is thought necessary to the security or defence
of the country.

HAMILTON TO HAMTRANCK.

New-York, May 2.3d, 1799.

Sir:

* * * You are aware that the Governors of the Northwestern
Territory and the Mississippi Territory, are severally €X officio
superintendents of Indian affairs. The management of those
affairs, under the direction of theSecretary of War, appertains to
them. The military in this respect are only to be auxiliary to
their plans and measures. In saying fhis, it must not be under-
stood that they are to direct military dispositions and opera-
tions. But they are to be the organs of all negotiations and
communications between the Indians and the government.
They are to determine when and where supplies are to be fur-
nished to those people, and what other accommodations they are
to have. The military, in regard to all such matters, are only
to act as far as their co-operation may be required by the Super-
intendent, avoiding interferences without previous concert with
them, or otherwise than in conformity with their views. This
will exempt the military from a responsibility which had better
rest elsewhere, and it will promote a regular and uniform system
of conduct towards the Indians; which cannot exist if every
commandant of a post is to intermeddle separately and independ-
ently in the management of the concerns which relate to them.

This communication is made in conformity with an instruc-
tion from the Secretary of War ; who particularly desires that
*' The military officers may be required to refer the Indians, in
all matters relating to their national affairs or grievances, to the
Governor of the Northwestern Territory and the Governor of
the Mississippi Territory, or the temporary Indian Agent near-
est to their post, as the case may require ; and that the com-
mandants of the posts in the Mississippi Territory may be in-
E 17

258 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 42.

structed to furnish on the order of Governor Sergeant, when
the same can be spared, such rations for the Indians who may
visit the said posts, as he may from time to time direct."

This letter being addressed to you as the temporary com-
mander in the presumed absence of General Wilkinson, you will
act on it accordingly ; recollecting that your attention is to ex-
tend to all the troops and posts from Pittsburgh westward, to
the Mississippi, on the lakes and Tennessee; in short, to all
which constitute the western army and its dependencies.

But in saying this, as a guide to you, it is not my intention
to contravene any arrangements of command which General
Wilkinson may have made previous to his departure.

CIECULAK.

New-York, May 23d, 1799.

Sir:

It is important to the service in every way, that vacancies
which happen in the several regiments should be as speedily as
possible filled. As no person can be more interested in this be-
ing done, and with a careful selection of character, than the com-
mandants of regiments, it is desirable that they should, from
time to time, propose to the general under whose command they
may be, candidates for filling those vacancies, in order that they
may be by him offered to the consideration of the Executive.

In doing this, however, it must be recollected, that there is
no part of his functions in which it is upon principle more essen-
tial, that the Executive should be perfectly free from extrinsic
influence of every kind than that of the choice of officers. Hence
it is proper that no expectation should be entertained that the
characters presented for consideration will be preferred, that no
encouragement should be given to them which may occasion
embarrassment or chagrin in case of their not being adopted,
and that no inferences painful to the person recommending

yEx. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 259

should be drawn from the failure of tlie recommendation. This
failure will doubtless often happen. Information of more eligi-
ble candidates will frequently come through other channels.
Collateral considerations will in no small number of instances
occur, which, between candidates of equal pretensions, will natur-
ally lead to a preference of persons who may have been present-
ed through other channels.

In a word, the recommendation of the commandant is only
to be considered as one mode in which information of fit charac-
ters may be conveyed to the Executive.

It occasionally happens that experience leads to alterations
in the sub-districts or their rendezvouses. It is expected that
whenever this happens, the commandant within whose circle it
occurs, will give notice of the change to the contractor of his
circle, in order that provision may be made for the requisite
supply.

It is understood that some misapprehension has existed
among some recruiting ofl&cers about the articles which the con-
tractors and their agents are to supply.

It will be proper to signify to them that these are only to
embrace ^rovmows, quarters, fuel, straw, and, where there is no
surgeon, medical aid and supply.

HAMILTON TO irHENKY.

New-York, May 23, 1 '99.

***** Embarrassment being likely to grow out of
the question about the sales of the Indians to the individuals al-
luded to, will it not be expedient for the public to hold a treaty
with them, and make the acquisition of the lands to the use of
the United States ? A small compensation to the Indians will
satisfy all their scruples, and the United States will be enabled:
to control the intrusions of the irregular purchasers. Otherwise
it is probable settlements will grow up under their titles hostile

260 HAMILTON'S WORKS. f^x. 42.

to government, because originally in disobedience to law. It
may also be a question whether, if by the effect of their pur-
chase the acquisition can be made by the United States on easier
terms, it may not be advisable to extinguish their pretensions by
the grant- of a portion of their lands. This probably may be
accomplished without difficulty. Temporising measures on a
distant frontier are often proper for a government which does not.
choose to keep on foot a considerable force, effectually to awe
sedition and hostility.

HAMILTON TO COL. STEVENS.

New-York, May 24, 1799.

:Sir:

I understand from the Secretary of War, that in the capacity
■of agent for the War Department I am to look to you for the
■duties usually performed by the quartermaster-general and
■ commissary of military stores. I shall look to you accordingly
•for these services, and therefore shall direct all returns relating
to the proper objects to be made to you, in the expectation that
you vi^ill attend to the procuring and forwarding of such as are
.required with propriety. With this view you will open a cor-
respondence with the proper officers at the seat of government.
The present system is that Tench Francis, Esq., as purveyor of
supplies, procures all articles in the several branches of supply,
which are placed by him in the disposition of Samuel Hodgdon,
Esq., as superintendent of military stores, who is to oversee all
the issues of those articles. I believe the quartermaster-general
is to take his station at the seat of government, and is to be the
auxiliary of those officers.

It is expected that the great mass of supplies will be procured
.and furnished by the immediate agency of the officers above
.mentioned, and that you will only be incidentally called upon to
provide. But you will have to make application for the supplies
avhich will be wanted at the different stations and posts of the

^T.42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 261

army, and to see that they are punctually and expeditiously fur-
nished by those whose province it is to do so. For this purpose
you will forward to them the returns which you shall receive,
first taking such abstracts from them as will enable you to judge
how far they have been complied with. This points out the
general line of the service expected from you. Explanations, as
occasions occur, will be made for your more particular infor-
mation.

I shall count fully upon your diligence and zeal, and if not
in the first instance, at least eventually, I shall confide that a
compensation adequate to what shall appear to be the extent of
your trouble and responsibility will be made.

HAMILTON TO M'HENRY.

New*York, May 25, 1799.

Sir:

I recur to two of your letters of the 9 th and 10th instant.
The reflections in the first respecting the enlistment of foreign-
ers entirely accord with my impressions, as you have heretofore
seen. I adhere to the opinion, that none but natives or natural-
ized citizens ought to be engaged. Of the latter, residence in
this country anterior to our Revolution, to be proved to the satis-
faction of the recruiting officer, or a certificate of the naturali-
zation, ought to be the criterion, and none ought to be enlisted
who have not resided in the county where they shall be enlisted
at least one year immediately preceding the enlistment.

It is true that contraventions of the rule, by imposition upon,
or connivance of the recruiting officers, will in some instances
happen. But they will not be so numerous as to prevent the
object being essentially attained.

The idea is held out in your letter of postponing the enlist-
ment of foreigners until after a district should be exhausted of
natives willing to enlist. I should doubt the expediency of a

262 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 42.

distinction wliich is not permanent. The preference might cre-
ate disgust and perhaps an injurious collision.

I shall be glad to know speedily the result of your further
consideration of the subject.

P. S. In a scene so near the seat of government as that in
which the late insurrection has existed, and so perfectly within
its command, the policy of stationing, for any length of time, a
small body of foot soldiers, with the manifest intention to awe
the spirit of insurrection, appears to me questionable. Were I
at liberty to pursue my own inclination, I should now order the
troops to their destinations to which they have been assigned.

Under this impression, I inclose an order for Capt. Henry's
company to proceed to Powles Hook, on his way to his ultimate
destination in the eastern quarter. If you approve, you will
please to forward it. Capt. Freeman's company at West Point,
which is to form part of the battalion for the field, is ordered to
New- York, whence, if you think proper, it can march to replace
Capt. Henry's company.

HAMILTON TO MTHERSON.

New-York, May 26th, 1799.

Dear Sir:

The Secretary of War has instructed me to digest and pro-
pose a plan for the organization and arrangement of the volun-
teer corps throughout the United States. As this subject has
particularly occupied your attention, I shall be glad to be assisted
with your ideas at large concerning it.

You will be sensible that it is necessary to order, that every
part of our military system should, as nearly as may be, corres-
pond, and that consequently the establishment of the army ought
to form the base of every plan ; yet so as to have due regard to
any peculiarities which ought to discriminate corps of a distinct
and particular nature.

^T. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 263

HAMILTON TO M'HENRY.

New-York, May 27th, 1799.

Sir:

The returns from every quarter show that desertion prevails
to a ruinous extent. For this the natural remedies are: 1st,
greater attention to discipline ; 2d, additional care in furnishing
the supplies due to the soldiery, of such quality and with such
exactness as will leave no real cause of dissatisfaction ; 3d, the for-
bearance to enlist foreigners; and lastly, energy in the punish-
ment of offenders.

To promote the first will be my peculiar care. The second,
I doubt not, will have from you all the attention due to a matter
of primary importance. The third I hope soon to receive your
instruction to put in execution. As to the fourth, I must en-
treat that you will make such a representation to the President
as will convince him of the absolute necessity, where his agency
must intervene, of giving effect to the sentences of the courts
His determination upon one some time sinpe reported to you has
not yet been received, and I expect it with great solicitude;
there cannot occur a more fit ease for exemplary punishment.
If this culprit escapes, the example of his impunity will have a
most malignant aspect towards the service. I repeat it, sir, this
is a point of such essential consequence, that you cannot bestow
too much pains to satisfy the President that severity is indis-
pensable. It is painful to urge a position of this kind, especially
where life is concerned ; but a military institution must be worse
than useless, it must be pernicious, if a just severity does not up-
hold and enforce discipline.

264 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 42.

M'^HENRY TO HAMILTON,

War Department, 28th May, 1799.

Sir:

I have received your letter dated 25t'h instant. The experi-
ment of enlisting none but native citizens or naturalized foreign-
ers at present in our army, I am much disposed to have fully
made ; the criterion of the latter to be either a residence in this
country anterior to the Eevolution, to be proved to the satisfac-
tion of the recruiting of&cer, or a certificate of naturalization.

You will, therefore, be pleased to cause an explanatory arti-
cle upon this subject to be duly promulgated to the recruiting
officers.

My own impressions would have inclined me to maintain a
regular force in the country late the scene of insurrection, for
some time to come, had it been compatible with the public ser-
vice in other respects; but it is exclusively confided to your
judgment to continue or remove the vfhole or any part of the
regular force now stationed in that country.

I shall forward your letter to the commanding officer afe
Eeading, directing him to order Capt. Cochrane to march his
company to Fort Mifilin.

HAMILTON TO CAPTAIN ELLERY.

New- York, May 29th, 1799.

Sir:

You having been appointed assistant to the Adjutant-General,
and he being at this time absent, I think it proper to indicate to
you a general outline of the duties which you are to perform.

The duties of Adjutant-General, who unites the capacity of
Deputy Inspector-General, are various and extensive. In the
two characters he may be regarded as the assistant of the com-

^T. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 265

mander of the army and of the Inspector-General in whatever re-
lates to the police and tactics of the army.

He is to receive from the commanding general, and issue to
the army, the general orders, for which purpose he is to attend
the commanding general daily. He is to regulate the detail of
officers and men for guards, fatigue service, commands, &c., and
to see that they are regularly furnished. All returns of the
troops, including those relating to the inspectorship, and, when
the Paymaster-General or his deputy is not at head-quarters, the
muster and pay rolls, are to be made to him. From the returns
of the troops which he receives he is from time to time to make
out abstracts for the commander of the army and the Secretary
of War.

For the present, a monthly return for each will suffice. The
returns relating to the inspectorship are to be handed over to the
Inspector-General, with such remarks as may occur from an
examination of them.

The muster and pay rolls must be transmitted to the account-
ant of the Department of War, unless when the Paymaster-
General shall be at the seat of the government, in which case
they must be sent to him.

Practice will point out better than a letter can define the
modes of executing the duties of the office.

To understand them perfectly, it is essential to be well ac«
quainted with the " Regulations for the Order and Discipline of
the Army," established under the auspices of the Baron de
Steuben during our Revolution war, " The Articles of War," and
the " Rules and Regulations respecting the Recruiting Service "

266 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 42.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

(private.)

Mount Vernon, June 6, 1799.

Dear Sir :

I have duly received your letter of the 3d of May, and am
glad to find that the recruiting service is likely to progress with-
out further delay. To facilitate this, nothing will contribute more
than clothing.

It is certainly necessary to push on this business with proper
energy, and be provided with an ample and timely supply of
every article wanted, if it is expected that such troops as we
have, should be in any degree respectable. This, I trust, will be
done. And I should hope, ere this, that the field ofiicers for the
regiment to be raised in New Hampshire, &c., have been ap-
pointed.

It is very desirable that the selection of characters to officer
the regiments, eventually to be raised, should be such as will do
credit to the service, if they should be called into the field. The
Secretary of War has requested me to furnish him with a list of
names for the quota from Virginia, which I am taking measures
to do ; but owing to my long absence from this State, I have so
little personal knowledge of characters, that I must rely very
much on the information of others in whom I can confide.
With very sincere regard, I am, dear sir,

You affectionate humble servant, &c.

HAMILTON TO HAMTRANCK.

(private.)

New-York, June 6th, 1799.

Dear Sir:

I duly received your private letters of the and the 25th

of January last, to which a very extraordin^jry pressure of busi-

^T. 42.]

MILITARY PAPERS. 267

ness has prevented a reply. Such of your remarks as are
personal to me are very gratifying.

I hope your expectations will not finally be disappointed,
though it will require time before a complete organization of
what is now a very disjointed mass, will enable me to establish a
perfect order. Zeal, at least, my friends know will not be
wanting.

The request you make with respect to yourself, though
unusual, is very natural, considering past experience. It will not
fail to influence my advice, unless I perceive that your feelings
and your interest as a soldier can be mutually consulted.

Communicate to me freely and confidentially on the subject
of western afiairs, you are sure of my discretion and honor.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

New-York, June 7th, 1799^

Dear Sir:

I did myself the honor to write to you at some length on the
3d of May, I hope the letter got safe to hand.

The recruiting service is now in motion in Maryland, Dela-
ware, Pennsylvania, New Jersey, New- York, Connecticut, and
Massachusetts; I might, perhaps, add Virginia, from the assu.
ranees which I have received as to the transmission of supplies,
but I am not as yet informed of its actual commencement in that
State. This cannot be much longer delayed.

The field officers for the regiment, which embraces New
Hampshire, Vermont and Ehode Island, have been lately ap-
pointed. They are Kufus Graves, lieutenant-colonel; Timothy
Tarling and Cornelius Lynde, majors. The moment money and
clothing shall arrive the recruiting will begin there and in North
Carolina. But I do not view this as very near.

I do not understand that the officers for South Carolina and
Georgia have yet been recommended.

268 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 42.

The information I receive as to the progress and prosperity
of the recruiting service, is sufficiently encouraging. Colonel
Taylor, commandant of the regiment raising in Connecticut,
assures me that he is persuaded, if no obstacle arises from sup-
plies, that in two months his regiment will be filled by native
Americans, From other quarters the intelligence is very well.
I permit myself to hope that in the summer and fall the army will
be at its complement.

I send you a copy of the arrangement which has been made
of the two regiments of artillerists ; measures are taking to carry
it into execution ; — the distribution of the officers of the western
army is referred to Colonel Burbeck.

There is nothing further in the military line worthy of your
attention to communicate. When I shall have obtained more
assistance I shall write more frequently.

A letter from Mr. King contains this unpleasant intelligence.
The publication of the treaty of Camipo-Forraio by the Directory
will injure the affiiirs of the emperor. It will increase the jealousy
of the king of Prussia and of the emperor, whose safety and
interests were too little in view in that treaty. There is no end
to the folly of the potentates who are arrayed against France.
We impatiently expect further accounts of the operations of the
archduke, and entertain a strong hope that his genius and energy
will turn to good account the advantage he has gained.

Most respectfully and affectionately I have the hopor to be, &c.

HAMILTON TO ADLUM.

New-York, June 8th, 1799.

Sir:

It is conceived to be expedient for some time to come, to
keep a body of troops in and near that district of country in
which the late insurrection existed. For this service, it is in-
tended for the present to continue the troops now at Eeading,

^T. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 269

viz. : two companies of artillerists (Elliot's and Irvin's) ; a com-
pany of infantry (Shoemaker's), and a detachment of infantry
under Lieutenant Boote. General McPherson recommended the
occupying of three stations, Reading^ Allentown^ and Easton. If
the corps of troops was more considerable, I should entirely ap-
prove this idea. But to render them at all impressive, there
must not be too few at one point. I have thought that a company
at Easton, and the remainder at Heading, might be the best dis-
position.

It is my desire that you assume the command of the whole
body, as above described, and that you make such a disposition
of it in reference to those points, as information on the spot shall
induce you to prefer. This command need not interfere with
the duties to which you have been assigned, in regard to the re-
cruiting service. You must so manage as to reconcile the two
objects with each other.

HAMILTON TO MAJOR HOOPS.

New- York, June 10th, 1799.

Sir:

You will cause McGregor to be furnished with the requisite
certificates, from the captain of his company, and the acting sur-
geon, in order to an.application to me for a discharge. The ser-
vice is best rid of such men.

I am desirous of seeing in practice the French manual of the
artillery, in order to a comparison of it with our own. The ne-
cessary apparatus, if not in the garrison, will be provided by
Colonel Stevens, on your application, showing him this para-
graph of my letter.

If you have not in the garrison some jfield-pieces, you will
obtain four from Colonel Stevens, in order to the exercise of the
men ; if he has none belonging to the United States, you will, in
my name, request a loan out of those belonging to the State.

I requested that Captain Eead, lately from West Pointy

270 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 42.

miglit be directed to call ■upon me. As lie has not called, I pre-
sume my note to you must have miscarried. I request that he
may be informed of my desire to see him.

HAMILTON TO

New-York, June 12th, 1799.

It will be with great regret that I shall at any time see in the
conduct of an officer intentional negligence or disrespect. I am
the less disposed to suppose either in the present case, because it
is impossible to imagine a motive. Yet I owe it to propriety to
remark, that your continued silence has been ill-judged.

The obstacles which you mention to the making of the re-
turns, did not render it impracticable to acknowledge the receipt
of my letters, and to inform me of the causes of delay, and of
what was intended, which certainly ought to have been done.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

(private.)

New-York, June 15th, 1799.

Dear Sir:

I wrote to you a few days since, chiefly to inform you of the
progress of the measures respecting the recruiting service, and
that the symptoms with regard to it were sufficiently promising.
The accounts continue favorable.

I have just received a letter from General Wilkinson, dated
the 13th April, in which he assures ^me he will set out in the
ensuing month for the seat of government. The interview with
him will be useful.

It strikes me forcibly, that it will be right and expedient to

JEt. 42.]

MILITARY PAPERS. 271

advance this gentleman to tlie grade of major-general. He lias
been long steadily in service, and long a brigadier. This, in so-
considerable an extension of the military establishment, gives
him a pretension to promotion.

I am aware, that some doubts have been entertained of him,
and that his character on certain sides, gives room for doubt.
Yet he is at present in the service, is a man of more than ordina-
ry talent, of courage and enterprise — has discovered upon various
occasions a good zeal — has embraced military pursuits as a pro-
fession, and will naturally find his interest, as an ambitious man,
in deserving the favor of the government ; while he will be apt
to become disgusted, if neglected ; and through disgust may be
rendered really what he is now only suspected to be. Under
such circumstances, it seems to me good policy to avoid all just
grounds of discontent, and to make it the interest of the indivi-
dual to pursue his duty.

If you should be also of this opinion, I submit to your consi-
deration, whether it would not be advisable for you to express it
in a private letter to the Secretary of War.

HAMILTON TO M'HENRY.

New-York, June 16th, 1799.

Dear Sir:

Seeing the terrible delays which take place, is it not advisa-
ble immediately to authorize your agent at New-York and Bos-
ton, to take prompt measures for increasing your supply of cloth-
ing, tents, and such other articles as are in arrear ? Considering
past experience, can you possibly depend on the present plan for
the future supply ? If blue cloth cannot be found for the whole,
better to take some other color by entire regiments for those
which have not yet begun to recruit.

The Brest fleet is out. Its destination is in all probability
Ireland ; but ought we so entirely to rely upon this as to omit

272 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 42.

to take the precaution of having some fast-sailing vessels on the
look-out before our principal ports, Charleston, the entrance of
the Chesapeake, the Delaware, New- York, Newport, Boston —
with perhaps the establishment of signals ?

It would be awkward to be entirely surprised, and to have
some of our banks fall into the hands of the Philistines. When
we think of Egypt, we ought not to consider the attempt as im-
practicable. Announcing that it is a mere act of caution with-
out intelligence, no inconvenient alarm will be created. It may
even be useful to bring home to the minds of our citizens, that
our government does not deem an invasion impossible.

Colonel Stevens informs me, that some time since the United
States lent to New- York a thousand stand of arms, which are
exposed in a situation to be lost, and are not wanted by the
State. There is no reason why their return should not be
asked.

HAMILTON TO MCHENRY.

New-York, June 18. 1799.

Sir :

You will be pleased to receive herewith a statement of the
articles of supply requisite for a regiment of infantry. It is ne-
cessary that the full quantity, including what has been hereto-
fore forwarded, should be transmitted as fast as possible, with all
the diligence that can be made. It is not probable that they
will arrive too soon.

After the proportion which was indicated in the first in-
stance, shall have been furnished to the several regiments of
which the of&cers have been appointed, the additional supply
had best be forwarded, first to the 10th, 11th, 12th, and 13th,
regiments ; next to the 8th, 9th, and 14th ] then to the 7th and
15th ; and lastly to the 6th and 16th.

An additional supply of bounty-money sufficient, with what
has been already sent, for the raising of three-fourths of each

JEt. 42.]

MILITARY PAPERS. 273

regiment, ought immediately to be furnished to the 10th, 11th,
12th, and 13th regiments ; and it will be well to forward to the
paymaster of each of these regiments, one month's pay, with the
addition of the retained bounty for one-third of a regiment,
exclusive of officers. If this is determined upon, I shall be glad
to be advised of the determination.

P. S. The inclosed copy of a general order of the 6th instant,
is conformable to your instructions by letter. You will judge
whether any further or more formal sanction is requisite.

CIRCULAR TO COMMANDANT.

New-York, June 19th, 1799.

Sir:

Inclosed is the form of a monthly return which you are to
make to me pursuant to the XXXVth of the " rules and regula-
tions respecting the recruiting service. It now becomes urgent,
that these returns shall be regularly made. They will gov-
ern my application to the Secretary of War for provisions of
money.

You will consequently enforce punctuality in the returns
which, according to these rules and regulations, must be the
basis of that now prescribed. And you will be particularly at-
tentive to procuring the regular transmission of all those docu-
ments which are to regulate the accountability for money and
other supplies.

As soon as recruits shall reach the regimental rendezvous,
they must be definitively mustered. This duty for the present
must devolve upon you with the aid of your regimental sur-
geon. If none has been appointed, you must, with the co-opera-
tion of the contractors, employ a capable medical man in his
stead ; and it is relied upon, that this service will be executed
with exemplary strictness.
E 18

274 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 42.

The disability of rupture is found in experience to occur fre-
quently. The surgeon must inspect without ceremony, wherever
there may be latent defects. And all disqualified men, from
whatever cause, must be instantly discharged, first taking from
them, as far as practicable, whatever they may have obtained
from the public by imposing themselves upon its service.

No money, after the arrival at the regimental rendezvous,
must be paid to a soldier, till he shall have been thus carefully
examined and mustered.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Mount Vernon, June 19th, ITQS'.

Dear Sir :

Your favor of the 7th instant, with its inclosures, has been
duly received.

I am very glad to learn that the recruiting business, so far as
it has been put in operation, succeeds agreeably to your wishes.
It has commenced in Virginia, and I am informed that, in this
vicinity, (and I have no intelligence from the more distant parts
of the State,) its progress is very flattering. A supply of cloth-
ing would, however, promote this service even hereabouts ; and
unless it be furnished soon, I am apprehensive it will languish, if
not stop entirely.

I understand, by a letter which I received a few days since
from General Pinckney, that the selection of ofiicers from North
and South Carolina, and Georgia, has been transmitted to the
War Office. I hope, on every account, there will be no delay in
completing this arrangement.

The disposition you have made of the artillery regiments is,
I have no doubt, just and proper, and calculated to promote the
good of the service.

I thank you for the information from Mr. King. I have long
believed that France owes the facility of her conquests more to

^Et. 42.]

MILITARY PAPERS. 27i

the jealousy and want of cordial co-operation among the powers
of Europe, whose interest it is to check her desolating ravages,
than to any exertions of her own, great as they may have been.
It appears from every account, (although there is none so full
and distinct as I could wish,) that her armies have not only been
checked, but obliged to retreat. And her internal affairs do not
seem to be in the best situation. Should these advantages be
properly improved, I think the happiest effects may result from
them.

With very sincere regard, I am, dear Sir,

Your affectionate and obedient servant,

HAMILTON TO M'^HENRY.

New-York, June 21st, 1799.

Sir:

The suggestion respecting the cavalry, in your letter of the
18th instant, leads to the supposition that the actual raising of
the additional troops will be postponed for a considerable time.
Though I have no doubts that powerful motives will have influ-
enced this intention, yet I cannot but regret their existence, as
well because the body of cavalry provided for would promise
signal utility in various ways, as because it is a corps which
requires more time for instruction and preparation than the
infantry.

It appears reasonable that the oflEicers of the cavalry should
render services for the emoluments they receive ; but the plan
of employing them out of the proper line is attended with very
great difficulties. Nothing is more delicate than to contravene
established prepossessions in an army, and there is none more
fixed than the dislike of officers of cavalry to serve as officers of
infantry, except in extraordinary and temporary emergencies.

Give me leave to offer to your consideration a middle course.

276 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 42.

Let one troop be raised and mounted, and the non-commissioned
officers of the remainder be enlisted. Let these be stationed at
some eligible point, and let all the officers be collected there for
instruction and exercise. In this situation, it will be more
manageable, if desirable, to detach them from time to time on
infantry service. The tactics of both corps can be taught them
together.

Colonel Taylor is anxious for the appointment of Doctor
Joseph Trowbridge as surgeon to his regiment. I repeat the
wish that the officers of this description may be as speedily as
possible appointed.

MCHENRY TO HAMILTON.

War Department, June 24th, 1799.

Sir:

I received this morning your letter of the 21st instant.

The remarks you have offered relative to the cavalry, are de-
serving of attention ; and the course you propose, which com-
bines a temporary saving with immediate employment for the
officers, in a mode conformable to the Constitution, of this kind
of troops, will be considered. I shall inform you of the result,
I observe, however, that my .present opinion is, it will be best to
adopt the mode you propose.

The nomination for surgeon and mates for the 13th, or Lieu-
tenant-Colonel Taylor's regiment, will be forwarded to the Presi-
dent the moment I hear from Mr, Tracy respecting a mate which
he recommended, about whom he is to consult Colonel Taylor.
The nomination has been postponed, waiting for the approbation
of Lieutenant-Colonel Taylor for fit characters.

I requested you, the 4th of June, to name to me fit persons
for surgeon and mates to the 12th regiment. I shall, as soon
as I receive your nominations, forward them to the President.

^T. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 277

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.
(private.)

Mount Vernon, June 25th, 1799.

Dear Sir :

Your private letter of the 15th instant came duly to hand.

So far as my information extends (which, by the by, is very
limited), the recruiting service in this State progresses beyond
my expectation, but is retarded very considerably from the want
of clothing — the ragged appearance of the recruits having a
tendency to disgust rather than to excite enlistments.

I think with you, that policy dictates the expediency of pro-
moting Brigadier Wilkinson to the rank of Major-General, and
will suggest the measure to the Secretary of War, in a private
communication. It would feed his ambition, soothe his vanity,
and, by arresting discontent, produce the good effect you con-
template. But in the appointment of this gentleman, regard
must be had to time, circumstances, and dates ; otherwise, by
endeavoring to avoid Charybdis, we might run upon Scylla.

What I mean by this is, that the President might deem it
expedient to take the next Major-General from the Eastern
States; again, may recur to the former appointments of that
grade in the provisional army; and further, if services in the
revolutionary army are to be regarded, to relative rank, also, in
dating the commissions of the Major-Generals yet to be ap-
pointed.

If General Wilkinson should be promoted, it would be ex-
pected, no doubt, that the oldest Lieutenant-Colonel command-
ant should step into his shoes as Brigadier ; of course the oldest
Major of the old line would succeed to the vacancy occasioned
thereby. Who and what the character of these gentlemen are,
I know not. The measure deserves consideration.

I am, always.

Your affectionate, &c.

278 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 42.

HAMILTON TO M^HENEY.

(private.)

New-York, June 25th, 1799.

My Deae Sm :

I conclude from your letter by to-day's post, that your own
opinion in regard to the raising of a troop of horse, is made up,
and that you only delay a determination from the necessity of
a reference elsewhere. This is a point that I have so much at
heart, that I should be sorry any thing was risked about it. If
you think there is the least danger of disappointment, I will
write to the Commander-in-Chief to obtain for you the support
of his ideas.

It is of very material consequence to have a troop raised, as
a stock on which to ingraft a system of tactics for the cavalry.
Hitherto, it may be said, we have had none. Improvements are
going on in Europe. This particular arm is not brought to per-
fection even there. Opinions are somewhat unsettled. It is very
desirable to have an organ by which we can essay the various
plans, and upon which we can establish the model of a good
system.

As to the two troops already raised, they ought to remain
where they are.

Another subject :

General Wilkinson is soon expected. I am strongly inclined
to see him made a Major-General. He has had now a great deal
of experience ; he possesses considerable military information ; he
has activity, courage, and talents ; his pretensions to promotion,
in every view, are strong. If he should become disgusted with-
out it, it would not be extraordinary.

Half-confidence is always bad. This officer has adopted mili-
tary life as a profession. What can his ambition do better than
be faithful to the government, if it gives him fair play ?

^T.42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 279

HAMILTON" TO MATTHEW CLAKKSON.

New- York, June 25, 1799.

Dear General:

The officers of the provisional army are intended to be
appointed. Those for two regiments are to be drawn from this
State, and I am desired to recommend fit characters. As far as
you can give me assistance in this matter you will promote the
public service and oblige me.

Any old officer who may deserve attention, will do well to
reflect that when this army shall be called into activity, the
affairs of the country will be too serious to permit him to remain
a mere spectator.

If the command of a brigade were in quesfion, I should press
you to obtain your consent to serve. As it is I can only ask
your aid in the nomination of others.

HAMILTON TO MCHENRY.

Jane 25, 1799.
***** The clothing and equipments of the army are
undergoing a systematic revision. Nothing has been altered or
established in regard to the apparatus or exercise of this corps
(the artillerists). The practice at different posts is various. I
have directed part of the troops now at Fort Jay to be instructed
in the French method, to enable me to compare that with our
former method, and to decide which is preferable. Present con-
viction is, that a separation between the engineering and artillery
branches is necessary to the perfection of each.

280 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^x. 42.

AN ACT FOR THE BETTER ORGANIZING THE CORPS OF ARTILLE-
RISTS AND ENGINEERS, TO BE HEREAFTER DENOMINATED
" THE CORPS OF ENGINEERS AND ARTILLERISTS."

Draft by Hamilton.

1799.

1. Be it enacted, &c., that instead of the present establish-
ment of the corps of artillerists and engineers, the same shall
hereafter be composed of a regiment of engineers, a regiment of
horse artillerists, and a regiment of foot artillery. That the
functions of the engineers and artillerists shall be separate and
distinct — those of the former relating to fortification and other
military constructions, and to the attack and defence of fortified
places — those of the latter to the service of artillery ; provided
always, that this separation shall not be understood to prevent a
commanding officer from designating the officers of one corps to
perform duties peculiar to the other, when special circumstances
shall in his opinion require it.

2. And be it further enacted, that a regiment of engineers shall
consist of two lieutenant- colonels, first and second; three majors,
twelve captains, twenty-four first-lieutenants, twenty-four second-
lieutenants, and twenty-four cadets, to which shall be attached
four companies of miners and artificers, to be formed as hereafter
mentioned. ^

3. And be it further enacted, that a regiment of artillerists,
whether horse or foot, shall consist of four battalions, each of
four companies, and of these officers and men, to wit : — one lieu-
tenant-colonel commandant, four majors, one adjutant, one
quartermaster, one paymaster, each being a lieutenant ; one sur-
geon, and two surgeon's mates, sixteen captains, thirty-two
lieutenants, besides the three above mentioned ; thirty two cadets,
sixty-four sergeants, sixty-four corporals, one chief musician, six-
teen other musicians, and privates, but that until the
organizing and raising of one battalion of each of the said
regiments shall be suspended.

4. And be it further enacted, that the officers and men (except

^T. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 281

the artificers) of tlie two regiments heretofore established, shall
be incorporated into the regiments of artillerists to be organized
pursuant to this act. That such of the officers as upon examina-
tion may be found best qualified for the corps of engineers, may-
be transferred to that corps, and that supernumeraries, if any there
be, may, with their consent, be transferred to the infantry, in
grades corresponding with those which they shall possess, or may
remain attached to the regiments of artillerists, and fill, according
to their respective rank, future vacancies in battalions and com-
panies as they shall accrue.

5. And be it further enacted, that the artificers of the present
regiments shall be formed into four companies — two of miners,
and two of artificers ; that a company of miners or artificers
shall consist of a captain, one first, one second-lieutenant, four
sergeants, four corporals, and fifty-six privates. That the commis-
sioned officers of these companies shall be officers of the regiment
of engineers, to be assigned by the commander of that regiment.

6. And be it further enacted, that the pay and other allowances
of the regiments of engineers and artillerists, according to the
establishment hereby prescribed, shall be similar to those of the
regiments to which they are to be substituted.

7. And be it further enacted, that in case open war shall
break out between the United States and any foreign European
power, or in case imminent danger of invasion of their territory
shall, in the opinion of the President, be discovered to exist, it
shall be lawful for him to organize and cause to be raised two
regiments of horse artillerists in addition to that provided for by
this act, together with the two battalions of artillerists suspended
as aforesaid — and for this purpose, if in the recess of the Senate,
to appoint alone the officers thereof, and to borrow upon the
credit of the United States from the Bank of the United States,
or any other body or bodies politic, or persons whomsoever, a
sum not exceeding dollars.

8. And be it further enacted, that the corps of engineers and
artillery shall be under the command of a . general.

282 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 4'2.

HAMILTON TO

New-York, June 25th, 1799.

* * * * You will allow me, however, to remark to you witli
frankness, that there is in my opinion something too absolute in
your manner of declining this service, and that I cannot give
my sanction to the sentiment in your letter, contained in these
words : "I cannot possibly, except in actual war, separate myself
from her [your wife] and my children," &c. You have too much
discernment, and too well know the principles of service, not to
be sensible that it is the essential condition of military employment
that, in peace as in war, an officer shall be ready to execute the
trusts, relatively to his station, to which he may be designated.
That the peremptory claim of an exemption from this rule can-
not be advanced, whatever may be the hope of indulgence to-
wards a very peculiar situation.

Doubtless, therefore, you will see it proper to correct the
latitude and force of the expressions which you have used, as
transcending your real meaning.

M<^HENRY TO HAMILTON.

(private and confidential.)

June 27th, 1799.

My Dear Sir :

In answer to yours (just received) of the 25th instant, it will
be agreeable to me to see a troop of horse completely organized,
that we may ascertain, as far as it is practicable, with so small a
model, the improvements of which cavalry are yet susceptible.
You may write, therefore, an official letter on the subject, pro-
posing it, and request my final directions. I shall give them.

General W has certainly claims to promotion ; and, so

far as it respects myself, I shall not oppose it. It will be proper,

^T. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 283

however, that General Washington be consulted before the least
step be taken in the business. Your maxim is in general a good
one. Half confidence is bad. Of this, however, be assured, that
until the commercial pursuits of this gentleman with and expec-
tations from Spain are annihilated, he will not deserve the confi-
dence of government. Further, I recommend it to you, most
earnestly, to avoid saying any thing to him which would induce
him to imagine government had in view any hostile project, how-
ever remote, or dependent on events, against any of the posses-
sions of Spain. I I'equire this caution on good grounds.

HAMILTON TO ftrHENEY.

♦ New-York, June 27th, 1799.

It is a pity, my dear sir, and a reproach, that our administra-
tion have no general plan. Certainly there ought to be one
formed without delay. If the chief is too desultory, his ministry
ought to be the more united and steady, and well-settled in some
reasonable system of measures.

Among other things, it should be agreed what precise force
should be created, naval and land^ and this proportioned to the*
state of our finances. It will be ridiculous to raise troops, and
immediately after to disband them. Six ships of the line, and
twenty frigates and sloops of war are desirable. More would not
now be comparatively expedient. It is desirable to complete
and prepare the land force which has been provided for b}'" law.
Besides eventual security against invasion, we ought certainly to
look to the possession of the Floridas and Louisiana, and we
ought to squint at South America.

Is it possible that the accomplishment of these objects can be
attended with financial difiiculty? I deny the possibility. Our
revenue can be considerably reinforced. The progress of the
country will quickly supply small deficiencies, and these can be
temporarily satisfied by loans, provided our loans are made on

284 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 42.

tlie principle that we require t"he aliment of European capital, —
that lenders are to gain, and their gains to be facilitated, not ob-
structed.

If all this is not true, our situation is much worse than I had
any idea of But I have no deubt that it is easy to devise the
means of execution.

And if there was everywhere a disposition, without preju-
dice and nonsense, to concert a rational plan, I Avould cheerfully
come to Philadelphia and assist in it ; nor can I doubt that suc-
cess may be insured.

Break this subject to our friend Pickering, His views are
sound and energetic. Try together to bring the other gen-
tlemen to a consultation. If there is every where a proper
temper, and it is wished, send for me, and I will come.
Yours truly,

A. Hamilton.

HAMILTON TO M^'HENRY.

New-York, July 2d, 1799.

Sir:

I beg leave to recall your attention to the suggestion con-
tained in my letter of the 21st June, respecting the raising,
mountingj and equipping of one of the six additional troops of
horse, together with the non-commissioned officers of the other
troops — and to request your final direction on the subject.

The service of the cavalry in this country has never been but
imperfectly understood. Even in Europe, ideas about the forma-
tion and tactics of that species of troops' appear to be less well
settled than about the other branches of military service. It is,
in my opinion, very important to possess the means of making
an experiment of the different principles in order to the forma-
tion of a good system, adapted to the geographical circumstances
of the country. For this purpose alone a small body of cavalry
is indispensable.

^T. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 285

ADAMS TO HAMILTON.

QuiNCY, July 2d, 1799.

Sir:

Dr. Daniel Parker, of Norton, introduced to me by General
Cobb, will have the honor to deliver you this letter. The case
of his son, is a very unfortunate one, and I beg leave to intro-
duce him to your kind offices. If the young gentleman can be
discharged with propriety, I am desirous it should be done, or if
he has dispositions and qualifications for any thing better than
the station of a common soldier, I wish he might have it.
I am. Sir, with much respect.

Your most obedient servant,

John Adams.

Major General Hamilton.

ADAMS TO M'HENRY.

QuiNCY, July 7th, 1799.

Sir:

As it is an excellent principle for every man in public life to
magnify his office and make it honorable, I admire the dexterity
with which you dignify yours by representing an army and
means adequate to its support as the first thing necessary to make
the nation respected. Genius in a general is oftener an instru-
ment of divine vengeance than a guardian angel.

Stoddert, I warrant you, instead of representing the navy as
the fourth and last article necessary for national respectability,
would have felt the importance of his office enough to have
stated the navy as the first and the most indispensable.

It would not be necessary for me to decide the controversy
between you ; if it should be, I should be at no loss ; my answer
would be ready.

I have read the plan for providing and issuing of military

286 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 42.

supplies inclosed in your favor of tlie 29tli of June. I suppose
I may keep it, in order to recur to it upon occasion. I wish to be
informed whether this is proposed to be adopted by Congress into
a law. I presume the President's authoritj^ alone is not adequate
to the establishment of it. I Avish it to be considered by the
Secretary of the Treasury and by yourself, as closely as possible
before it is recommended.

The discipline of the army and the national economy are
deeply interested in it. The Secretary of State has had experi-
ence which ought to be consulted upon this occasion.

HAMILTON TO M'^HENEY.

New- York, July 8th, 1799.

Sir:

I have considered the rules transmitted in your letter of the
2d instant relative to rank and promotion.

They appear to me founded on just principles, nor do I know
that they can be improved. I will, however, present to your
consideration some observations on two or three points.

It seems to me questionable whether the preference given to
full colonels of the deranged officers over the lieutenant colonel
commandants, who served to the end of the war, be expedient.

It is making that a matter of substance, which was purely
nominal. The grade of lieutenant-colonel commandant was in
our system to all intents and purposes of service and promotion
equal to that of colonel. And the general principle of preferring
officers who served to the end of the war seems to me as appli-
cable to this particular as to any other.

It is desirable to exempt a military commander from the
exercise of a discretion in personal matters which may expose
him to the supposition of favoritism. It is possible the Com-
mander-in-Chief may not like to be charged with that which is
proposed to be conferred upon him ; though he could have no

^T. 42.]

MILITARY PAPERS. 287

objection to aid the determination of the President witli all requi-
site information. Perhaps the clause may with advantage be
altered to stand thus : — " The relative rank of officers who have
not been in service will be determined by the President. The
Commander-in-Chief will report to him their names with such in-
formation as he may deem proper."

The last clause will, I think, be more accurate, if altered into
this form : — " On the happening of a vacancy, the officer next in
rank will in ordinary cases be considered as the most proper per-
son to fill the same. But this rule is considered as subject to ex-
ceptions in extraordinary cases."

It will be useful, also, in my opinion, to add a clause to this
effect : — In promotions to the several ranks of generals, the
officers of cavalry, artillery, and infantry, will be considered as
eligible indiscriminately, or without distinction of one corps for
another.

To confine the officers of artillery and cavalry to their partic-
ular corps in the appointments of general officers, is to render the
chance of promotion unequal, aand to discourage in the several
classes of officers the study of all the branches of tactics. The
contrary principle will have a contrary effect ; and though it is
rarely to be expected that an officer of cavalry or infantry will
be competent to the service of the artillery, yet nothing is more
easy than for the officers of those corps to be acquainted with the
tactics of each, and aa officer of artillery can without difficulty
make himself master of the tactics of the cavalry and infantry.
The plan of an indiscriminate choice will also increase the chances
of having qualified generals.

And if the idea itself be approved, it is expedient to prepare
the army to expect its application by engrafting it in the system
of promotion.

288 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 42.

ADAMS TO M*'HENRY.

QaiNCY, July 19, 1799.

Sie:

I agree witli you in your opinion expressed in your favor of
tlie 12th, that both an army and navy establishment is essential
to the present and future interests and greatness of the United
States; and that we must run the risks which other nations
have run.

It appeared to me that officers were created and soldiers made
necessary in the plan for supplying the army, which would re-
quire the interposition of Congress ; but if the powers already
given to administration are sufl&cient, I am satisfied, I wish only
that the heads of departments may be satisfied, and that no em-
barrassments may be brought upon them which they are not
previously apprised of

ADAMS TO M<^HENRY.

QuiNCY, July 27, 1799.

Sir:

I have received your favor of the 20th, and no objection to
the plan you propose of raising a company of cavalry. " Our
means!" I never think of our means without shuddering; all
the declamations as well as demonstrations of Trenchard and
Gordon, Bolingbroke, Bernard and Walpole, Hume, Burgh and
Burke, rush upon my memory and frighten me out of my wits.
The system of debts and taxes is levelling all government in
Europe. We have a career to run, to be sure, and some time to
pass before we arrive at the European crisis ; but we must ulti-
mately go the same way. There is no practicable or imaginable
expedient to escape it, that I can conceive.

j:t.42.i military papers. 289

HAMILTON TO SECRETARY AT WAR.

New-York, July 29th, 1799.

Sir:

I have tlie lionor to acknowledge tlie receipt of your letter of
tlie 25th. instant, inclosing a warrant for the execution of Sergeant
Hunt.

I have reflected carefully on the point submitted to our joint
consideration, and, upon the whole, I incline to the side of for-
bearance.

The temper of our country is not a little opposed to the fre-
quency of capital punishment. Public opinion, in this respect,
though it must not have too much influence, is not wholly to be
disregarded. There must be some caution not to render our
military system odious by giving it the appearance of being san-
guinary.

Considering, too, the extreme lenity in time past, there may
be danger of shocking even the opinion of the army by too
violent a change. The idea of cruelty inspires disgust, and ulti- ]
mately is not much more favorable to authority than the excess '
of lenity.

Neither is it clear that one example, so quickly following
upon the heels of another, in the same corps, will materially in-
crease the impression intended to be made, or answer any valu-
able purpose.

If, for any or all of these reasons, the utility of the measure be
doubtful, in favor of life it ought to be forborne. It is the true
policy of the government to maintain an attitude which shall ex-
press a reluctance to strike, united with a determination to do it
whenever it shall be essential.

It is but too certain that it will not be long before other in-
stances will occur in which the same punishment will be decreed
for the same oflence. To disseminate the examples of executions
so far as they shall be indispensable, will serve to render them
more eflicacious.

Under these impressions, if I hear nothing to the contrary
E 19

290 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 42.

from you by the return of the post, I shall issue an order to the
following effect: " That, though the President has fully approved
the sentence of Sergeant Hunt, and, from the heinous nature of
his conduct, considers him m a very fit subject for punishment ;
yet, being unwilling to multiply examples of severity, however
just, beyond what experience may show to be indispensable, and
hoping that the good faith and patriotism of the soldiery will
spare him the painful necessity of frequently resorting to them,
he has thought fit to authorize a remission of the punishment ;
directing, nevertheless, that Sergeant Hunt be degraded from his
station."

I request to be speedily instructed.

HAMILTON TO STODDERT.

New-York, July 29th, 1799.

Dear Sir :

A press of various business has delayed a reply to your favor
of the 19th instant.

The principle you suggest for my consideration, though, if it
could be introduced, it would work well, cannot, in my opinion,
be put into practice. It would contravene too much pretensions
rooted as well in the human heart as in unconquerable prejudices
of the military state ; by which expressions I include the naval
department. Carrying in the very fact an avowed preference,
humiliating to the pride of the superior ofiicer, and reversing the
order of antecedent relations, a cheerful submission could never
be obtained.

The alternative you mention is the proper expedient, and a
very necessary one it is. It will be happy if Congress can be
induced to adopt it.

With very great esteem, I have the honor, &c.,

To Secretary of Navy.

.Et. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. • 291

HAMILTON TO JAY.

New-York, July 29th, 1799.

My dear Sir :

The completion of the -works in the vicinity of our city pro-
ceeds heavily. Some embarrassment is understood to arise in
the War Department from the question of appropriations. I
beg to be informed whether the sum appropriated by the legis-
lature of this State will come in aid of the operation. Limited
as that sum is, nothing upon a large scale can be undertaken in
reference to it. Its agency in fortifications on the islands, at
Powles Hook, and on the projection from Long Island opposite
Governor's Island (I forget at this moment its name), is the only
one which can be useful.

With great respect and esteem, &c.

HAMILTON TO GENERAL STEVENS.

New-York, July 29th, 1799.

Sir:

Inclosed is a plan for the uniforms, &c., of the army, pre-
pared at my request by Colonel Smith, with the aid of Colonel
Fish and Captain Armstrong. I am desirous of seeing some
models of clothing made agreeably to this plan, beginning with
those of the privates. It is my wish that the models may be
framed, as well with a view to the quality of the materials, as to
the fashions and ornaments of the clothing. The sooner they
can be prepared the better.

But, to be more certain that we meet the ideas of the framers
of the plan, you will be pleased to have recourse to the assist-
ance of Captain Armstrong, who has been very obliging on the
occasion, and who, I doubt not, will with pleasure lend his fur-
ther aid.

292 . HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 42.

HAMILTON TO M'HENRY.

New- York, July 30th, 1799.

Sir:

On a subject not very familiar to my experience, I thouglit
it well to consult otters (one at a distance), whicli has occasioned
a delay in fulfilling the object of your letter of the 24th of June,
respecting regulations for issuing straw, fuel, &c,

I send you, herewith, the result of my inquiries and reflec-
tions. In regard to fuel, the late improvements in the con-
struction of chimneys, by Count Eumford, which may be
adopted in quarters and garrisons, has had influence in dimin-
ishing the quantity, which, independent of this circumstance, is
conceived to be too liberal in your plan. This being, in the
view of economy, a matter of great importance, I would advise
that an abstract be made of those chapters of Count Eumford's
treatise which are applicable to chimneys, in order that a
printed copy be furnished to each commanding officer of a gar-
rison, &c. Mr. Jonathan Williams would execute this in an
eligible manner. The more simple and concise the abstract the
better.

The scheme of regulation now submitted, contemplates, like-
wise, that the officers will be arranged in messes of six to a
mess.

Give me leave to ask whether, in the future construction of
barracks, it will not be expedient to have the rooms large
enough to contain each twelve men. It has been found that
messes of this number conduce to the comfort of the troops,
preventing waste, and consequently rendering the supply more
ample. The effect of the arrangement in relation to fuel, is very
obvious.

In the field, it is usual for the troops to provide themselves
with fael ; and straw is furnished as it can be had. The regula-
tions are therefore confined to troops in garrisons and quar-
ters.

^T.42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 293

Regulations to he observed in the delivery and distribution of fue\
straw^ and stationery to the army, and respecting horses furnished
to officers, and respecting those which they may keep themselves.

Fuel (when in garrison and quarters) .

From the 1st day of October to the 1st day of April in every year, is allowed :

1st. To every colonel and major, one cord and one half cord of wood per
month.

2d. To every commanding officer of a garrison, one cord and one half cord
of wood per month. This to include his allowance otherwise.

4th. To every other commissioned officer half a cord of wood per month, the
same to each surgeon or surgeon's mate.

7th. To every eight non-commissioned officers, musicians and privates, half a
cord of wood per month, and the same allowance to servants, batmen not soldiers,
and washerwomen.

8th. To officers, surgeons, surgeons' mates, soldiers, servants, batmen not
soldiers, and washerwomen, one third the aforesaid allowance from the 1st day
of April to the 1st day of October in every year.

9th. To a garrison barrack guard such quantity as may be required by the
commandant of a garrison, not exceeding two cords per month.

10th. To the sick in hospital such quantity as may be required by the surgeon,
with the sanction of the commanding officer.

11th. As a smaller quantity of fuel may suffice in the southern States than is
allowed by these regulations, each commanding general or other chief command-
ing officer, is enjoined to regulate the demand for this article by the nature of the
climate. The regulation to be prescribed in public orders.

Straw.

1st. One truss of straw weighing twenty-four pounds, is allowed for each
palliass for two men ; this allowance to be renewed monthly,

2d. The same quantity of straw is allowed for servants and batmen, not sol-
diers, and for washerwomen attached to each company, in the proportion of one
washerwoman to every seventeen non-commissioned officers and privates.

3d. The straw is to be changed for the sick in the hospital, as often as may
be deemed necessary, this necessity to be determined by the surgeon, or the sur-
geon's mate in the absence of the surgeon.

Requisitions for Fuel or Straw.

1st. Requisitions for wood or straw must state in the form of returns th-

number and rank of the officers, the number of non-commissioned officers and pri

vates, servants, batmen not soldiers, and of washerwomen, for whom demanded

showing in a column the quantity for each class, which returns must be certifie

294 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 42.

by the quartermaster of the regiment, if present, or person acting as such, and
by the commanding officer of the regiment, corps, or detachment, for which the
supply is required. In the case of the sick in hospital, the chief medical officer
having charge of it will sign the return, which will be countersigned by the com-
manding officer.

2d. No wood or straw shall be drawn for officers or soldiers whilst on fur-
lough, nor any allowance made to them for the same.

3d. Whenever it shall appear that more wood or straw has been drawn than
there were officers, soldiers, servants, batmen not soldiers, and washerwomen
actually present and entitled thereto, the officer making such requisition shall be
held responsible for the value of the articles drawn beyond the quantity allowed
by these regulations, and shall have his name, and the circumstances of the case,
reported to the Commander-in-Cliief, or the Commanding General of the Depart-
ment.

4th. Requisitions thus signed, and the receipts given by the officers to whom
the articles are delivered for consumption, shall be produced as vouchers by the
contractor, agent, or quartermaster, in the settlement of liis accounts.

I Stationery.

1st. To each company is allowed one quire of paper per month.

2d. To each regimental adjutant, one quire per month.

3d. To each regimental paymaster, one quire per month.

4th. To each regimental quartermaster, one quire per month.

6th. To the Commander-in-Chief and General officers, as occasion may re-
quire.

6th. To the surgeon of a regiment, two quires of paper per month.

7th. To each regimental surgeon's mate, one quire of paper per month.

8th. To the hospitals, according to their respective wants, to be drawn for by
the surgeon-general or surgeon of each hospital.

9th. To courts martial and of inquiry, what shall be required, on the return of
the Judge Advocate or Recorder, and signed by the President.

10th. Requisitions for company and orderly books, forms of returns, &c., for
the use of the regiments or garrisons, to be signed by the quartermasters of regi-
ments or garrisons, and countersigned by the commandants of the respective re-
giments or garrisons.

Horses.
If horses shall at any time be furnished by the Quartermaster-General or any
of his deputies, upon the requisition of the Commanding- General or officers hav-
ing the authority to make the requisition, or otherwise to any officer for his parti-
cular use, or to enable him to execute his functions, except for some temporary
service, the value of the said horse shall be determined or agreed upon at the
time of the delivery, and shall be deducted from the pay of the officer receiving

^T. 42.]

MILITARY PAPERS. 295

him ; and the Quartermaster-General is hereby directed to make report to the
accountant forthwith, that the proper deduction of pay may be made. Officers
shall not keep or be furnished with forage for more than the following number of
horses. If entitled to more forage, the difference shall be paid for.

A Major-General, not commanding a separate army, four.

A Brigadier not commanding as above, three.

Each Aid of a general officer, two.

A Secretary, when one is allowed by law, two.

Each Field-officer, two. Adjutant, one. Regimental Quartermaster, one.
Regimental Paymaster, one. Surgeon or mate, one.

The Inspector-General, five.

A Deputy Inspector-General, with a separate army, four.

A Division Inspector, two.

A Brigade Inspector, one.

The Quartmaster-General, six.

Deputy Quartermaster-General, with a separate army, four.

A Division Quartermaster, two.

A Brigade Quartermaster, one.

Wagonmaster-General, three.

A principal Deputy, with a separate army, two.

Commissary General, or other equivalent officer, three.

A principal Deputy, with separate army, three.

A Division or Brigade Commissary, one.

A Division or Brigade Wagonmaster, one.

The Adjutant-General, four.

An Assistant, two.

Paymaster-General, or Deputy Paymaster-General, with a separate army, two_

Each Chief of any branch of the Civil Staff, not enumerated with an army,
two.

Each principal Deputy of such Chief, one.

To any other officer of the General Staff", civil or military, who, in the opinion
of the Commanding General may require it, not exceeding two.

HAMILTON TO COLONEL SMITH.
(circular.)

New-York, August 9th, 1799.

Sie:

Our political situation renders it very urgent that not a mo-
ment shall be lost in disciplining our troops ss fast as they shall

296 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 42.

be raised. To this end, it is essential that every officer shall per-
sonally exert himself to the utmost ; and that a very faulty prac-
tice which has occasionally prevailed in our armies, as well as
others, shall be carefully avoided, nameljj, commanders of regi-
ments leaving too much to their majors, these to the adjutants,
and the company officers to their sergeants.

It is expected that each commandant of a regiment will him-
self industriously exercise his regiment in the manual and evolu-
tions ; that each major will do the like in his battalion, and the
company officers in their several companies. These last must
charge themselves with the detail of instructing their men from ,
the beginning ; using their non-commissioned officers as auxilia-
ries, not as their representatives or substitutes ; and the field
officers must carefully superintend the company officers in rela-
tion to this detail.

This course will have the double advantage of insuring the
rapid improvement of the soldiers, and of giving every officer
practical expertness within his sphere, without which an army is
nothing but a mass of disorderly elements.

In the reply which I expect to make to -the several corps, I
hope for the gratification of observing, in the proficiency of offi-
cers and men, that the instruction contained in this letter has
been carefully and zealously executed.

HAMILTON TO WOLCOTT.

New-York, August 10, 1799.
I imagine, my dear sir, by the letter which the post of yes-
terday brought me from you, that you had supposed that some-
thing, not quite satisfactory to me, had occurred, in relation to
the erection of a hospital at Khode Island. This, I assure you,
has not been the case, nor has any thing come under my view
which could lead me to think that there has been cause for
blame in any quarter.

^T. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 297

It happened that the Secretary of War, in requiring my
agency in the matter, does not give me a simple direction to act,
which would be warrant enough for me, but refers me to the
law respecting the medical establishment, as the source of my
authority. There I find none to use, to purchase ground in fee
simple, and erect upon it a building for a hospital. For that,
the power of the physician-general, with approbation of the Pre-
sident, is alone competent by the act.

I see not, however, if there be a fund, (whether in the appro-
priations for contingencies or otherwise,) why there may not be a
building on any ground now of the United States, to be used
either as barracks or as a hospital, and certainly not why a tem-
porary provision, by hiring of ground and buildings for the pur-
pose, may not be made, either by the War or Navy Department.

As to the union of hospitals for navy and array under one
system of direction, so far as they are to be supported by the
funds of the government alone, I perceive no objection to the
law respecting the medical establishment, while I discover no in-
convenience. I am clear the union will conduce to economy.
Adieu, my dear sir ; yours truly.

HAMILTON TO IvrHENRY.

New- York, August 13, 1799.

Dear Sir:

Every day must prove more and more to every body that it
is impossible to serve two masters. I cannot be a general and a
practiser of the law at the same time, without doing injustice to
the government and myself. Hence I am anxious to disentan-
gle myself more completely than I have yet done from forensic
pursuits. But to be able to do this, I must call to my succor all
the emoluments which I have a right to claim. Hitherto I have
had neither quarters, nor fuel, nor servants. The two last I shall
take measures for myself. But the former I have some scruples

298 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 42.

about, and wisli an instruction concerning it from you, wliicli
may be addressed as well to General Pinckney as to myself. On
this article, too, I have no doubt of my right to order the person
acting as quartermaster, to provide quarters for me and my suite.
Every commanding general has this right, and situated as I am,
in a time of no active operations, with the force under my com-
mand dispersed to various points, I have no doubt that the strict-
est propriety accords with my personal station being where it is,
and that in this station it is in every view fit that I should have
provided at public expense for myself and suite, a house as quar-
ters suited to my rank and command. The procuring of a better
one than I now occupy would be strictly justifiable ; but it is not
my wish to do it.

How do you construe the 4th section of the act of March 3d,
1797, respecting double rations, in reference to the officers ap-
pointed under the act for augmenting the army?

This question has, in cases foreign to the spirit of the provi-
sion, come up from some of the officers of the twelve additional
regiments ; and it will probably soon come up in others. It is
important to the two major-generals, as well as others ; and it
ought to apply to them. Yet the law must not be strained,
but future provision made where the existing one is deficient.

You must not think me rapacious. I have not changed
my character. But my situation as commanding general exposes
me to much additional expense in entertaining officers occa-
sionally in the city of New- York, and citizens and foreigners
who come to pay their respects to the commanding general;
and adding this consideration to the circumstance of a wife and
six children, whose maintenance and education are to be taken
care of, I shall stand in need of all I can fairly get from the
public, if I am essentially to renounce my profession.
Adieu.

iET.42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 299

HAMILTON TO M'^HENRY.

New- York, August 13, 1799.

Sir:

It is now time to take measures for tlie establisliment of the
additional regiments in winter quarters.

It has been already determined to dispose of them in four
bodies, and the positions generally have been designated. These
positions will, of course, be adhered to, unless alterations shall
become expedient from considerations relative to the comparative
prices of rations at different places. It is necessary speedily to
understand whether any deviations will result from this source,
which has been heretofore a subject of correspondence between
us.

As to mode, I incline to that of huts. Every thing in our
military establishment is too unsettled to justify the expense of
permanent barracks, and the hiring of quarters in towns will be
adverse to the health and discipline of the troops, and may lead
to disorders, unfriendly to harmony between the citizens and the
soldiery.

The experience of last war has proved that troops cannot be
more comfortable in any way than in huts ; and these they can
build themselves. Perhaps as these in question are quite raw, it
may be expedient where they do not happen to have carpenters
among themselves, to indulge each regiment with the aid of a
few to be procured on hire, who may direct the mode of construc-
tion, and lend a helping hand to the huts of the officers. The
ground will be to be hired. The material for building must be
found upon each spot. If you approve, and as soon as I shall
receive from you the information which is to guide as to prices
of rations, I will give directions to the respective contractors to
procure the ground, with the co-operation, where it can be con-
veniently had, of the agent for the War Department, and of the
commandant of a regiment nearest to the intended site.

Any suggestions which you shall think fit to make with
regard to the detail, will receive careful attention.

300 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [iEx. 42

Applications liave been made to me to authorize the providing
of a wagon and four horses for the use of each regiment. It is
suggested that for the transportation of fuel and straw and for a
variety of current services, many difficulties attend the continual
dependence on the contractor, which would be obviated by a
wagon attached to the regiment. I am of opinion that the
measure is right, and would direct it to be put in execution, but
that it is my rule to enter into no new arrangement involving
expense without previous recourse to you, where there is no
pressure of circumstances to require immediate decision.

HAMILTON TO M'HENRY.

New-York, August 19th, 1799.

Dear Sir:

I return you the papers of Mr. Williams, which you sent me
at his desire for perusal. The explanation and your final opinion
of the affair have given me pleasure, as I should be sorry that
any circumstance of improper conduct should have stood in the
way of the employment of Mr. Williams.

I regret extremely that obstacles should exist to the requiring

of the resignation of Mr. . You are apprised of the good

opinion I entertain of the probity of this gentleman, and of his
talents for business within a sphere of action which will admit of
an immediate personal attention to every thing which is to be
done. But you are no less apprised of my perfect conviction of
his incompetency, at his present time of life, to exercise an office
which embraces extensive and complicated objects; in which
system and arrangement and various combinations are necessary.
It is a satire upon our government that he cannot for whatever
cause be removed. The number of powerful connections, which
he has, is, I trust not, the obstacle. If it has any weight, I
think it may be relied upon that the most influential of them
would, from conviction, acquiesce in the propriety of the measure.

^T. 42.] 'MILITARY PAPERS. 301

But if he must remain, certainly tliere ought to be no ceremony
about giving him good assistance whether of his own choice or
not. In this it is most regular that the two departments concur.
But if they cannot, as Secretary of War I should not hesitate to
insist, that he should employ such organs as I deemed requisite
for executing well the business of my department.

You observe, that no present inconvenience attends the sus-
pension of such a measure. Believe me the service every where
is suffering for the want of proper organization. It is one thing
for business to drag on, — another for it to go on well. The
business of supply in all its branches (except as to provi^ons),
proceeds heavily, and without order or punctuality, — in a man-
ner equally ill adapted to economy on a large scale, as to efl&ciency
and the contentment of the army. It is painful to observe how
disjointed and piecemeal a business it is : — among other evils is
this, thit the head of the War Department and the chief of the
several divisions of the army exhaust their time in details, which
beyond a general superintendence are foreign to them, and plans
for giving perfection to our military system are unavoidably ne-
glected.

Let me repeat, my dear friend, my earnest advice, that you
proceed to organize without delay the several branches of the
department of supply ; that is, to fix the places and appoint the
agents. You will experience great relief and many advantages
from it. The saving from better management will infinitely
overpay the expense of salaries. The contractors who feel little
responsibility execute very carelessly every thing in which they
are merely agents. The increase of numbers will make this a
very important consideration.

Supplies in general are neither duly procured nor duly for-
warded, frequently not of good quality nor agreeing in kind, —
and the system of accountability, excellent in theory, I venture
to say, entirely fails in execution. The inevitable consequence
is that there must be great waste of property. It is in vain to have
good plans if there are not proper organs for execution. Every
new step to be taken is attended with embarrassment for want
of organization.

302 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 42.

It is mucli to be regretted that Carrington was not appointed
quartermaster-general according to the new arrangement, before
the last session of the Senate ended, so that every thing in that
branch of service might be now in complete train.

If his appointment is determined upon, will it not be well to
notify the intention to him, and to prevail upon him to come to
the seat of government, to the end that you may concert with him
the proper arrangement. Till the Commander-in-Chief take the
field his residence would very naturally be at or near the seat of
government, and you would find his assistance in every view
very valuable.

I have heretofore requested Mr. Hodgdon to send me from
time to time a return of the supplies which he forwards. This
may save you the trouble of reading applications for things which
have been done. The request has not been complied with. I
do not mention this by way of complaint, but for information,
to induce you to give him a specific direction. Once a week
such a return ought to be made to you, and a duplicate might be
sent to me.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

New-York, August 21, 1799.

Sir:

I was yesterday honored with your letter of the 14th instant.

The recommendations of Captains Taylor and Blue will not
fail to be considered when the situation of things is mature for
the appointment of brigade inspectors.

Inclosed you will find a general abstract of the recruiting
returns, which at its date were received at the office of the Adju-
tant-General. Other information induces me to estimate that the
number now actually enlisted for eleven of the twelve additional
regiments exceeds thousand. The other is not yet in activity.

I ought to have informed you before this that General Wil-
kinson had arrived at this place. I have delivered to him heads

^T. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 303

of inquiry and conference, whicli embrace all the material points
of consideration in our western affairs. He is busily engaged in
reporting upon tbem ; written rather than verbal communications
being by him preferred. The result of our consultations will be
transmitted to you for any direction which you may see fit to give.
With the truest respect and attachment, &c.

HAMILTON TO HARRISON.

New- York, Aug. 24, 1799.

Sir:

Attempts are making in different parts of the country to pro-
cure the enlargement of soldiers on writs of habeas corpus issued
by and returnable before State judges. As this practice will
probably involve serious consequences, it becomes necessary for
me to avail myself of the information of those officers of the
United States who are particularly charged with the considera-
tion of legal questions. I wish, therefore, for your deliberate
opinion, distinguishing between courts and individual judges, on
the legality of this practice, and especially on the effect of a re-
turn to the writ, that the person demanded had been duly enlisted
by an officer of the United States, in conformity with the laws
and with his instructions. You will also be pleased to consider
whether upon such a return it is necessary to produce the person
who is the object of the habeas corpus. The charge for this
opinion you will make against the Department of War.

HAMILTON TO M<^HENRY.

August 25, 1799.
I must again press for the settlement of a rule of promotion.
It is essential to fix principles and the conditions and expecta-

304 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^T. 42.

tions of officers as fast as possible. The army never will be or-
ganized and in order unless points are successively established as
they occur to consideration, and, when established, strictly ad-
hered to. The total defect of organization in the western army
(the extent of which I did not know till very lately) has increased
my solicitude for another course of things, lest we get every
where into inextricable chaos. I send you an arrangement of
the seventh regiment, in conformity with my idea, which I hope
may be adopted.

CIECULAR.

New-York, August 27, 1799.

Sir:

In military service it is essential that each individual should
move within his proper sphere, according to a just gradation and
the relations which subsist between him and others. It is a con.
sequence of this principle that a regular chain of communication
should be preserved, and that, in all matters relating to service, each
person should address him for information or direction to his im-
mediate superior ofl&cer, and should not step beyond him to a
higher authority. This observation of course excepts the case
where an individual, having received an injury from his immediate
superior, is disposed to seek redress from the superior of both ;
but in other cases the principle ought to be rigidly observed.

It is not so in practice. I have received communications
from captains of companies, which in propriety ought to have
been addressed to the commandants of their regiments or of the
districts within which thev were stationed ; and I know that com-
munications have in some instances been made by particular offi-
cers to the Secretary of War, which ought to have been addressed
to me. These things are not regular, and must be avoided. The
good of the service and the dignity of every officer, from the
highest to the lowest, require that they should not prevail. The
officers and persons attached to the army, who are charged with

^T. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 306

the expenditure of money and Avitli the providing or issuing of
supplies, will properly correspond with the Department of War
on those subjects ; but every other officer ought to address him-
self to his immediate chief, and the chiefs of corps or distinct
commands must make their communications to me, except in the
cases in which particular regulations direct otherwise.

To apply the rule. The officers must not go beyond you
with their verbal or written communications ; you must address
yours to me, except —

1st. Returns and applications respecting ordnance, arms,
accoutrements, and other military stores, clothing, articles of
quartermaster's supply, hospital stores, including medicines,
which for the present must be addressed to Ebenezer Stevens,
Esquire, agent for the War Department in New-York (the
proper officers in respect to these objects not being yet ap-
pointed).

2d. Monthly and other returns respecting the numbers and
state of corps and detachments, including inspection and recruit-
ing returns, which must be addressed to Brigadier-General North,
Adjutant-General.

8d. Muster and pay-rolls to Caleb Swan, Esquire, Paymaster-
General, at the seat of government.

These last had best be forwarded by the respective pay-
masters of regiments and detachments, where any exists.

The Paymaster-General has been advised to confine his com-
munications to paymasters, and to such others as have received
public money, for which they are accountable directly to the
War Department.

It is expected that other officers will shortly be appointed
and annexed to headquarters, to whom the objects under the
first and third heads will properly belong.

This, when it takes place, will be announced in general
orders.

You will take care to make these instructions known within:
the sphere of your command.

E 20

306 HA'MILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 42.

HAMILTON" TO M'^HENRY.

New-York, September 2d, 1799.

Sir:

Your letter of the 29th instant is received. I shall conform
to what I understand to be the spirit of the practice of which it
gives examples. It is right not to make an extra allowance to
officers for performing a military duty at a place where they are
stationed^ or where they actually are resident^ or where this is a
military post^ at which they can be accommodated as usual, ex-
cept for travelling from another place to that post. But I sub-
mit that this is not applicable to a person, not a member of the
army, who may be specially designated to such a duty. Nor do
I think that it consists with the dignity or policy of the govern-
ment to desire the service of such a person grcdis. A person not
of the army acting as Judge Advocate, ought, in my opinion, to
be compensated. Trials in some instances exhaust too large a
portion of time to be employed for a public purpose, without an
equivalent. It will be agreeable to me, in the three instances in
which I have been the agent, to announce that an allowance is
to be received. I have thought of three dollars per day. The
persons are, Mr. Hare, in the trial of Captain Vance ; Mr. Mor-
ton, in the trial of Captain Frey ; and Doctor Osborne and Mr.
Malcom, in those of Major Hoops and Captain Cochran. The
state of the military hereafter will obviate the necessity of incur-
ring a similar expense.

In the case of the court-martial of which Major Wilcox was
president, I applied the regulations of December, 1798, though
from the wording of them, I thought there might be some doubt
of their applicability, but your construction will solve the doubt.
It is the convenient one.

I shall announce to the several commandants, that law and
usage consider the two dollars per head as the equivalent for
the extra expenses of recruiting officers, and that no further al-
lowance can be made.

Nothing is more just than your observation, " that officers,

Mt. 42.]

MILITARY PAPERS. 307

instead of encouraging the complaints of their men on the occa-
sions to which you refer, ought to endeavor to satisfy them that
the article complained of, for some good reason, could not be
otherwise." I have inculcated this doctrine in different in-
stances, and shall make it a subject of a circular instruction.

You add that nothing is more common among officers, than
complaints about every thing furnished by the public. I am in-
clined to believe with you, that the spirit of complaining is apt
to be carried to an excess. But it is important, when it is ob-
served to prevail, to inquire with candor and calmness whether
it has not been produced in whole or in part from real causes of
complaint. If it has, it is then essential that any defects in the
public plan which may ha,ve occasioned them, should be cor-
rected.

This is essential for two reasons; one that justice, the suc-
cess of the service and the public good require that right should
be done to the troops; the other, that the doing of it will most
certainly and effectually remedy the evil.

In a new army especially, the force of discipline can hardly
be expected to stifle complaint if material ground for it truly ex-
ist. To be frank on this point is a duty. Viewing the matter
from a variety of positions in which I have stood, it is an opinion
of some standing with me, that the supply of the army, except
in the article of provisions, has been most commonly so defec-
tive as to render a considerable degree of discontent a natural
consequence. In some instances the quality of articles, in others
their form or workmanship, have been faulty ; in others they
have been supplied too irregularly and too much by retail.

These things, amidst a revolution, will be acquiesced in. In
the first essays of a new government, this will be tolerated ; but
in a more mature state of its affairs, as that of ours at present, a
government should not stand in need of indulgence from its
armies. In strict justice to them, it should lay the foundation
of an absolute claim to their strict obedience and rigid compli-
ance with every duty.

In recurring to ideas of this sort, I only embrace an occasion
which seems to call for the expression of them. I well know

308 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 42.

your disposition to ameliorate our plan, I count upon the suc-
cess of your efforts, but till tlie amelioration has been exempli-
fied, you are not to wonder if murmurs continue, and it will not
be my fault if they are not as moderate as possible.

HAMILTON TO M'^HENRY.

New-York, Sept. 2d, 1799.

Sir:

A rule respecting the allowance of barracks and quarters is
wanting. I submit to your consideration the following scale :

To a major-general, for himself, four rooms ; for each aid, one
room and a kitchen.

To a brigadier-general, for himself, four rooms ; for his aidj
one room and a kitchen.

To the inspector-general, in addition to his allowance as
major-general, two rooms for offices, and one for his secretary.

To the quartermaster-general, in addition to his allowance as
major-general, two rooms for offices, and one for each assistant
or clerk.

To the adjutant-general and each principal deputy with a
separate army, the additional allowance of two rooms for offices.

To each field-officer, two rooms ; to each captain, one ; to
each of the regimental staff, one ; to two subalterns, one ; to
every mess of eight officers, two.

To every inspector or quartermaster of a division or brigade,
one additional room for an office.

To every twelve persons, other than commissioned and staff-
officers, a room of the dimensions of and so in
proportion when rooms shall be greater or smaller.

To the commander-in-chief, or general commanding in a
separate department or district, the allowance may be exceeded,
according to circumstances, of which he must judge upon his re-
sponsibility for any abuse of the discretion.

iET. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 309

The allowance of fuel to general officers requires also to be
regulated. The following scale is submitted : — From the first of
October to the first of April in every year, — To a major-general,
two cords and a half cord per month. To a brigadier-general,
the same quantity. To the inspector-general, the additional
allowance of a cord per montli. To the adjutant-general, and
each principal deputy with a separate army, the additional allow-
ance of a cord per month. To the quartermaster-general the
additional allowance of one cord per month, or such quantity as
the commanding general shall approve. To each inspector or
quarterma.ster of a division or brigade, the additional allowance
of half a cord per month.

From the first day of April to the first of October in every
3^ear, one third of the foregoing allowances.

The commanding general, under special circumstances, may,
by orders in writing, enlarge or diminish the foregoing allow-
ances in cases not provided for.

No compensation in money to be paid or received in lieu of
allowances of fuel.

HAMILTOlSr TO TOUSSAED.

New-York, Sept. 6th, 1799.

Sir:

It has been represented that the fort at Portsmouth wants a
new magazine, new platforms, embrazures ; that the walls re-
quire to be repaired, and the cannon to be mounted.

It is my wish that the state of this post be surveyed, and
.specific report made to me of what raa}^ be indispensable, towards
putting the fort in a state fit for service, with an estimate of the
probable expense.

You will judge whether this service must necessarily be per-
formed by yourself, or whether you can assign to it another
officer, and you will take measures accordingly.

This object is not to be preferred to one more important.

310 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 42.

CIRCULAR,

New- York, September 7tli, 1799:

Sir:

It lias been suggested to me that particular officers, in some
instances, have incautiously indulged remarks in the presence of
their men, respecting the bad qualities of articles furnished,
which were of a nature to foster discontent in the minds of the
soldiery. Instances of this sort, I am persuaded, must have
been very rare, as the impropriety of the thing is too glaring to
escape an officer of the least reflection ; and I am convinced it is
only necessary to mention the matter to you, to engage your
endeavors to prevent a similar impnidence. If any articles of
supply are exceptionable, the proper course is to represent it to
me, in order that the remedy, if in my power, may be applied ;
if not, that it may be sought through the Secretary of Wax. Of
my constant exertions to place the army on a comfortable and
respectable footing, no doubt can be entertained.

Desultory observations have from time to time been made to
me, respecting particular articles. I am desirous of having a
special and very accurate report from the commandant of each
regiment, of the quantity and quality of all the articles which
have been received for its use, viz., arms, accoutrements, clothings
tents, and camp utensils. You will as soon as possible transmit
it to me. Any suggestions "of improvements in any of the arti-
cles which are supplied will be acceptable.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON".
(private.)

New-York, September 9th, 1799.

Dear Sir:

Two days since I received from General AA^ilkinson a re-
port of which I now send you the original. You will find it

iET. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 311

intelligent and interesting. Perhaps on the score of intrinsic
propriety, it deserves to be adopted to a larger extent than some
collateral and extraneous considerations may permit.

I had previously thought of the subject, but had purposely
limited myself to a few very general ideas, that I might examine
with the less prepossession the plan of an officer, who, possessing
talents to judge, has for years had his mind occupied with the
scene to which he refers. Since the receipt of his plan, I have
assiduously contemplated it with the aid of a full personal expla-
nation; and my judgment has formed a result, though not defi-
nitive, but liable to revision. I adopt several of the leading ideas
of the General, but I vary in some particulars ; as well because I
think the change might be too strong with reference to its influ-
ence on public opinion, and the feelings of the parts of the
country immediately concerned, as because it seems to me that
motives of real weight dictate a modification of his plan.

Premising that one complete regiment of infantry should be
left for Tennessee and the frontiers of Georgia, I would propose
the following disposition for the remaining three of the old regi-
ments, and for the battalion of artillerists and the two troops of
dragoons allowed for the western army. It is taken for granted
that the plan must contemplate onlji the four old regiments of
infantry, (with those portions of artillerists and dragoons,) inas-
much as these are the only infantry regarded by our system as
permanent. The twelve additional regiments will dissolve, of
course, as to the non-commissioned officers and privates, by the
simple fact of the settlement of our dispute with France.

Let these troops be disposed as follows, viz. :

A Battalion of Infantry and a Company and a haf of Artillery.

Niagara. — Two companies of infantry and a half company
of artillery.

Detroit. — Three companies of infantry and one company of
artillery, to furnish a detacliment for

Michilijnackinac, of a subaltern, two sergeants, and twenty -four
rank and file infantry, and a sergeant and twelve artillerists.

312 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 42.

A Battalion of Infantry and a Com'pany of Artillery.

Fort Fayette and Pittslmrgh. — One company of infantry and
a quarter of a company of artillery.

Fort Wayne. — One company of infantry and a quarter of a
company of artillery.

Fort Massac. — Three companies of infantry and half a com-
pany of artillery, to furnish detachments for

Fort Knox. — A sergeant and eight rank and file.

Fort Piclcering^ Chickisaw Bluffs. — A subaltern, two sergeants,
and twenty-four rank and file.

A Battalion of Infantry and a Company of Artillery.

Fort Adams ^ loftus Heights. — A battalion of infantry and a
company of artillery, to furnish for

Fort /Stoddart, Junction of Alabama and Tomhigbee Rivers^ Ha-
bile.— Not exceeding a company of infantry and a quarter of a
company of artillery.

There will then remain a regiment and a battalion of infantry,
half a company of artillerj^, and two troops of dragoons. Let
these be stationed at some convenient point at or near the Rapids
of the Ohio^ to form an army of observation, and act as exigencies
may require.

The other posts now occupied to be relinquished.

A few remarks will illustrate the reasons of this plan.

As a general principle, it is desirable to concentrate the force
as much as possible. This tends to efficiency for action, to the
preservation of order and discipline, and to the promoting of
economy. It is conceived that the occupying a small number of
critical points with a reserve of force to support an attack will be
more impressive on the Indians than the dissipation of the whole
force among a gi-eat number of small posts. This reserve ought
to be so placed as to look to all the principal objects, and it may,
as an incidental one, with propriety, look to that of preventing
or suppressing insurrections. The concentration of force, with a
proper disposition, will render the maintenance of it far less ex-
pensive than if subdivided into small and scattered portions.

These more particular considerations co-operate.

.Et. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 313

As to Niagara and Detroit. — 'The effectual possession of the
Sti^aits which connect Lake Erie on the one side with the On-
tario, on the other witli the Huron, appears to me very material
as a security against British attack, and as a means of controlling
the northern and northwestern Indians, by enabling us to ob-
struct communication. These points are mentioned because they
now exist as posts; but the Straits ought to be reviewed by a
skilful engineer, and such points selected as will be most de-
fensible, and will best command the Straits. The force proposed
for these stations at present is inadequate in a prospective view ;
but as there is a probability of a continuance of good understand-
ing with Great Britain for some time, it is conceived that it may
now suffice for the sake of obtaining a respectable cori^s de reserve,
to be augmented as our military means may increase.

When the proper points shall have been definitively selected,
it would be my plan to have at each station a regular fortification,
requiring a garrison of from 500 to 1,000 men, as the nature of
the ground to be occupied may indicate, with a citadel in each,
defensive by from two to three hundred men. These, in times
of complete harmony with Great Britain, may suffice ; but, on
the appearance of approaching differences, to be increased to the
complement. The posts at all times to be supplied for a siege.
The progress of settlement will speedily furnish the means of
prompt reinforcement.

As to Michilimackinac. — The only motive for retaining this post
is to preserve the occupancy of an old communication in some
sort calculated to influence the Indians. As to trade, it is now
only useful to the British, and likely to continue so for some
years, except in so far as they find it their interest to turn their
trade into our channels. There are here a few white families,
supposed to be able to furnish about sixty arm-bearing men, who
are said to be well disposed to our government, and who cer-
tainly, in a controversy merely with the Indians, would co-
operate with the garrison. A small one is deemed sufficient for
the present purpose of the post. For this an additional reason
is, that the maintenance of troops there is excessively costly.
Any greater force which, with our present total, could be thought

314 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.&. 42.

of for that station, must be considered as a corps perdu in case of
Avar with Britain, as it would be entirely out of the reach of suc-
cor. Consequently, the smaller the force there, if sufficient for
the other objects, the better. It is to be observed as to this place,
that the Indians whose situations are relative to it, are, in no
view, formidable. The insular situation is a further security.

As to Fort Fayette. — It may be doubtful whether any force
here is really essential, and whether, as being a mere depot, it
may not be left, as at other places, to the safeguard of the inhab-
itants; but, considering that it is a portal to the western countr}^,
and that disaffection to the government has been shown by the
inhabitants of the neighboring country, the force proposed is
deemed expedient as a guard and as a rallying point to the well-
affected.

As to Fort Wayne. — The critical situation of this place with
regard to a number of different Avaters, and the influence of its
immediate aspect upon the most warlike of the Indians in that
quarter, make it, in my view, a post to be maintained, contrary
to the idea of General Wilkinson.

As to Fort Massac. — This being another portal, and the great
outlet for the commodities of the Northwestern Territory, Ken-
tucky, &c., it appears to me that, for obvious reasons, it ought to
be secured by a strong regular fortification and a respectable gar-
rison.

As to Fort Knox. — There has been for some time no more
force than is now proposed, which is only necessary as a guard.
The settlement is of itself an overmatch for the feeble Indians in
the vicinity ; who, besides, will be within the speedy stroke of
the main body.

As to Fort Pichering. — The considerations mentioned by Gen-
eral Wilkinson are referred.

As to Fort Adams. — I make the like reference. This is an
essential point. It is on a height which completely commands
the river and the surrounding country, and, according to General
Wilkinson, can easily be put in a state to defy every thing but
famine with a garrison of about two hundred men. The force
allowed will always afford this garrison.

^T. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 315

As to Fort Stoddart. — This is now occupied witli a company.
It is critical as to an important river. The Indians are in the
habit of seeing it occupied by the Spaniards. It commands an
important communication with the powerful nations of savages
in the neighborhood, and is calculated to have an influence upon
them. It is in the bosom of a white settlement. These are rea-
sons for keeping it as a post. But an objection to it is, that at
present it can with difficulty be supplied otherwise than through
the Spanish teri'itory. To make it proper as a permanent one,
an easy communication through our own territory must be estab-
lished. General Wilkinson says this is j^racticable.

I take no -notice of the other posts suggested by General Wil-
kinson to be established along our southern line ; because, in his
own view they are eventual. The Indians must be first recon-
ciled there. And leaving a regiment for Georgia and Tennessee
there is no present force for the purpose. It is also liable to the
objection of an extreme frittering of our force.

I do not concur with General Wilkinson in the disposition
of the corps de reserve. He would have it in the neighborhood
of Fort Adams (say Natchez). I propose for it the vicinit}^ of the
rapids of the Ohio.

On General Wilkinson's plan its great utility would be nar-
rowed to a point, the meeting in the first instance an invasion
from below, and in case of rupture of a prompt attack upon New
Orleans.

But the strength of the reserve alone could not be relied upon
as adequate to either object. If a superior force from below
should attack, the principal body of our regular force might in
the outset be defeated, dissipated and lost. Thus depriving the
militia of a necessary support might lead to greater misfortunes.
If an attack is to be made, as little as possible should be left to
chance, and consequently the force ought to be greater than the
plan would admit.

The stationing of a large body below would give jealousy to
the Spaniards, and lead to the measure of augmenting their reg-
ular force by drawing reinforcements from some other quarter.

316 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 42.

Stationed above, no jealousy will be excited. For attack or
defence the regular force can descend with the addition of the
force of the country. Concerted and combined operations may
insure efficiency.

In this situation the force will look to various points ; to the
northern Indians, to the disaffected of the neighboring country,
&c., &c. Enough is said. Your reflection will supply the rest.
I send this letter without a copy, that I may not lose a post,
as time and the season urge. Favor me as soon as possible with
your observations and directions, for which I wait.
With the greatest respect and affection,

I have the honor to be, &c., &c..

Your obedient sei^vant,

A. Hamiltois'.

P. S. Presque Isle is a very healthy situation, and capable
of much defence. The neighboring country is growing fast
powerful, so as to take care of itself.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Mount Vernon, Sept. 15th, 1799.

Dear Sir :

Mrs. Washington's indisposition (being confmed eight or ten
days) and other circumstances, would not allow me to give your
letter of the 9th instant, and the reports, journals, &c., &c., which
accompanied it, an earlier consideration.

Having done this, however, with as much thought as I have
been able to bestow under the circumstances mentioned, I can
see no cause (with the limited force which has been enumerated,
and which, I presume, is all that can be calculated upon) to differ
from you in the disposition of it. Although, at the same time, I
shall make some observations thereupon for consideration.

It may be remembered, that at the time the Secretary of War

^T. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 317

laid before tlie General Officers in Philadelphia, the letters of
General Wilkinson respecting the propriety (in his judgment) of
placing a considerable force at the Natchez, I gave it my decided
disapprobation, inasmuch as it would excite in the Spaniards dis-
trust and jealousy of our pacific disposition, would cause an
augmentation of force on their part ; and so on with both, if our
government would go into the measure, until the tiling which
was intended to be avoided would, more than probable, be pro-
duced— that is, hostility — whereas, keeping that force in the upper
country, besides its looking to all points, and exciting no alarm
in any, might, if occasion should require it, either for defence or
offence, descend the stream like lightning, with all its munitions
and equipments, which could be accumulated with ease, and
without noise at the upper posts, and make the surprise more
complete.

Although I have said (in effect) that the corps de reserve, or
army of observation, should take post at the place you have
mentioned, namely, in the vicinity of the rapids of the Ohio
(Louisville), yet I can see but two reasons which entitle it
to be preferred to the present post above, i. e., Fort Washing-
ton, in a geographical point of view ; and these are, that there is
no water above the former that can float large vessels at all
seasons ; and that by being so much lower down, the passage of
the Ohio would be facilitated if an expedition should descend
the Mississippi. In other respects, tha latter, in my opinion,
has the advantage :

1st. Because it is a post already established, and would incur
no additional expense.

2d. Because it is more contiguous to Fort Wayne, Detroit,
Michilimackinac, and all the Indians on the Lakes from whom, in
that quarter, we have most danger to apprehend.

3d. Because communications with it (and for the most part
by water) are already established. And,

4th. In case of insurrections above or below, it is equally as
well, if not better, situated.

Were it not that the mouth of the Wabash empties itself into
the Ohio so low down, and yet above its confluence with Cum-

318 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 42.

berland and Tennessee, I should be inclined to give a position ,
thereabouts the preference of either the Eapids or Fort Washing-
ton ; because it Avould command a great water inlet towards the
Lakes.

But whether the position of the coj-jos de reserve be chosen at
the Rapids of the Ohio — above or below — it had better, I con-
ceive, be on the north side of the Ohio than within the State of
Kentucky ; thereby impeding more the intercourse between the
army and the citizens, and guarding against the evils which re-
sult from that mixture and too much familiarity,

I am so far from agreeing with General Wilkinson, that
Fort Wayne ought to be abolished, that if I mistake not the
place (central between the heads of the Miamis of Lake Erie
and the Ohio, the St, Joseph and the Wabash), affording good
water transportation, with small portages in every direction, I
would pronounce it (were it not for the expense of subsisting
troops there) the most eligible position for the army of observa-
tion of any in that country. It would be an effectual security
against all the Indians who could annoy us in that region ; it
would cover our barrier posts on the line between the British
and us ; and troops from thence might descend rapidly into the
Mississippi by the Wabash,

General Wilkinson, in speaking of posts along our southern
frontier, is general, and you onl}^ notice Fort Stoddart. But on
an inspection of the maps, a place presents itself to my view, as
very eligible to occupy, j)rovided the Creek Indians would con-
sent to it. I mean the Apalachicola, at its confluence with Flint
Eiver, where the line of demarcation strikes it.

But, in my opinion, if we had or could obtain an engineer of
real skill, and attached to the true policy and interest of the
United States, he ought to devote his whole time to the investi-
gation of our interior country, and mark and erect its proper
defences ; for these, hitherto, have been more the work of chance
and local consideration than national design.

If the harbor of Presque Isle is good, I should think a small
garrison ought to be retained there. It certainly is the best on
the American side of Lake Erie, and one there is important ;

.Ex. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 319

but I see very little use of a sergeant and eight priv^ates at Fort
Knox.

It is either unnecessary or too small, and sergeants at a dis-
tance rarely conduct well, when they have not the eye of an
officer to inspect their conduct.

There are several references in General Wilkinson's report
which were not sent. No. 1 appears to have been essential.
They are all returned.

By his statement of the mutilated condition of the troops,
and present disposition of them, there must have been most hor-
rible mismanagement somewhere. A corrective is indeed highly
necessary. The practice of furloughing officers, and then re-
newing the furloughs from time to time, is extremely injuri-
ous to the service, and ought to be discontinued on ordinary
occasions.

And that of frittering the army into small garrisons is, if pos-
sible, worse. It will never be respectable where these evils
exist ; and until it can be more concentrated, and garrisons fre-
quently relieved by detachments from the main body, discipline
will always be lax, and impositions on the public will prevail.

If the British are resolved to keep up armed vessels on the
Lakes, I presume it will be expedient for us to do the same ;
but in time of peace, a better way, in my opinion, is for neither
to have an3^ In case of a rupture, or the appearance of one,
with that nation, there can be no doubt of our armino- on
those waters much more expeditiously than they would be able
to do.

I have now gone over the material points in your letter and
General Wilkinson's report, but, as I mentioned before, it has
been done under circumstances unfavorable to minute investiga-
tion or mature deliberation, and my sentiments, where differing
from you, given more for consideration than decision.

Should any thing of importance on this subject, not noticed,
here occur to me, I shall not fail to communicate it to you ; for
the measures now taken with respect to guarding our frontiers
and interior country ought to be such as will be permanent
and respectable.

With very great regard, I am, dear Sir, &;c.

320 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 42.

HAMILTON TO ^fHENRY.

New-York, September 16, 1799.

Sir:

In recurring to your letter of the 29th of August, I observe
there are points which, for a clear understanding, require from
me some observations.

I shall make this preliminary remark, that in presenting them
with emphasis, as I am accustomed to do, I am actuated by the
sole and exclusive motive of showing by particular instances that
the past plan has been productive of imperfect results, and that
more comprehensive and adequate measures are necessary for
the future.

Our provisions have been made too much on the spur of the
occasion, have been too generally confined to the absolutely ne-
cessary for the moment, rejecting the idea of surplus for future
casualties and exigencies. This defect in our plan is not imputa-
ble to any one individual. It may be traced partly to the im-
maturity of our institutions and aftairs, and partly to errors of
opinion which embraced persons in various situations.

I am sensible that important steps, both legislative and ad-
ministrative, have been taken towards a more provident and
efficacious system ; but a frequent contemplation of the imper-
fections of the past plan ought to have the effect of increasing
the tendency towards improvement.

I must at the same time be permitted to add, that in my
opinion, the want of a proper organization of agents in the vari-
ous branches of the public service, and of a correct and systema-
tic delineation of their relative duties, has been a material cause
of the imperfect results which have been experienced ; that it
continues to embarrass every operation, and that while it lasts it
cannot fail to enfeeble and disorder every part of the service.

To exemplify the present defect of organization, it is suffi-
cient to refer to the situation of the Quartermaster-General's de-
partment, of the medical establishment, and of that of the Pay
Office. The Paymaster-General, with propriety, is stationed at

^T. 42.]

MILITARY PAPERS. 321

the seat of government ; but he has no deputy either at my head-
quarters or at that of General Pinckney.

I am sensible that where the appointment of the chief re-
quires the consent of the Senate, it must now be deferred to
the future meeting of that body, and that the subordinate per-
sons whom the law places in the choice of those chiefs, cannot be
constituted without them; but temporary arrangements may
still be made as a substitute ; and I confess my anxiety that this
may be done, either immediately by you or by your direction to
General Pinckney and myself, each to regulate the matter within
the sphere of his command.

Permit me earnestly to request that this business of organ-
ization in all its branches may engage a prompt and decisive
attention. Till this shall have been the case, no commanding
officer can perform well his peculiar duties; as his time and atten-
tion might be engrossed in details, which are foreign to his sta-
tion. And the consequence must be inefficiency and disorder.

I proceed to some particulars of your letter.

" You observe that you consider it as the duty of the com-
manding general not only to make returns of all articles^ among
these clothing wanted for his troops, but to make them in such,
season as to allow of making up and transporting them to their
destinations."

If this idea shall be adhered to, I shall be very ready to per-
form my part ; but I should wish a more precise definition of
the objects. What are the articles to be embraced? There are
some objects, as artillery, muskets, &c., of which it is always to
be presumed there are sufficient quantities constantly ready in
the public arsenals and magazines. What time or times will be
deemed proper for the transmission of the returns? Are the
destinations in detail to be pointed out or not ?

But I beg leave to recommend the point to a serious reconsi-
deration ; and I will take the liberty to offer some reflections in
relation to it, which seem to me to deserve attention.

The total force which is to compose the military establish-
ment is regulated by law. That force as prescribed by law, is
itself the standard of all ordinary supplies to he provided, which.
E 21

322 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEi. 42.

ouglit always rather to exceed than fall short of the comple-
ment. The Secretary of War consequently possesses ipso facto
the rule which is to govern as to providing all fixed and stated
supplies.

If this force is to be divided into different armies, still the
aggregate of supply must be the same. Besides, that distribu-
tion will be arranged by the Secretary of War in concert with
the Commander-in-Chief If left to the discretion of the latter,
he only is competent to furnish the criterion.

It follows, that the principal articles of supply, all those which
are not dependent on the particular nature of military move-
ments, will always depend on the establishment, and will not be
to be regulated by the returns from particular generals.

The temporary strength of corps, at one time increased by
the accession of recruits, at another diminished by the casualties
of service, ought never to be a guide in providing ; because such
a standard is fluctuating and uncertain, and because the supply
•ought to be commensurate with the full complement of the es-
tablishment.

The commanding general, who should have to present an es-
timate to the head of the War Department, (and whose agency as
•to the ordinary and stated supplies is rendered unnecessary by
the circumstance of there being other data previously in the pos-
session of the department,) would be bound to govern himself
in his estimate by the scale of the establishment, and not by the
temporary state of things.

Eequisitions, fivm time to time^ for the issuing of supplies,
may fall under a different consideration. These would have ref-
erence to the actual state of the forces ; but these do not answer
to the import of the terms you employ, which appear to aim at
some annual, or other periodical estimate to govern the providing
as well as the issuing of the articles.

Premising these things as objections to the idea you have
suggested in its full latitude, it remains to examine what is the
proper course.

The head of the War Department must no doubt be aided
by agents who are conversant in the various branches of supply
.and competent judges of what may be wanted.

^T. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS, 323

These agents ouglit to be certain officers, or boards established
at the seat of government, more permanently fixed in their sta-
tions than the precarious commander of a particular army ; such
as the purveyor of supplies, a board or master of ordnance ; or,
instead of these, the inspector of artillery, the superintendent of
military stores ; which officers ought to be aided by information
from the chiefs of the branches of supply connected with the army^
as in our present system, the quartermaster-general, &c. &c.

These latter officers being under the direction of the military
commanders, would be obliged to communicate with them to re-
ceive their instructions, and to inform them of what is done or
intended, so that they may be apprised of the competency of the
provision made or to be made, and may be able to direct calls,
or to represent to the head of the War Department such further
provisions as they may judge expedient.

As to the supplies to be from time to time issued, requisi-
tions ought to come from the chiefs of the several branches of sup-
ply, acting with the armies, to those officers loho at the seat of gov-
ernment are charged loith providing and furnishing the respective
articles.

As on the one hand, the complement of the establishment
will be the guide in providing, so on the other, the returns of
actual force to the Secretary of War from the commander of each
army, will, in the first instance, be a collateral guide to the offi-
cers, and a check upon extravagant demands, and the accounts
afterwards to be rendered will show the application.

The forming of the permanent arsenals and magazines of a
country, which ought to be always prepared to furnish the prin-
cipal articles of supply, is naturally a work of administration,
predicated upon an entire view of the political and military rela-
tions, and the forces and resources of the country. When these
are thus formed, how few are the objects to which the estimate of
a particular general can apply ? How are the partial and de-
tached estimates of several particular generals to reach the full
extent of the supplies aggregately necessary ? How is each to
make his estimate of what may be requisite, unless each has un-
der his eye the entire state of all the national arsenals and maga-

324 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 42.

zines, and enters into a minute examination of all the issues
whicli may have been made ? If he is to do all this upon his
own responsibility, what time will he have for his purely mili-
tary duties ? Is it proper in theory that each general having a
separate command, should possess a complete view of the state
of all the public arsenals and magazines ?

I conclude, that from the nature of the thing, the business of
procuring and of issuing supplies ought in a general view to
be unconnected with the particular commander of a particular
army ; that it is properly a business of administration, in which
the head of the War Department is to be aided by the subordi-
nate organs of his department stationed at the seat of govern-
ment, and by the heads of the several branches of supply who
act with the armies.

The agency of the Commander-in-Chief, and the commanders
of particular armies, where requisite, ought to be collateral and
auxiliary, not direct and primary.

It is true, that there is a class of supplies,, which being gov-
erned by the actual operations contemplated, such as transporta-
tion, forage, &c., must be regulated by estimates and returns to
come from the armies. But even in these cases, the responsible
persons to make the estimates and returns, ought to be the chief
or chiefs of the departments of supply with the armies, who
ought previously to submit their estimates and returns to the
military commanders, in order that they may be transmitted
with their opinions and observations.

Thus far, it is conceived, the agency of the commanding
general may be useful and proper. But the scheme of it, as now
indicated, supposes as a preliminary, the appointment of the
proper heads of the several branches of supply.

Indeed, this preliminary is essential to every form of agency
in this respect, which may be assigned to a commanding general.
It is not presumable in principle, and would never be found true
in fact, that the general of an army is so minutely acquainted
with all the details of supply as to be qualified to present a cor-
rect view of all the objects which may be requisite, without the
intervention of those officers whose peculiar province it is to
manage the business of supply.

.Et. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 325

As to the subject of pay, it would seem from your manner of
expression to be your idea, that the warrant of a commanding
general must be founded on certificates of the 'paymaster-general.
But I must conclude that this cannot be your meaning ; as a
very natural and fair construction of the laws will for this ser-
vice substitute to him his deputy with each army ; and as it is
essential, in practice, that the interpretation should admit of this
substitution. How else are the troops remote from the paymas-
ter-general to be paid at all ? Consider, especially, the position
of the western army.

When the law of the 8th of May, 1792, which charges the
duty on the paymaster-general was passed, there was but one
army — hence that act designates him singly.

But the act of the 3d of March last, contemplating that there
may be several different armies, provides that there shall be a
deputy paymaster-general to each of them, without particularly
defining his duties. It is evident that he must be intended to
perform duties, and important ones ; what are they ? The law
being silent, they are of course all such as the paymaster-general
is to perform where he may be ; except as to any particular one,
which, from the nature of the thing, ought to be confined to the
chief. On any other principles, the deputy Avill be as much ex-
cluded from one duty as from another, Avhich was before per-
formed by his chief, and the appointment will become nugatory.

I infer that all moneys for the purpose of paying the pay, sub-
sistence and forage of the troops, must 'still be delivered in the
first instance by the treasurer to the paymaster-general, because
this is conducive to union and to a regular chain of accounta-
bility \ but that the paymaster is to deliver over to each deputy
in mass a sum sufiicient to answer all these purposes with the
army to which he is attached, and the deputy is to disburse it in
detail, and to exercise all the services preparatory to that dis-
bursement, which by the first law were charged upon the 23ay-
master-general, including that of certifying the sums due, to the
commanding-general.

Principles of law, no less than those of convenience, warrant
this construction, beyond the possibility of doubt, after mature
reflection.

326 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 42.

Accordingly, in consequence of a representation of difficulty,
on the point of warrants, by the paymaster-general, I have ad-
vised him, as the legal and proper remedy, to appoint without
delay one deputy to the troops under the command of General
Pinckney, another to that under my command. I confidently trust
that you will approve, and, if necessary, enforce this advice ; the
ground of it is unquestionably solid.

The course which you indicate in the last paragraph but one
of your letter,, appears to me perfectly correct and convenient.

HAMILTON TO M'HENET.

New-York, Sept. 17, 1799.

Sir:

Part of the contents of your letter of the 10th of July last,,
(which has happened to escape a definitive attention,) being con-
nected with the subject of the 7th of September, I shall reply to
them together.

Previous to the receipt of the last, I had drafted rules relating
to extra expenses, which after careful revision I send for your de-
termination. They contemplate, it will be seen, a discretion, to-
make exceptions in special cases. The rule in such matters can-
not be entirely absolute without involving toa much embarrass-
ment. As the establishment of a general rule will attach a par-
ticular responsibility to each deviation from it, it will, in the
main, prevent unnecessary deviations. The regulations do not
include the restrictions which may be thought fit to be laid on
the commanding generals. These, it is supposed, had better be
the subject of particular communications by letter to those officers.

The two other points mentioned in your letter of the 10th of
July, shall now be attended to.

First, as to compensation or allowances to servants not sol-
diers. It appears to me a clear point, that the resolution of
Congress of March, 1780, is not in force, and consequently can-

iET. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 327

not be an authority for such allowances. There being no other, it
is not seen how any general practice of the government could be
now supported. With regard to the expediency of the practice
on principle, I have strong doubts. I fear that it might lead to
the abuse of compensations for nominal servants, while soldiers
would still be the real ones. Pretexts of sickness, &c., in the
hurry of a campaign might disguise the abuse. I question, too,,
whether in time of peace it would be advisable to augment the
public expense by the addition of persons of this description.

I incline most to the plan of the Great Frederick, which was
to let the officers in time of peace be served by the ordinary sol-
diers ; in time of war, by saperuumeraries, specially enlisted for the
purpose, and discriminated by a distinct uniform or livery, for-
bidding the soldiers of the ranks on any pretence to be employed
in this capacity. This practice procured all: the advantages
without the dangers of the other plan.

The number of servants which it is conceived proper to
allow to the respective grades of officers, are —

To the Commander-in-Chief, or General having a separate
command, three, without arms, to attend him on horseback.

To the Inspector-General, Quartermaster-General, each Major-
General not having a separate command, and to the Adjutant-
General, two of the like description.

To a Brigadier-General, Paymaster-General, Deputy Quarter-
master-General, Deputy Inspector-General, one of the above
description, and one with arms.

To each field-officer, and every other officer who ordinarily
serves on horseback, one of the first mentioned description.

To every officer who usually serves on foot, one with
arms.

The servants required to have arms in all general exercises,
marches, and movements, are to be found in the ranks. When
annexed to officers detached from corps, they must join the
guards connected with such officers or their baggage. In the
cases in which they would be otherwise without arms, if they
are attached to officers of dragoons, they will retain their
arms.

328 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 42.

The drawing of provisions for children appears to me inad-
missible, and, as far as I know, unusual. They are, without
this, incumbrance enough, when in camp or quarters, especially
in the camp of a campaign.

I remark, incidentally, that it is to be wished that a corps of
invalids, and an establishment for the maintenance and educa-
tion of the children of persons in the army and navy, were pro-
vided for by law. Policy, justice, and humanity, forbid the
abandoning to want and misery men who have spent their best
years in the military service of a country, or who, in that ser-
vice, have contracted infirmities which disqualify them to earn
their bread in other modes.

Employment might be found for such a corps, which would
indemnify the public for the mere maintenance of its members
in clothing, lodging, and food. The United States are perhaps
the only country in which an institution of this nature is not to
be found — a circumstance which, if continued, will be discredit-
able. The establishment as to children is recommended by
similar motives, with the additional consideration that they may
be rendered by it useful members of society, and acquisitions to
the army and navy as musicians, &c. I shall wait for your
opinion as to the abolition of issues to children.

You will observe what articles are supposed by me to be
proper to be furnished by the contractors. These are the only
ones which I recollect, as of ordinary and stated supply, that will
not naturally come from the Superintendent of Military Stores.
Contingent or extra articles had better be under the manage-
ment of the agents. As to the scale of allowance in each case,
this has either been regulated by your department, or has al-
ready been the subject of some former communication from me,
except in the instance of forage. I forbear to offer any scale for
this article, because I take it for granted that one is already
established on the basis of long experience.

If you are desirous of a revision of it by me, I shall be ready
to obey your orders for the purpose.*

* One point occurs, in connection with the general suhject of this letter. It ap-
pears to be the practice of accounting officers to reject items in the accounts of

^T. 42.]

MILITARY PAPERS. 329

REGULATIONS EESPECTING CERTAIN SUPPLIES, AND RESPECTING
SPECIAL AND EXTRA EXPENSE.

The several contractors, besides rations, including ardent
spirits and vinegar, shall only provide and furnish quarters, trans-
portation, forage, fuel, straw, stationery, and, where there shall be
no other provision for the purpose, medical assistance.

The quarters intended are those of a temporary kind. The
power to provide them shall not extend to the building or re-
pairing of barracks. In what they furnish, they shall govern
themselves exclusively by the regulations which shall have
been established by law or by the War Department; and,
where none exist, by the orders of the particular commanding
ofiicer.

No barrack or other building shall be erected but by order
of the quartermaster-general, the deputy quartermaster-general,
or, in a separate command, the commander of an army, or
the commander within a separate military district or department,
or of the Secretary of War. No repairs shall be made to any
barrack or building which shall incur a disbursement of money
exceeding fifty dollars ; but, by the like order, where there are
several distinct forts or posts in a subdivision of a great military

contractors which have been furnished, upon the orders of particular military com-
manders, even in cases in which no rule has been prescribed to the contractors-
This, in my opinion, is neither just nor regular. The disbursement, if vouched
by such an order, ought to be admitted to the credit of the contractor, and
charged to the officer, till a satisfectory explanation shall satisfy the department
that it ought to be a public charge. In most cases, when not strictly proper in
the abstract, it will be expedient that the expense shall be defrayed by the pub-
lic, and a repetition prevented by more precise instructions, or, where these have
not been deficient, by the reprehension or punishment of the officer.

One bad consequence of embarrassing the adjustment of the contractor's
accounts, may be, that they will refuse, in cases of the least doubt, to comply
with orders which are dictated by necessary and emergent services. Besides
that, on principle two discretions in undefined cases are an absurdity ; and if but
one, it is properly with the commanding officer, upon his responsibility ; and
the contractor, who ought not to exercise a discretion, ought in no event to
sufier.

330 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 42.

district, united under the command of an intermediate superior,
the particular commandant of either of those posts shall not
cause any such repairs to be made, though occasioning no
greater expense than fifty dollars, without a previous report to
such superior, and his approbation, No extra expense for any
special object or purpose shall be incurred by such particular
commandant, without a previous report to the said superior;
who, when such expense may exceed fifty dollars, shall not
authorize it without first obtaining the sanction of his superior.
The commandant of a particular fort or district, having no in-
termediate superior, shall incur no expense for repairs, nor any
extra expense for any special object or purpose, which may re-
quire a disbursement exceeding fifty dollars, without the per-
mission of the commander of the army or district, or of the
Secretary of War,

As often as any matter which may require any special or
extra expense can wait without material injury to the service, for
a communication to and the direction of the commander of an
army or district, it is not to be undertaken till after such com-
munication and direction shall have been had.

These regulations admit of exceptions in cases of extraordi-
nary emergency and of peculiar urgency, when the service would
be likely to suffer materially from the delay, which might attend
the observance of them. Every such exception will be on the
special responsibility of the officer by whom it may be made, who
must immediately report to his superior the occasion, and the ex-
pense, proballe or actual. The commander of an army, or within
a great district, may, by instructions in writing, to be forthwith
communicated to the Secretary of War, make exceptions in cases
where the remoteness of a fort or post shall render the applica-
tion of these regulations manifestly inconvenient ; intrusting a
large discretion to the commandant of such fort or post.

The quartermaster-general, his deputies and assistants, are
primarily charged with the making of the disbursements in the
cases above-mentioned. AVhen there is no such officer, the agent
of the AYar Department in the vicinity shall do it. All orders
for such disbursement must be definite, and in writing, to be

JEt. 42.]

MILITARY PAPERS. 331

transmitted with the accounts of them to the accountant of the
War Department.

HAMILTON TO COLONEL MOORE.

New-York. Sept. 18th, 1799.

Sir:

I have received your letter of the 17th instant, and regret
extremely the event of which it informs me. Although it is not
my intention to contravene military prejudices on the subject, yet
I doubt not you will agree with me that it is proper to discourage
a spirit which would lead to frequent events of this nature.* I
must request from you a particular statement of the circumstances
of this unhappy affair.

HAMILTON TO M'^HENRY.

New-York, Sept. 19th, 1799.

Sir:

I have communicated to Colonel Bentley your resolution as
expressed in your letter of the 30th of August, in respect to the
late appointments for his regiment.

But the occasion claims from me some remarks, as due to my
own opinion of propriety and the good of the service.

I cannot doubt that the practice of your department, as to the
filling of vacancies in new corps, previous to your coming into it,
was just as you state ; but in the latitude in which it is stated, I
cannot easily be persuaded that it is such a practice as ought to
be continued, or that it is not of a nature to sow the seeds of
permanent discontent in the infancy of every corps,

* I have been the more naturally led to this reflection, as I am informed by
General Wilkinson that the practice of duelling in the Western army has been cai^
ried to an extreme in every view reprehensible and injurious.

332 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 42.

I can, nevertheless, agree in the position of the Commander-
in-Chief, that when, in the case of a newly created corps, an
officer declines his appointment, during the act of formation, the
vacancy is not necessarily to be filled by the next in seniority.

But this is a rule rather to be narrowed than extended in its
application ; because it clashes with expectations that will inevi-
tably grow up in the minds of officers, and in which their pride
and self-love will always take a very active part. It is, in my
opinion, to carry it to an impolitic extreme, to say that it shall
operate until " the regiment, legion, or corps has been recruited,
or nearly so, and has marched to head-quarters." And to apply
it to a single case of promotion is to mistake its principle, as,
from the subsequent expressions of the Commander-in-Chief, may
be inferred to be his idea. The rule is naturally confined to the
case of an officer in the original creation, who declines his ap-
pointment ; in other words, who refuses to accept. The moment
a station has been filled by acceptance, though but for a day, the
right of promotion attaches to it, and, if becoming afterwards
vacant, it is filled by a new person, this is a violation of the prin-
ciples of service and of the just expectations of subordinate offi-
cers. It is not a correct answer to this to say, that a corps "is
open to new appointments," or, as I understand the phrase, that
the right of promotion does not commence till after the relative
rank of the officers who have been appointed has been settled.

The want of a settlement of relative rank among them only
leaves it doubtful what individual of their number shall succeed,
but it does not involve any doubt whether aggregately they do
not exclude a stranger. There is still a clear right of some one
of them to succeed, to be effectuated as soon as the relative rarik
is established; and new persons ought to come in junior to
them all.

The appointment, therefore, of a new person in the place of
one designated to an office in the regimental staff", to take pre-
cedence of others before appointed, is irregular, and not warranted
by the rule, if taken within just limits, or within the definition of
the Commander-in-Chief.

Even the practice of introducing new men to vacancies occa-

JEt. 42.]

MILITARY PAPERS. 333

sioned by tlie non-acceptance of officers in the original ap-
pointment, ought not, in my judgment, to be continued till the
corps should have been recruited or nearly so, and marched to
head-quarters, as you state to have been the case.

This may be so long protracted as to postpone inconveniently
the routine of promotion, and produce dissatisfaction. A reason-
able period should be fixed within which acceptances may with
due diligence be ascertained — suppose three months from the
first appointment of officers. To keep the thing open for a year
or more, which is likely to be the case in the present instance, if
the completion of the regiment should be the criterion, could not
fail to beget discontent even in men of moderate and subordinate
tempers.

The recommendation of persons as officers by the command-
ants of regiments ought, I think, when the contrary is not ex-
pressed, to be understood to mean, that they shall come in as
junior second lieutenants. If I recollect rightly, in one or two
instances of an early date, they have expressed the contrary, and
relying upon their judgment of the probable effect on their regi-
ments, I have countenanced the recommendation. But I am
clearly of opinion that this ought not to be the case in future ;
and that, considering the length of time which h^s elapsed since
the organization of the regiment, it is indispensable that the rou-
tine of promotion shall henceforth prevail, with the exception
perhaps of the fifth regiment, in consideration of the receiving of
the appointments for it.

Military prejudices are not only inseparable from, but they
are essential to the military profession.

The government which desires to have a satisfied and useful
army must consult them. They cannot be moulded at its
pleasure ; it is vain to aim at it.

I must entreat, sir, that the observations which I have offered
in this letter may be attentively weighed. They are urged upon
mature reflection, and are believed to be material to your satis-
faction and that of the officers-principal in command, to the satis-
faction of all the officers, present and future, to whom they are
applicable, and to the harmonious course of our military affairs.

With great respect and esteem, I have the honor to be, &c.

334 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 42.

HAMILTON TO MCHENRY.

New-York, Sept. 21, 1799.

Sm:

I feel it as a mark of consideration for my recommendation,
that notwithstanding the force of the difficulties which in your
view operate against further advances not founded upon the pre-
scribed forms, you are pleased to declare that you will once more
give your sanction to the measure. I must entreat you even to
go a step further, and to order that it be without fail done. For
symptoms bordering on mutiny, for the want of pay, have been
reported to me as having appeared in the twelfth and thirteenth
regiments — and discontents, less turbulent, have been communi-
cated from several other quarters ; an explosion any where would
injure and discredit the service, and wherever the blame might
really be, would be shared by all. No one can be more deeply
impressed than I am with the necessity of a strict-adherence to
general rules and to established forms. But there will occur cir-
cumstances in which these ought to be dispensed with, and it is
equally important to judge rightly when exceptions ought to be
admitted, as when the general rule ought to be maintained.

The creation of a new army, in which every officer from the
highest to the lowest is of new appointment, and in respect to
which, in and out of the administration, there is a deficiency of
some essential organs, presents a case which with the utmost
diligence and care will require and justify relaxations.

For instance, the law and the instructions of the Treasury
Department require that the pay of the troops shall be founded
upon warrants of the commanding general, regulated by the
reports of the paymaster-general, or, as I maintain the construc-
tion of the late law to be, of his deputy, with a separate com-
mand. How was that practicable when the paymaster-general
was at Cincinnati, and he had no deputy any where ? How can
it now be done with reasonable convenience and expedition, when
he resides at Philadelphia, and he has no deputy attached either
to my command or to that of General Pinckney ?

^T. 42.]

MILITARY PAPERS. 335

Again, muster and pay-rolls are to be in certain precise forms,
pf-escribed by the Treasury ; these forms were received by me
only four days since, and consequently could not hitherto be in
the possession of the commandants of regiments. It will not be
said that I ought to have called for them ; because certainly it
lies with the department to communicate its own regulations un-
called for. Are the soldiery to suffer a privation of pay for
several months, because these forms, never prescribed, have not
been fulfilled ?

It is true, that when I was at the head of the Treasury De-
partment, these forms passed under my eye ; but it is no less
true that I had forgotten the circumstance, and that considering
it as an attribute of the inspector-general to devise forms, where
none were before established by higher authority, I had caused
to be prepared forms of muster and pay-rolls to answer the
present exigency. Surely, as the matter is situated, these forms
ought provisionally at least to serve as substitutes for the estab-
lished ones.

Various other particulars might be added to prove that dis-
pensations with the ordinary forms ought to take place in relation
to the new regiments ; but the foregoing are sufficient for the
illustration.

Every effort, no doubt, ought to be made, and on my part
will be made as fast as possible, to put this and every other mat-
ter in its proper and regular train ; but time is requisite, and the
organs which depend on administrative authority must first be
instituted.

The Treasury as well as the War Department has too often
experienced the necessity of accommodating relaxations in special
cases, not readily to admit upon reflection that they are right in
the existing position of our new army.

As to the persons, who are to muster the twelve regiments,
they are, by my direction, the commandant of the regiment and
the surgeon, or person officiating in that capacity. It seems to
me that till inspectors are appointed, nothing could be done which
would promise greater security to the public. I did not like to
multiply agents ; I consider that this is substantially conformable

336 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 42.

to the instruction from the Treasury, and will be so understood ;
if not, you will please to inform me.

With great respect, I have the honor to be, sir,
Your obedient servant, &c.

HAMILTON TO SWAN".

New-York, September 22d, 1799.

Sir:

Having forgotten the circumstances known to me when at
the head of the Treasury Department, that forms of muster and
pay-rolls had been prescribed by the Comptroller of the Trea-
sury, I instructed the Assistant Adjutant-General to devise
forms of those documents, and to transmit them to the several
commanders. You will find herewith the forms thus prescribed,
with a letter from the Adjutant-General, explaining the differ-
ences with the reasons of the alterations. Brevity was the princi-
pal motive of them. In all military documents it is peculiarly
desirable to consult conciseness as far as it may comport with
perspicuity and accuracy ; military men in the midst of active
operations have very little leisure for writing.

Having observed thus much, I shall only further say on this
point, that I have no predilection for the new forms ; and am
perfectly content that the old shall continue with or without
modification to meet such of the alterations as may be deemed
improvements.

But the essential point is to have the of&cers, without delay,
furnished with those forms which it is expected shall be ob-
served, accompanied with the requisite instructions for carrying
them into execution.

To this end I have issued the order of which the inclosed
is a copy, and I expect that you will without delay send the
several paymasters and persons acting as such, the forms and
instructions.

^T. 42.J MILITARY PAPERS. 337

Till you have a deputy, it appears to me regular that your
communications ought to be with this description of persons.

When you have or shall have a deputy, it is and will be pro-
per for you to communicate with him, and he with the officers
in question. I may add, that wherever a particular officer re-
ceives money from your department for which he is accountable,
you or your deputy may, with propriety, hold a direct commu-
nication with him, wdiatever be his station.

But it is proper that correspondence and communication be-
tween your office and the military should be restricted to the
purposes of this description, except when for any special reason
you find occasion to communicate with the commanding-general
or other commander of an army, or within a great military
district.

The pointing out at an early period this course of proceed-
ing, is dictated by a love of regularity, to which nothing is more
conducive than great strictness in the modes of communication
between officers. With great consideration, &c.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

New-York, Sept. 23d, 1799.

Deae Sir :

I had the pleasure of receiving in due time your letter of the
15th instant. The suggestions it contains will be maturely
weighed. I postpone any thing definitive until the return of
General Wilkinson, which is momentarily expected. The other
documents besides No. 8, which accompanied his letter, were
not material to the consideration of its contents, or they would
have been forwarded. Even No. 1 does nothing more than ex-
hibit in the form of a table, the propositions which are found in
the letter. I was afraid of burthening you with papers which
did not necessarily require your attention, being matters of mere
detail.

E 22

338 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 42,

Inclosed is a letter of this date to Colonel Parker about win-
ter quarters, for the eighth, ninth, and tenth regiments. It is
late to begin, but you will perceive in it the cause of the delay.

It is extremely desirable that you would be pleased to take
the direction of this matter, and to have the business done in
such manner as you shall deem eligible. Not having a right
to presume that you would choose to take the charge of it, I
have adopted the expedient of addressing myself to Colonel Par-
ker. But perhaps you may think of some preferable agent, in
which case you will be so good as to retain the letter, and give
complete directions to such other agent. Compensation and the
defraying of his expenses need not be obstacles.

At any rate, I hope you will not find it inconvenient to in-
struct Colonel Parker to conclude a bargain for such place as
upon his reports to you shall be in your opinion eligible. It is
very necessary that these young troops should be early covered.
Collateral ideas with regard to Harper's Ferry as a place for
arsenals and magazines, may perhaps be combined. These will
more readily occur to you than to me.

With true respect and attachment, &c.

P. S. Scotch Plains, near Bound Brook, will be fixed upon
for the 11th, 12th, and 13th regiments. A very eligible spot
of about ninety acres is offered there at fifty dollars per acre
for the fee simple. It affords the advantage of a good summer
encampment also, with a prospect of a supply for years of fuel
and straw at cheap rates ; and the convenience of a pleasant and
plentiful surrounding country.

Search has been for some time past making for a suitable
position for the three most northern regiments, in the vicinity of
Uxbridge or Massachusetts.

iET. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 339

WASHINGTOISr TO HAMILTON,

Mount Vernon, 29th Sept., 1799.

Dear Sir:

Your letter of the 23cl instant was received tlie 27tli, and this
day will proceed in tlie mail to Winchester, the nearest post
town to Col. Parker's residence ; if he should be at his own house,
the letter is inclosed for him. There being no person in raj
view more eligible than Col. Parker to carry your instructions
into effect, unless Col. Carrington had been in office as Quarter-
master-General, I had no hesitation in forwarding your letter to
him, with such sentiments as occurred to me on the subject,
which differed in no essential point from those you had given.

I confined him more pointedly than you had done to the
site near Harper's Ferry for his winter cantonment, because very
cogent reasons, in my opinion, required it ; for, besides possess-
ing all the advantages enumerated in your letter to him (so far
as my recollection of the spot and information goes), being in a
fertile and most abounding country, and one of the strongest po-
sitions by nature perhaps in America, it appeared to me that the
encampment and arsenal which is established at that place might
mutually assist and benefit each other. If the States are wise
enough to keep united, I have no doubt of this arsenal being their
principal place of arms and best foundry, as it is in the midst of
furnaces and forges of the best iron, can receive at and transport
from it by inland navigation all its wants and manufactures in
every direction, and is indubitably, supposing the advantage of
water transportation out of the question, altogether, the great
highway to the country on the river Ohio,

For the reasons I have assigned, I did not hesitate a moment
in giving the vicinity of Harper's Ferry (at the confluence of
the rivers Potomac and Shenandoah) a decided preference ; but,
if I am not mistaken, another strong inducement is afforded,
namely, that there is a sufficiency of land purchased for the pur-
pose of the arsenal to accommodate both objects. Of this I have
informed Col, Parker, but, as Air, Lear is from home (who was

340 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 42.

the agent for the War Department in the purchase), I could not
inform him with certainty. If the fact, however, should be as I
suspect, it will prove a most fortunate circumstance, as well in
the article of expense as in the time that will be gained in com-
pleting the huts. If it should be otherwise, I have advised Col.
Parker to hold out to view and examine many places, while he,
by some agent, is endeavoring to possess himself by purchase of
the site near Harper's Ferry, without which he might be imposed
on in the price of the land.

With very great esteem and regard, &c.

HAMILTON TO COL. MOORE.

New-York, Sept. 30, 1799.

Sir:

I have received your letter of the 28th instant, and shall
make but one inquiry more with respect to the unfortunate affair

between Lieut. ■ and Capt. . You will be so good

as to inform me of the particular subject on which the political
dispute turned, and of the principles that were maintained by the
respective parties. The information I am anxious to receive.

I am pleased with the pains you have taken to discourage a
repetition of such instances. If examples were wanting to illus-
trate the pernicious eifects of drinking to intoxication, the present
unfortunate affair would be a very instructive one. How neces-
sary is it, as well by the means which affect the pride and deli-
cacy of oflEicers as by those which are furnished by the principles
of discipline, to discountenance so ungeutlemanly a propensity.
You have the leave of absence which you request.

^T. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS.
HAMILTON TO MCHENRY.

New-York, October 3, 1799.

Sir:

The following arrangement as to liuts, appears to me expe-
dient. Eacli hut to be fourteen by sixteen feet for all but the
field officers. One hut for twelve privates or eight non-com-
missioned officers. One hut for each captain, and each of the
regimental staff. One hut for every two subalterns. A hut
for a lieutenant-colonel, of fourteen by twenty-four feet ; and
for each major, of fourteen feet by twenty-two feet. One hut as
a kitchen to every mess of officers, and to each field officer.

It is contemplated that the huts be roofed with boards, unless
where slabs can be had very cheap. The Albany board being
always fourteen feet in length, and this being from convenience
a pretty common length of other boards, it has had some influence
in determining the size of the huts. Boards will also be wanted
for bunks. Such of the boards as can be preserved entire, may
be afterwards sold for nearly their cost. The slabs would be
worth little more than mere fuel.

I send you an estimate of carpenters' tools, requisite, in the
opinion of General Stevens, (who is a professional judge,) for
hutting a regiment.

It is important that your sense of the matter should be re-
ceived without delay, as time begins to press.

In the execution of the plan, slight deviations may be expe-
dient (with reference to the kind of material, &c.) to fulfil the
general views of the plan.

As soon as your sense shall be signified, I shall proceed
to order provision to be made, except of such articles as you.
shall inform me are already procured, or to be procured else-
where.

I presume carpenters sufficient will be found in each regi-
ment to conduct the roofing, &c., but the service being irrelative
to their established duty, there must be some extra compensa-
tion. It may, however, in some cases be necessary to engage a

342 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 42.

few additional hands of this description. In every thing, how-
ever, economy, as much as possible, will be consulted.
With great consideration and respect,

I have the honor to be your obed't serv't.

HAMILTON TO

New- York, October 4th, 1799.

Sir:

Inclosed is a duplicate of my letter of the , by

which you are instructed to purchase ground for the pur-
pose of winter quarters. I am now to request that you will im-
mediately require of the contractors to procure, on public account,
the number of boards or slabs, or both, which you shall deem
sufficient for two complete regiments, with their officers, and for
the floors of the huts of the officers, and for bunks for the non-
commissioned officers and privates. It is contemplated that the
latter will dispense with flooring, as was done during the late
war, or will make the floors out of the fragments of wood, cut
from the premises ; and that the commissioned officers, as usual,
will be provided with their own camp beds and camp stools.
Nails must also be procured at the rate of pounds to a full

regiment.

You are already informed, that three regiments are to quarter
together ; but it is supposed that these, during the present winter,
may not average more than 400 each. If it is found that they
will exceed, the provision will be extended. Sufficient ground
must be allotted in each case for a complete regiment.

The following dimensions for huts are conceived to be the
most eligible, viz. :

Those for the non-commissioned officers and privates .

Those for the company officers, • .

Those for lieutenant-colonels commandant, .

Those for majors, .

j:t. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 343

One hut is to be allowed to every twelve corporals or privates.

One to every eight sergeants, with the two chief musicians.

One to each captain, and each of the regimental staff.

One to every two subalterns.

One to each field officer, and

One as a kitchen to each mess of officers, and to each field
ofEicer.

The number of Albany boards of fourteen feet in length, and
inches in breadth, which are estimated to be necessary for
the huts of a regiment, in respect to the above mentioned parti-
culars, is . While this is mentioned as a guide, the number

must of course vary with the dimensions of the boards, which
are made in your quarter, and with the more or less of use which
shall be made of slabs.

In this quarter, boards have been preferred, because they can
be afterwards sold for nearly their first cost ; while slabs (the
price of which would be about two-thirds of that of boards) could
not be, sold again but as fuel.

It is possible that in the vicinity of the place for your
quarters, slabs may be obtainable at so cheap a rate as to render
them preferable in the view of economy to boards.

This is submitted to your judgment; but it would be agree-
able that you should first confer on the subject with the agent of
the War Department.

The dimensions of the huts have been somewhat influenced
by the length of Albany boards, and by the desire to preserve
them, in order that they may be in a condition to be sold again,
with little or no loss. If the size of your board should be dif-
ferent, you are at liberty to vary the dimensions of the huts of
the non-commissioned officers and privates with the same view.
This will lead to a different distribution of persons to each hut.

The number twelve^ however, appears to me to be an eligible
standard for a mess. Experience in some of the European
armies has proved that large messes, by promoting savings, tend
to the comfort of the troops. And in the formation which I con-
template for the full complement of a regiment, twelve will form
the smallest subdivision. Hence I should not wish the dimen-

344 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 42.

sions to be altered, unless for some material inducement of
economy.

The huts of the non-commissioned officers and privates should
be in one line of the company ; officers in another, fifty feet dis-
tant ; and of the field officers in a third, fifty feet distant from
the last. The distance may, however, depend on the form of
the ground.

Particular care must be taken that there be no waste of tim-
ber or wood. The present may not be the only winter in which
the troops may be quartered at the place intended. E. Stevens,
Esq. has been instructed to procure and forward a supply of
carpenters' tools. It is presumed that men will be found in the
regiments who can execute such parts as may require a degree
of carpenters' knowledge.

The senior of the lieutenant-colonels commandant, (who I
presume is yourself,) by the rules lately promulgated, will as-
sume the command. If I am mistaken in supposing you to
be the senior, you will inform me of it. If it be another, you
will write to him accordingly, giving him a copy of this letter for
his government, but you will nevertheless go on with the pre-
paratory measures.

The men already recruited are to be drawn as fast as possi-
ble to the place of their winter quarters, and are to be put under
cover without delay. Such as may be successively recruited are
also to be drawn thither; and for this purpose an extra provision
of materials for huts is to be made by the men who may be first
on the ground. But the recruiting service is still to proceed,
until each regiment shall be carried to its complement. Accord-
ingly, after assigning a proportionate number of officers to the
command of the men already enlisted, the others are to continue
on the recruiting service in their respective sub-districts.

You will immediately inform Colonels Hunewell and Graves,
of the precise plan of winter quarters.

^T. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 345

HAMILTON TO COLONEL MOORE.

New-York, October 6th, 1799.

Sir:

It is afflicting to learn that sncli a dispute as you state in your
letter of the 3d instant should have occurred between two officers
of the American army. Particular attachment to any foreign
nation is an exotic sentiment which, where it exists, must dero-
gate from the exclusive affection due to our own country. Par-
tiality to France at this late day is a bad symptom. The pro-
fession of it by Captain , in my opinion, does him no

honor. How far it ought to impair confidence, must depend in
a degree on personal character. But as often as a similar bias is
manifested, the conduct of the person ought to engage the vigi-
lant attention of the commanding officer. I hesitate as to what
my duty requires on the occasion, and must think further of the
matter. You will be pleased to ascertain, and inform me whether
Lieutenant be an American citizen or not. You will re-
ceive another letter of this date on the subject of winter quarters.

With confidence and esteem.

HAMILTON TO M'^HENRY.

Trenton, October 12th, 1799.

Sir:

It is now time to contemplate the distribution of the troops
of the United States into divisions and brigades. The arrange-
ment which appears to me expedient for the present is this:
" That the four old regiments shall form one division and two
brigades ; the twelve new ones, two divisions and four brigades.

The ver}^ great sphere of action to which the former are des-
tined, including important and complicated objects, appears to
me to render it expedient that not more than two regiments shall

346 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 42.

constitute a brigade. But the latter, till there should be actual
service, when the system supposes that the number of each regi-
ment would be increased, may, for the mere purposes of disci-
pline, be conveniently formed three to a brigade. The disposi-
tion for winter quarters accords with this idea.

Correspondent officers should be appointed, who are princi-
pally generals, quartermasters, and inspectors.

The latter are of the competency of the inspector-general, who
will proceed without delay to make the appointments.

If the non-appointment of the quartermaster-general, pro-
vided for by the Act of the 3d of March last for the better
organizing of the army, or the absence of the former quartermas-
ter-general, be an impediment to the regular course of constituting
a deputy quartermaster-general to each military district, and divi-
sion and brigade quartermasters, a substitute must be adopted.

Usage, founded on necessity in similar cases, would authorize
each commanding general to designate persons provisorily to per-
form the duties. But he cannot annex the extra compensation,
and without this, or the expectation of it, the business would
labor.

I request your interposition. I deem essential the immediate
appointment within my command of a deputy quartermaster-
general, and one division and two brigade quartermasters ; and I
will observe incidentally, that the same thing must be requisite
wdthin the command of General Pinckney.

As to generals, the President must decide. With the West-
ern army there is no major-general and one brigadier. Two brig-
adiers were appointed for the additional army, but no more than
one is understood to have accepted. I am anxious that the de-
ficiency should be supplied. The discipline of the troops ought
to be accelerated. It must suffer more or less as often as one
organ is transferred from its proper situation to another. I en-
treat a prompt decision on the subject of quartermaster.

^T. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 347

HAMILTON TO M'^HENRY.

Trenton, October 12th, 1799.

Sir:

I have the honor to transmit the plan which is conceived to
be proper for the disposition of the four regiments of the perma-
nent estabhshment. It is the result of communications with
General Wilkinson and the Commander-in-Chief, and accords
with the opinion of the latter.

The principal objects of this plan are : — 1. The distribution
of the troops by corps in contiguous relative positions, keeping
the men embodied under their own officers, and making the com-
mandants of regiments and battalions to superintend their re-
spective corps ; an arrangement no less favorable to the conve-
nience and regularity of supply than to the order and discipline
of the troops. 2. The reduction of the number of posts ; some
of which, however useful when originally occupied, can, under
existing circumstances, answer no valuable purpose, but tend to
subdivide too much our inconsiderable force, and to increase the
difficulty and expense of supply. 3. The obtaining of a reserve
force, which, being stationed in a central position, will bear upon
various points either for succor or attack, and by its concen-
tration will be capable of discipline and ready for active and
efficient efforts. 4, The promotion of economy, by lessening the
garrisons of some of the most remote stations, and bringing a prin-
cipal part of the force to a situation where it can be supplied
with comparative cheapness.

In judging of the effect of the plan in the last view, it is neces-
sary to advert, that the present low state of the corps, in point of
numbers, is not the criterion. In the natural order of service,
the recruits would reinforce them several companies, and in this
case the actual distribution of the troops would give to posts in
the most expensive situations greater numbers than are allotted
to them by the present plan.

The reduction of the garrison of Michilimackinac, in particu-
lar, has been very much influenced by the consideration of

348 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 42.

economy. This motive was tlie more readily yielded to, as it is
not perceived that a greater number there, if bearing any propor-
tion to the whole force which we have to employ in the western
quarter, would answer any better purpose than the number pro-
posed to be continued. This number will serve to occupy the
point as one of the portals of the country, and to cover the few
white inhabitants there settled. In a suitable fortification, espe-
cially as the site is an island, it may effectually resist Indian
attack ; and any greater number which could be spared, could
neither act offensively against them, nor maintain themselves
against serious attack from our English neighbors. In the last
supposition the increase of number, from the impracticability of
reinforcement and succor, would only serve to increase loss.

It is not understood that the station procures to us at the
present juncture any commercial advantage, but in this respect is
principally convenient to the British traders in peltry, who, in
their intercourse with the neighboring Indians, have a rendezvous
at tliis place.

The primary inducement to us to keep a post there is, as be-
fore intimated, to retain the occupation of what may be consid-
ered as one of the portals of our northwestern territory, and to
avoid the appearance to the Indians of an abandonment of that
part of the country. It contributes also, in some degree, to an
influence over the tribes connected with Lake Michigan ; and
in time to come it may be an encouragement to the enterprises
of American traders. But all these ends will, it is conceived, be
accomplished by a small force.

The force now upon the lower parts of the Mississippi will
also be reduced.

It is conceived that the number contemplated by the plan
will be sufficient to garrison and maintain the forts which ought
at this time to exist in that region, to impress with due respect
the adjacent Indians, to give reasonable protection to the inhabit-
ants, and to keep such of them as may have foreign attachment
in check. A greater number would be inexpedient, because any
number which the state of our military establishment would per-
mit to be stationed there would not be adequate to the repelling

^T. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 349

of a serious attack from our neighbors, and, being out of the
reach of succor, would, for that reason, be in imminent danger of
total defeat and loss ; while it would be still more inadequate to
an offensive operation, and, by its proximity, would be likely to
create alarm and occasion reinforcement.

In the event of an invasion from below, our reserved force
placed on the 0/ab, reinforced by the militia, to which it would
be a rallying point, can descend to meet it with effect, or can
take such other measures as circumstances may dictate. If a
rupture with Spain should induce us to become the invaders, the
force assigned to the undertaking can rapidly descend the Mis-
sissippi, and, being at a great distance, will have a better chance
of making its approach and of arriving unexpectedly, than if sta-
tioned at a place which by its nearness would excite jealousy
and vigilance.

But I agree in opinion with General Wilkinson, that a
strongly-fortified post ought to guard our extremity on the Mis-
sissippi. It will not only serve as an impediment to invasion by
the Spaniards, but will have an impressive influence on the pow-
erful tribes of Indians in our southwestern territory. Loftus's
Height (where you are informed a fortification is begun), accord-
ing to the description and plans communicated by General Wil-
kinson, is peculiarly designated as the proper site of such a post.
It is near our southern line, by much the highest point in an
extensive district of country, and commands the narrowest part
of the river. The dimensions of the summit are understood to
correspond with a fort which may be defended with about two
hundred men, and which would protect the batteries in advance
towards the river, and in other directions. I concur in the expe-
diency of occupying this height with a regular fortification
of stone or brick, garnished into the proper exterior batteries.
Bricks, I am assured, are easily made in the vicinity. Inclosed
is an estimate of the probable expense. Though by no means an
advocate for multiplying, in the present circumstances of the
country, the number of our fortifications, already too great, I en-
tertain no doubt of the expediency of the one in question, and
the object is well worth the probable expense.

350 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 42.

It will be seen that a battalion is assigned to the care of this
fort, and of another now possessed on the Mobile.

The propriety of continuing the latter post may, however,
depend on circumstances. It is useful for the protection of an
existing settlement, and will add to the influence of our estab-
lishment upon the minds of the Indians ; but the supply of it is
difficult and expensive, and it is now effected through the Span-
ish territory. In case of a diminution of amity with Spain, that
circumstance would compel to a removal, unless another channel
can be conveniently opened. Indeed, if this cannot be shortly
done, it will hardly be proper to retain the post. The duration
of the arrangement, in this particular, may, therefore, be con-
sidered as contingent.

The position which has been chosen for the reserve corps has
various aspects. It looks to the succor of the more northern as
well as the more southern posts, and will be likely to control
efficaciously the northwestern Indians; it has an eye to a co-
operation with the troops in the State of Tennessee, whenever a
good communication shall be established, which is conceived to
be an object of pressing moment; and it is convenient for a
descent by the river Mississippi, for offensive operations against
our neighbors on the south, if future circumstances should recom-
mend them. But, as well with a view to defence as offence, it is
deemed requisite to prepare and keep ready below the rapids of
the Ohio a number of boats equal to the transportation of three
thousand men, with baggage, stores, provisions, artillery, and
other apparatus. The number and the estimate of their cost will
be found herewith.

A firm occupation of the straits which connect Lake Erie
with the Huron and Ontario, appears to me a material point. It
is doubtful whether the posts now on those straits are the best
adapted to that end either as to local situation or construction.
But unfortunately the want of a skilful engineer, (a very painful
circumstance in our military affairs,) is an obstacle to the due
examination of this point. It is, nevertheless, one which must
be attended to, as early as shall be practicable. It would seem
to me desirable ere long to have on each strait, a work suited to

^T. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 351

about a tliousand men, wifh an interior work in tlie nature of a
citadel, adapted to about two hundred. These might be expected
to secure the place against a coup de main with a small force, and
the gi'owth of settlement in the vicinity will soon furnish through
the militia the means of augmenting the garrison upon a sudden
emergency. The good understanding which at this time subsists
between the United States and Great Britain, justifies an ar-
rangement less efficient than that just intimated. But the per-
manency of friendship between nations is too little to be relied
upon not to render it prudent to look forward to more substan-
tial precautions than are immediately meditated. You will like-
wise have observed that particular attention is paid to Massac.
In my opinion very cogent and comprehensive reasons render it
the policy of the United States to secure and command the con-
fluence of the Tennessee and Cumberland rivers with the Ohio,
and of the Ohio with the Mississippi. To this end respectable
fortifications, to be gradually executed, are necessary.

The leading motives to the plan, which I have the honor to
transmit, have been sketched ; considerations not mentioned will
readily present themselves to your reflections as having operated
on parts of the plan. Among these, the maintenance of the
troops on moderate terms, has not been overlooked in the choice
of the principal station.

Nothing particular has been said as to the regiment allotted to
General Pinckney's command, because the disposition of it be-
longs to him.

But the plan which I offer requires your interposition to give
it effect within the limits of that officer's district. There are now
there a regiment and part of another. An instruction from
you is necessary to incorporate the men so as to form one full
regiment — marching the overplus to Harper's Ferry, to be sent in
the spring to the Ohio.

The fourth regiment will naturally be that to be assigned
to Tennessee and Georgia. The men of the third, now in
Georgia, can continue there, but transferred to the fourth. These,
with those at present under Colonel Butler, in Tennessee, will
make a full regiment. And the recruits, under Major Bradley,

352 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 42.

may at once be sent to Harper's Ferry. In the course of the
winter the officers of the third, in Georgia, can repair to Harper's
Ferry, and a sufficient number of those of the fourth can replace
them in Georgia.

An arrangement for the officers of the four old regiments is
now submitted to your consideration ; when approved, no time
will be lost in bringing officers and men together at the several
stations. At present they are extremely mingled and confused ;
officers of one regiment are with the men of another, and so
great is the disorder that I am assured that in one instance two
companies are mustered to the same captain — I allude to the case
of Captain .

It is alike important and urgent to be enabled to carry this
arrangement into execution, or with such alterations as you may
think fit to prescribe. The advanced state of the season renders
it necessary that General Wilkinson should depart without delay.
This he cannot do until he receives my instructions, and these
cannot be given to him until I shall receive your answer to this
communication ; my antecedent authority not being commensurate
with all the objects contemplated, and the Commander-in-Chief
having confined himself to advice without giving directions.

With perfect respect and esteem, I have the honor to be, sir,
Your obedient servant, &c.

Plan for the disposition of the four regiments of the permanent estab-
lishment, {as the result of communications with General Wilkin-
son and the Commander-in- Chief)

One regiment to be stationed partly in the State of Tennessee, and partly in
proper positions for the protection of the frontier of Georgia, not extending far-
ther westward than the Apalachicola river. This regiment to be attached to the
command of General Pinckney. The part in Tennessee to be by him instructed
in any great and sudden emergency to co-operate with General Wilkinson.

The other three regiments to be under the immediate command of General
Wilkinson, and to be stationed as follows, viz.

1. A battalion of infantry, a company of artillerists, at Niagara, Detroit, and
Michilimackinac ; thus distributed :

To Niagara. — Two companies of infantry, and a half company of artillerists.

iET.42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 353

Detroit. — Three companies of infantry, and one company of artillerists ; to
furnish for * * * *

Michilimackinac. — A subaltern, two sergeants, twenty-four rank and file in-
fantry, and a sergeant and twelve artillerists.

2. A battalion of infantry, and a company of artillerists, at Fort Wayne, Fort
Fayette (Pittsburgh), Massac, and Fort Pickering; thus distributed, viz. —

To Fort Wayne. — A company of infantry and a quarter of a company of ar-
tillerists.

To Fort Fayette. — A company of infantry and a quarter of a company of ar-
tillerists, to detach to

Presque Isle. — One subaltern, one sergeant, one corporal, and fifteen privates.

To Massac. — Two companies of infantry, and half a company of artillerists ;
to detach to Fort Pickering a sergeant and six artillerists.

Fort Pickering. — A company of infantrj\ and a sergeant and six artillerists.

3. A battaUon of infantry, and a company of artillerists, at Fort Adams and
Fort Stoddart ; thus distributed, viz. —

To Fort Adams. — Four companies of infantry, and a company of artillerists ;
the latter to furnish a detachment for Fort Stoddart.

To Fort Stoddart. — A company of infantry, and a sergeant and twelve artil-
lerists.

The reserve force, consisting of a regiment and a battalion of infantiy, two
troops of horse and half a company of artillerists, to be stationed at some point,
from Cincinnati to the Rapids of the Ohio, inclusively.

[It is further contemplated that two regiments of infantry, a battahon of rifle-
men, and a regiment of cavalry of the eventual army, be organized in Tennessee,
Kentucky, the North and Southwestern Territory.]

HAMILTON TO •WASHDTGTON.

New-York, Oct. 21st, 1799.

Sir:

I have tlie honor to acknowledge the receipt, two days since,
of your letter of the 15th instant ; at which time, also, I received
one from Colonel Parker, informing me of the selection of ground
which he had made.

You will see, by the inclosed letter to him, the impression
which his communication has made on my mind.
E 23

354 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt.42.

I trust it must be erroneous, since my supposition does not
agree with the spirit of his instructions, either from you or my-
self, nor with the manner in which you seem, by some expres-
sions in your letter, to understand that he has executed them.
But as it is possible the mode of execution may not have been
sufficiently explained to you, I cannot entirely dismiss my ap-
prehensions.

K the plan of barracks has, in fact, been substituted, I must
once more entreat your interposition. You will judge whether
there is yet time to rectify the mistake, and procure a more suit-
able position ; or whether, making an arrangement at the place
which has been fixed upon for the eighth regiment only, it will
not be best to vary the destination of the others — sending the
ninth to the barracks at Fredericktown, in Maryland, where, I am
very lately informed, there are buildings sufficient for a regi-
ment, belonging to the State, which I presume may be borrowed ;
and the tenth at Carlisle, in Pennsylvania, where I am assured
there exist buildings, the property of the United States, which
will accommodate a regiment. Both these regiments have been
directed to march for their destination, by way of Frederick-
town, and the tenth to Yorktown, there to receive further
orders.

Permit me to ask that you will be pleased to give these fur-
ther orders, according to your determination, to which every
thing is respectfully submitted.

Knowing that it is not agreeable to your general plan, to
take charge, at present, of military operations, I am bound to
apologize for the trouble I give you. But my unexpected and
late agency in the affair, and the advanced state of the season,
leave me no alternative.

With perfect respect, &c.

Mt.42.] ' MILITARY PAPERS. 355

HAMILTON TO M'HENKY.

New-York, October 22cl, 1799.

Sir:

It gives me pleasure to learn from your letter of the 16tli in-
stant, which was received yesterday, that the leading principles
and objects of the plan communicated in mine of the 13th, are
approved.

In every disposition of the troops in the western county, the
primary views of the government, as indicated by you, will be
carefully attended to.

The surmise as to leaving an additional battalion for Ten-
nessee and the frontiers of Georgia, has induced a reconsidera-
tion of that part of the plan. But my opinion continues unal-
tered. Our entire force, which, from the terms of engagement,
can be applied to the purposes of our northern, western and
southern frontiers, is manifestly inadequate. All that can be
done is, to make such a disposition of it as will bear a proportion
to the different objects.

Comparing those which are to be provided for on our north-
western and southwestern frontiers, including the intermediate
country, with those which demand attention in the other quar-
ters, and taking into the view the greater facility of reinforce-
ment in the one case than in the other, a regiment for Tennessee
and the frontiers of Georgia is an ample proportion. If the regi-
ment can be kept full, which can easily be done, th^re will, I be-
lieve, be a greater real force, than there has been in time past.
This point, of course, ought to be looked to. The addition of a
battalion would very essentially interfere with the idea of a re-
served force on the Ohio, large enough to be in any degree effi-
cient. And this is deemed on all hands a cardinal object in the
disposition to be made.

I shall be happy to learn that these reasons are deemed satis-
factory, and that immediate measures will be taken in conform-
ity. For these measures I refer to the suggestions in my former
letter.

356 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 42.

HAMILTON TO M'HEJSTEY.

New- York, October 25, 1799.

Sir:

I have the honor to transmit the proceedings of a court-mar-
tial lately holden at Fort Fayette, of which Major Stevenson was
president, to be submitted to the President of the United States
for his decision.

No pecuhar circumstances appear in it. I can only observe that
it probably proceeded from some knowledge of personal charac-
ter in the court, and from the conviction of the necessity of
examples.

There are other cases now pending before the President,
arising in the western country.

One execution, at present, in that scene may suffice; and
pardons granted in the others.

The President may either select, guided by the circumstan-
ces which appear; or leave the selection to the officer com^
manding the western army.

HAMILTON TO M'^HENRT.

New-York, October 25, 1799.

Sir:

Lieutenant Campbell Smith has made a representation to me,
on the subject of some claims which he has pending in the ac-
countant's office, and has requested the interposition of my
opinion.

Thinking it due to him as an officer now under my command,
I trouble you with this letter.

He states that he has claims of two kinds ; one for services
rendered for more than two years, as judge advocate, previous
to the law authorizing that appointment, another for the legal

^T.42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 357

emoluments of the office, in virtue of an appointment of tlie com-
manding general, on tlie cases of that law ; that having been
absent in consequence of ill health, induced by a severe wound
received in the service, obstacles have occurred to the allowing
of the compensation during the term of such absence ; that the
Attorney-General has given an opinion that the appointment
was a regular one under the law, and that he understands this
opinion to have been heretofore acted upon by your department.

Upon these data I submit my ideas.

I consider it to be a principle sanctioned by usage, that when
an officer is called to exercise, in a permanent way^ an office of
skill in the army (such as that of judge-advocate), for which pro-
vision is not made by law, he is to receive a quantum meruit^ by
special discretion, for the time he officiates, which, in our present
system, would be paid out of the fund for the contingencies of
the War Department.

This applies to the first claim.

As to to the second, this is my opinion : That, considering
the appointment as regularly made under the law, the emolu-
ments continue, of course, until the office has been abdicated or
suspended — the non-exercise of it for any period to the contrary,
notwithstanding. In the situation in which Lieutenant Smith
was placed by his wound, he would seem entitled even to a
liberal application of this rule of right.

CHAELES COTESWOETH PINCKNEY TO HAMILT015".

Elizabethtown, Oct. 25, 1799.

Deae Sie:

I arrived at this place this afternoon from Ehode Island, via
Paulus Hook. Mrs. Pinckney has sustained the fatigue of the
voyage and the journey better than I expected. She is, however,
much tired, and I shall not be able to leave her to-morrow ; but
I trust she will be so much recovered as to enable me to pay my

358 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 42.

respects to you on Sunday. If that sliould not be tlie case, I will
wait upon you tlie first day I can with propriety do so. The
envoys are then to sail. I presume this must be a very deep
measure ; — much too profound for my penetration.
I always am yours very sincerely.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

(private.)

Mount Vernon, 27th Oct., 1799.

Dear Sir:

To my official letters I refer you for my communication with
Colonel Parker. I have no conception, however, that such diffi-
culties as are enumerated in his and Mr, Mackie's letters, can
exist in the erection of simple huts, (such as served us last war,)
and so I am about to inform the former.

I am averse to the separation of the eighth, ninth, and tenth
regiments under any circumstances which exist at present ; — and
still more so to the distribution of them into three States. If
they cannot all be accommodated at Harper's Ferry, the barracks
at Fredericktown (if sufficient to contain two regiments) is to
be preferred, vastly, to Carlisle ; forasmuch as it is only twenty
miles from the arsenal, which is in great forwardness in the
former place, and because fuel alone at either Fredericktown or
Carlisle for the winter, would double all the expense of the
establishment at Harper's Ferry. I have gone thus far into this
business, and have given these opinions, because you desired it ;
and because from the peculiar situation of things, it seemed, in a
manner, almost indispensable. But I wish exceedingly, that the
state of Mrs. Pinckney's health, and other circumstances, would
permit General Pinckney to come forward, and on his own view
to decide on matters. To engage partially in military arrange-
ments, is not only contrary to my original design, but unpleasant
in its nature and operation ; inasmuch as it incurs responsibility
without proper means for decision.

^T.42.T MILITARY PAPERS. 359

Witli respect to Major Campbell, or any of tliose who are ap-
plying for appointments in tlie Inspectorate, I have no predilec-
tion whatsoever towards them ; handing in their names, with the
testimonials of their merit and fitness as I receive them, for
information only is all I have in view.

The purport of your (private) letter of the 21st, with respect
to a late decision, has surprised me exceedingly. I was sur-
prised at the measure^ how much more so at the manner of it ?
This business seems to have commenced in an evil hour, and
under unfavorable auspices ; and I wish mischief may not tread
in all its steps, and be the final result of the measure. A wide
door was open from which a retreat might have been made from
the first/awx jpa5, the shutting of which, to those who are not be-
hind the curtain, and are as little acquainted with the secrets of
the cabinet as I am, is, from the present aspect of European af-
fairs, incomprehensible. But I have the same reliance on Pro-
vidence which you express, and trust that matters will end ivell,
however unfavorable they may appear at present.
With very great esteem and regard,
I am, my dear Sir,

Your most obedient and affectionate,

Geo. Washington.

HAMILTON TO ADAMS.

New-York, Oct. 29th, 1799.

Sir:

I shall with pleasure obey the command contained in your
letter of the 17th instant, and shall accordingly inform the Gov-
ernor that I am ready to proceed in the execution of the measure.

360 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 42.

HAMILTON TO M'HENRY.

New-York, October 29tli, 1799.

Sir:

General Wilkinson has fiirnislied me with tlie inclosed esti-
mates of the cost of the water-batterj, barracks and magazine,
which have been undertaken at Loftus's Height ; and he gives it
as his opinion bj analogy, but without detail, that the cost of the
fort proposed to be erected at the same place, will about equal
the sum of these estimates, say 16,000 dollars.

I send you an estimate which I have myself made, aided by
the information of prices which the estimates above referred to
exhibit, which makes the cost considerably less.

Yet, relying on General Wilkinson's better knowledge of
local circumstances, I have authorized him to erect the work
within a limit of expense conformable to his own calculation, un-
less, previous to his departure for the Mississippi, he should re-
ceive a negative from you, or by your direction. The provision
for the supplying of the fund may require your interposition.
But regarding it as very urgent to have the work proceed during
the cool season, I have desired him, if a fund is not otherwise
provided, to cause the deputy or other representative of the
quartermaster-general at his head-quarters, to draw and negotiate
bills upon the assistant quartermaster-general at the seat of Gov-
ernment, which bills he is to indorse thus : " Approved. James
Wilkinson, Brigadier-General."

Inclosed is likewise an estimate of the cost of boats for trans-
porting down the Mississippi three thousand men, founded on a
communication from General Wilkinson.

It exceeds greatly the sum I had been led to compute from
anterior verbal information, and as the boats will be liable to
perish, I cease to recommend the measure as one immediately to
be adopted. It may perhaps be hereafter deemed advisable to
pursue it in a more limited extent, but I beg leave to refer the
matter to further consideration.

Every thing is doing to get ready the vessel which is to trans-

^T.42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 361

port artillery and stores. A passport from tlie President, show-
ing the nature of her errand, is submitted as a precaution dictated
by prudence.

It will likewise, no doubt, be considered by you whether
you will not direct insurance to be made. As there is to be a
convoy, and it is the property of government, it is probable that
the insurance may be effected at a moderate premium.

As the idea of an additional battalion for Georgia and Ten-
nessee is only surmised in your letter, and as you have not re-
plied to my last communication on this subject, I conclude that
the original plan is to take effect, and have framed my instruc-
tions to General Wilkinson on this supposition.

General Pinckney was here yesterday. I showed him the
plan, and my letter to you in which it was sent. He expressed
without reserve his satisfaction.

HAMILTON TO WILKINSON.

New-York, October 31, 1799.
Sie:

The copious explanations which have been had between us
in conversation, on the subjects of your several communications
of the 6th of September, 12th, 15th, 19th and 27th instant, will
abridge the observations naturally connected with the plan which
has been adopted as the result, and which forms the object of
the present instruction.

This plan, as you know, has the same basis with that which
has been presented by you. As far as there may be variances
in the application of principles, collateral considerations have
chiefly influenced.

It is contained in the inclosed paper, A. The letters between
the Secretary of War and myself, of which B, 0, D and E are
copies, exhibit the views which have reciprocally governed. In
the execution of this plan, many details arise which I do not en-

362 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 42.

ter into, because tliey will most properly be left with you.
Neither would I be understood to require a literal execution.
The great outline is, under existing circumstances, to be adhered
to ; but you are at liberty to deviate in details which do not con-
travene the leading objects.

I wil] only remark, that it is deemed material that no greater
force than the plan contemplates shall be assigned to the posts
below the confluence of the Ohio with the Mississippi ; and that the
reserve force shall not be stationed more westward or southward
than the vicinity of the rapids of the Ohio.

That vicinity, as passing the obstacles of the navigation above
and facilitating a communication with the posts below, presents
itself to consideration.

A question arises, whether the north or the south side of the
Ohio should be preferred. In favor of the latter is the important
consideration, that by the contract for the ensuing year the ration
is at least two cents and eight mills cheaper there than on the
north side. On the other hand, it is possible that the troops
there may be exposed to vexations, and in danger of seduction
from the acts of disaffected persons, which might not attend them
in the ojDposite territory ; but these inconveniences do not appear
likely to be so great as to countervail so considerable a difference
in the price of the ration, though they might be allowed to pre-
vail against a small difference. Unless, therefore, there should
be some important alteration in this particular, I recommend to
you the south side for the station of your reserve force.

It will bQ my endeavor to engage the administration to or-
ganize in Tennessee, Kentucky, the north and southwestern ter-
ritories, two regiments of infantry, a battalion of riflemen, and a
regiment of dragoons, under the act which provides for an even-
tual army. This, if effected, may afford a powerful auxiliary
for defensive or offensive measures, as future exigencies may
dictate.

The recruiting for the corps of which your command is to be
composed, demands and has my particular attention. You are
apprised that the business is going on under Major Bradley in
North Carolina and Virginia, under Major Cass in the State of

^T. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 363

Delaware, and under Major Buel in the State of Vermont. In
addition to this, I have proposed to the Secretary of War to send
to the westward bounty money and clothing for re-enlisting and
recruiting to the extent of a full regiment.

There are small detachments of recruits for the infantry of the
permanent establishment at Norfolk in Virginia, Fredericktown
in Maryland, and at West Point in the State of New- York,
which, as soon as practicable, will reinforce the army under your
command ; and exertions, efficacious as I trust, will be made to
complete the force allotted to you, and to have it on the ground
early in the next temperate season.

The new organization of the officers of the four regiments,
which you have suggested, has been transmitted to the Secretary
of War, with an expression of my opinion in its favor. K you
hear nothing to the contrary from that officer previous to your
departure for the Mississippi, you will consider the plan as ratified
— ^you will give it effect within your command. K, however, in
the execution you find small deviations expedient, you will make
them, reporting to me the instances and the motives.

The inspectors of division and brigades, recommended by
you, are appointed. The affair of judge advocate, has not yet
been definitively acted upon.

The propriety of strongly fortifying Loftus's Heights, being
on all sides admitted, so far as the force which can be allowed
for this object will permit, it remains to say something concern-
ing the kind of fortification.

Professing no skill as an engineer, and, as a consequence of
the improvidence of our national policy in time past, possessing
no competent aid in others, I shall attempt nothing more than to
offer hints. Indeed, a critical view of the local situation in all
its bearings, not merely a representation on paper of the part
which looks toward the river, ought to guide and regulate the
plan which is to be definitively adopted. This, therefore, must be
left to you, with the help of the best lights you have or can
procure.

But I will observe, that it appears to me advisable to occupy
the summit of the height with a fort or redoubt, in nature of a

364 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 42.

citadel, adapted to a garrison of four Inindred men, and capable,
as far as possible, of resisting, by its construction, a coup de main,
and of obliging an enemy, not in a condition to make consider-
able sacrifices of men, to attack it in form.

This redoubt, with a battery towards the river, at the point
F, in the plan you have furnished, is as much as can be im-
mediately undertaken. In process of time, if the relative situ-
ation of territorial boundary remains as it now is, it will proba-
bly be necessary to extend from this citadel, in different direc-
tions, outworks, which, in conjunction with the citadel, will
require a thousand men for their defence. This operation may
be a successive one.

The idea of resisting a siege, presupposes a work of solid ma-
terials, as well as of regular design. You have stated that brick
is of easy fabrication in the vicinity ; wood, of an elastic quality,
it is presumed, may also be procured with facility. A rev6tement
of brick, with an interior of wood and earth mingled, will form a
strong fortress, at a moderate expense. Your estimate of the
expense of a water battery, barracks, and magazine, present a
total of 16,024 dollars ; and you compute that a similar sum will
suffice for a work such as you contemplate.

I have informed the Secretary of War that you would be au-
thorized by me to incur an expense not exceeding this sum for
the purpose in question, unless he should signify his negative to
you before your departure. But while this sum is given to you
as a limit, it is believed that the object may be accomplished for
less, and it is not doubted that you will exert yourself to have it
done as cheaply as possible.

In this place, an answer to your inquiry as to the proper em-
ployment of the soldiery, very fitly occurs. Doubtless, utility
and usage both unite to recommend the employment of the sol-
diery in the construction of works as far as may be practicable.
Not to do it must tend to an augmentation of expense which
the finances of no country can bear ; besides that it is to fore-
go a powerful instrument already prepared for accomplishing
the object.

I do not overlook the obstacle from the climate which you

^T. 42.]

MILITARY PAPERS. 365

mention in reference to our soiitliern frontier. But for a great
part of tlie year, I must hope tliat tliis obstacle is not formida-
ble. If the heats of July and August, and the sultry damps of
September, should drive us during that period to another re-
source ; yet the residue of the year it is hoped will permit the
labor of the troops to be employed with advantage. I am well
informed that on the sea-board of South Carolina and Georgia,
the season from November to April, inclusively, is deemed un-
exceptionable for the employment of troops in laborious opera-
tions. In the three months which have been mentioned, it may
be requisite to hire the labor of negroes, but even then there may
be things to which that of whites can, without injury, be applied.
In general the idea must be to construct the works by the
labor of the soldiery. The resort to a different aid must be by
way of exception, to be used as little as possible ; circumstances
may be permitted to decide in each case whether to continue
any works with the aid of blacks, during the hot season, or to
suspend them till the return of a season favorable to the ex-
ertion.

You will find in my letter to the Secretary, doubts as to the
permanent maintenance of Fort Stoddart. That part of the
plan which conforms to the disposition you have made, calls for
your careful revision. You will ascertain the practicability of a
safe and easy interior communication, without more expense to
prepare it than the advantage may be worth. There is an in-
trinsically strong objection to the keeping of a post to which the
access must be through a foreign territory.

The importance of securing and commanding the confluence
of the rivers Tennessee and Cumberland with the Ohio, and of
the latter with the Mississippi, has been duly felt by you. The
selection of a spot the most eligible for a strong fort, with a view
to this object and the kind of work which it will be proper to
establish, are worthy of your early and careful attention. You
must, however, bear in mind that it is to be successively effected
by the labor of the troops. A garrison of five hundred men
may be the standard of the dimensions. You will report to me
the result of your investigations on this subject.

366 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 42,

In a permanent arrangement for the galleys, watermen ought
to be engaged for the mass of the crew.

Perhaps some soldiers may be employed as auxiliaries with-
out inconvenience, and with saving. A provision by law is
requisite for the first purpose. You will order the galleys to
such situation as you judge best. You are informed that
the artillery you have requested for Fort Adams, with corres-
pondent ammunition and stores, have been ordered, and are to
embark with you for the Mississippi. It will be my endeavor
that such other artillery as may be necessary in conformity with
the general plan shall be forwarded as soon as possible. As to
the artillery and stores now at the several western posts, it is
your province to have them disposed of as you deem most
advisable.

I have desired E. Stevens, Esq., to procure the mathematical
instruments which you have requested. A regular military aca-
demy appears to me indispensable, and will command, in refer-
ence to the ensuing session of Congress, my best exertions for
its establishment. This meets your suggestion as to mathemati-
cal teachers.

The general orders issued by you, which you have submitted
to my perusal, have been considered. They appear to me pro-
per. But as I intend to prepare, in the course of the winter, a
code of regulations which will embrace their objects, I forbear to
give any formal sanction to them at this time. They will re-
main in force by your authority.

Your convention with the Spanish Governor respecting de-
serters, considered as a temporary arrangement, appears to me a
measure of convenient operation. Yet it is beyond my powers
to give it an authoritative sanction, and I have concluded not to
ask one of the government, from the opinion that it is best it
should retain the shape of a mere military arrangement between
the local commanders. In this respect I do not hesitate to advise
that it may continue to be executed.

I understand that arrangements have been made which will
satisfy a portion of the arrears of pay which you state to be due
to the troops in the western quarter. The subject shall not

yEx. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 367

cease to occupy my anxious attention. It is impossible to feel
more strongly than I do the extreme impolicy of permitting
large arrears to accumulate. The affair of boats to be provided
and kept ready for the transportation of troops, upon an emer-
gency, will be matter of future instruction. Should the Spanish
Governor or Commander object to the conveyance of your artil-
lery and stores to their destination, you will make a formal and
peremptory requisition of free passage on the basis of treaty, and
persevere in it till there shall be an unequivocal refusal, when
you will send back the vessel with those articles to Savannah
and Georgia, addressed to the commanding officer of the artillery
of the United States at that place.

Your own permanent station will of course be with your
reserve force ; and it is expected that you will lose no time in
repairing to it as early as may be, after the coming winter.

In the mean time, it is necessary for you to concentre all the
upper posts, under the superintendence of the officer next in
seniority, and to assign to him such a position as will facilitate a
communication with me for the transmission of returns and in-
formation ; taking care to let him understand that he is no more
than your organ — an idea to which I shall be scrupulously at-
tentive on my part.

The policy of our government towards Spain continues as
heretofore, pacific and conciliatory. You will of course give
the same character to your proceedings, as far as may depend
upon you.

By a communication from the Secretary of War, some time
since received, it is indicated that the management of Indian
affairs is exclusively reserved to the superintendents and their
agents ; the military officers to be auxiliary, but only so as to
imply no control of military operations. It will be expedient,
nevertheless, that all issues to Indians at military posts should
appear, in returns from them, not confounded with the issues for
the military, but distinct. You will, as far as may depend upon
you, give effect to this system with a spirit of accommodation.
Emergencies really extraordinary must always be exceptions to
a general plan. These must be left to the discretion of a military
commander, at his peril.

368 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 42,

I conform in an especial manner to tlie views of the adminis-
tration, and to the deep impressions of my own mind, derived
from a full consideration of the comparative resources and neces-
sities of our country, when I recommend to you in every
arrangement a careful regard to economy. Without it, our gov-
ernment cannot maintain the institutions or pursue the measures
which are essential to its security and welfare. Without it, the
condition of its military force can neither be respectable nor satis-
factory. The interest of the army, as a corps, concurs with that
of the public at large to enforce the practice of economy as a
primary duty. I entertain a full confidence that your conduct
will always evince a due sense of its imjDortance, and that it will
not cease to be your study, in this and every other matter, to de-
serve the confidence and estimation of the government.

In regard to the citizens of the western country, as far as
your agency may be concerned, you will do every thing to fos-
ter good will and attachment towards the government of the
United States. A firm and cordial union is certainly the vital
interest of every part of our country.

HAMILTON TO

New-York, October 31st, 1799.

Sir:

I have received your several letters of the twenty-third of
September, and of the fourth and eighth of October.

No particular rules were laid down for the government of the
colonels and majors, in the arrangement of relative rank, as it
was supposed that they would naturally take into consideration
all circumstances which, in a military point of view, give one
man the preference to another.

Former service is certainly to have weight, and, where there
is no material difference of character, is to govern the decision.

^T. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 369

Officers of a subsequent will rank after those of a prior ap-
pointment.

The majors are all of one grade. There will be, however,
between them, a priority of rank ; and this priority will be de-
termined by the principles of rank heretofore promulgated, when
they come to be applied to particular cases.

CONJECTURES m THE FORM OF QUERIES.

1799.

Might not a stage wagon be so constituted as to answer the
purpose of limber to a field-piece, an ammunition wagon, and a
vehicle for the transportation of twelve men ? Might not a pin-
tle be fixed behind of sufficient strength to receive the trail upon
it, and draw the carriage after it ? Might not the seats of the
carriage be converted into ammunition boxes, to the extent of
50 or 60 rounds ? Might not such a wagon convey as many
men as we often see in the stages; and is not the baggage
usually carried in stages nearly as heavy as 50 or 60 rounds for
nine-pounders? Might not four horses, to be changed every
ten or fifteen miles, convey such a field-piece with men and am-
munition to a distance of fifty miles, between sunset and sunrise,
and be ready for action at the instant of arrival ? Might not an
action be supported on an extraordinary occasion, by six or
eight men to each piece, and in so much lessen the difficulties of
transportation ?

Suppose the weight to be drawn to be 1500 pounds more
than a stage usually carries, when full, would not the more fre-
quent change of horses obviate the objection?

In case of expending all the ammunition, might not a retreat
be effected with great celerity, as short turnings do not occur
in a long march through an open country ? Might not the fore-
wheels be of greater diameter than usual, and facilitate the trans-
portation ?

E 24

3Y0 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 42.

A carriage with its limber would require three horses for
a long march. The expense of the transportation is there-
fore confined to an additional horse. It is presumed that under
imperious circumstances, the relays might be furnished by im-
pressing horses.

HAMILTON TO COLONEL READE.

New-York, Nov. 2d, 1799,

Sir:

I have received your letters of the 27th and 29th of September,

There is as yet no established rule on the subject of forage.
I have proposed one to the Secretary of War, but it has not yet
received his sanction. In the mean time you will exercise a
proper discretion in the case.

There is a fixed sum which is to be received in the lieu of
forage, when the article is not actually drawn. Officers, there-
fore, should be careful not to draw a larger quantity than is pro-
portioned to the established price.

The system makes no provision of artificers for the infantry.
Four women are allowed to a company, and draw rations with
the men.

Soldiers are not entitled to rations for the time they have
been on furlough.

When half a gill of spirits is issued to each soldier, the offi-
cers are entitled to one, and they are to receive half a gill for
each ration they are allowed.

It is to be understood, that officers draw the spirits only when
they draw the other parts of the ration, and not when they re-
ceive the price instead of the articles.

It is agreeable to me, that you should fix upon Avery s as a
rendezvous. With regard to every thing but the recruiting ser-
vice you are under the command of General Pinckney, and to him
you will apply for instructions.

^T.42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 371

HAMILTON TO SMITH.

(private.)

New-York, Nov. 11th, 1799.

Sir:

Herewith is an official answer to your letter. I regret tlie in-
timation with which, it is closed, to which, however, I can and
must annex no precise meaning, I will only observe upon it,
that in no sense can the affair be viewed as a personal injury, or
be proper for the manifestations of personal resentment in any
form. Any one who should give you a different opinion can
hardly be your friend. Such an opinion, if followed, could be
productive of no possible advantage, and would be attended in
various ways with great inconvenience to you.

HAMILTON TO M'HENRT.

New- York, Nov. 12, 1799.

Sir:

I am this moment honored with your letter of the 8th inst.
Considering the nature of my agency in respect to the subject of
it, I must understand the remarks which are made as not apply-
ing to what I have done, but to the previous measures of Gen.
Wilkinson. It is known to you that the project was adopted
and acted upon long before I was in command ; that, agreeing
in opinion with Gen. Wilkinson as to the expediency of the
measure, I submitted it to the Commander-in-Chief, whose con-
currence it received ; that, in a written communication to you, I
supported the propriety of completing the work on a specified
scale ; that afterwards in conversation it was expressed by you
to be your impression, that, situated as the matter was, it must
proceed, unless the further expense necessary should, upon esti-
timate, appear to be very considerable.

372 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 42.

The addition of 16,000 dollars on the aggregate of 32,000,
for establishing an important barrier post, did not strike me as a
large, but as a very moderate expenditure ; such as would not
contravene the most scrupulous ideas of economy in national
affairs.

Hence I presumed on the ready sanction of the Executive ;
yet did I not suffer this presumption to engage me in any defini-
tive act, but confined myself to giving promissory authority, sub-
ject to the eventual control of the President through you as his
organ.

Even this much I should not have done, had it not been for
the previous circumstances, and had there not been a pressure as
to time, owing to the necessity of expediting General Wilkinson,
for which purpose the delivery of my instructions was an essential
preliminary. Considering the circumstances, I cannot but believe
that I have acted with all proper delicacy and caution ; as, on
the other hand, it is evident that I have in no shape infringed the
general principle which is advanced in your letter.

To this principle, as it respects permanent fortification, I
subscribe without reserve ; and I agree that it is always right for
military commanders, when the exigencies of service do not
command the contrary, to forbear measures involving consider-
able expense till they shall have been considered and sanctioned
by the Executive. It seems to me, too, that in my practice the
rule has been observed even beyond its terms and spirit; but I
cannot adopt the opinion, that every measure^ in all its circum-
stances, which may involve considerable expenditure, should be
submitted through the Secretary of the appropriate department to
the President for his approval, and that, without such approval,
formally and explicitly announced, no act leading to its execu-
tion should take place.

In the course of military operations, measures which involve
very great expense are frequently indispensable, without incur-
ring the delay of resorting to the Executive as a prehminary.

A precise rule for distinguishing the different cases is imprac-
ticable ; it must be matter of sound discretion and of fair confi-
dence on all sides.

^T. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 373

The disbursements, finally, must no doubt be regulated by
the laws of appropriation ; but provisory measures will often be
unavoidable, and confidence must sometimes be reposed in an
after legislative sanction and provision.

This has been the course in times past, and it must always be
the case, A different plan will arrest and disorder all the wheels
of public service. The theory of no system can be invariably
pursued with liberal strictness,

I commit myself without hesitation to the consequences of
this opinion, because, as far as I am concerned, I would rather
be responsible on proper occasions for formal deviations, than for
a feeble, insufiieient and unprosperous course of public business,
proceeding from an over-scrupulous adherence to general rules ;
and I have no doubt that a different spirit will ever be found in
experience injurious equally to the interests of the state and to
the reputation and success of the persons whom it may govern.
I understand that such a progress has been made in the business
as that the plan cannot now be relinquished without loss of the
fruits of past expense ; but I am not so well informed on this
point as to be able to present it as a positive ground of determi.
nation.

I adhere, however, without hesitation, to the opinion that it
is expedient to pursue the plan upon the scale which has been
contemplated. It is very true that this fort could not be ex-
pected to interrupt a great invading force ; but it would be an
obstacle to the enterprises of such a force as now exists, or is
likely to be found in the quarter in question.

It would give additional security to the troops, who, with the
views you mention, must be stationed within the scene. It would
also be more impressive on the Indians ; and the diflference be-
tween the expense of the fort intended and that which you indi-
cate, would be inconsiderable, I shall take care that such a
communication be made to General Wilkinson, as that there may
be no danger in future of his undertaking a permanent fortifica-
tion without the previous approbation of the Executive,

But, if it is thought proper to arrest the execution of the plan
communicated, I must beg that you will address your orders im-

374 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 42.

mediately to General Wilkinson, since it is probable that they
would not reacb here in time, if they are to pass through me.
With great respect and esteem,

I have the honor to be, Sir,

Your obedient servant, &c.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

New-York, Nov. 18th, 1799.

Sir:

I have been duly honored with your letter of the 26th and
27th of October.

General Pinckney happening to be at my house when they
were received, I communicated them to him, together with such
other letters as had come to hand relating to the same subject;
and I have since furnished him with the subsequent information
transmitted to me, in order that he might take the proper meas-
ures in whatever might require his interposition. This would
principally be to order the tenth regiment to Carlisle.

It is my duty, in compliance with your inquiry concerning
the delay of payment of the troops, to enter into a free explana-
tion. The complaints of which you have heard, have certainly
existed * * * * and they have existed in the northern as
well as in the southern quarter * * * * and the painful
circumstance is, that they have been well founded. — There has,
no doubt, been a great and a very unfortunate delay, which has
been a pretext for, if not a cause of, desertion, which has made
ill impressions on the minds of the troops, and has occasioned
much embarrassment to the officers.

The history of the course of the business will best unfold the
causes of the delay.

Early after the recruiting service was in train, I caused to be
prepared and transmitted to the several regiments, the forms of
muster and pay-rolls. — If my information be right, muster and

.Et. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 375

pay-rolls were made out according to these forms, and forwarded
first to the Department of War, afterwards to the office of the
paymaster-general.

It has since appeared that forms for muster and pay-rolls had
been previously established by the Department of War, but these
forms were never sent to me, nor otherwise communicated to
the additional regiments, till some time after the arrival of the
paymaster-general at Philadelphia. A compliance with them on
the part of the distant regiments, the officers of which, for the
purpose of recruiting, were dispersed over extensive regions,
would, of course, involve a very distressing delay, in addition to
that which unavoidably attended the mustering of the troops,
and the preparation of the rolls on the plan which I had pre-
scribed ; yet for some time a compliance with these new forms
seems to have been expected as a preliminary to the transmis-
sion of the money.

But in consequence of very importunate representations from
me, and it being admitted that the diffijrent rolls corresponded
in substantial points, I was given to understand by the paymas-
ter-general, that as to past dues, the new forms would not be in-
sisted upon, but that the money would be sent without waiting
for them.

Difficulties, however, about modes of remitting the money,
which, it is believed had before operated in producing delay, con-
tinued to occasion it ; and to this moment the three most north-
ern and two most southern regiments remain unsupplied.

To call every regimental paymaster to the seat of govern-
ment as often as money is to be paid, is inadmissible on the
score of delay, as well as of expense. To send them the money
by post, must involve the double risk of loss in the post-office,
and loss by a fraudulent concealment of the receipt of it. To
send it to intermediate public agents, must be attended with the
same risk, though in a less degree. The paymaster-general, in
order to discharge himself at the Treasury, is obliged to produce
vouchers in certain prescribed forms, which he has been (as he
states) in the habit of obtaining before he parted with any money
out of his hands ; and he appeared to be fearful of a deviation
from this course.

376 HAMILTON'S WORKS.

[^T. 42.

The truth is, that these difficulties being inherent in the na-
ture of the thing, thej ought, for this very reason, as I conceive,
to have been overcome. Similar ones occur in all the pecuniary
operations of the government, and it has been found indispensa-
ble to surmount them by expedients. The same expedients
which are familiar in other cases, would have answered in the
one under consideration.

In my opinion, the paymaster-general would have done right
not to have been deterred by the additional responsibility which
might have attended the employment of the usual expedients.
In my opinion, if peculiar caution was incumbent upon him as a
subordinate officer, it was to have been expected that the Secre-
tary of War, in concert with the Secretary of the Treasury, would
have interposed to remove the impediment by sanctioning a
course which was unavoidable.

It is not my fault that the obstacles have not been surmounted.
Aware, that in the first stages of the raising of new corps, (of
which most of the officers as well as the men were unacquainted
with service,) where the officers, for the purpose of recruiting,
were dispersed over extensive districts, delay and difficulty would
unavoidably attend the preparation of muster and pay-rolls in
strict form— strongly impressed with the idea that it was of
great importance, in the first instance, to inspire the troops with

favorable ideas of the justice and attention of the government

and that it would be very inexpedient to have to assign to the
non-commissioned officers and privates excuses for the delay of
their dues on the score of want of formal documents, which it did
not lie with them to prepare — I pressed the Secretary of War and
the paymaster-general for advances of money to the several regi-
ments, in anticipation of those documents, upon estimates of which
I furnished the data. I thought the temporary departure from
ordinary rules, and the small addition of risk, from dispensing
with the usual preliminary checks, were less evils than those
which were irreparable from any considerable procrastination of
payment.

But my efforts were not successful. Expectations, which, in
consequence of my representations, were given to me by the

iET. 42.]

MILITARY PAPERS. 377

paymaster-general, and wliicli were by me given to the command-
ants of regiments, were not fulfilled. Disappointment and dis-
satisfaction have, of course, ensued.

It is but candor for me to mention, that while Secretary of
the Treasury, I had knowledge of the forms which had been
prescribed ; but I had entirely forgotten the circumstance. And
it is self-evident that all regulations prescribed by the Depart-
ment of War, for observance in an army, ought to be commu-
nicated from that department, either to the military commander
or to the chief of the particular branch of service to which they
relate — and that it is not incumbent upon the millitary com-
mander to make inquiry of the Department of War for them ; I
therefore did what was natural in the case— I prescribed forms,
where I did not know that any had been previously established
by superior authority.

It is very probable that the necessity of transmitting these
forms did not occur to the Secretary of War. Or he may have
considered it as the province of the paymaster-general to do it ;
but this officer being with the western array, a very great delay
could not fail to attend the transmission of them by him. The
truth is, that a want of sufficient organization in this particular,
as in others, occasioned an omission.

The only material remark in respect to it is — that the omission
having happened, it was a decisive reason for not insisting upon
the forms in question as a preliminary to payment.

Upon the whole, (since I have not understood that there was
any deficiency of money,) I am led to conclude that unwilling-
ness to incur extraordinary responsibility, by a deviation from
general rules, has been a principal cause of the very inconve-
nient delay which has been experienced. The mode of proceed-
ing has certainly not corresponded with my ideas of propriety
and expediency ; yet I do not presume to expect that my ideas
should be a standard for the conduct of others. And I am cer-
tainly very far from imagining, that any motive more exceptiona-
ble than the one I have suggested, has had the least influence in
the affair. The paymaster is, no doubt, shielded by his instruc-
tions.

378 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 42.

I trust that things are now in a train for a more satisfactory
course in future.

With perfect respect and attachment, &c.

HAMILTON TO M'^HENRY.

New-York, November 23, 1799.

Sir:

The near approach of a session of Congress will naturally
lead you to the consideration of such measures for the improve-
ment of our military system as may require legislative sanction.

Under this impression, I am induced now to present to you
some objects which appear to me very interesting, and shall take
the liberty to add hereafter such others as shall have occurred.

One which I have always thought of primary importance, is
a military academy. This object has repeatedly engaged the
favorable attention of the administration, and some steps to-
wards it have been taken. But these, as yet, are very inade-
quate. A more perfect plan is in a high degree desirable.

No sentiment is more just than this, that in proportion as the
circumstances and policy of a country forbid a large military es-
tablishment, it is important that as much perfection as possible
should be given to that which may at any time exist. Since it
is agreed, that we are not to keep on foot numerous forces in-
structed and disciplined, military science in its various branches
ought to be cultivated with peculiar care, in proper nurseries,
so that there may always exist a sufficient body of it ready to be
imparted and diffused, and a competent number of persons quah-
fied to act as instructors to the additional troops, which events
may successively require to be raised.

This will be to substitute the elements of an army to the thing
itself, and it will greatly tend to enable the government to dis-
pense with a large body of standing forces from the facility
which it will give of forming officers and soldiers promptly upon
emergencies.

.Et. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 379

No sound mind can doubt the essentiality of military science
in time of war, any more than the moral certainty that the most
pacific policy on the part of a government will not preserve it
from being engaged in war more or less frequently.

To avoid great evils, it must either have a respectable force
prepared for service, or the means of preparing such a force
with expedition. The latter, most agreeeable to the genius of
our government and nation, is the object of a military academy.

I propose that this academy shall consist of five schools — one
to be called " The Fundamental School ;" another, " The School
of Engineers and Artillerists;" another, "The School of Cav-
alry ;" another, " The School of Infantry ;" and a fifth, " The
School of the Navy ;" and of the following offices and per-
sons :

A director-general, to superintend the whole institution.

A director of the Fundamental School.

A director of the School of Engineers and Artillerists.

A director of the School of Cavalry.

A director of the School of Infantry.

A director of the School of the Navy.

Six professors of mathematics.

Three professors of natural philosophy.

One professor of chemistry.

Two architects.

Two drawing masters.

A riding master.

A fencing master.

To be thus distributed among the several schools.
To the Fundamental School :

A director,

Four professors of mathematics,

One professor of natural philosophy.

One drawing master.
To the School of Engineers and Artillerists :

A director,

380 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^T. 42.

A professor of mathematics,

A professor of natural pliilosopliy,

A professor of chemistry,

An architect,

A dravvinfy master.
To the School of Cavalry :

A director,

A riding master,

A fencing master.
To the School of Infantry :

A director.
To the School of the Navy:

A director,

A professor of mathematics,

A professor of natural philosophy,

An architect.
In the Fundamental School to be taught :

Arithmetic, algebra, geometry, the laws of motion, me-
chanics, geography, topography and surveying, design-
ing of structures and landscapes.

The principles of tactics.
In the School of Engineers and Artillerists to be taught :

Fluxions, conic sections, hydraulics, hydrostatics and
pneumatics ;

The theory and practice of gunnery.

Fortifications, including sapping and mining, and the at-
tack and defence of places ;

Chemistry, especially mineralogy ;

The fabrication of cannon and other arms ;

The principles of construction, with particular reference
to aqueducts, canals and bridges ;

The composition of artificial fires.
In the School of Cavalry :

The tactics and police of cavalry, equitation, the use of
the small and broad sword.
In the School of Infantry :

The tactics and police of the infantry.

jet.42.] military papers. 381

In the ScTiool of the Navy :

Spherics, astronomy, navigation, with the doctrines of the

tides ;
Naval architecture.
The director-general and the other directors to be officers of
the army and navy, conforming to the nature of each school.

These schools to be provided with proper apparatus and in-
struments for philosophical and chemical experiments, for astro-
nomical and nautical observations, and for surveying, and for
such other processes as are requisite to the illustration of the
several topics of instruction.

The cadets of the army, and young persons who are destined
for military and naval service, ought to study for two years in
the Fundamental School ; and if destined for the corps of en-
gineers and artillerists, or for the navy, two years more in the
appropriate school; but persons who, by previous instruction
elsewhere, may have been acquainted with some or all of the
branches taught in the Fundamental School, may, after due ex-
amination by the professors of that school, be either received
there for a shorter term, or pass immediately to one of the other
schools, according to the nature and extent of their acquisitions.
In addition to these, detachments of officers and non-commis-
sioned officers of the army ought to attend the academy in rota-
tion, for the purposes of instruction and exercise, according to
the nature of the corps to which they respectively belong.

It would be a wise addition to the system, if the government
would always have such a number of sergeants, in addition to
those belonging to the regiments of the establishment, as would
suffice with them for an army of 50,000 men.

The site of the academy ought to be upon a navigable water.
For this purpose, a piece of ground ought to be purchased by
the government, of dimensions sufficient for experiments in gun-
nery, that is, not less than twelve hundred yards in length, and
four hundred yards in breadth. The situation upon a navigable
water is requisite to admit of exemplifications of naval construc-
tion and exercises.

It would also tend greatly to the perfection of the plan if a

382 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 42.

position for tlie academy could be obtained, suited to founderies
of cannon and manufactories of small arms. The pupils could
here acquire the knowledge of the arts, and the detachments of
troops could be made useful in the prosecution of the works.

Barracks and other proper buildings must be erected for the
accommodation of the directors, professors, and students, and for
laboratories and other works to be carried on.

It is proposed by the foregoing plan, that the school of engi-
neers and artillerists shall be united. The studies relative to
these two branches of service run into each other so much, that
they may with convenience be pursued in the same school.

Yet it is conceived, that the entire union of the oflEicers of
both in one corps, as in our present establishment, is not advi-
sable. The art of fortification, and the service of artillery,
though touching each other in many points, are, in the main, dis-
tinct branches, and each so comprehensive, that this separation
is essential to perfection in either.

This has been ascertained by experience. It is understood
that one or more governments of Europe, particularly attentive
to the military art, have essayed the union of the two corps, in-
duced to it by their mutual relations in certain respects, and by
the desire of insuring harmony in the service, and that the result
of the experiment has led to a renunciation of the plan, as being
productive of more disadvantages than advantages.

Influenced, as well by this experience in other countries, as
by my own observations and reflections, I beg leave to suggest
for consideration a new arrangement on the subject, to be sub-
mitted, if approved, to the legislative body.

Let the corps of engineers and artillerists be placed under
one head, that head to be a general officer ; but let the other offi-
cers be separated, and form a distinct corps.

A regiment of engineer officers, and two of artillery officers,
will form a due proportion in the scale of our militaiy establish-
ment. If deemed inexpedient to increase the total number of
officers, the object maybe effected by suppressing two of the bat-
talions of the corps, as now organized, increasing the number of
non-commissioned officers and privates in the remaining batta-

^T. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 383

lions, so as to continue the present total, and transferring the
surplus officers, with due selection to the regiment of engineers,
to be composed of two battalions.

Instead of the artificers at present forming a part of each
company, let there be a corps of miners and artificers, consisting
of four companies, one company of armorers and smiths, one of
wheelwrights and carpenters, one of masons, and one of miners.
This corps to be a portion of the corps of engineers and artille-
rists under the command of its chief The officers to be taken
from the regiment of engineers and artillerists at his discretion,
continuing, nevertheless, to rank and rise in the corps from which
they may be taken, but the President to be empowered, if he
thinks proper, to appoint others to their places in the regiment
from which they shall be detached. The union of these different
corps under one chief, is intended to promote a spirit of harmony
and co-operation, while the separation of the other officers is de-
signed to favor a more profound and accurate knowledge of each
branch.

It will no doubt be observed, that though provision should
be made by the law for the proposed establishment in its full
latitude, yet it may be left in the discretion of the President to
appoint only so many of the professors as experience shall show
to be necessary.

With great respect and esteem, &c.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

New-York. Nov. 28th, 1799.

Sir:

Inclosed is a copy of a letter which I have written to the
Secretary of War on the subject of a 'military academy.

Two reasons have prevented me from communicating it to
you at an earlier day. My avocations rendered it impossible for
me to complete the letter till very lately, and I had had oppor-
tunities of knowing your opinion on the subject generally.

384 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 42.

Any alterations in tlie plan whicli you may do me the lion9r
to suggest will receive the most careful attention.
With the truest respect and attachment,

I have the honor to be, Sir,

Your obedient servant,

A. Hamilton.

His Excellency, the Commander-in-Chief.

HAMILTON TO M'HENEY.

New- York, Nov. 30th, 1799.

Sir:

The preparation of a good system for the tactics police of the
different portions of our army is probably the most valuable
service which it may be in my power to render the United States
in my present station, and there are urgent reasons why this
should be accomplished in the course of the present winter.

To do it at all would in every situation require the aid of
others ; since I do not pretend, myself, to understand in detail
all the branches of service. To do it within the time proposed,
or rather within any period not manifestly longer than it would
be prudent to delay, must render a subdivision indispensable,
were I competent to the whole.

I have accordingly thought of this distribution of the sub-
ject:— 1. To occupy myself with the tactics of the infantry. 2.
To confide to General Pinckney, with the aid of Brigadier-Gen-
eral Washington, Colonel Watts, and Lieutenant Walbach, or
such of them as he may choose, the tactics of the cavalry. 3. To
employ Majors Toussard and Hoops in framing regulations for
the exercise and police of the artillery. And lastly, to charge
the adjutant-general, aided by another ofi&cer, to be selected by
him, with the regulations for the police of troops in camp, quarters
and garrisons.

The labors of these different persons will afterwards undergo
revision for adoption or correction, and then will be transmit-

yET.42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 385

ted to you for your consideration, and tlie determination of the

President.

But as this service will occasion constant and laborious occu-
pation to the persons who will be employed, it is just and agree-
able to usage to allow a special compensation. This, too, will be
expected by them, and is essential to a cheerful and zealous exe-
cution of the duty. An allowance per diem not less than one
dollar nor more than two will suffice. It may vary in reference
to rank. It, of course, will not be expected to extend to General
Pinckney, the adjutant-general, or myself

I entreat a speedy decision and the communication of it.

HAMILTON TO M'^HENRY.

Philadelphia, December, 1799.

Sir:

Pursuant to an instruction some time since received from
you, I have now the honor to offer to your consideration a new
plan for the uniform of the army.

You are too sensible of the influence of good appearance in
point of dress and equipment upon the spirit and temper of an
army, to make it necessary to illustrate its importance.

The present uniform is materially defective in this respect.
The plan now offered has been digested with a careful eye to the
advantages of good appearance, without departing improperly
from considerations of simplicity and economy.

It is very desirable that there should be an early decision
upon it, as a great number of officers suspend the procuring of
new uniform in expectation of a change ; and if obliged by delay
to provide according to the present standard, would be exposed
in case of alteration to an additional expense, which, to many of
them, would be burthensome.

As to any article not provided for by law, an expectation
may be signified that it will be provided at the expense of the
E 25

386 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 42.

troops themselves. It is believed that this idea will meet with
no impediment.

I send you an estimate of clothing necessary for the future
years' supply of the troops under my immediate command. If
materials for coats, vests, and overalls could be soon put into the
hands of the different corps, they might be made up during the
winter-quarters, which would save expense to the public, and
afford an opportunity of having the articles much better fitted to
the wearers of them.

HAMILTON TO M'HENET.

Philadelphia, December, 1799.

Sir:

I have heretofore submitted to you a scale for the allowance
of servants to the different grades of officers, with some supple-
mentary ideas. I beg leave to add another suggestion in rela-
tion to this subject.

The detaching from their corps soldiers as servants to the
various of&cers of the general staff, is productive of material in-
convenience, by withdrawing altogether from military service a
considerable number of persons ; and occasions dissatisfaction to
the commandants of corps who never see their men removed
without uneasiness, and are sometimes much disgusted by the
selection of those whom they are anxious to retain. There is no
doubt that it would operate beneficially, if, after fixing the num-
ber of servants to which the several characters of the general
staff should be entitled, they were to be allowed an equivalent in
money regulated by the cost of a soldier to the public, and were
to be required to provide their own servants. Penalties may
secure the faithful execution of this arrangement, which, from
the force of circumstances, would be very liable to abuse.

^T. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 387

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Mount Vernon, Dec. 12th * 1799,

Sie:

I have duly received your letter of the 28th ultimo, inclosing
a copy of what you had written to the Secretary of War, on the
subject of a Military Academy.

The establishment of an institution of this kind, upon a
respectable and extensive basis, has ever been considered by me
as an object of primary importance to this country; and while I
was in the chair of government, I omitted no proper opportunity
of recommending it, in my public speeches and other ways, to
the attention of the legislature : but I never undertook to go into
a detail of the organization of such an academy ; leaving this
task to others, whose pursuits in the paths of science, and atten-
tion to the arrangements of such institutions, had better qualified
them for the execution of it.

For the same reason, I must now decline making any observa-
tions on the details of your plan ; and as it has already been
submitted to the Secretary of War, through whom it would
naturally be laid before Congress, it might be too late for altera-
tions, if any should be suggested.

I sincerely hope that the subject will meet with due attention,
and that the reasons for its establishment, which you have so
clearly pointed out in your letter to the Secretary, will prevail
upon the legislature to place it upon a permanent and respectable
footing.

With very great esteem and regard, I am, sir,
Your most obedient servant,

George Washington.

General Hamilton.
* The last letter written by Washington, who died December 14th, 1799.

388 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 42.

HAMILTON TO GENERAL PINCKNEY.

Philadelphia, Dec, 1799.

Sir:

The death of our beloved Commander-in-Chief was known to
you before it was to me. I can be at no loss to anticipate what
have been your feelings. I need not tell you what have been
mine. Perhaps no friend of his has more cause to lament on
personal account than myself. The public misfortune is one
which all the friends of our government will view in the same
light. I will not dwell on the subject. My imagination is
gloomy — my heart is sad.

Inclosed is an order relative to the occasion which speaks its
own object.

With the sincerest esteem and most

Affectionate regard, I remain, sir,

Your very obedient servant.

M'^HENRY TO HAMILTON.

War Department, Dec. 18, 1799.

Sir:

The inclosed special directions from the President of the
United States, relative to the funeral honors to be paid to the
memory of their late illustrious and beloved chief, General George
Washington, by the army of the United States, you are requested
to be particularly attentive to, so as to insure by your orders the
most reverential testimonials, of that profound grief, with which
every good heart must be penetrated, at the loss of a citizen,
statesman, and commander, so eminently distinguished for virtues,
talents and services.

You and I on this solemn occasion, experiencing, in common
with our fellow-citizens, deep regret for our country's loss, have

^T. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 389

our sorrows heightened bj a recollection of his friendship to-
wards us both, and the many days we have spent as members of
his family and sharers of his confidence.

GENERAL ORDER FOR THE CEREMONIAL TO BE USED ON THE
INTERMENT OF WASHINGTON.

1799.

Major-General Hamilton has received, through the Secretary
of "War, the following order from the President of the United
States.

" The President, &c."

The impressive terms in which this calamitous event is an-
nounced by the President, could receive no new force from any
thing that might be added. The voice of praise would in vain ]
endeavor to exalt a name unrivalled on the lists of true glory. |
Words would in vain attempt to give utterance to the profound
and reverential grief which will enthral every American bosom,
and arrest the sympathy of an admiring world. If the sad privi-
lege of pre-eminence in sorrow may justly be claimed from the
companions in arms of our lamented chief, their affections will
spontaneously perform the dear though painful duty. 'Tis only
for me to mingle my tears with theirs, embittered by recollection
that in mourning the loss of the " Man of the Age," I equally
mourn that of the long-tried patron — the kind and unchanging
friend.

In obedience to the directions of the President, the follow-
ing funeral honors will be paid at the several stations of the
army.

At daybreak, sixteen guns will be fired in quick succession,
and one gun at the distance of each half hour, till sunset.

During the procession of the troops to the place representing
that of the interment, and until the conclusion of the ceremonial,
minute guns wiH be fired.

390 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 42.

The bier will be received by tlie troops formed in line pre-
senting their arms, and the officers, drums, and colors saluting.
After this the procession will begin : the troops marching by
platoons, in inverted order, and with arms reversed, to the place
of interment, the drums muffled, and the music playing a dead
march.

The bier, carried by four sergeants, and attended by six pall-
bearers, where there is cavalry, will be preceded by the cavalry,
and will be followed by the troops on foot.

Where there is no cavalry, a detachment of infantry will
precede the bier, which itself will in every case be preceded by
such of the clergy as may be present. The officers of the general
staff will immediately succeed the bier.

Where a numerous body of citizens shall be united with the
military in the procession, the whole of the troops will precede
the bier, which will be followed by the citizens.

When arrived near the place of interment, the procession
will halt ; the troops in front of the bier will form in line, and,
opening their ranks, will face inwards, to admit the passage of
the bier, which will then pass through the ranks — the troops
leaning upon their arms, reversed, while the bier passes.

When the bier shall have passed, the troops will resume their
position in line, and, reversing their arms, will remain lean-
ing upon them until the ceremonial shall be closed.

The music will now perform a solemn air, after which the
introductory part of this order will be read.

At the end of this a detachment of infantry, appointed for the
purpose, will advance and fire three vollies over the bier.

The troops will then return, the music playing the Presi-"
dent's March, the drums being previously unmuffled.

The uniform companies of militia are invited to join in arms
the volunteer corps. The commanders at particular stations, con-
forming generally to this plan, will make such exceptions as will
accommodate it to situation.

At places where processions of unarmed citizens shall take
place, it is the wish of the Major-General that the military cere-
monial should be united ; and the particular commanders at those

^T. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 391

places are authorized to vary the plan so as to adapt it to the
circumstances.

Brigadier-General McPherson is charged to superintend the
ceremonial in the city of Philadelphia; Major Toussard will at-
tend to Fort Mifflin, and will co-operate with him.

The day of performing the ceremonial at each station, is left
to the particular commander.

Major-General Pinckney will make such further arrangements
within his district as he shall deem expedient.

HAMILTON TO NORTH.

Philadelphia, December 21, 1799.

Sir:

I inclose to you some regulations relative to the funeral ho-
nors to be paid to our departed Chief ■ They will govern gener-
ally in the celebration, although I have not definitely adopted
them.

The ceremonies will be performed in this city on Thursday
next, and I should wish them to be performed in New- York at
the same time. If this is practicable, you will immediately make
the necessary arrangements for the purpose. You will draw the
companies from the Island, leaving only a sufficient number of
men to manage the guard, and concert measures with General
Clarkson for bringing forward the uniform corps of volunteers
and militia to take part in the scene. It will be proper likewise
that the citizens should form part of the procession, and you will
do what shall appear proper in reference to that idea.

The half-hour guns will be fired on the Island, and the
minute guns from the Battery. The time is not sufficient for
preparing a regular oration, but I should be happy if you could
prevail on Doctor Moore, or some other clergyman, to deliver a
discourse suited to the occasion.

You will have musket cartridges prepared and sent to the

392 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 42-

Union Camp, and you will also send there two pieces of artillery,
with cartridges for them. The necessary articles you will apply
for to General Stevens. I shall write to you on Sunday.

HAMILTON TO M'^HENRY.

Philadelphia, December, 1799.

Sir:

A complete revision of the articles of war is desirable, as they
require amendment in many particulars. But this would be so
serious a work, that I fear it is not likely to be undertaken with
a prospect of being speedily finished. Waiving the expectation
of such a revision, there are some things which could be done
that would be important improvements. You are aware of the
great obscurity which envelopes the provisions of the existing
articles respecting the power to appoint general courts martial.
On one construction, it is inconveniently narrow, so as to occasion
too great delay, as well in constituting courts, as in giving effect
to their sentences. On another, it would be too much diffused,
and would place in too many hands a trust no less delicate than
important.

To attempt to attain the proper medium by a mere legislative
definition of the characters who may execute the power would be
attended with much difficulty, and might often not meet the new
situations which are apt to occur in the infinite combinations of
military service. The expedient which has appeared to me the
most proper is, to give the President a discretionary authority to
empower other ofiicers than those designated by the articles of
war to appoint general courts martial under such circumstances,
and with such limitations as he shall deem advisable.

The provisions which refer to the President the determina-
tion on sentences affecting life and the dismission of of&cers must,
no doubt, have been frequently attended with perplexity to him,
and are inconvenient to the service. It is scarcely possible for

^T.42.] MILITARY PAPERS.
any but the military commander to appreciate duly the motives
which in such cases demand severity or recommend clemency.
To this an accurate view of all the circumstances of the army in
detail is often necessary. On the other hand, the efficacy of pun-
ishmeiat, when requisite, depends much upon its celerity, and
must be greatly weakened by the unavoidable delay of a resort
to the Executive. These reasons certainly render it expedient
to enable the commanding general of an army to decide upon the
sentences in question as in other cases.

The proper mode of treating the crime of desertion has been,
in most cases, an embarrassing subject. In ours it is particularly
so. The punishment of death, except in time of war, is contrary
to the popular habits of thinking. Whipping is found ineffec-
tual. I have a hope that confinement and labor would prove
more effectual. Believing this punishment to be within the dis-
cretion of courts martial, I encourage its adoption. But as the
matter now stands, the confinement would not exceed the term
of service, and when this is nearly expired, it would be inade-
quate. Some auxiliary provisions are desirable to give a fair
chance to the experiment. It is not, however, my idea to abolish
death, which in some aggravated cases would be proper even in
time of peace, and in time of war ought invariably to ensue. I
incline even to the opinion, that the power of pardoning ought to
be taken away in this case, certainly in every instance of deser-
tion, or an attempt to desert to enemies or traitors.

HAMILTON TO TOUSSARD.

Philadelphia, December 22, 1799.

Sir:

Agreeably to suggestions heretofore made, I request that you
will forthwith commence, in conjunction with Major Hoops, the
preparation of a system of regulations for the exercise of artil-
lery, and for the police service of the corps of artillerists in camp,

394 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 43.

quarters and garrisons. I forbear to enter into a particular de-
tail of the course to be pursued, relying upon the indications of
the subject, and the knowledge and experience of the gentlemen
charged with it.

SMITH TO HAMILTON,

Union Camp, Dec. 24, 1799.

Major-General Hamilton :

I have spent this morning in putting the troops into the gen-
eral exercise, and the different companies will be employed this
afternoon, and to-morrow morning the battalions, and in the
afternoon the whole line.

Our minds are deeply impressed with the circumstance, and
mourn with our country the loss of our dignified chief; but,
though strongly feeling the loss, we mourn not with despond-
ence, as those who have no hope, but we bow with reverence
and solemnity to the dispensations of an overruling Providence,
confident that a people thus raised will, under the care of the
same Providence, have a sufiiciently wise character pointed out
to fill the vacant station. We feel grateful that he has been per-
mitted to remain with us so long, and can, as soldiers, with firm-
ness rely on the wisdom and talents of his successor.

HAMILTON TO COL. SMITH.

New- York, Jan. 3d, 1800.

Sir:

Your different letters of the 23d, 24th and 28th of December
have been delivered to me.

It is always difl&eult in contracts to define the quality of the

^T.43.] MILITARY PAPERS, 395

articles wliicli are to be furnislied, and lience has arisen the si-
lence of which you complain in the contract with the agent for
'New Jersey.

It is, however, implied in the nature of the transaction, that
the articles be good, according to the common acceptation of the
term ; and when this is not the case, the agent violates his en-
gagement, and the United States are at liberty to refuse the arti-
cles, provide them otherwise, and look to him for damages.

When bread is furnished in lieu of flour, it ought to be made
of flour, and not of middlings. The bread should undoubtedly be
made of the article for which it is given as a substitute. The at-
tention which you have paid to this subject has my warm appro-
bation. I shall write to the contractor pointedly respecting it,
and you will make the idea contained in this letter your guide in
your future transactions with him.

I am much pleased with your dispositions, and with the
soldierly conduct of the troops in paying the funeral honors to
our departed chief. I am likewise much pleased with your reso-
lution of erecting a monument as a testimonial of reverence for
his character, and only regret that I cannot make the expense a
public instead of a private charge. No alterations occur to me as
proper to be made in the inscription, except that I would submit
to you, whether a more dignified simplicity would not be given
to it by leaving out the verses ; although they certainly have
merit, yet they appear to me to interfere with that simplicity
which should be studied on such occasions.

It is true that I said nothing with respect to extra expense.
This proceeded from the supposition that no expense would be
necessary independently of the articles furnished by the public ;
and from a conviction, which experience has produced in my
mind, of the extreme caution to be observed with respect to
every object that involves an expenditure of money out of the
regular course.

You will be pleased, however, to send me an account of the
expenses that were incurred. Such of them as were necessarily
incident to the celebration I will press the payment of with the
Secretary of War, and to the rest I will give every attention in
my power.

396 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 43.

HAMILTON TO M'^HENRY.

New-York, January 15th, 1800.

Sir:

The section of the Act of the 3d of March, 1797, to which
you refer in your letter of yesterday, is so obscurely and inde-
finitely worded, that it is impossible to give it a precise, or even
a very reasonable interpretation. On this ground it is that I
have forborne to act upon it in my own case, though command-
ing a separate district.

But while I am at a loss for its true sense, I have thought
that it would be too large a construction to apply it to occasional
and variable commands, like those of officers superintending re-
cruiting rendezvouses or encampments, and so I have answered
when inquiry has been made of me.

I would say that the section applies only to such officers as ex-
ercise commands in their own nature permanently separate and
distinct. Fortified posts are of this description. Perhaps a sepa-
rate territorial district will also give the right to the commanding
general. This would certainly be within the reason of the pro-
vision, which is no doubt an indemnification for extra expense
arising from situation.

Such a construction will comprehend General Pinckney and
myself, and by a liberal extension. General Wilkinson, if a part
of the clause does not more directly embrace him.

But in a matter in which I am personally interested, I
should be unwilling that my opinion should govern. It seems
to me a thing proper for the determination of the Secretary of
War, after conference with the Secretary of the Treasury, and I
would advise you to ask his direction. If you think good you
may communicate my opinion.

iET.43.] MILITARY PAPERS. 397

HAMILTON TO M^HENEY.

New- York, January, 1800.

Sir:

Some of the maxims wliicli obtain with, the officers at the
seat of government, charged with the adjustment of the accounts
of those agents who have to furnish supplies and make disburse-
ments for the mihtarj service, are of a nature to produce much
perplexity and inconvenience. To me they appear mistaken, such
as are to be found nowhere else, and such as must render it im-
practicable to discharge military duties with satisfaction or suc-
cess. It is one thing to have and enforce rules which check im-
provident expenditure, and secure a due accountability. It is a
very different thing to practise upon such as embarrass and re-
tard the settlement of proper charges, as refuse credit for expen-
ditures regularly made, as keep agents out of money to which
they are entitled, as subject to painful animadversions and harass
with unnecessary explanations ofl&cers, who, in the exercise of a
reasonable discretion, direct measures which incur expense.

Specimens of the operation of these rules are to be seen in the
communications herewith transmitted, from E. Stevens, Esq., and
from Majors Toussard and Jackson.

It is perhaps impossible, in military affairs, to devise any
system of regulations so perfect as to embrace all the cases in
which expenditures by the order of particular officers for current
occasions are necessary. Some discretion must be allowed.
This must be the case, even with regard to officers of inferior
rank, detached to remote stations. But it must be frequently and
extensively the case as to a commanding general. In time of war,
nothing could proceed without this discretion upon a large scale.
In time of peace, incidents of a more limited nature constantly
arise, involving expense, which could not be deferred for a spe-
cial resort to the head of the War Department, without real
injury to the service, while the officer, by the necessity of that
resort in matters of minutias, would be placed in a situation ex-
tremely humiliating and irksome.

398 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 43.

Wlien in pursuance of tliis discretion, directions for the dis-
bursement of money are given to a subordinate agent, in cases in
which there has been no special restriction upon him, his charges
ought to be admitted without diflSculty, and the superior officer
made responsible for improper directions in his office or in his
pocket — in both, according to circumstances.

Though it may be necessary to confine the ordinary account-
ing officers to the admission of such items only as are within
established regulations, yet, when others occur, they ought not to
be rejected and thrown back upon the party to oblige him to go
through the tedious and circuitous process of an application to
the head of the department for an extraordinary sanction ; but
there ought to be an interior arrangement of the department for
bringing it in the first instance before the head or some compe-
tent substitute in order to a special direction, and, when what has
been done shall appear proper, the needful sanction should follow.

In the instances in which no regulations have been estab-
lished by the department as a guide to the officers, their acts
ought to be viewed with greater liberality, and the mismanage-
ment which should subject them to blame or embarrassment,
ought to be unequivocal.

It happens that no rules have been prescribed with regard to
extra expenses. Officers are left to exercise their judgments as
occasions require. They do it in good faith, and yet their acts
are not received as authority in favor of agents, who could not
with propriety refuse obedience to them. The fundamental
principle of the military system is thus subverted. Agents for
their own safety are taught to reason about the fitness of com-
pliance with the requisitions made upon them. The service is
clogged. Commanding officers are let down ; and in very trifling
matters are perplexed how to act. This awkward state of things
demands a correction. The dignity and delicacy of officers, as
well as the good of the service, demands it.

iET. 43.] MILITARY PAPERS. 399

HAMILTON" TO

New-York, Jan. 6, 1800.

Sir:

I have received your letters of the twelfth and eighteenth of
December.

The attention of the Secretary of War has been heretofore
called to the subject of extra expense, and I have urged him to
establish some definitive rules for the government of officers.
This, however, has not yet been done. I have sent the accounts
for repairs to the barracks at Salem, and that for a barge for
Fort Independence, to the Secretary of War.

Directions have been given with respect to a general court-
martial, and an order for the purpose will immediately issue.

A rule for the allowance of quarters was some time ago pro -
posed to the Secretary of War, but it has not yet received his
sanction. In the mean time, where barracks do not exist, the
contractors will provide the officers, aiming at such accommoda-
tion only as is strictly necessary.

The circumstance which you mention respecting the cadets,
has been made the subject of a communication to the Secretary
of War.

Your order to the garrisons was correct as to its general ob-
ject. As far as the medicine chests could have been made by
your artificers, and from the materials furnished by the United
States, there was no impropriety in the thing. But when this
cannot be done, it is improper to incur a specified expense where
recourse can be had to the superintendent of military stores;
that officer being the regular organ of supply. An arrangement
will soon be made for recruiting for the 2d regiment of artil-
lerists at last, and, until this is the case, no measure must be
taken.

400 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 43.

M'HENRY TO HAMILTON.

January 17, 1800.

Dear Sir :

I received yours of the 15th instant this morning, informing
me that urgent business would call you to Albany on Sunday.

I inclose you my report. I think it too probable that the
House of Eepresentatives will determine upon the suspension of
the recruiting service, and doubt the firmness of the Senate.

CIRCULAR.

War Department, 25th January, 1800,

Sir:

The House of Eepresentatives yesterday passed a bill to sus-
pend enlistments for the six additional companies of cavalry and
the twelve regiments of infantry. It is now before the Senate,
and may also receive the sanction of that body. It is therefore
thought advisable that the terms of enlistment be altered so as to
run, " for and during the existing differences between the United
States and the French republic, or for five years, at the option of
the government." You will cause all enlistments under your
superintendence to be made accordingly, till further orders.

The object of the new terms of enlistment is to prevent a
waste of the public money in the event of the bill aforesaid pass-
ing, by securing the men to fill up the regiments on the old
establishment, without additional bounty and clothing.

These instructions are to be observed until you shall receive
others or contrary ones from Major-General Hamilton.

^T.43.] MILITARY PAPERS. 401

M'^HENRY TO HAMILTON.

War Department, Feb. 18th, 1800.

Dear Hamilton :

I have received your letter of yesterday, informing me of
your return to New- York. What I suggested might happen has
been realized. The Senate yielded to the supposed momentum
of public opinion, or some other agent as powerful, and passed
the bill from the House of Eepresentatives to suspend further en-
listments for the twelve regiments and six companies of cavalry.
A feeble attempt was made in the Senate to augment (by an
amendment to the bill) the complement of men in the old, to the
war establishment. It failed, although I had been led to believe
it would have succeeded. I inclose my last weak effort for the
military academy and the army. I would not be surprised, how-
ever, at the sessions being closed without any thing being done.
The navy is to ingulf every thing ; and it is certain, should we
give to it all our money, it cannot give us in return adequate
protection.

Both establishments are indispensable — I mean the military
and naval. Some, however, think one of them sufficient, and
that to run down the one is to secure funds for the other. You
find by my report that I have pursued a different course, and
presumed both necessary.

HAMILTON TO M'^HENRY.

New-York, Feb. 21st, 1800.

Sir:

As the season advances fast when it will be proper to give
effect to the new disposition for the Western army, and as the
arrangement of the officers regimentally is a necessary prelimi-
nary to the operation, I have recurred to your letter of the Idth
E 26

402 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 43.

of November last respecting the arrangement whicli was submit-
ted to you upon the plan of Brigadier-General Wilkinson.

A material object of the arrangement was to prevent, as far
as practicable, the dislocation of officers from their men, who, to
avoid very inconvenient and expensive changes of position, must
be incorporated differently from what they have been. But the
effect of that arrangement upon the relative situation of certain
officers appears on examination greater than I apprehended it to
be, and it is our decisive opinion that the result would operate
injuriously to the service.

In conformity with these ideas I have attempted a new
arrangement, which is now sent, in which the transpositions are
few, and, as I understand the matter, without prejudice to any.
I entreat your speedy consideration of and decision upon it.

HAMILTON TO M'^HENRY.

New-York, Feb. 28th, 1800.

Sir:

I send you the inclosed papers as they came to me from the
paymaster-general. It appears that the account of Captain
Ellery, after having travelled backward and forward between the
offices of the paymaster and accountant, has found no person who
could adjust it. I cannot presume that it has been finally
rejected, because there is no evidence of a definitive application
to you.

If there are any cases in which a commanding general may,
by his orders, authorize the incurring of incidental and casual
expenses for the good of the service, the present is such. It was
impossible for Captain Ellery, with less assistance than he had, to
get through the business of the office, especially in the first
stages of its operations. A competent number of officers to assist,
could not at the time be had without injuring other parts of the
service, nor would this expedient have much diminished the ex-

^T. 43.] MILITARY PAPERS. 403

pense. I am clearly of opinion that an officer cannot, with pro-
priety, be permanently detached from the peculiar duties of
his station, to be employed in services of a clerical nature, without
an extra compensation proportioned to the extra labor ; and that
as often as the measure is necessary, such a compensation ought
to be made. And I believe that ours is the only service in which
there is not a military chest with a contingent fund applicable
to such cases, or some officer of the staff, competent to the de-
fraying of similar expenses as they occur.

In the return of these papers to me, I discern a fresh instance
of the want of some interior regulation of your department, by
which cases out of the general rules may be decided with due
dispatch. Every day shows me more and more the embarrass-
ments, which, from the same cause, perplex and distress every
military agent who has any thing to do with directing or making
expenditures. A remedy is indispensable to the credit and suc-
cess of the service.

As to the matter immediately in question, it is my opinion,
(as it seems to have been that of the paymaster-general and ac-
countant,) that your special sanction is necessary. It will give
me pleasure to learn that you have thought it right to afford that
sanction.

M'^HENRY TO HAMILTON".

March 1, 1800.

Dear Sir:

Will you give a few hours to the formation of a bill, or bills,
providing, 1st. For the modifications of the two regiments of
artillerists, agreeably to the principles laid down in my report.
2d. For establishing the fundamental school and schools of ar-
tillerists and engineers. 3d. For such other points mentioned
in my report as requiring legislative provisions. 4th. An ex-
planatory clause in the latter bill, defining the officers entitled to
double rations. The two first bills, or bills for the two first named

404 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [iEx. 43.

objects, I request you to send me as soon as possible. Such
is the pressure of business upon me, that it is out of my power to
do justice to these subjects.

HAMILTON TO GENERAL PINCKNET.

New-York, March 7th, 1800.

Sir:

I now recur to your letters of the 12th December, 9th, 21st,
and 23d of January, and 10th of February.

Instructions for the officers of inspection will form part of the
general system in preparation. In the mean time, they will per-
form the duties which they executed in our war with Great Bri-
tain ; that is, they will, in aid of the respective general offi-
cers, see that all the regulations concerning the tactics and police
of the army are observed ; and for this purpose will assist at
exercises (not however as substitutes for commanding officers,
which was too much the case last war) ; will inspect and muster
the troops according to the forms and instructions which proceed
from the office of the adjutant-general and paymaster-general ;
and they will, within their divisions and brigades, receive and
issue the different general orders, perform the duties relative to
the service of guards, &c., and whatsoever else is connected with
the office of the adjutant-general ; making all returns of the num-
ber and state of the troops. The duties formerly incident to the
brigade-major are absorbed in this office. You are aware that
the deputy inspector-general (section 13 of the act of the 3d of
March, 1799,) is ex officio deputy adjutant-general. You may
either employ Major Campbell in this capacity, or you may re-
commend to me another field-officer. Till the regulations shall
be matured, you will be pleased to direct the duties of the in-
spectors according to this outline.

I have written to West Point for the extra Manuels d'Artil-
lerie which you mention ; if procured, one will be transmitted to
you.

^T. 43.] MILITARY PAPERS. 405

Captain McClellaii's is now almost complete.

That and Captain Ingersoll's will be sent to you next month,
and they will bring with them a couple of field-pieces mounted
as you desire.

A system for the corps of artillerists is nearly prepared.

I consider the French prisoners as in the charge of the
Naval Department, and the military restricted to the mere
functions of a guard. For this, however, some ammunition is
necessary. I liave written to the Superintendent of Military
Stores to furnish you with a supply equal to four field-pieces
and a regiment of infantry.

You mention your being without a quartermaster. I have
arranged with the Secretary of War to appoint, provisionally
(that is, subject to the ratification of the Quartermaster-General),
a Deputy Quartermaster-General, and Division and Brigade
Quartermasters. The plan is, to name fit characters whom he
approves, conditionally, allowing them, in the mean time, the
prescribed compensations. If you will name to him characters
for your particular district, they will be sanctioned. I expected
that he had communicated the plan to you.

Inclosed is a list of officers, according to a definitive organi-
zation of the four old regiments. All the men of those regi-
ments, in Georgia, South, and North Carolina, and Tennessee,
are to be incorporated into the fourth regiment which is at-
tached to your command. It is presumed, though the returns
are not accurate enough, to ascertain it, that they will be suf-
ficient to form one regiment.

All the men recruited and recruiting lately under the super-
intendence of Major Bradley, now under that of Captain Brooks,
except those in North Carolina, with Captain Eoss Bird, are to
be marched, as soon as the season will conveniently permit, to
Pittsburgh, for their final destination. All the officers of the
first, second, and third regiments within your district are to join
their respective regiments without delay.

I request that you will give the proper orders for carrying
this arrangement into effect. Your situation will enable you to
judge better than me of the most eligible routes.

406 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 43.

Inclosed, also, is the plan which has been settled for the dis-
position of the four regiments of infantry. It was the intention
of General Wilkinson to allot the first regiment to the north and
northwestern posts ; a battalion of the third to the Mississippi
and the southern barrier ; and to the reserved corps the second
regiment and a battalion of the third. These data will serve
you as a guide.

If you find that the fourth regiment will not be complete,
upon your giving me information of the actual or probable de-
ficiency, immediate measures will be taken to supply it by
recruiting ; and, for this purpose, you will reserve at Stanton
such officers as you may think requisite. Captain Gibson is said
to be a very good recruiting officer. I understand that Captain
Bird, at Salisbury, has been furnished with the means of raising
a company — Captain Bird, belonging to the first regiment — he
will join the troops which are to proceed to Pittsburgh ; and
another officer, whom you will indicate, must replace him, and
receive from him the recruiting money and clothing which may
remain unissued. Should the number of men which are to be
incorporated into the fourth, exceed a regiment, the surplus will
remain attached to it, in such manner as you shall direct.

Your construction of the law, as to the allowance to the
Division Inspector, is right. Nor is there any prospect of an
increase of the compensation. You recollect that another Brig-
ade Inspector may be appointed within your command, who
may be charged with the southern extremity. This may abridge,
in some degree, the travelling.

I wait for the recommendation of a fit character from you.

The idea of a rule for the extra travelling expenses of the
aids of a general officer, distinct and diiferent from that respect-
ing the general, cannot but work inconveniently. I have ex-
pressed my opinion to this effect to the Secretary of War, who, I
hope, will change this part of his plan.

With regard to some of the objects you particularize, as
boat-hire, express-hire, postage, and all of a similar kind relating to
the service, and not to the mere personal accommodation of the
officer, I consider them as to be at the expense of the public, and

^T. 43.] MILITARY PAPERS. 407

generally to be defrayed by tlie person charged witb disbursements
for the Quartermaster's department. Marques and tents, as well
as quarters and barracks, are furnished by the public ; articles
of camp equipage by the officer himself It is, however, usual
for him to draw camp-kettles and canteens, if he desires it.

The subject of double rations has perplexed me, as well as
yourself. It is difficult to find in the law its proper meaning.
It is one of the cases in which some degree of executive arbitra-
tion should be exercised. It has been matter of more than one
communication from me to the Secretary of War. I have again
recently called his attention to it.

I agree with you as to the employment of the troops, and
shall second your views in this respect.

THE STEP.

■ . 1800.

Tacticians agree that a proper regulation of the length and
speed of the step is of primary importance in a system of tactics-

Upon this depends essentially the exactness of all evolutions,
the attainment of the best results with the least inconvenience to
the soldier. Yet, in the theories of military writers, and in the
establishments of military nations, there is great diversity in this
important article. For example : while our step is two feet
English, that of France (and it is believed of Russia) is two feet
French, or about twenty-six inches English ; that of Great Britain
two feet six inches English. There is also some, though less
diffisrence, as to the velocity of the step ; that of France being
76, 100 and 120 in a minute, that of Grreat Britain, 75, 108, and
120 in a minute.

This diversity is a reason against adopting implicitly any
foreign standard, and a motive to investigation of the principles
on which the step ought to be predicated. It is desirable, if pos-
sible, to find a standard in nature.

408 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 43.

As to length, tlie step ought to be accommodated to men of
the smaller sizes. A tall man can abridge easier than a short
man extend. And yet, perhaps neither extreme ought to govern ;
a short man may, by habit, somewhat lengthen his usual step
without fatigue, while a tall man may be too much constrained,
if obliged to contract his step to the measure of a very short man.
The man of middle stature may be the proper criterion, or per-
haps the average of a number of men of different sizes marching
together, may furnish a still better rule. In such case, a kind of
compromise naturally takes place, by the mutual effort of all to
move in unison.

But to arrive at a full result, it is necessary that the experi-
ments should be multiplied, should be by individuals of different
sizes, and by bodies of different numbers from few to many, and
especially that they should be on different sorts of ground, rough
as well as smooth, unequal as well as plain. By this diversifica-
tion of the experiments, it may be possible to discover- some
medium which, being adopted as a standard, and made habitual
to the troops, will best accommodate itself to the variety of cir-
cumstances which occur.

It is a fact which, in this investigation, demands particular
attention, that the length of the step naturally increases with its
speed or velocity. In a slow movement, the body is nearly per-
pendicular, and the leg kept back ; in a rapid one, the body is
impelled forward, and with it the leg, which, without effort, takes
a greater distance in this than in the former case.

Hence a question whether the length of the step ought not to
be proportioned to the speed, and whether, instead of that uni-
formity which seems to have been preferred, it ought not to be
less in the slower and greater in the quicker steps. It is evident,
that by lengthening the step with the speed, a greater quantity
of ground will be passed over in a given time, and perhaps with
less fatigue, from the men being less constrained.

The varieties in the speed of the step demand careful exami-
nation. A slow, cadenced, majestic step has been adopted, espe-
cially in reference to manoeuvres of parade and the march in line.
From 75 to 80 in a minute have been latterly deemed an eligible

^T.43.] MILITARY PAPERS. 409

standard. For occasions wliicli require greater celerity, about
100 in a minute has been adopted, to be increased in particular
cases to 120,

These questions arise. Are all these varieties desirable as
fundamental rules? If not, what ought to be substituted? Is
the slowest of these steps ever useful in the actual service of the
field ? If not, ought it to obtain for any, and for what collateral
reasons ? To what kind of movements is each variety applica-
ble ? In fine, what ought to be established as to the speed of
the step ?

Respect for the institutions of nations who have arrived at
considerable perfection in the art of war, is a dictate of good
sense ; but when we consider the influence of the spirit of imita-
tion, and how liable men habituated to routine are to be tram-
melled by that to which they have been accustomed, we shall find
good reason not to follow those institutions implicitly. In the
particular affair of the length and speed of the step, there is room
to suspect that principles have not been sufiiciently consulted,
and that real improvements may be made. This, however, is to
be carefully examined, with a temper no less remote from the
love of innovation than from a spirit of blind deference to authority
and precedent.

HAMILTON TO M<=HENRY.

New-York, March 21st, 1800.

Dear Sir:

Though, from repeated reflection and action upon the subject,
my opinion was well made up when I received your letter of the
19th, yet I thought it proper once more to review the matter be-
fore I complied with your request. The principle of the doctrine
advanced by the accountant will go much farther than the posi-
tion which he now avows, namely, "that no authority short of
Congress can make allowances to an officer beyond the emolu-
ments fixed to his ofl&ce by law." It will go the length of deny-

410 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 43.

ing to the Executive in all its branches, any discretion not con-
firmed b}' some special law, to call forth and compensate any
services, not merely of officers, but of any other persons, which
are not indicated and provided for by particular statutes.

It will interdict the employment and compensation of a citi-
zen as a writer, or even as an express^ no less than that of an
ofiicer, for either purpose. The foundation of the doctrine must
be, that there is no power in the Executive to subject the public
to expense in any case not specially provided for by law. What
substantial difference can there be between employing a private
citizen for some contingent service, and paying him for it, and
employing an ofiicer for something not within the sphere of his
official duty^ and compensating him for it ? I discover none in
the theory ; for as to such extra service he is a private citizen,
and I know no law that declares a distinction.

It is certain that in the course of the discharge of its trusts,
there will occur numerous instances in which the public service
must stagnate, or the Executive must employ and compensate
agents not contemplated by special laws.

It follows, in my opinion, that he must have an inherent
right to do it, under these restrictions, that it ought to be relative
to some object confided to his agency by the constitution, or by
the laws, and that no money ought actually to be paid, for which
there is not an appropriation by statute, either with particular
reference to the purpose, or under the general denomination of
contingencies. This is, in my opinion, a right necessarily im-
plied ; nor do I see why the Executive may not claim the exer-
cise of implied powers, as well as the Legislative. In a word,
there is no public function which does not include the exercise
of implied, as well as express authority.

This reasoning, as far as I know, is consonant with the prac-
tice of every government, and with that of ours, as well under
the confederation, as under the present constitution. If my
memory deceive me not, there was an act of Congress prohibit-
ing the union of two ofiices in the same person, with distinct com-
pensations. Yet this did not hinder the allowance of special
compensations to ofiicers for special and extra service. Still less

^T. 43.] MILITARY PAPERS. 411

did it hinder the indemnification for extra expenses of an officer
in peculiar situations. Such compensations and indemnifications
were, I believe, made by the executive boards, under the former
government. Indeed, I am unusually mistaken, if the uniform
practice of the Treasurj;^ and War Departments under this gov-
ernment, does not recognize the rule for which I contend, and
reject that which is advanced by the accountant. This practice,
too, has been right. A different one will be found in experience
a fatal clog on the wheels of public business. The administra-
tion at large is interested in discountenancing it, and that spirit
of cavil in the accountant, on which it is founded, and which my
observations in my present station have convinced me is ruinous
to the military department of the government. There was not
an appropriation law passed, while I was at the head of the Trea-
sury, which did not sanction my principle. There was always,
I believe, a sum for the contingencies of the War Department.

The power to incur charges which involve expense, not fall-
ing under any specific head, presupposes the right to employ
agents, and engage services not particularly contemplated by
law. I always viewed such appropriations as a virtual sanction
of the right, including in them a warranty, if necessary, to exer-
cise the power. Such too was the practical construction.

Nobody knows better the truth in this respect than Mr. Wol-
cott. Nobody ought more decidedly to frown upon the danger-
ous metaphysics of Mr. Simmons. The recognition of his doc-
trine will be a fatal precedent in the administration. It will be
a palsy, destructive of all energy in the government. Consider-
ing the dispositions which prevail among certain men, in a cer-
tain body, there ought to be more than a common anxiety not
to establish such a fetter upon executive operations.
Yours, &c.

412 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 43.

COL, SMITH TO HAMILTON,

Union Brigade, March 25th, 1800.

Major General Hamilton :

Sir, — I have communicated to Colonel Ogden tlie arrange-
ments I have made relative to the experiments I am making on
the proper measure of the paces, as stated in your letter of the
18th, to whom, at present, I beg leave generally to refer you, I
have made arrangements to procure the necessary pendulums to
correctly mark the cadence of the common 75 — quick 108 — and
wheeling time 120 per minute, I must confess, I am attached to
the English time ; I know it to be founded on the most approved
Prussian system, and is the basis of those highly improved evo-
lutions published by Colonel Dundas, on which the British tactic
is now founded, and which is elevating the British army to a
point of reputation which they have so long stood in need of,

I find that the British pace gives 65 i yards per minute, which
in 8 minutes covers 522 1 yards — that our pace per minute gives
but 50 yards per minute, in 8 minutes covers 400 yards ; of
course the advantage gained in 8 minutes is 122 1 yards.

If therefore we can introduce and accustom our troops to
the Prussian or British step, I think there can be no hesitation
which to choose. I will however do myself the honor of report-
ing the result of experiments about to be made, I should wish
your permission to try the steps when acquired, — upon British
or Prussian principles of tactics, extracts from which and some
notes personally made, I am possessed of, but feel a difiidence on
entering on these experiments, without your permission being
previously obtained.

I have the honor to be with great respect — Sir, your most
obedient humble servant.

^T. 43.] MILITARY PAPERS. 413

ORGANIZATIOlSr.

1800.

In conformity with the establishment by law, and until a de-
finitive arrangement shall be prescribed by authority of the Pre-
sident of the United States, the following formation and disposi-
tion of a regiment of infantry are to be observed —

A regiment will consist of battalions, divisions, companies,
platoons, sections and squads.

A battalion is composed of five companies — a division will
comprehend two companies. Each company will be divided into
two platoons — each platoon into two sections — each section into
two squads. A battalion will consequently consist of two divi-
sions and a flank company ; and as often as two flank companies
shall be united, they will form a division.

When the companies shall be completed to the war establish-
ment each will be formed upon three ranks ; on the present es-
tablishment each will be formed upon two ranks, in order that it
may occupy in each class the same extent. Each company shall
be numbered in the regiment from one to ten according to the
relative rank of the several captains, and shall be thus distribut-
ed. The battalion on the right shall consist of the first, third,
fifth, seventh, and ninth companies. That on the left of the 2d
4th, 6th, 8th, and 10th companies. The station of each company
will be from right to left, in the former No. 1 , 3, 7, 5, 9. In the
latter No. 4, 8, 6, 10, 2. No. 1 and 2 will represent the flank
companies, which it is expected here after will consist of select
persons.

The third and seventh companies will form a division to be
called first division^ the fifth and ninth another to be called second
division^ the fourth and eighth another to be called third division,
the sixth and tenth another to be called fourth division. "When
the two flank companies * form a division it will be called " flank
division."

* In forming it the company No. 2. will place itself on the left of No. 1.

414 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 43.

The platoons shall be numbered from right to left in succession,
from 1 to 20, and shall be denominated in the same order, first pla-
toon^ second platoon^ &c. The sections of each platoon shall be de-
nominated right and left, and when necessary shall be distinguish-
ed by the addition of the number of the platoon as " right section
of the first platoon," "left section of the second platoon," &c.

In the order of battle the ofl&cers and non-commissioned offi-
cers shall be stationed as follows. Each captain shall be on the
right of the right platoon of his company, covered by a sergeant.
The first lieutenant on the right of the left platoon of his com.
pany, covered also by a sergeant. The second lieutenant four
paces behind the centre of the company, to be denominated a
" rear officer." The first sergeant two paces behind the left of the
right platoon. The second sergeant two paces behind the left of
the left platoon. The corporals on the flanks of the two platoons
in the front rank. The second lieutenant of the company which
is on the left of each battalion, shall be on the left of that com-
pany covered by the second sergeant.

The colonel shall be at twenty-eight paces behind the line
of " rear officers," and opposite the centre of the interval between
the two battalions. The first major, at twenty paces behind the
same line of rear ofl&cers, and opposite the centre of the "bat-
talion of the right," in a line with the standard of that battalion.
The second major, in a similar position relatively to the "bat-
talion of the left." The adjutant, sixteen paces in front of the
colonel. The sergeant-major of each battalion, twelve paces in
front of his major. The paymaster and quartermaster are un-
derstood to be detached on other duties. They may, however,
in special cases, at the discretion of the colonel, be employed
in the service of the line, when he will assign them their
stations.

In the formation for reviews of parade, the colonel will be
twenty paces in advance of the centre of his regiment, counting
from the front rank ; each major, fourteen paces in advance of
the centre of his battalion, counting in like manner in a line
with its colors. If the regiment shall form only one battalion,
the colonel will preserve the same relative station, and the

Mt. 43.]

MILITARY PAPERS. 415

majors the same distance, but opposite tlie right and left of the
battalion.

HAMILTON TO PINCKNEY.

New-York, March 26, 1800.

Sir:

Inclosed is a plan of the formation of a regiment for exercise
or battle, of which I request your mature consideration, and that
you will [favor] me as early as may be [with] the result of your
reflections. The more careful and particular your criticism, the
more [will it oblige me.]

NORTH TO HAMILTON.

March 27th, 1800.

Sir:

I have the honor to present herewith, regulations for con-
ducting military funerals and executions ; for the disposal of the
effects of those who die or are killed in the service. They are,
with some alterations and additions which appeared to me proper,
extracted from Reed and Symes, and though not of great conse-
quence, are necessary to make a whole. The plan for the ser-
vice of the guards, which is also presented, is in part taken from
the regulations of Baron Steuben, and in part formed on a prin-
ciple which I believe has not heretofore been adopted, and
which, for this reason, I offer with great diffidence. The guards
and detachments, instead of being taken promiscuously from the
different companies of a regiment, or the different regiments of
an army, are, by the plan accompanying this, to consist of entire
squads, sections, platoons, &c. So that the officers and the men
attached to their particular command, may on all occasions re-

416 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 43.

main together. I need not say to you, sir, that the separating
officers from their men, has been, and will always be, fraught
with bad consequences. The officer, to a certain degree, gets rid
of his responsibility for their clothing, arms, and discipline ; and
the men under the command of a stranger have less to hope
from a strict performance of their duty, or to fear from its ne-
glect. The alteration with respect to the camp guards, by per-
mitting them to remain in the tents which, as a platoon or section,
they occupied previous to their mounting, will, in my opinion, be
attended with no inconveniences to the service, and with much
convenience to the officers and men ; the camp and quarter
guard being thrown together under the command of a commis-
sioned officer, and a tent or hut appropriated for prisoners where
they cannot mix with the guard, and will feel that they are con-
fined, will, I should suppose, be attended with good effects.

The continual attention necessary to the common and daily
duties of my office, is offered in excuse for having done so little in
the extra business committed to me, and I hope will be accepted.

HAMILTON TO OGDEN.

New-York, April 15th, 1800.

Sir:

In compliance with your request, I proceed to draw an out-
line of the duties which, as Deputy Quarter-General of the troops
within my immediate command, you will have to perform.

The duties of the department of Quartermaster-General, as
they have been understood in our service, are subdivided into
two principal branches, one of which has been denominated
military, the other civil ; the first relating to the position and
movements of an army, the other to its supply.

The first branch embraces chiefly the choice and distribution
of ground for the quartering and encampment of troops, whether
with a view to an enemy or to the exercise and accommodation

^T. 43.] MILITARY PAPERS. 417

of the troops, and the disposition of them in quarters, or camp,
according to the established order of battle. Second, the regu-
lation of marches as to routes, halting-grounds, transportation,
and the care and defence of baggage and stores. In the execu-
tion of this branch, a knowledge of the country, which is at any
time the scene of operation, is indispensable. For this purpose
good maps are to be procured or made. These are to serve for
the information of the commanding general, as well as for that
of the chief of the quartermaster's department. When a position
is to be taken, or has been taken, the surrounding country, as
well as the immediate ground, is to be carefully reconnoitred,
with the approaches and outlets from it. A careful eye must be
had to all intermediate grounds best fitted for posts, either to
attack or defend ; to the facilities for, or difficulties of opening
new routes ; to all the circumstances which may serve as obsta-
cles against the attack of an enemy, or as aids in offending or
annoying him. Maps are to be made which shall present the
military points, mountains, morasses, defiles, and the other cir-
cumstances above attended to.

The second branch embraces chiefly the providing of quarters,,
grounds for encampments, the means of transportation by land
or water, tents and articles of camp equipage, forage, fuel, straw
and stationery, and the superintendence of the distribution and
issuing of these articles. The business of guides and expresses
is also an appendage of this department, and sometimes the
management of intelligence is confided to it.

It is to be understood that, according to our present system,
there are two ofiicers at the seat of government — a purveyor of
supplies, and superintendent of military stores.

Of the former (who is Tench Francis, Esquire) it is the duty,
under the direction of the Secretary of War, to procure all sup-
plies for the army which are not of necessity to be procured in
the field or at particular military stations.

Of the latter (who is Samuel Hodgson, Esquire) it is the duty
to receive and cause to be issued all military supplies ; to keep
accounts of the issues ; and to call to account all who are charged
with making them in detail.
E 27

418 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 43'

The Department of War has likewise certain agents at particu-
lar places, who execute occasional services, and in many instances
have been employed to procure and to furnish supplies. — Of these
agents the following are known to me.

E. Stevens, Esquire, New- York ; Jona. Jackson, Massachusetts ;
Archibald Creary, Rhode Island ; Jacob Sheaffe, New Hampshire ;
Jedh. Huntington, Connecticut; Elijah Paine, Vermont; Jas.
.McRea, North Carolina ; Edward Carrington, Virginia.

You are informed that John Wilkins, Esquire, is quartermaster-
general, and is particularly attached to the western army under
General Wilkinson ; James Miller, Esquire, is his assistant at the
seat of government, and the person there with whom you are
ordinarily to correspond.

There are also, as you know, contractors at different places,
who besides the business of supplying provisions, have been and
in part still are charged with procuring articles requisite in the
quartermaster's department, for which they are allowed a com-
mission.

Of the aid of the different description of persons you must
avail yourself in the execution of your office.

It is my wish that the actual procuring of supplies, and espe-
cially the disbursements of money for them, should be separated
from the quartermaster-general and his immediate assistants ; and
that his province should be to direct what is to be procured rela-
tively to the objects of his department, in addition to the articles
which are provided and furnished through the officers at the seat
of government ; and to superintend the persons who procure the
objects and make the expenditure. It seems to me more advisa-
ble that he should direct and watch over those who are to provide
and pay, than that he should be charged with this species of
service and responsibility. This separation will enable him to
attend better to his military duties— will make him a check
rather than an agent in money transactions, and will save him
from the jealousy and clamor inseparable from those who are
intrusted with them.

It will be a part of your duty to make from time to time re-
ports and estimates of articles which are necessary to be provided

^T. 43.] MILITARY PAPERS. 419

in your department, in order that after they shall have been exa-
mined by me, they may be submitted to the Secretary of War, or
other proper officer at the seat of government.

You are to take care that all quartermasters' articles required
for the troops under my immediate command are duly furnished
upon proper returns. You are also to see that all general
orders, as it respects the officers of your department, are punctually
executed.

When you deem it necessary you may address yourself imme-
diately to the Secretary of War upon matters within the sphere
of your office.

N". KICE TO HAMILTON.

Oxford, April 19th, 1800.

Sir:

There can be no doubt but that the natural gait of the man
ought to be the measure of the pace, uncontrolled by any habit ;
but each man left to pursue his own, would destroy the unifor-
mity of movement absolutely necessary in great bodies — to pro-
duce which we ought to adopt one as a standard. That of the
man of medium height, would be most eligible.

The length of a pace is dependent on the time on which a
man moves — therefore the same measure cannot be preserved in
the common and quick time ; for I have found by the experiments
I have made, that we step further in quick than in slow time.
We must first determine the velocity of the pace ; its dimensions
then will be easily found. I have made numerous experiments
— I selected soldiers of 6 feet, 5 feet 10 inches, of 5 feet 8 inches,
and of 5 feet 6 inches height ; these I caused to march uncon-
trolled, repeatedly, a distance of five hundred feet, and found the
average length of the step, by the men of 6 feet, to be 30 i in-
ches and 93 in a minute — those of 6 feet 10 inches, to be 31
inches and 95 in a minute — those of 5 feet 8 inches, were 31

•

420 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 43.

inches also and 98 in a minute — in the fonrth class the average
was 30| inches and 99 in a minute. I was led to expect greater
diiference in the length of the step between the men of the 1st
and 4th class — but the increased velocity of the pace by the short
men, must have been the cause, and convinced me, that the
natural dimension of the step was dependent upon the time in
which it was taken. I found that the average length of the pace
of the four classes was 30f inches, and that there were 96 in a
minute. Although the men were cautioned to move in their
natural gait, I am convinced their pace was considerably quick-
ened, for, on regulating their step afterwards by music, and
reducing it to our common time, it did not exceed 26 inches.

As all movements should be calculated for real service rather
than show, the greater velocity with which a body of men are
moved, the better, provided a perfect uniformity of stepping can
be preserved, for if that is once lost in a quick movement, dis-
order and confusion will be likely to ensue. I have sometimes
thought that our quick time is too rapid a movement for a large
body of men. But as it is seldom requisite to be done with an
extensive front, (and as by our system all great movements are
in column, either open or closed, the formation or display of
which is done by wheelings with small points, or by marching
in files, in neither of which movements can great confusion en-
sue by want of perfect uniformity of step,) the greater the
rapidity with which those movements are made the better ; and
therefore our measure of 120 in a minute is the time in which
they ought to be performed.

If attention is to be paid to show and parade, perhaps our
common time is the best calculated therefor ; it is neither so
slow as to throw the man off his balance, or make him preserve
it with difficulty, as was the slow step used formerly by the
British — nor yet so quick as not to enable him to preserve grace
in the attitude of his body and time to preserve his balance by
placing his foot horizontally on the ground, and I think is the
best time for moving an extensive line to the front. From the
small experience I have had, I cannot believe that any interme-
diate time of movement, between our common and quick step is

^T. 43.] MILITARY PAPERS. 421

necessary, or can be of great utility. It would rather tend to
perplex and prevent the soldier from arriving to perfection in
either movement, I will continue my inquiries and experiments,
and make such observations as shall result therefrom.

GENERAL PUSTCKNEY TO HAMILTON.

Cantonment at Harper's Ferry, April 25th, 1800.

Dear Sir :

Your two favors of the 26th of March, and your favor of the
10th of April, all arrived by the last post. The position of your
field-officers, in your order of battle, I think excellent. The
position of the companies I think very judicious ; as, if all the
officers are present, it will give the four senior captains the com-
mand of divisions, and keep the officers attached to their own
companies. The only inconvenience attending it is, when a
captain of the first, third, second, or fourth company is absent,
the division will be commanded by a lieutenant, while a captain
of one of the other companies will only have the command of a
company in that division, and be in some measure subject, when-
ever the firing and manoeuvring are by divisions, to the com.
mand of a subaltern. This happens with respect to the seventh
and eighth platoons of Steuben ; but no good reason can be as-
signed for it in his order ; whereas, in j^ours, the important
benefit which must arise from having officers attached to men
they best know, carries conviction to every mind. This ad-
vantage must, however, in a small degree, be dispensed with, to
enable you to manoeuvre to advantage ; and, for the purpose of
exercise or battle, I deem it essentially necessary to equalize
your companies. You never will manoeuvre well Avithout it,
not even if you introduce the English mode of wheeling back-
wards from a halt, to preserve your pivot flank. This principle

422 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 43.

of equalization the great king of Prussia deemed so essential,
that I remember to have read, in one of his battles in the seven
years' war, that after one of his wings had been considerably
thinned, and repulsed in a farious onset, he took the advantage
of a mountain and wood to equalize his platoons before he re-
newed the attack. You have been silent on this point in the
order of battle you have favored me with. In the firings, the
commanders of platoons, in the French service, step to the
centre of the rear of their respective platoons, and give the word
from thence.

With regard to the step : I have been making many experi-
ments on it. I find men stepping a natural step, in general
exceed two feet English when they march 75 steps in a
minute; when they march faster, say 100 or 120 steps in a
minute. The excess above two feet is in proportion to the
velocity. This would suggest the propriety of the steps being
lengthened, with change of measure ; however, this idea, which
first presented itself to Brigadier-General Washington, I have
not sufiiciently matured, and throw it out now to you for trial.
In stepping only two feet, with the quick time, I find the men
always progress with a bent knee, which is not a natural gait.

HAMILTON TO DE NOAILLES.

New- York, May 5th, 1800.

Dear Sir:

I observe that the French regulations, as well as those of
several other countries, adopt a fixed measure for the pace (pas),
without regard to the velocity, which, in the French code, is
tvjo feet French. As the measures differ in different European
establishments, I have been causing experiments to be made, in
order to discover, if practicable, a standard in nature relatively
to the medium size of a man. In the course of these experi-

^T. 43.] MILITARY PAPERS. 423

ments it appears, that tliouga two feet is about the natural
length of the cadenced step — say 75 in a minute — of a body of
men, yet they naturally increase the length of the step with the
velocity.

This has led me to some new reflections on the point; and as
I respect European precedents, in a science which has been so
much studied and practised, I am desirous of knowing what
reasoning has led to the adopting of a determinate length for all
the direct steps, without regard to the velocity — that is to say,
the same for the quick and quickest.

Nobody can better enlighten me on this subject than your-
self, and I rely on your friendly disposition, I therefore do not
hesitate to request that you will, as soon as may be, let me hear
from you on the point, and as particularly as may be con-
venient.

HAMILTON TO jf HENRY,

New-York, May 5th, 1800.

Sir:

I have the honor to transmit you the copy of a letter of the
4th instant, from Colonel Taylor, It presents a picture, of which
the similitude has too frequently come under my observation,

I must be permitted to observe that nothing can be more in-
jurious to the service, than that pecuniary embarrassment should
be occasioned to officers in reference to services duly performed
and expenditures regularly made, by reason either of the want
of a proper distribution and definition of the duties of the re-
spective officers of the War Department, or by misapprehensions
among themselves as to the boundaries of their powers and
duties. It presents an image of defect of system calculated to
inspire sentiments very difierent from those of confidence and
respect, and it is attended with serious inconveniences to officers,
who are kept out of compensations and reimbursements very es-
sential to their accommodation. Besides, that it interferes with

424 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 43.

the settlement of their accounts in every case in which for want
of funds applicable to the special objects, there has been neces-
sity for the temporary transfer of funds which had other desti-
nation.

The call upon the officers to refund, as mentioned by Colonel
Taylor, is a violent measure. It is in most instances impracti-
cable for them to comply, and surely an anterior arrangement
in the modes of accounting ought to have obviated such a requi-
sition. It is in my knowledge, as formerly a member of the ad-
ministration, that there was often a necessity for accommoda-
tions of this kind, and that they were practised ; nor can the
public business proceed without them.

It is a delicate matter, in my station, to animadvert upon the
conduct of officers in the civil departments of government. Yet
there are occasions in which it is proper to waive a scruple of
this sort, and to state the tendency of their conduct towards the
service.

Yielding to a sense of duty. I do not hesitate to say, that in
my opinion the accountant displays very often a spirit, Avhich, if
not designed, certainly tends to injure the service, and sour and
dissatisfy all who are parts of or connected with the army.

I know that officer to be capable, diligent, and honest, but
he is certainly not as accommodating as the complicated urgen-
cies of military service require ; and he rigidly adheres to rules,
which, if universally applied, are incompatible with practice.

This disposition must either be corrected or our military
affiairs must always be in disorder. The public will be burthen-
ed with a large additional expense as an indemnification for the
evils of the accountant's rigor, and general dissatisfaction will
prevail.

The paymaster-general is charged by law with certain defi-
nite objects ; the pay, arrears of pay, subsistence and forage of
the troops. These are regulated by law, and involve the exer-
cise of little or no discretion. The accountant has a more exten-
sive authority, embracing, among other things, the expenses of
'the recruiting service, and all incidental and contingent expenses
-of the department.

^T. 43.] MILITARY PAPERS. 425

Where cases occur relatively to his duties, which are either
within the specific provisions of the laws, or within the establish-
ed regulations of the head of the department, founded upon the
general provisions of the laws, or the nature of his office, the
accountant is to adjust them of course. Where matters are pre-
sented, not comprehended in the one or the other, and which
must be governed by discretion, these are to be reported by him
to the Secretary of War for his instruction, and in these cases
the accountant is to obey that instruction, leaving the responsi-
bility to rest upon the superior.

I premise this view of the scheme of the department, as pre-
liminary to a proposition which I shall submit.

It seems to me that it will be expedient to extend the func-
tions of the paymaster-general and his subordinates to some ob-
jects not now understood to come within their sphere — namely,
1st. Their travelling expenses when detached, and extra compen-
sations to ofl&cers for extra services. 2d. The expenses of
apprehending deserters. 3d. Postage and stationery, when
paid for by officers of the line ; and lastly, the affi^ir of bounty
money, and the contingent expenses of the recruiting service.

In order to defray such expenses in the first instance, let the
regimental paymasters and persons acting as such, be furnished
with small sums as a fund for contingencies; out of this fund let
them defray those expenses, and let the accounts be settled pro-
visionally by the paymaster-general, under the eventual control
of the accountant.

For this purpose, it ought to be understood, that if in any
instance an officer receives more than he ought to have, it shall
be a charge against his pay, but shall be no obstacle to the set-
tlement of the accounts of the paymasters, except where they
may be chargeable with wilful default, or gross carelessness.

The accounts for these supernumerary objects may be ren-
dered and settled distinctly from those provided for by law ; and
perhaps an additional compensation may be made to the paymas-
ter-general.

This plan, I think, would remove some obstacles, and give
some facilities which would be convenient to the service. But

426 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [tEt. 43.

whatever may be the plan pursued, it is of primary importance
that some arrangement shall be devised, which shall provide for
a speedy adjustment of similar matters, and prevent the disgust-
ing altercations and delays which now continually ensue. I en-
treat your prompt and careful attention to the subject, and that
you will immediately give in the particular case such orders as
will remove the difficulty represented by Colonel Taylor.

HAMILTON TO COLONEL SMITH.

New-York, May 8th, 1800.

Sir:

I duly received your letter of the 2d of April, which has lain
by from the pressure of more urgent business. In breaking si-
lence now, I wish only to prevent misapprehension, as it may
influence future cases.

I am persuaded in what you did you were actuated by a very
praiseworthy zeal, and I perceive that there were circumstances
from which you were led to infer a larger discretion than it was
my intention to imply. Yet I ought in candor to observe, that
those circumstances were designed by me, essentially, to enable
you *to exert your own immediate agency, without previous
resort to me, as to objects within the purview and spirit of the
general directions, and that several of the items in question do
not appear to me to answer this description.

This must not be received as a censure, but as explanation to
guide in future. When an officer bona fide misconstrues an in-
struction, and acts with a sincere view to the good of the service,
I should with reluctance blame, though I should always think it
proper to tell him frankly, that a misconstruction had happened,
as a caution for other occasions.

I do not understand that any impediment to the settlement
of the accounts exists, and if not, no further step on my part is
necessary.

.ET.43.J MILITARY PAPERS. 427

HAMILTON TO DE NOAILLES.

New-York, May 13th, 1800.

Dear Sir :

I find by your reply to my inquiry, that I did not convey my
meaning to you with sufficient perspicuity.

I was aware that in the French system the length of the pace
in the direct step is uniform, without regard to the velocity ; but
I was desirous of knowing what mode of reasoning may have
produced this uniformity, notwithstanding the fact that the
length of the step naturally increases with the velocity.

It would seem upon principles better to proportion the pace
to the velocity ; that is, to have one length for the ordinary sl£p,
another for the route step, and perhaps (but this I doubt) a third
for the charge step.

The effect of restraining the quick step to the measure of the
shio step, is to make a greater quantity of effort necessary to
attain a given distance, and thereby to render marches more
fatiguing than they ought to be.

Having now explained myself, I shall be obliged by your
further thoughts on the matter.

HAMILTON TO GENERAL PINCKNEY.

New-York, May 14th, 1800.

Sir:

I was in due time favored with your letter of the 25th April.

I am glad that our ideas coincide as to the formation of a
regiment for exercise and battle.

It is a part of the plan, (though the extract sent you did not
go so far as to show it,) that the companies for those purposes
shall always be equalized. This is no doubt essential. The in-
convenience of occasionally separating the men from their officers

428 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [iEx. 43.

must be submitted to for the overbalancing advantages of the
equalization.

In primary formations, we must of necessity contemplate the
corps as complete, and prescribe what a sound theory requires on
that supposition ; taking care to provide for casualties by means
agreeing with the general principle. With the latter view " the
places of officers and non-commissioned officers who may be
wanting or absent are to be supplied by those next in grade, and
when necessary in the formation for exercise or battle, the com-
mandant of a regiment may assign officers of one company to
another company." The application of this provision will require
that the junior of the two captains shall command the division
when the senior is absent, in every case in which the division
acts collectively. An occasional change of position for this pur-
pose will not be difficult.

What would you think of varying the plan of formation by
placing the captain in the rear of the centre of his company,
stationing the first lieutenant on the right of the right platoon,
the second on the right of the left platoon ?

The arguments for such a disposition are, that when in action
in line, the captain will be in the best situation to attend to his
whole company, to extend his influences over the whole, and to
keep every part at its post. In movements which may require
a different position, a correspondent change can be made.

This idea has some attractions for me, though I have not as
yet embraced it even provisionally. And you will understand
that no part of my plan is definitively adopted. It is all sub
judice — open to revisal and correction.

The fact which you notice, that the length of the step in-
creases with the velocity, is confirmed by other experiments
which I had caused to be made ; and, when observed, is seen to
depend on a very obvious reason. This fact at present inclines
me' to vary the length of the step in proportion to velocity — at
least, to have two diffijrent standards. It is certain that the con-
trary principle must augment the quantity of exertion requisite
to attain a given distance, and tend to render marches more slow
and more fatiguing.

.Et. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 429

I doubt not that tlie prudent change you have made in the
situation of your troops will be attended with salutary effects.
With great consideration and esteem,

I have the honor to be, &c.

HAMILTON TO i^HENEY.

New-York, May 19th, 1800.

Sir:

I have transmitted to the Paymaster-General an abstract of
the numbers of the twelve additional regiments, and have urged
him to make an estimate of the sums which will be due, in-
cluding the three months' extra pay, and without delay to remit
adequate funds.

I beg you to send for him, and to second by your authority
the instruction I have given.

I am thus particular, because without great exertion the
troops cannot be paid up before the time fixed for their dis-
charge ; and in my opinion it is essential that this should be
done. Public clamor, infinite disgust in the officers and men,
possibly great irregularities on the routes homeward, and cer-
tainly additional obstacles in obtaining men on future occasions,
would attend the disbanding without full satisfaction.

Hence I press for every possible exertion to be prepared for
the time which has been assigned ; and hence, also, I think it
proper to say, that should circumstances prevent the payment of
their dues to the troops by that time, I shall consider it as con-
sistent with the orders I have received, no less than with the
interest and honor of the government, to defer the disbanding
till the payment shall have been received, unless I have fresh
and precise instructions to the contrary.

With great respect, &c.

430 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 43.

ADAMS TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, May 22d, 1800.

Sir:

I inclose a copy of a letter received tbis morning from
Colonel Smitli. I am at present at a loss to judge of it. "Will
you be so kind, without favor or affection, to give me your can-
did opinion of it — whether his request can be granted, in the
•whole or in part, without injustice to other officers, and whether
it is consistent with the military ideas ? I pray your answer as
soon as possible.

I am, Sir,

With great esteem,

Your most obedient humble servant,

John Adams.

Major General Hamilton.

HAMILTON TO ADAMS.

Camp, Scotch Plains, May 24, 1800.

Sir:

I had the honor of receiving, an hour since, your letter of the
22d instant, with a copy of one to you from Colonel Smith.

I am happy to think that the question presented is on mere
military principles a very simple one. The rule of promotion
by succession does not, in any service, as far as my knowledge
goes, apply to a new corps in its fresh organization. Officers for
such a corps, it is understood, may be found wheresoever it is
thought fit, without regard to those of the antecedent establish-
ment. This rule has been repeatedly and recently acted upon
in this country, and is necessary and right.

The regularity of complying with the wish of Colonel Smith
depends, then, on the fact, whether the second regiment of artil-
lery has ever been organized. I believe that it never has been,

^T. 43.1

MILITARY PAPERS. 431

never yet having had. a commandant; and, I have supposed,
that this state of the thing was the reason why the eldest major
of the two regiments was not long before this appointed as a
matter of right. If I am correct in the fact, (of which the Secre-
tary of War can give you precise information,) the conclusion is,
that the appointment of Colonel Smith will violate no military
rule, nor the right of any other oflScer. It may, and probably
will, contravene expectations entertained on reasonable grounds ;
but this is a different thing from the infraction of a right.

But except on the principle that the regiment was never or-
ganized. Colonel Smith, an oflEicer of infantry, could not be
placed in the command of it, in exclusion of the majors of the
corps without departing from military ideas.

The major and other officers of the additional battalion may,
doubtless, with strict regularity, be appointed from the of&cers
on this ground, if it shall be thought expedient.

What has been said is, I imagine, a full answer to the in-
quiry you have been pleased to make ; and perhaps I ought to
say no more. Yet if I did stop here, I should not be satisfied
that I had fulfilled all that candor and delicacy required of me.
I will therefore take the liberty to add a few words. There are
collateral considerations affecting the expediency of the measure
which, I am sure, will not escape your reflection, and if after
weighing them duly, you shall be of opinion that they ought not
to prevail as obstacles, you will without doubt anticipate criti-
cism.

I trust this remark will not be misunderstood. The opinion
I have of Colonel Smith's military pretensions, my personal re-
gard for him, and my sensibility to his situation, conspire to
beget in me sentiments very different from a disposition to throw
the least impediment in the way of his success.

432 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 43.

HAMILTON TO SWAN.

Camp, Scotch Plains, May 26, 1800.

Sm:

I send you the copy of a letter of the 14th instant, from
Captain Ellery, with the documents to which it refers.

If my recollection be right, there lies an appeal from the ac-
countant to the Comptroller of the Treasury. If so, I request
that you will, without delay, on behalf of Captain Ellery, make
an appeal.

After much reflection, I do not perceive any sound distinction
between special compensations to persons not of the army and
similar compensations to officers of the army for services, which
do not appertain to the nature of their offices.

Their established compensations cannot be presumed to em-
brace such services ; as to these they are mere strangers, with the
sole difference, that being already in the employ and pay of the
government, it is reasonable they should receive less allowances.

If, as the practice admits, it is within Executive discretion to
allow special compensations to strangers, payable out of the fund
for contingencies, it must be on the principle, that such services
being casually necessary, and not provided for by law, it is requi-
site to the progress of the service, and agreeable to an implied
license in the appropriation of the fund, that they should be
called forth, and recompensed by Executive authority. And
the same principle would extend to allowances to particular offi-
cers for services which the laws did not contemplate that they
were to perform, and consequently did not provide for. The
interest of the service will manifestly be promoted by this exten-
sion. In numerous instances officers may be made use of for
such purposes without interfering with the parts of the service
for which they were destined ; and in all such instances, as their
allowances will be less than would be made to strangers, there
will be economy in employing them ; besides that in many cases
they are best qualified, and in some situations other qualified
persons could not be found at all.

^T. 43.] MILITARY PAPERS. 433

To say that special compensations for special services is in
no case within Executive discretion, would be contrary to uni-
form usage, and would arrest the wheels of every branch of the
government. In the military service, especially, innumerable
casualties occur in which the exercise of that discretion is indis-
pensable.

What is to be done ? A person is appointed lieutenant of a
regiment; there is a certain routine of duties incident to the
station. These are foreign to the clerical and peculiar duties at-
tached to different branches of the staff. These, besides demand-
ing particular qualifications, frequently involve close a23plication
and constant drudgery.

Suppose an officer is called to exchange the one station for
the other, without an equivalent for the additional labor and
skill ; may he not reasonably decline it, and say, this service is
not within the terms of my undertaking with the public? Sup-
pose even, that the disposition of military subordination would
not tolerate a refusal ; could a service proceed with harmony and
satisfaction, and advantage, in which such a despotism was exer-
cised ?

Will it be said that the future justice of the legislature is to
be relied upon ? Will ofiicers cheerfully undertake or assiduously
perform on such precarious ground ? Is it right to compromise
a commanding general, by laying him under the necessity of
giving expectations which may not be realized ?

There can be no doubt on this question where justice and ex-
pediency point ; and though first appearances may countenance
the distinction which has been made, a more thorough view of
the subject shows it to be too nice and subtle for practice.

I trust that the Comptroller, on mature consideration, will
regret the distinction. You will please to communicate to him
this letter, that he may see the reasoning on which I gave my
sanction to Captain Ellery for the expenditure which he has
made. It may be depended upon that the business of the depart-
ment absolutely required it.

With great consideration, &;c.

The Paymaster-General.

E 28

434 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 43.

HAMILTON TO

Head-Quarters, Union Brigade, May 27th, 1800.

Sir:

It is very important in tactics to ascertain the proper length
and speed of the step. For this purpose I am causing experi-
ments to be made in various quarters, and I have drawn up the
inclosed paper to serve as a guide in making them. I request
that you will have experiments made in all the varieties indi-
cated, and report the result.

HAMILTON TO RIVARDI.

Camp, Scotch Plains, May 31st, 1800.

Sir:

I have received your letter of the 15th instant.

As we live in a jealous country, and in jealous times, a visit
from Governor Hunter and the Duke of Kent is not to be courted.

If, however, circumstances should occur in which the thing
cannot be avoided without a breach of politeness or liberality, it
must be met with a good grace. With this caution, I leave the
matter to your prudence and delicacy.

If a visit shall take place, the same ceremonies are to be ob-
served towards the Governor, as would be observed towards a
similar character in our own country. That is, he will be re-
ceived by the garrison with presented arms — ofi&cers and colors
saluting, and music playing. In the reception of the Duke of
Kent, there will be the additional ceremonies of a discharge of
artillery, and the honors of the flag.

Under the circumstances stated, I consent to your taking an
additional servant from the garrison.

^T.43.] MILITARY PAPERS. 435

ADAMS TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, June 20th, 1800.

Sir:

The itinerant life I have led has prevented me from acknow-
ledging the receipt of your favor of May 24th until this time.
Your sentiments are very satisfactory to me, and will be duly
attended to.

I anticipate criticism in every thing which relates to Colonel
Smith. But criticism, now criticised so long, I regard no more
than " Great George, a Birth-day Song." Colonel Smith served
through the war with high applause of his superiors. He has
served abroad in the diplomatic corps, at home as marshal and
supervisor, and now as commandant of a brigade. These are
services of his own, not mine. His claims are his own. I see
no reason or justice in excluding him from all service while his
comrades are all ambassadors or generals, merely because he
married my daughter.

I am, Sir, with mucli regard.

Your most obedient and humble servant,

John Adams.

Major-General Alexander Hamilton.

HAMILTON TO M'HENRY.

New- York, June 28th, 1800.

Sir:

An extraordinary pressure of business since the receipt of
your letter of the 10th inst., has delayed a reply to that part of
it which respects the rule of promotion.

This rule was not adopted on my recommendation singly,
but on the recommendation of the Commander-in-Chief, sup-
ported by the opinion of General Pinckney and myself.

Of its expediency with regard to the corps of artillerists and
engineers, I have always had some doubt.

436 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 43.

The smallness of that corps in point of number avoids the
inconvenience of a lineal promotion of captains. The nature of
its service, almost always by detachments, causes the reason for
a different mode to be inapplicable to it, and the scientific nature
of the corps strengthens the inducements to a strict succession
according to seniority.

But a uniform rule was thought most eligible ; and I have not
the least doubt that the rule of promotion, regimentally to the
rank of majority, inclusively, is the best with regard to the in-
fantry and cavalry.

In corps which act collectively, there is an advantage in keep-
ing the men as much as possible with the officers to whom they
have been accustomed. As often as you bring an officer from
another regiment the advantage is lost.

But more justice is done by a regimerial promotion than by
any other mode. Corps in active service are, in various ways,
subject to losses in a much greater degree than those in a state
of repose. It is justly congenial with the natural feelings of
the human heart, and an incentive to exertion, that promotion
should keep pace with danger and suffering.

If, when a regiment had been half destroyed by a bloody
action, the advancement of all the remaining officers was im-
peded by bringing captains from garrisons perhaps a thousand
miles off", the effect upon those officers would be very discour-
aging, and the influence upon the service very inauspicious.

It may be asked, Why not apply this reasoning to the field
officers ? The answer is, that when the grade becomes of this
importance it carries with it a tenaciousness of the principle of
promotion by seniority ; and the whole number not being very
considerable, the delay of lineal promotion is less sensibly felt
and the effect less extensive.

Balancing the opposite considerations, it is judged the least
inconvenient to regulate the higher grades by a lineal promotion.
You have herewith a report of Major Hoops concerning the
late disturbance at West Point.

North has since set on foot criminal prosecutions against Cap-
tain Stille and several of his men for riot and theft. A hot-

iET. 43.] MILITARY PAPERS. 43*7

headed magistrate, witliout tlie decency of a previous resort to
higher authority, issued a warrant, upon which the captain and
those men were apprehended, and after a refusal to bail them,
committed them to the common jail of the county. On the rep-
resentation of the district attorney, a habeas corpus was issued
by our Supreme Court, and the prisoners have all been liberated
on easy bail. The honor and success of the service require abso-
lutely that this affair should be probed with all possible atten-
tion. I have expressed this opinion ; you may perhaps think it
expedient to confirm the sentiment.

HAMILTON TO if HENRY.

July 2d, 1800.

Sir:

From the terms of the act disbanding the additional army
and correspondence with the Department of "War, I consider our
military operations ceased. When, therefore, any remnants of
the business formerly under my superintendence present them-
selves, I can only lay them before you for your consideration and
decision.

In pursuance of this idea I send you the inclosed account.

July, 1800.
Major-General Hamilton has it in command from the Presi-
dent of the United States, to assure the officers and men of the
corps which are about to retire from the service, that he entertains
a strong sense of the laudable zeal by which they were induced to
take the field at the appearance of danger to their country, and
of their good conduct in every respect, since they have been in
the service ; and that he deeply regrets any inconvenience which
may result to any of them from an anticipated dissolution of

438 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 43.

their services — that he doubts not their patriotism will lead them
to make a just construction of the motives of the government,
and that he relies firmly upon them as the zealous defenders of
their country in any future emergency.

The Major-General is happy to be the organ of this expres-
sion of the sentiments of the President. To add the assurance
of his high sense of their merits, is a tribute due to them and to
justice. He cherishes a deep sympathy in the feelings which na-
turally actuate them at so interesting a moment, and he entreats
them to be persuaded that his warm affection will follow them,
wheresoever they may be.

Mr. 32.]

CORRESPONDENCE

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Monday morning, January 4th, 1789.

Dear Sir:

I feel myself very mucli obliged by wliat you sent me yes-
terday.

The letter from Governor Johnston I return, much pleased to
find so authentic an account of the adoption, by North Carolina,
of the Constitution.

Yours, sincerely and affectionately,

George Washington,

LEE TO HAMILTON.

Alexandria, September 3d, 1789.

My Dear Sir:

Lest my brother should have returned, I take the liberty of
asking your safe delivery of the two letters inclosed, and any re-
ply which may be given to you for me. At the same time, let
me present my hearty gratulations for the proper honor you
have received from our country.

I anticipate good to the public, and new lustre to my friend.

440 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [tEt. 32.

notwithstanding the obstinate difficulties and embarrassments
which oppress our finance.

May complete success crown your endeavors. How is Mrs.
H. and fomily ? Poor Mrs. Lee continues still very infirm. She
desires to be remembered to her good friend.

Always yours,

Harry Lee.

HAMILTON TO LAFAYETTE.

New-York, October 6tli, 1789.

My Dear Marquis:

I have seen, with a mixture of pleasure and apprehension,
the progress of the events which have lately taken place in your
country. As a friend to mankind and to liberty, I rejoice in the
efforts which you are making to establish it, while I fear much
for the final success of the attempts, for the fate of those I esteem
who are engaged in it, and for the danger, in case of success, of
innovations greater than will consist with the real felicity of your
nation. If your affairs still go well, when this reaches you, you
will ask why this foreboding of ill, when all the appearances
have been so much in your favor. I will tell you : I dread dis-
agreements among those who are now united, (which will be
likely to be improved by the adverse party,) about the nature of
your constitution; I dread the vehement character of your
people, whom I fear you may find it more easy to bring on, than
to keep within proper bounds after you have put them in motion.
I dread the interested refractoriness of your nobles, who cannot
all be gratified, and who may be unwilling to submit to the re-
quisite sacrifices. And I dread the reveries of your philosophic
politicians, who appear in the moment to have great influence,
and who, being mere speculatists, may aim at more refinement
than suits either with human nature or the composition of your
nation.

These, my dear Marquis, are my apprehensions. My wishes

vEt. 32.] CORRESPONDENCE. 441

for your personal success, and that of the cause of liberty, are in-
cessant. Be virtuous amidst the seductions of ambition, and you
can hardly in any event be unhappy. You are combined with a
great and good man : jou. will anticipate the name of Necker. I
trust you and he will never cease to harmonize.

You will, I presume, have heard before this gets to hand, that
I have been appointed to the head of the finances of this coun-
try. This event, I am sure, will give you pleasure. In under-
taking the task I hazard much, but I thought it an occasion that
called upon me to hazard. I have no doubt that the reasonable
expectation of the public may be satisfied, if I am properly sup-
ported by the Legislature, and in this respect, I stand at present
on the most encouraging footing.

The debt due to France, will be among the first objects of
my attention. Hitherto it has been from necessity neglected.
The session of Congress is now over. It has been exhausted in
the organization of the government, and in a few laws of imme-
diate urgency respecting navigation and commercial imposts.
The subject of the debt, foreign and domestic, has been referred
to the next session, which will commence the first Monday in
January with an instruction to me to prepare and report a plan
comprehending an adequate provision for the support of the pub-
lic credit. There were many good reasons for a temporary ad-
journment.

From this sketch, you will perceive that I am not in a situa-
tion to address any thing oflicially to your administration ; but I
venture to say to you, as my friend, that if the instalments of
the principal of the debt could be suspended for a few years, it
would be a valuable accommodation to the United States. In
this suggestion, I contemplate a speedy paj^nent of the arrears of
interest now due, and eftectual provision for the punctual pay-
ment of future interest as it arises. Could an arrangement of
this sort meet the approbation of 3'our government, it would be
best on every account that the offer should come unsolicited as a
fresh mark of good will.

I wrote you last by Mr. De Varville. I presume you received

442 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [tEt. 32.

my letter. As it touched some delicate topics, I should be glad
to know its fate.

Yours, with unalterable esteem and affection,
Alexander Hamilton.

P. S. The latest accounts from France, have abated some of
my apprehensions. The abdications of privileges patronized by
your Nobility in the States General, are truly noble, and bespeak
a patriotic and magnanimous policy, which promises good both
to them and their country.

WITHERSPOON TO HAMILTON.

Princeton, October 26th, 1789.

Dear Sir :

On Saturday I had the pleasure of receiving yours of the
20th. It is very flattering to me that you suppose I can render
any assistance by advice in the important duties of your present
station. It is true that, from tlie very earliest part of life, it has
been a favorite object with me to attend to the state of society,
and the operation and influence of political causes, and, among
the rest, money, as a medium of commerce and things connected
with it. It happened, also, that about thirty-two years ago we
had several accurate discussions in Scotland and England re-
specting the banking companies, on which subject I read much
and wrote some ; but my knowledge of these matters is all
general and theoretical. It is always my desire, if possible, to
reach the first and radical principles of any thing ; and when
these are well understood, you may look through, as it were, the
whole effects with great celerity as well as certainty. As to the
ofl&cial detail of business in the management of Treasury affairs,
I know as little about it as any person whatever.

However very willing to contribute all the assistance in my
power to the public service, I observe, that as I have been,
unexpectedly chosen a member of the Assembly of this State,

jet.32.] correspondence. 443

wliicli my friends have pressed me to comply witli, I shall be at
Amboy for a month or two from this date, and will probably
make an excursion to New-York, when I will do myself the
pleasure of calling upon you ; and if any thing worth communi-
cating occur to me, shall impart it in conversation, which can be
more full and satisfactory than it could be by writing.

In the mean time, as you mention a proper provision for the
public debt, the evil that has pervaded our whole affairs in
America, has been the want of a just sense of the sacredness of
public credit. We have still an idea, meeting us in conversation
and publication, that a discrimination must be made between
original creditors and speculators, as they call them. I am free
to speak upon this subject, because I never was a speculator or
trafficker of any kind, and I never had such faith in the public
since the year 1777, as to purchase a certificate; so that I am
not possessed of one security as my own ; but discrimination is
totally subversive of public credit. I remember to have said
this to some persons. English funds are not depreciated like
ours, yet they are depreciated.

Sailors' tickets and navy debentures are sometimes as far as
from 20 to 25 per cent, discount. Now if every member in Par-
liament, or any person in the pay-office, should say to one buy-
ing a number of them, " Where do you get these? You are a
speculator; you never drew a rope in a ship ; you did not pay
the full value of them, and we will not pay you the full value of
them ;" such a thing registered and believed in the Exchange of
London, would bring the whole national debt to the ground in
two hours.

Keeping any thing further till meeting,
I remain.

Dear Sir,

Your most obedient, humble servant,

JnO. WlTHERSPOON

444 . HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 32.

M'^HENEY TO HAMILTON.

Baltimore, October 27, 1789.

Dear Sir:

Being obliged to attend our Legislature the first of next
month, it will be out of mj power to collect, examine, and pre-
pare the necessary facts relative to your queries, at least till after
the end of the session ; and as a majority of the house of dele-
gates is said to be anti-federal, I can form no judgment of its
duration.

Be assured I was not only made exceedingly happy by your
appointment, but shall always rejoice at every circumstance
which can add either to your fame or fortune. Your ofiice is
vastly important, and yoa are worthy of it, and what is more,
equal to its duties, but at the same time it is extremely hazard-
ous, I cannot tell whether all the wisdom, and justice, and
policy, and politics j^ou can put into your plan will procure
them, in all conjunctures, a good reception in Congress ; or
rather, for how many ages these qualities will serve instead of
the means which a British minister employs to insure success
to his.

HAMILTON TO DUER.

1789.

"While I truly regret, my dear friend, that the necessity of
your situation compels you to relinquish a station in which public
and personal considerations combine to induce me to wish your
continuance, I cannot but be sensible of the force of the motives
by which you are determined. And I interest myself in your
happiness too sincerely not to acquiesce in whatever may redound
to your advantage. I confess, too, that upo7i rejledion I cannot
help thinking you have decided rightly.

I count with confidence on your future friendship, as you
may on mine.

^T. 32.] CORRESPONDENCE. 445

An engagement at tlie President's will not let me meet you at
dinner, but I shall be happy to see you in the evening.

Adieu — God bless you, and give you the success for which
you will always have the warmest wishes of
Your affectionate

A. Hamilton.

LEE TO HAMILTON.

Richmond, Nov. 1G, '89.

My Dear Sir:

The letter sent to your care, be pleased to return.

Your undertaking is truly arduous, but I trust, as you pro-
gress in the work, difficulties will vanish.

From your situation you must be able to form with some
certainty an opinion concerning the domestic debt. Will it
speedily rise? Will the interest accruing command specie or
any thing nearly as valuable ? What will become of the indents
already issued ?

These queries are asked for my private information; per-
haps they may be improper. I do not think them so or I would
not propound them — of this you will decide, and act accordingly.
Nothing can induce me to be instrumental in submitting my
friend to an impropriety. I wrote General Knox some time ago,
inclosing a letter for Governor St. Clair.

Will you before you answer me know whether my letter
was received ?

The anti-federal gentlemen in our Assembly do not relish the
amendments proposed by Congress to the Constitution,
Yours always and affectionately,

Henry Lee.

446 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 32.

HAMILTON TO COL. K. H. HARBISON.

New-York, Nov. 27th, 1789.

My Dear Friend:

After having labored with you in the common cause of Ame-
rica during the late war, and having learnt your value, judge of
the pleasure I feel in the prospect of a reunion of efforts in this
same cause ; for I consider the business of America's happiness
as yet to be done.

In proportion to that sentiment has been my disappointment
at learning that you had declined a seat on the Bench of the
United States. Cannot your determination, my dear friend, be
reconsidered ?

One of your objections, I think, will be removed ; I mean
that which relates to the nature of the establishment. Many
concur in opinion that its present form is inconvenient, if not
impracticable. Should an alteration take place, your otlier ob-
jection will also be removed; for you can then be nearly as
much at home as you are now.

If it is possible, my dear Harrison, give yourself to us. We
want men like you. They are rare in all times. Adieu.
Your affectionate friend.

And obedient servant,

A. Hamilton.

HAMILTON TO LEE.

•New-York, December 1st, 1789.

My Dear Friend:

I received your letter of the 16th instant, I am sure you are
sincere when you say that you would not subject me to an im-
propriety ; nor do I know there would be any in my answering
your queries. But you remember the saying with regard to

^T. 32.] CORRESPONDENCE. 447

Cffisar's -wife. I think the spirit of it applicable to every man
concerned in the administration of the finance of a country.
"With respect to the conduct of such men, suspicion is ever eagle-
eyed. And the most innocent things may be misinterpreted.
Be assured of the affection and friendship of your

A. Hamiltojst.

WADSWORTH TO HAMILTON.

Hartford, December 17th, 1789.

Dear Sir:

The author of the Observer has in view to procure the good
will of the citizens of this State to the National Government,
and to have the State debts adopted. He will go on if none of
his projects oppose yours — have you read him ? The next week
will produce an Observer, which proposes a land tax, and repro-
bates a mode of collection. I wish you would read them, and
if you find nothing which you disapprove, say so.

The time draws near when Congress meet, I shall be called
on for a militia bill — you know who I expect it from. Hitherto
the merchants of this State have been nearly unanimous in their
support of the impost — but they are greatly agitated at the pros-
pect of being obliged to pay the duties which arose before the
ofiice was opened. There will be so many actions brought, and
such disgust given, that I fear the evil will be greater than the
good.

I am, dear Sir,

Sincerely your friend,

Jeremiah Wadsworth.

448 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 33.

MORRIS TO HAMILTON.

Paris, Jan. 31st, 1790.

Dear Hamilton :

I did expect that in congratulating jon, wliicli I do most sin-
cerely, upon your appointment, I should have communicated a
matter which would have administered much ease and conve-
nience to the aftairs of your department. I learn this morning,
that these expectations are frustrated from a quarter and in a
manner which would excite my surprise, had I not long since
acquired the habit of wondering at nothing. I will tell you a
plain story.

M. Necker, pressed for money, had listened to overtures for
selling the debt of the United States, and mentioned the matter
to some members of the ISTational Assembly, by which means it
became known to the principal Americans, and friends of America
here. I own, that upon the first mention of the matter, it ap-
peared to me a thing of indifference, and so I expressed mj^self.
Our duty is to pay to such creditors as may possess the demand.
But further information placed the affair in a different point of
light. It appeared that the offer was for a small part, at a great
discount ; and that the terms of the bargain were to be debated
in the National Assembly, and consequently our reputation
sported with. Mr. Short did every thing in his power, but hav-
ing no pointed instructions, could onlj^ express the result of his
own judgment and feelings. But the minister was pressed for
money, and he had the offer of money. Under these circum-
stances, in connection with a society of friends to America, I
made M. Necker an offer, such as in my conception was honor-
able to France, to America, and to the parties. This proposition
(after stating the amount of the principal and interest which
would be due on the first of January, 1790, and considering that
as a new capital on which the interest was to run) contains the
following terms : " Oujjwjwse de Vacquenr du gouvernment, et a cet
effet de Vacquitter en entier ])ar des rentes ^erjjetuelks de la France
montanies a la meme somme." This payment was to be made in

/Et. 32.] CORRESPOI^DENCE. 449

the year 1790 and 1791 ; consequently, so far as France is con-
cerned, tlie offer went to a full, complete, and entire payment,
and that at a much earlier period than is stipulated by the terms
of the loans themselves. To this was added a further offer, in
case the situation of affairs in this kingdom should require it, in
the following terms : ^^ Ou se charger a de solder en argent la moi-
tie de la dite rente aux prix courant des effets royauxP This part of
the offer has no other merit than to secure to the minister the
sale of the French effects, if he thought proper, and is therefore a
matter rather of convenience than advantage. I communicated
this plan, beforehand, to Mr. Short and to the Marquis de La-
fayette, who both considered it as an excellent means of saving
at the same time the honor and interest of America, while it fur-
nished a useful resource to France. I showed it also to Mon-
sieur de Montmorin, who, having well weighed and considered it,
assured me that he most heartily appro vedf it, and would do every
thing in his power to secure the success.

In the supposition that this plan were adopted here, applica-
tion was to be made through you to the United States, to pay the
amount of this debt in obligations for current guilders, calculat-
ing the exchange at par ; those obligations to bear five per cent,
interest, and to be paid in instalments, the first of which to com-
mence five years hence. Consequently, as the Society was to
bear all the charges of negotiation, &c., &c., it follows clearly
that the United States would have obtained the needful time re-
quired for their accommodation without a farthing of expense,
and without the pain of soliciting it from this court. It was there-
fore equally honorable and useful for them. It was honorable
also to the parties. First, because they became eminently useful
to the societies of which they are respectively members ; and,
secondly, because the advantage, if any, which they were to de-
rive, would result merely from a careful and industrious attention
to the variations of the exchange and fluctuations in the effects,
and from the use of their funds and credit to make investments
at the proper times and seasons, which, as far as the sum of forty
millions of livres and upwards can go, must necessarily have sus-
E 29

450 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 32.

tained the value of the stocks here. And you will observe that
this was clearly stated and understood.

The proposition was delivered to M. Necker, on the fifth of
December. You will observe, that in framing it, we counted
upon the aid of money-lenders in Holland ; and in preference to
others, upon the commissioners of the United States. We
learned, however, that these gentlemen had, notwithstanding the
remonstrances of Mr. Jacob Van Staphorst, who has a real and
warm regard for America, joined with those who made the offer
to M. Necker.

Through the channel that brought us this information, an
mterview was brought about between Monsieur de la Chaise and
Mr. Van Staphorst, charged with the final proposition to M.
Necker and me. I told those gentlemen, that I was convinced
their offer could not be accepted, (by the by, M. Necker had
told me that the sum offered was not sufficient,) and that, if ac-
cepted by the minister, it could not be adopted by the Assembly,
and that they risked doing great injury to America without any
advantage to themselves; that I would communicate to them
an offer I had made, and which I had great reason to believe
would be adopted ; that I would offer them an interest in it, or
a commission, at their option ; that if they should not approve
of holding a concern, I would then lie still, and let them make
the most of their plans without opposition, but asked the assur-
ance on the part of themselves and of their principals, (those
whom they represented,) that if they found their own scheme
impracticable, and did not choose to adventure with me, they
should only not oppose. This being solemnly promised, I stated
the matter to them at large, and they came so fully into my
views, as to withhold the proposition they were directed to
make, and send an express on the subject to Amsterdam.

The interview was on the 11th of December, in the even-
ing. Some further discussions were needful, which we had the
next day. I avoided going to M. Necker's, because I was to do
nothing which would defeat their plan. On the 26th, Mr. Hub-
bard, partner of the house of Staphorst, arrived, charged to
make their offer, with a budget of reasons in support of it. This

^T. 32.] CORRESPONDENCE. 451

offer was to purcliase tlie 6,000,000 at a discount of about eleven
per cent. It was made immediately ; and on the morning of the
28th he called on me, in company with Mr. Van Staphorst.

I had been repeatedly assured from different quarters, that
M. Necker was ready to treat with me, but I had not put myself
in his way. The conversation with Mr. Hubbard was not very
long. I heard what he had to say, and replied with great preci-
sion, but so as to change entirely his opinion. You will not won-
der at this, when I tell you the purport of the 9bjections he had
brought forward : first, that it was too profitable to the parties ;
secondly, too burdensome to France; and thirdly, might injure
the credit of America by selling the obligations too low. To the
first I replied by a smile, and the assurance that I never expected
such an objection from Holland. This disconcerted him. To
the second, I answered, that M.Necker understood his[own busi-
ness, and might safely be trusted in making a bargain ; but I
showed him further, that the bargain was a good one. To the
last I made the answer, which I am sure you have already made
in your own mind, viz., that if the commissioners of the United
States could safely be trusted in making negotiations, where the
loss was to be borne by their employers, a fortiori might they be
trusted where the loss was to be borne by themselves.

As all this was merely ostensible, I pressed him hard for the
real reasons, but could get nothing more than assurances that
there were no other than those above mentioned. As these were
clearly refuted, of course he acknowledged himself converted;
but Hudibras has very well observed, that

" Who's convinced against his will,
Is of tlie same opinion still."

A more effectual change was wrought by M. Necker, who,
on the second of this month, refused their offer. On the morn-
ing of the third, Mr. Hubbard called and informed me of this,
and in the afternoon of the fifth, he set off for Amsterdam, ap-
parently desirous of bringing all his friends into my views. The
business went on but slowly in Amsterdam ; and Mr. Jacob Van
Staphorst was amused from time to time, and amused me, with

452 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 32.

the expectation that each succeeding post would bring their de-
finitive answer. But this morning he tells me, with very sin-
cere regret, what has been done. The letter to you on this sub-
ject I have read, and will make a few remarks upon it; but shall
not be very precise, perhaps, as it is only from memory of what
it contained that I write.

The idea of an enormous profit, admitting for a moment that
such were to accrue, would hardly have been with them what
Candid calls the sufficient reason for refusal, although, perhaps, it
might have been for acceptance. But you can judge of the ex-
tent of that profit, and you will, with me, smile at the absurdity
of connecting with such profit a sacrifice in the price of Ameri-
can obligations, on the vending of which at or near par, the profit
must certainly depend. There is something else which, perhaps,
is more ridiculous still, viz. that the United States, whose obli-
gations, belonging to numerous individuals, are daily sold on the
change of Amsterdam, should apprehend an injury to their credit,
from trusting a farther negotiation to persons, whose immediate
interest in supporting that credit would be so great. They state
as a great difficulty, the borrowing of twelve millions within the
term, when on the same pledge they can borrow twenty. Their
statement of sums, is not, I believe, very accurate, or perhaps
my memory is not accurate. However, I am sure the idea is,
that the greater sum can be borrowed more easily than the less.
There is also the farther very extraordinary idea that it is for the
interest of the United States to pay between four and five per
cent, upon a negotiation, rather than get it done for nothing. I
shall not notice many expressions which are injurious, but make
to their affectation of disinterestedness, the answer which Jacob
Van Staphorst made to me. It is very strange that they should
say all this, when they must remember that in M. Colomb's time,
they offered him only fourteen millions of livres for one half of
the thirty-two, and arrearages of interest, but would not take the
whole, even at that rate, which is the reason why the bargain
was broken off. I should make but a poor excuse for so long a
story, if I stopped here ; but I will now proceed to give you
what I conceive to be the key of the riddle.

^T. 32.] CORRESPONDENCE. 453

These gentlemen are engaged, as I suppose you know, in very
extensive speculations upon the funded debt of America, They
have lately worked this matter to a most astonishing benefit.
Above three millions of that debt, which cost them five shillings
in the pound, has been made the basis of a loan on which they
receive sixty per cent., and are bound to repay it by instalments
from the interest receivable in America. The Dutch, however, pre-
fer lending at five per cent, to the Congress direct. It is, there-
fore, essential to the success of their schemes, that they should
be able to suspend the one loan always, till they have completed
the other, and thus our national interests are rendered subservi-
ent to their particular negotiations. You will easily see that one
such operation, in which there is no risk, is better worth pursuing
than the very great profit they complain of With this hint you
will understand the matter thoroughly. I must come to a con-
clusion.

I did not see M. Necker as I expected this afternoon, because
lie was gone to council ; however I must suspend, at least, the
matter with him ; but you may rely on it that if the minister at
this court, or any other agent, be authorized fully to deal in the
business, and, if the court will not readily agree to a new arrange-
ment respecting the debt, to contract with individuals, that the
matter can be yet managed in the manner above mentioned, pro-
vided it be not too long delayed. As to the loan which the com-
missioners have undertaken of their own heads, you may, I
think, derive great advantage from it ; for in the first place, your
minister or agent can make terms with them to that amount at
pleasure, for the benefit of the United States ; and you may, in
the next place, convert the money to very useful purpose by
sinking three or four -times as much of the domestic debt, and
raising the price at the same time towards par, which will pre-
vent the success of speculations by foreigners which are a loss to
America.

I am very truly, &c.,

GOUVEENEUR MORRTS.

454 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^T. 33.

GENERAL LINCOLN TO HAMILTON.

Boston, Feb. 16, 1790.

Dear Sir:

To reduce things involved in confusion to a state of order, in
all cases requires labor and attention. The task is increased by
the magnitude of the object, and is rendered perplexing indeed,
where there are a deficiency of means, and where different inter-
ests, ably supported and stubbornly adhered to, must be com-
bined for the completion of the system in view. To devise a
scheme which shall at once embrace all the great objects neces-
sary to the restoration of our character and importance abroad,
and for the preservation of peace and happiness at home, and to
bring it forward with that address and fairness which shall unite
the whole, is one of the greatest burdens, the performance of
which has ever been assigned to any of the officers of the United
States. Fortunate for the Union the heavy task is yours.

Permit me to say to you, sir, and think it not the language
of adulation, that notwithstanding the expectations of the people
on your appointment, were, from a knowledge of your abilities,
raised to a very extraordinary height, yet they suffered no dis-
appointment from seeing your report, saving those who are un-
friendly to the great arrangements necessary to be embraced for
the political salvation of this country. Our best citizens are
very desirous of adopting your plan, and their only anxiety now
arises from an apprehension lest Congress should so mutilate it
as to destroy its leading and ornamental features, and the neces-
sary and beautiful connection of its parts, and thereby render it,
like all other of our plans of finance, unsystematical, imperfect,
and insecure.

I have attended to the observations of various writers in the
public newspapers, who seem disposed to question the propriety
of your report. I am pleased that neither of them have ventured
fairly to represent you, or have dared fully to meet your argu-
ments. A thousand such writers will never lose you a friend in
this part of the United States, or lessen your interest here. I

^T. 33.] CORRESPONDENCE. 455

know you have a crowd of admirers among us, who never will
forsake you, while you are permitted to act yourself.

Suffer me to hope, that if Congress, blind to the interest of
the Union, should so mangle your system as that you could be
no longer responsible for the efficacy of it, that you would leave
them to attempt an execution of their own plans. If they do not
effect it, the blame must fall on themselves, as it ought to do ;
and you reserved, uncensured, for a pilot in a season, yet more
boisterous and distressing than is the present, to which I think
we shall rapidly hasten, if your report should be rejected.
Although I have thus expressed myself respecting your retiring
from office, yet God forbid that any infatuation should so possess
the minds of Congress as to make the measure necessary either
for your own honor or the public good.

I have the honor of being, dear Sir,

With great esteem,

Your most obedient servant,
B. Lincoln.

TENCH COXE TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, March 5th, 1790.

Dear Sir:

I find more difficulty like to arise in the minds of the mem-
bers about the State debts than any other part of your report, as
far as I can judge from my letters. All the public creditors here
are against the assumption : those of the Continent, because it
will increase the sum among the owners of which the federal
revenues are to be divided ; and those of the State, because they
would rather take their chance with her than with the Union.
It is unpleasing to our antis, because, they say, it will produce
the old demon, consolidation, which they raised up as a bugbear
to prevent the adoption of the Constitution. Many of the federal-
ists and principal country gentlemen do not like it because we
owe so little as a State and possess federal securities to a greater

456 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 33.

amount. My argument with them all is, that the revolution of
1789, for as such I view it, was intended to settle a great number
of public difficulties — that this was among them — and that it then
was, and is now evident, that concessions of particular advan-
tages would be necessary to enable us to surmount those diffi-
culties— that this is one of the very few which Pennsylvania,
New-York, and other States, having small separate debts, can be
called upon to make — that an expensive and uncertain adminis-
tration of our finances must be the consequence of fourteen sys-
tems of revenue, and therefore that we ought to consent to the
assumption.

I have the honor to be,

With very great respect, dear Sir,

Your most obedient humble servant,
Tench Coxe.

COXE TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, July 9th, 1790.

D^AR Sir:

I find by several letters from New-York, that the bill relative
to the residence has hitherto stood its ground, which affords a
further hope that this agitating business will be settled by the
present attempt. It has really become necessary, for the govern-
ment has been exceedingly depreciated by it even here. Many
who consider it as a great object, still think it not worth the
expense of time, money, and character, which it is like to cost.

The public creditors are to have a meeting this evening — but
it is not much liked by some of the most judicious of them. It
is suspected to have our elections as much as public credit for its
object. I do not think, however, that it will do any harm. The
assumption, if mentioned there, will be supported, I think, by a
considerable strength. 'Tis probable it will be spoken of in the
course of what will fall from the speakers. You may be satis-

JEt. 33.]

CORRESPONDENCE. 457

fied, that the assumption has gained ground very considerably in
this city, and that it will not lose the supporters it now has, who
believe it the sine qua non of a satisfactory funding system. The
hope of making better terms by a concert with the friends of as-
sumption has made a pretty strong impression on the minds of
several influential men to whom I have suggested it, though they
think it will not be easy to make some of the strong opponents
admit the idea.

I direct this letter to be sent down to you immediately, as the
information on this last point will be satisfactory, and may be
wanted.

I am, dear sir, your affectionate and obedient servant.

COXE TO HAMILTON.

SuNBURY, Bucks, July 10, 1790.

Dear Sir :

I am now at my father's, on my way to Jersey, to spend a day
or two with my two eldest children, before I finish the time
proposed for my absence.

The public creditors had a small meeting last night, and ap-
pointed a new standing committee. They appeared moderate
and prudent, but solicitous for a good funding system. They did
not attempt any business or resolutions, but left everything to the
discretion of this committee, according as events may prove. I
think they will be pleased with an excise, and that the body of
the people will not be averse to it. Some of the strict executive
parts of the proposed law were the causes of their exceptions to
it, but though they may be unpleasant, it is to be duly considered
whether an equal collection could be effected without them. I
find the principal creditors viewed the Readers of the opposition
to the excise bill with jealousy, though they do not approve some
parts of it.

I understand here that the principal man among the oppo-

458 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 33.

nents to the assumption is Mr. Pettit, who was to set out for
New- York to-day. I am of opinion that his objections to it
would be much weakened, if he could be convinced, either that
it is the sine qua non of funding, or that the terms of the new
loan might, by its means, be meliorated.

Exchange has advanced in Philadelphia to 172i or 2,\ per
cent, premium.

The importations of European goods are expected to be very
great this autumn.

I inclose for my little friend, Philip, a copy of the Elements
of Geography, which I mentioned, with my very respectful com-
pliments to Mrs. Hamilton.

I have the honor to be, dear Sir,

Your affectionate and obedient servant,

Tench Coxe.

WHEELOCK TO HAMILTON".

Dartmouth College, August 27th, 1790.

Sir:

The trustees of this literary institution have desired me to
express their congratulations at the prosperous state of our na-
tional finances under your wise direction. They have desired
me to communicate the high sense which they entertain of your
talents and political knowledge.

Influenced by an exalted opinion of your merit, they make a
tender of the highest honors that any university can confer.
They beg, sir, your acceptance of the Degree of Doctor of the Laws
of Nature and Nations. It is a testimony unequal to their re-
spect ; but it is the best within their power to give.

The Diploma will be completed and forwarded to you by
some safe conveyance, so soon as may be convenient.

I have the honor to be, in behalf of the Board of Trustees,
Sir, your most obedient,

And very humble servant,

John Wheelock.

^T. 33.1 CORRESPONDENCE. 459

PATERSON TO HAMILTON.

Edinburgh, 30th September, 1790.

Eespected Sir :

When one of your abilities is placed in a station where you
can be so useful to mankind, I hope it will not be thought too
officious, by one who views the establishment of liberty in Ame-
rica with pleasure, to send you the following pamphlets, viz. :

1st. The state of the public debts of Britain, and a, plan of
redeeming them^ by Dr. Price.

2d. Eeport of the Select Committee of the House of Com-
mons on the Income and Expenditure of 1786.

3d. Book of Kates, which contains the Custom-House Duties.

4th. Yearly Tax Tables, which contain the Inland and Ex-
cise Duties.

Eespected sir, though unknown to you. Dr. Witherspoon
and Dr. Minto, of Princetown College, know me to be a firm
friend to America. I was enticed, on reading the Report you
gave into Congress, on the state of the finances, as in the Con-
gressional Register, to send you these pamphlets. If you have
seen them before, you can give those to whom you please.

It struck me that a great genius might like to see the works
of their cotemporaries. Mr. Pitt, many in Britain think, to be
too desirous of ruling among the nations, to be able to reduce
the national debt, though the resources of the country are very
great. I am happy to have the opinions I had of the resources
of your country confirmed by the perusal of your speech. I
have now only to beg your excuse for the freedom I have taken,
and your valuable time I have consumed in the perusal of this.
As I did not do it to be taken notice of, I therefore desire no
answer. No, I did not wish to draw you into any correspond-
ence. Wishing the national debt of Britain, America, and
France reduced, and wishing you all manner of success,
I am, Sir, with due esteem and regard.

Your obedient servant,

Sam'l Paterson.

460 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 33-

LINCOLN TO HAMILTON.

Boston, December 4th, 1790.

Dear Sir:

I received by the Wednesday post your private letter, with
the newspaper containing the piece you referred to, which has
been republished in a number of our newspapers.

The Virginia resolve is not very alarming here — much less
so than might have been expected. Indeed it seems to have
produced, in some instances, a good rather than an evil, by con-
firming the doubtful in the importance of a firm, energetic head
to the Union, sufficiently strong to control the whole. I am
much surprised at the policy and conduct of Virginia. She
ought to remember that there are other States in the Union who
were as early in the habits of resolving as they, and who have
proved themselves as notable resolvers as perhaps any in the
world. But what would be the consequence should the indi-
vidual States, as soon as they found that the laws of the Union
did not, in their opinion, operate in every respect towards them
with the same mildness as they did towards some of their sister
States, feel themselves authorized to call in question the power,
and to attempt to counteract the doings, of Congress ? We shall
soon, whenever this comes into general practice, be without a
federal government ; and, with its fall, we shall probably be de-
prived, for ages to come, of the power of again assembling and
forming a system for the general government of the United
States by the voice of the people.

If instead of embracing the present Constitution with affec-
tion and gratitude, and giving it every possible support, we
sufifer it to be impaired by encroachments from different States,
and finally lost, because the operation of every law framed un-
der its influence doth not apply with equal advantage to every
State, we shall, for the same reason, reject every system which
can be formed for our government.

States, unequally divided as these States are, must, from
the nature of things, beget an unequal representation, and, ex-

^T. 33.] CORRESPONDENCE. 461

tending from Nortli to Sontli, must by their limits embrace va-
rious climates, yielding diflferent productions, and thereby exci-
ting different views among citizens of different States. Hence,
laws having a general operation, may not render the most perfect
individual justice. Yet it may not be very difficult to form a
code of laws which, on the whole, shall effect this interesting
purpose, and promote equally the happiness of the people at
large.

I hope and trust, that the different States will not ape the do-
ings of the Assembly of Virginia. They may suppose that be-
ing dissatisfied with the acts of Congress, they had a right pub-
licly to express that dissatisfaction, in the manner in which they
have done. I very much doubt their right. I hope it will not
become a general practice for the Assembly of the several States
publicly to decide on the doings of Congress. Should this mode
generally be adopted, resolutions for and against their measures
would be constantly crowding before them, keep the minds of
the people at large in a constant state of ferment and irritation ;
and lead things out of their proper course of system and order,
into channels filled with obstructions, and would fast progress to-
wards an unfriendly termination.

It appears to me that there never was a period when the Uni-
ted States had a brighter sun of prosperity, and nothing but folly
in the extreme can cloud the prospect. It is pleasing indeed to
see the general satisfaction which reigns among every class of
citizens in every part of the Union. The earth has yielded an
abundant increase, by which, after a full supply to all, there is a
large surplus which finds a ready market, and commands a satis-
factory price. The merchant is finding an advantageous sale for
his imports, and the means of discharging his foreign obligations,
while it has been optional with the husbandmen in general, to re-
ceive their pay in specie or not, for their produce. In short, our
agricultural interest smiles, our commerce is blessed, our manu-
factures flourish, and every man, in some way or other, has a
tender of a full employ, and a just compensation for his labor.

These, I think, are the generally received opinions, and our
flattering situation is justly described by many, to be owing,

462 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^T. 34.

tinder the great source of good, to the just and equal operations
of the new government, I think Congress has nothing to do, but
to pursue with fortitude the system it commenced, firmly adhere
to it, and all, I have no doubt, will terminate according to the
best wishes of those who love the government most.
I have the honor of being.

Dear Sir, with great esteem,

Your affectionate friend,

B. Lincoln.

M'HENRY TO HAMILTON.

Baltimore, 3d January, 1791.

My Dear Sir:

You may think I have neglected you from my long silence ;
but I can assure you I have never forgot you. Having with-
drawn myself from every thing of a public nature, this has led
me to endeavor to reduce my pleasures as much as possible to a
small compass, and thus to neglect many correspondents, for
whom I entertain the liveliest affection.

That I love and esteem you, I know you will believe without
my repeating it. Your career as yet has been glorious. I wish
sincerely that nothing adverse may interrupt it.

You owe this short reassurance of my regards to Captain
Baring, who has a desire to be personally known to you. I in-
troduce him with pleasure. He is a man of many valuable qual-
ities, and well known for his distinguished services during the
war. As yet, however, he is to receive his reward. I believe
he goes up to Congress with the intention to petition for commu-
tation, and the expenses incurred in his captivity.

Pray present me to Mrs. Hamilton. I have learned from a
friend of yours, that she has, as far as the comparison will hold,
as much merit as your treasurer, as you have as treasurer of the
wealth of the United States. Adieu, my dear Secretary, and be-
lieve me unchangeably yours.

^T. 34.] CORRESPONDENCE. 463

I approve of your bank plan. I see you have accommodated
a little ; but it is under sucb restrictions as cannot let it injure.

HAMILTON TO SETON.

Philadelphia, January IHth, 1791.

My Dear Sir:

I have learnt with infinite pain the circumstance of a new
bank having started up in your city. Its effects cannot but be
in every way pernicious. These extravagant sallies of specula-
tion do injury to the government, and to the whole system of
public credit, by disgusting all sober citizens, and giving a wild
air to every thing. 'Tis impossible but that three great banks
in one city must raise such a mass of artificial credit, as must en-
danger every one of them, and do harm in every view.

I sincerely hope that the Bank of New- York will listen to no
coalition with this newly engendered monster ; a better alliance,
I am strongly persuaded, will be brought about for it ; and the
joint force of two solid institutions, will, without effort or vio-
lence, remove the excrescence which has just appeared, and
which I consider as a dangerous tumor id your political and
commercial economy.

I express myself in these strong terms to you confidentially,
not that I have any objection to my opinion being known, as to
the nature and tendency of the thing.

Yours, with real regard, &c.

SETON TO HAMILTON.

New-York, 3d February, 1791.

Dear Sir:

The letters you intrusted to my care relating to our Senator,
were duly delivered, as you would find by the answer our friend

464 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 34.

D wrote you ; but the point had been absolutely decided

long before. The other party had been undermining for months,
and the coalition between the Governor and Chancellor secured
the election. All your friends here lamented it, foreseeing the
impediments it would throw in your way. Some say'he will act
otherwise ; but what is bad in the bone will appear in the flesh.
I anticipate (though no politician) great opposition to every salu-
tary system.

The goldsmiths inform me, contrary to your expectation, and
contrary to what would seem reasonable, that the standard they
mean in the assays is British standard, which is eleven parts pure
gold, and one part alloy.

* * * * •3f * *

P. S. Of the last bills on Amsterdam, we have sold 81,000
guilders — hope to run off the remainder of the 200,000 in a few
days.

HAWKINS TO HAMILTON.

Senate Chamber, 16th February, 1791.

Dear Sir: »

I have just received an authentic copy of the resolutions of
the General Assembly of North Carolina, which I showed to you
in a newspaper some time past, containing, among other items, the
following instructions to the Senators from that State.

"Eesolved, That they strenuously oppose every excise and
direct taxation law, should any be attempted in Congress."

Being of opinion that the Constitution marks the line of my
duty, and that it is obligatory on my honor to make my own
judgment the ultimate standard, after paying suitable respect to
the opinions and observations of others, I have acted in con-
formity on a recent occasion.

Although it is much to be wished that a discussion of this
sort should never have happened, yet in the present case being
inevitable, a right decision is of the utmost consequence to the

^T.34.] CORRESPONDENCE. 465

Union. If tlie States have a right to instruct, why are we bound
by oath to support the Constitution ?

As no one has contributed more than yourself to the elucida-
tion of the principles of the government, I take the liberty to
request the favor of you, if you should have leisure from the im-
portant functions of your ofl&ce, to give me your opinion on this
subject.

I have the honor to be, with the highest respect, dear Sir,
Your most obedient, humble servant,

Benjamin Hawkins.

MIRANDA TO HAMILTON.

London, le 5 Avril, 1791.

MoN Cher Tresorier General :

Ayez la bonte d'agreer mes complimens, et mes respects, dans
I'occasion du depart de notre mutual ami le Col. Smith, qui a
passe quelques semaines dans cette Capitale ici; qui m'a fait
I'amitie de passer bien des moments ensemble, eta qui, j'ai eu le
plaisir de voir parfaitement accueilli par tout le monde qui I'a
connu anterieurement, et vit dans I'occasion actuelle.

II pourra vous dire I'etrange Sistheme Politique que I'Angle-

terre poursuit actuellement, &c. et je peux vous assurer que

vos Plans des finances ; de Banc National ; des Collections des
taxes, &c., non seulement ont merite I'admiration des gens de la
plus grande consideration ici ; mais ils ont donne aussi la plus
haute idee du Nouveau Gouvernement, qui se conduit a cet egard
par des principes dlionneur et de dignite tres peu communes dans
les gouvernemens modernes. Je vous en felicite de tout mon
cceur, en attendant que les progres rapides de vos institutions
produisent une prosperite generale dans ce Pais-fortune, et. votre
bonheur eternel, qui est le prix immanquable.

E 30

466 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 34

Portez-vous bien toujours — donnez-moi de vos nouvelles (si
vos occupations vous le permettent), et croyez-moi sincerement,

Le Votre,

T. DE Miranda.

HAMILTON TO

Philadelphia, April 10, 1791.

Sir:

Your letter of the Stli of Marcli duly came to hand, though
not till after the arrangement for the execution of the act men-
tioned in your letter had been made.

I wish you not to consider it a mere compliment when I say
that the light in which your character stands could not fail to
have brought you into view in that arrangement. And could
you be minutely acquainted with every circumstance that in the
President's mind inclined the balance a different way, you would
find no reason to be dissatisfied with the estimation in which you
have been held. You are well aware that in a comparison of the
pretensions of men of merit collateral considerations may be often
justly allowed to turn the scale.

Suffer me to add that in the course of those future opportu.
nities which may be expected to occur, it would give me a pleas-
ure, as far as may be in my power, to be instrumental in furnish-
ing you with a proper occasion for the exercise of your talents
and zeal in the service of the national government.
With much consideration and esteem,

I have the honor to be, Sir, your obedient, &c.

Mt. 34.]

CORRESPONDENCE. 467

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Philadelphia, April 17, 1791.

You will probably recollect that previous to your departure
from this place, anticipating the event which has taken place
with regard to the death of Mr. Eveleigh, I took the liberty to
mention to you that Mr. Wolcott, the present auditor, would be
in every respect worthy of your consideration, as his successor
in office.

Now that the event has happened, a concern as anxious as it
was natural, for the success of the department, united with a sen-
timent of justice towards Mr. Wolcott, leads me to a repetition
of that idea. This gentleman's conduct in the station he now
fills, has been that of an excellent officer. It has not only been
good, but distinguished. It has combined all the requisites
which can be desired : moderation with firmness, liberality with
exactness, indefatigable industry with an accurate and sound dis-
cernment, a thorough knowledge of business, and a remarkable
spirit of order and arrangement. Indeed I ought to say that I
owe very much of whatever success may have attended the
merely executive operations of the department to Mr. Wolcott ;
and I do not fear to commit myself, when I add that he possesses
in an eminent degree all the qualifications desirable in a Comp-
troller of the Treasury — that it is scarcely possible to find a man
in the United States more competent to the duties of that station
than himself — few who could be equally so. It may be truly
said of him, that he is a man of rare merit, and I have good evi-
dence that he has been viewed in this light by the members of
Congress extensively, from different quarters of the Union, and
is so considered by all that part of the public who have had
opportunities of witnessing his conduct.

The immediate relation too, which his present situation
bears to that of Comptroller, is a strong argument in his favor.
Though a regular gradation of office is not admissible in a strict
sense, in regard to offices of a civil nature, and is wholly inappli-
cable to those of the first rank, (such as the heads of the great

468 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 34.

executive departments,) yet a certain regard to the relation whicli
one situation bears to another, is consonant with the natural
ideas of justice, and is recommended by powerful considerations
of policy. The expectation of promotion in civil as in military
life, is a great stimulus to virtuous exertion, while examples of
unrewarded exertion, supported by talent and qualification, are
proportionable discouragements. Where they do not produce
resignations, they leave men dissatisfied, and a dissatisfied man
seldom does his duty well.

In a government like ours, where pecuniary compensations
are moderate, the principle of gradual advancement as a reward
for good conduct, is perhaps more necessary to be attended to,
than in others where offices are more lucrative. By due atten-
tion to it, it will operate as a means to secure respectable men
for offices of inferior emolument and consequence.

In addition to the rest, Mr. Wolcott's experience in this par-
ticular line pleads powerfully in his favor. This experience may
be dated back to his office of Comptroller of the State of Con-
necticut, and has been perfected by practice in his present place.

A question may perhaps, sir, arise in your mind, whether
some inconvenience may not attend his removal from his present
office. I am of opinion that no sensible inconvenience will be
felt on this score, since it will be easy for him as Comptroller,
who is the immediate superior of the auditor, to form any man
of business for the office he will leave, in a short period of time.
More inconvenience would be felt by the introduction of a
Comptroller not in the immediate train of the business.

Besides this, it may be observed that a degree of inconveni-
ence on this score cannot be deemed an obstacle, but upon the
principle which would bar the progress of merit from one station
to another.

On this point of inconvenience a reflection occurs, which I
think I ought not to suppress. Mr. Wolcott is a man of sensi-
bility, not unconscious of his own value, and he doubtless must
believe that he has pretensions from situation to the office.
Should another be appointed, and he resign, the derangement of
the department would truly be distressing to the public service.

iET. 34.] CORRESPONDENCE. 469

In suggesting thus particularly the reasons which in my mind
operate in favor of Mr. Wolcott, I am influenced by information
that other characters will be brought to your view by weighty
advocates, and as I think it more than possible that Mr. Wolcott
may not be mentioned to you by any other person than myself,
I feel it a duty arising out of my situation in the department, to
bear my full and explicit testimony to his worth, confident that
he will justify by every kind of substantial merit any mark of
your approbation which he may receive.

I trust, sir, that in thus freely disclosing my sentiments to
you, you will be persuaded that I only yield to the suggestions
of an honest zeal for the public good, and of a firm conviction,
that the prosperity of the department under my particular care,
(one so interesting to the aggregate movements of the govern-
ment,) will be best promoted by transferring the present auditor
to the office of Comptroller of the Treasury.
I have the honor to remain,

With the truest and most respectful attachment, Sir,

Your most obedient, &c.

HAMILTON TO PINTARD.

Philadelphia, April 23d. 1791.

Dear Sir :

Your letters of the 7th of December and 19th of January
have come duly to hand.

What you mention concerning manifests and certificates of
drawbacks certainly merits consideration. When the collection
law originated consuls were not yet appointed. You will oblige
me by freely intimating whatever occurs to you for the benefit
of our trade and revenue laws; whether arising from your ob-
servations on the practice of other countries, or from your own
reflections.

470 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. U.

HAMILTON TO GOODHUE.

Philadelphia, June 30th, 1791.

My dear Sir :

As Mr. Cone, who, I think, informed me he had a letter from
you on the same subject, undertook to saj all that could be said
in relation to Mr. Gray's affair, I permitted the hurry of business
to keep me silent. Nothing further concerning the affair has since
come to me, so that I am wholly ignorant what turn it may have
taken. It must have given you pleasure to learn how much the
Constitution of the United States, and the measures under it, in
which you have had so considerable an agency, have contributed
to raise this country in the estimation of Europe. According to
the accounts received here, the change which has been wrought
in the opinion of that part of the world respecting the United
States is almost wonderful. The British Cabinet wish to be
thought disposed to enter into amicable and liberal arrangements
with us. They had appointed Mr. Elliott, who on private con-
siderations had declined ; and it is affirmed from pretty good,
though not decisive authority, that they have substituted a Mr.
Hammond, and that his arrival may shortly be expected. I
would not warrant the issue, but if some liberal arrangement
with Great Britain should ensue, it will have a prodigious effect
upon the conduct of some other parts of Europe. It is, however,
most wise for us to depend as little as possible upon European
caprice, and to exert ourselves to the utmost to unfold and im-
prove every domestic resource.

In all appearance, the subscriptions to the Bank of the United
States will proceed with astonishing rapidity. It will not be sur-
prising if a week completes them.

With very great esteem and regard,

I remain, dear Sir,

Your obedient servant,

A. Hamilton. •

^T. 34.] CORRESPONDENCE. 471

HAMILTON TO BAYARD, LOW, AND BOUDINOT.

1791.

Gentlemen :

I have had a full conversation with General Schuyler on the
subject of the several propositions whidi have been under
consideration respecting the locations of the buildings for the
manufactory. My original impressions on this point have been,
confirmed by subsequent examination, and I now entertain no
doubt, that the most advisable course is to abandon for the pre-
sent the idea of a canal, and to erect the necessary buildings
near the great falls.

It is not clear to me, that the advantages of pursuing the
canal plan would at any rate compensate the differences of ex-
pense; but I think it very evident, that to attempt it, in the
first instance, would disable the company from prosecuting with
adequate means, the subsequent arrangements necessary to the
manufactory.

As to the location of the district or township, I think it ought
to comprehend the Little Falls, and the head of the navigation of
the Passaic ; and ought to embrace both sides of that river — the
whole distance between those two points. As to the rest, the
more compact it is, and consequently the more nearly in a square
the better. Many local circumstances unknown to me must de-
cide the precise form. I once thought it might be well to take
three miles by twelve on the Passaic, but on further reflection, I
see no solid advantage in such an extension in length, and there
would be an obvious convenience in a more compact form.
The police of the district, in particular, can be much better re-
gulated.

Permit me to suggest that as soon as a location is made, a
meeting of the directors ought to be called at a very short
day. Many things pass, and much will depend on going for-
ward henceforth with order and dispatch.

With very great esteem and confidence, &c.

472 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 34.

Philadelphia, July 2d, 1791.

Mrs. Martha Walker:

Madam — Mr. Ames has conveyed to me your letter of the
9th of May.

Hitherto it has not been in my power to consider the merits
of your application to Congress, but you may be assured of its
being done so as to admit of a report at the commencement of
the ensuing session.

"While I dare not encourage any expectation, and while my
conduct must be determined by my sense of official propriety and
duty, I may with great truth say that I shall enter into the examin-
ation with every prepossession which can be inspired by favora-
ble impression of personal merit, and by a sympathetic partici-
pation in the distresses of a lady, as deserving as unfortunate.
• With great consideration, I am, Madam,

Your obedient servant,

A. H.

HAMILTON TO EUFUS KING.

July 8, 1791.

My Dear Sir:

I received your letter on a certain subject, and was obliged
by it. But there was nothing practicable by way of remedy.

The thing, as it has turned out, though good in the main,
has certainly some ill sides. There have also been faults in the
detail, which are not favorable to complete satisfaction. But
what shall we do ? 'Tis the lot of every thing human to mingle
a portion of evil with the good.

The President, as you will have seen, has returned. His
journey has done good as it regards his own impressions. He is
persuaded that the dispositions of the southern people are good,
and that certain pictures which have been drawn, have been
strongly colored by the imagination of the drawers.

^T. 34.] CORRESPONDENCE. 473

We have just heard from the westward, but of no event of
importance. Things are said to have been in good preparation ;
the people of Kentucky wonderfully pleased with the govern-
ment, and Scot, with a corps of ardent volunters, on their route
to demolish every savage, man, woman and child.

On Tuesday next I expect to leave this for New- York, with
Mrs. Hamilton.

Sincerely yours.

FISHER AMES TO HAMILTON".

Boston, July 81, 1791.

Dear Sir:

I gave your letter, addressed to Mrs. Warren, into the hands
of her husband, and though you inform me something pretty
was in it, I cannot believe it was a love-letter. I told him that I
was desired to subscribe for you to her poetical work. I shall
take half a dozen books, which I presume will be as much
poetry as you will consume, and will carry the compliment as
far as it will bear with any appearance of sincerity,

Mrs. Walker lives in the country ; I have sent your letter
to her. I hope your inquiries will find proper ground to allow
her petition.

You make mention of the bank in your favor of the 2d of
July. The eagerness to subscribe is a proof of the wealth and
resources of the country, and of the perfect confidence reposed
by our opulent men in the government. People here are full of
exultation and gratitude. They know who merits the praise of
it, and they are not loth to bestow it. But, with all this good
temper, many lament that the Philadelphians have engrossed so
much of the stock, and have so divided the shares as to multiply
their notes. They believe that there was management and par-
tiality in the commissioners. They wonder that of the five, the
three Philadelphians only attended. Suffer me to write unre-
servedly.

474 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 34.

Mr. * * * * name is mentioned for President. It is said
that he is President of the North American Bank ; that his name
will be useful to the circulation, that his appointment would quiet
— perhaps destroy a faction in the city. Allow me to state the
other side of the question. They urge here, that the President
ought to be free from all suspicion of management — above the
influence of favorites — that Mr. Morris, whom they fear as a man
of talents and intrigue, with his connections, will make a property
of this man, and govern him at their pleasure. I fear that his
appointment would create a faction here. His friends will not
pretend that he has talents to make him worth forcing upon the
stockholders in the eastern quarter. An idea that the bank will
be hazarded by partiality to men who will make desperate specu-
lations, would be a bad one to get a currency. The President
and Directors should be solid and fair. I only wish to have you
possessed of the fact, that our prudent and respectable stock-
holders will entertain the opinions I have suggested ; and I leave
it to your judgment whether Mr. ^ * * * is a proper man for
President.

If the bank would do business for five per cent., they would
do a great deal more, and with safer people. They would over-
power the State banks by giving borrowers better terms. I have
had my fears that the State banks will become unfriendly to that
of the United States ; causes of hatred and rivalry will abound,
the State banks will narrow the business of the United States
Bank, and may become dangerous instruments in the hands of
State partisans, who may have had points to carry. I will not
expatiate. The occasion is a favorable one. The Bank and the
United States Government at this moment possess more popu-
larity than any institution or government can maintain for a long
time. Perhaps no act of power can be done to destroy the State
banks, but if they are willing to become interested individually,
I mean the State stockholders, and to establish sub-banks, so as to
absorb the funds and contract the business of the local banks, why
should any measures be adopted to support the local banks to
the prejudice of my hypothesis? or why should cold water be
thrown upon the plan of sub-banks ? Mr. * * * * and the Phila-

^T. 34.] CORRESPONDENCE, 475

delphians are thought unfriendly to this idea, perhaps it may be
attended with some hazard ; but if it must fail, let it not be
charged to local prejudice, but to solid reason.

I have lately conversed with a judicious, respectable friend,
on the subject of the bank in this town. The justness of his sen-
timents, or their coincidence with my own, induced me to re-
quest his ideas in writing. He has complied, and I inclose them.
They were the offspring of a moment, and were intended for me
only. You will read them with due allowance for the manner
of their production.

The success of the government of the United States, and es-
pecially of the measures proceeding from your department, has
astonished the multitude ; and while it has shut the mouths, it
has stung the envious hearts of the State leaders. All the influ-
ence of the moneyed men ought to be wrapped up in the Union,
and in one bank. The State banks may become the favorites of
the States. They, the latter, will be pressed to emulate the ex-
ample of the Union, and to show their sovereignty by a parade
of institutions, like those of the nation. I intended to be concise,
and by writing in haste I have been lengthy.

The distillers have answered a letter from New- York, desir-
ing them to shut up their distilleries, &c., with proper disappro-
bation. Some increase of the duty on West India spirits, and
some amendment of the excise system, I presume would be pro-
per. It is what they expect, and their late conduct has a claim
to merit.

Your plan relating to manufactories is not yet generally
known here. I think it will be popular. Have you any objec-
tion to a similar incorporation in ISTcav England ? Some object
that agriculture better merits encouragement, and that domestic
manufactories will be injured by the Company. I do not think
these topics unanswerable.

I regret it, that when the funding act passed, the stock had
not been declared free from tax. Some inconvenience and vex-
ation, I fear, will spring from this neglect. The assessors are in
some places disposed to pry into the entries at the custom-house,
and the loan office books.

4T6 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 34.

I write, — meaning that you only should read, — but I am not
sure that the sentiments deserve your perusal. I will not desire
an answer. I know your time is occupied sufficiently.
I am, dear Sir, with sentiments of esteem and regard.
Your very obedient humble servant,

Fisher Ames.

HAMILTON TO KING.

August 7th, 1791.

Your letter of Monday evening has a good deal tranquillized
me. I am glad to learn that the mischiefs from the over use of
scrip are not likely to be very extensive.

I observe what you say respecting the quotation of my
opinion. I was not unaware of the delicacy of giving any, and
was sufficiently reserved until I perceived the extreme to which
bank scrip, and with it other stock, was tending. But when I
saw this, I thought it advisable to speak out — for a bubble con-
nected with any operation is, of all the enemies I have to fear,
in my judgment the most formidable — and not only not to pro-
mote, but as far as depends on me, to counteract delusions, appears
to me to be the only secure foundation on which to stand. I
thought it expedient, therefore, to risk something in contributing
to dissolve the charm. But I find that I have been misquoted.
Speaking of sales on time at seventy-four shillings for 6 per cent.,
&c., I think it probable I may have intimated an opinion that
they went faster than could be supported. But it is untrue that
I have given as a standard prices below those of the market, as
mentioned by you. On the contrary, my standard, on pretty
mature reflection, has been and is nearly as follows : —

For bank scrip 195

' 6 per cents 22

3 per cents ...... 12

Deferred 12 8

^T. 34.] CORRESPONDENCE. 477

I proceed on the idea of 5 per cent interest — taking at tlie same
time into calculation the partial irredeemdbility of the 6 per cents.
I give you mj standard that you may be able, if necessary,
to contradict insinuations of an estimation on my part short of
that standard — for the purpose of depressing the funds.
Yours, sincerely and affectionately,

A. Hamilton.

HAMILTON TO SETON.

Philadelphia, August 16th, 1791.

I send you herewith an official letter ; this private one I write
as explanatory of it. I hardly expect that you will be able to
procure the debt within the limits prescribed, and yet I do not
know what effect the imprudent speculations in bank scrip may
produce. A principal object with me is to keep the stock from
falling too low in case the embarrassments of the dealers should
lead to sacrifices ; whence you will infer that it is not my wish
that the purchases should be below the prescribed limits, yet if
such should unfortunately be the state of the market, it must of
course govern. The limits assigned for the purchases of 3 per
cents and deferred debt are founded on a calculation of the gov-
ernment rate of interest being 5 per cent ; the same rule has not
been extended to the stock bearing an immediate interest of 6 per
cent, because the government have a right to redeem it at par
in certain proportions ; and though to individual purchasers it is
worth more than par, because a part only can be redeemed, yet
it is not at present the interest of the government to give more
than par for it, because of the right to redeem a part. Indeed,
the law limits the commissioners in this particular. You will
recollect that the act requires that the purchases should be made
openly; this has been construed to mean by a known agent,
for the public : when you make a purchase, therefore, it will be
proper that it should be understood that it is on account of the

478 HAMILTON'S WORKS. |^t. 34.

United States, but this need not precede the purchase ; and it
will be best that there should be no unnecessary demonstration,
lest it should raise hopes beyond what will be realized.

HAMILTON TO DUER.

Philadelphia, August 17th, 1791.

My dear Friend:

I have received your two letters of the 12th and 10th.

The subscription-book for the Manufacturing Society did not
remain with me nor with either of the twp gentlemen who came
on with me. Is it with neither of those who accompanied you ?
If it is not, it must have been left at Brunswick, and you will do
well to write to some trusty person there to look it up and send
it to you. I am impatient for the alterations which were agreed
upon, and a list of the subscribers.

La Roche may go to Scioto, if he can be back in the time you
mention.

I fear that in the hurry of writing my letter on the subject
of bank scrip, I must have expressed myself more strongly than
was intended.

The conversation here was, " Bank scrip is getting so high
as to become a bubble," in one breath ; in another, " 'Tis a South
Sea dream ;" in a third, " There is a combination of knowing ones
at New- York to raise it as high as possible by fictitious purchases,
in order to take in the credulous and ignorant ;" in another, " Duer,
Constable, and some others, are mounting the balloon as fast as
possible — if it don't soon burst thousands will rue it," &c., &c.

As to myself, my friend, I think I know you too well to sup-
pose you capable of such views as were implied in those innuen-
does or to harbor the most distant- thought that you could wander
from the path either of public good or private integrity. But I
will honestly own, I had serious fears for you — for your purse
and for your reputation ; and with an anxiety for both I wrote to

;Et. 34.] CORRESPONDENCE. 479

you in earnest terms. You are sanguine, my friend. You ought
to be aware of it yourself, and to be on your guard against the
propensity. I feared lest it might carry you further than was
consistent either with your own safety or the public good. My
friendship for you, and my concern for the public cause, were
both alarmed. If the infatuation had continued progressive, and
any extensive mischiefs had ensued, you would certainly have
had a large portion of the blame. Conscious of this, I wrote to
you in all the earnestness of apprehensive friendship.

I do not widely differ from you about the real value of bank
scrip. I should rather call it about 190 to be within bounds,
with hopes of better things, and I sincerely wish you may be able
to support it at what you mention. The acquisition of too much
of it by foreigners will certainly be an evil.

Yours, sincerely and affectionately,

A. Hamilton.

Wm. Duer, Esq.

PEAKSON TO HAMILTON.

Cambridge, September 10th, 1791.

Sir:

I feel myself happy in the honor of acquainting a gentle-
man of Mr. Hamilton's merited distinction, that the American
Academy of Arts and Sciences has elected him a Fellow ; of
which the instrument herewith transmitted is a certificate, exe-
cuted in the usual form.

With sentiments of highest esteem,

I have the honor to be, &c.

480 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 34

SETON TO HAMILTON.

New-York, September 12th, 1791.

Dear Sir:

I had the pleasure to receive your letter of the 7th by Mr.
Eddie on Friday morning, but not early enough to answer you
with propriety by that post. The bearer of the letter I appre-
hend knew or conjectured the contents, as it flew over the town
like wildfire that I had orders to purchase. Therefore, before
I got to the coffee-house, at noon, every one was prepared, and
no one would offer to supply at less than the former price. I
thought it prudent to accept at that ; and, to diffuse the benefit,
I divided the purchases into 5,000 dollar lots, and held them at
that, so long as to give every one a chance ; and be assured it
has been a very great relief. Scrip, since I wrote you last, has
been down to 110, and great sacrifices made. Saturday and
to-day they have gone at 135 to 145, and rather bear the appear-
ance of rising. They are now getting into the pro]3er hands,
and I have no doubt will soon come up to their real value, if the
price of the other funds can be now and then supported by
your purchases. You have the blessings of thousands here;
and I feel gratified, more than I can express, at being the dis-
penser of your benevolence.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Philadelphia, October lltb, 1791.

Sir:

Lord Wycomb having mentioned to me his intentions to
pay you his respects at Mount Vernon, I beg your permission
to present him to you.

The personal acquirements and merits of his lordship con-
spire, with a consideration for the friendly dispositions and lib-

^T.34.] CORRESPONDENCE. 481

eral policy of his father, the Marquis of Lansdown, towards this
country, to constitute a claim in his favor to cordial notice.
I have the honor to be,

With the most respectful attachment, &c.

FRY TO HAMILTON.

London, November 2d, 1791.

Dear Sir :

The interest you must necessarily take in all information
relative to the state of American credit in Europe — having so
essentially contributed to its establishment — induces me to com-
municate some facts, which, from peculiar circumstances, I am.
possibly better acquainted with than most others. The Ameri-
can funds had inspired no confidence in this market, till thej
had acquired a high price at home ; and three months ago, a sale
of them must have been effected here with the greatest difficulty..
The case is now so materially altered, that one friend of mine
has bought and sold nearly a million of dollars — chiefly 6 per
cent, stock — and another about half that amount, at prices
gradually increasing from 98 to 120 per cent. ; which latter
price, when exchange is at 175 per cent, in Philadelphia, is
equal to 2os. Three per cents have also risen, and are now at
from 72 to 75 per cent. ; and it appears to me that no fluctua-
tions in America will have any essential influence on the rates
in this market, whilst the sources of revenue on which the
interest depends remain productive and secure. The orders
from France for American stock in London, would, indeed,
much enhance the present price, had not such unfavorable ac-
counts of stock been lately received in Philadelphia ; neverthe-
less, the price does not sink, because nobody here knows what
to do with money. If it be an object with you, sir, now the
funds bear so fair a price, to promote the sale of them here, that
the incumbered landholder in America may eventually feel the
E 31

482 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 34.

benefit of that capital which, in this city, is superabundant and
unproductive, it can easily be effected by any plan for the pay-
ment in London of interest on them, which shall be known, as I
hinted to Mr. Tench Coxe, to be honored with your patronage.
This view may also be promoted by facilitating foreign transfers.
"When I left Philadelphia, in August last, I had heard much of
the little value of money in this, my native city ; but the facts
which, since my arrival, have come to my immediate knowledge,
have, neverthless, surprised me. The market rate of interest is
really before 4 per cent. ; and for any uncertain periods, money
will scarcely command 2^ per cent, per annum. All the Ameri-
can stock in Holland is effectually locked up from sale, by de-
posits as security for loans, notes for which are circulated, with
private engagements for the interest, that command 130 per
cent. The plans on which these loans have been obtained are
various, but all immensely advantageous to those who purchased
certificates, and borrowed, in this way, to continue their pur-
chases. I have sent some considerable orders to Philadelphia
for stock, and besides have offered, whilst I remain in London,
to sell for those friends of mine who wish it, at a half per
cent, commission, which I hope will contribute to relieve the
American market.

I shall be very sorry if this short address trespass too much
on the time you so advantageously employ in the service of our
country, to the real aggrandizement of your ministerial reputa-
tion at home and abroad. A desire to communicate serviceable
information, if in my power, is my sole motive for writing. I
shall not return to settle in Philadelphia before June next. If
any thing very important on these subjects should occur, I may
still take the liberty of hazarding intrusion on a moment of your
leisure.

I am, with the highest personal respect, &c.

vEt.34.] correspondence. 483

DAYIE TO HAMILTON.

Halifax, N. C, Nov. 17, 1791.

Sik:

I mentioned to my friend, Judge Iredell, when I -saw him
last at Newbern, my intention of moving our next assembly to
address Congress on tbe subject of receiving onr paper money in
the revenue of the United States collected in this State, and re-
quested him to have a conversation with you on the business,
that I might avail myself of your opinion of its propriety and
success.

This measure has been suggested to me by the objections
that are made here to the collection of excise in specie ; the real
difficulty with which I foresee it will be attended ; and its certain
operation on the value or exchange of our paper currency. But
independent of the policy and convenience of such a measure, I
think the State may very well require it of Congress as a matter
of justice. The first emission of this money was made for the
express purpose of paying the Continental line ; the second, to
purchase tobacco to pay the interest of the federal debt ; and to
answer these purposes more effectually, both emissions were made
a tender in discharge of private contracts, and have been so
received. It is also to be observed that both these emissions,
amounting to two hundred thousand pounds, were made several
years before the constitution was formed, and that this encum-
brance made a part of our political situation at its adoption, and
had grown out of the old confederation. So that, leaving this
State to struggle with the task of supporting the credit of this
money, even against the measures of Congress, surely has the
appearance of great injustice, especially after a general assump-
tion of the State debts.

The effects of such a measure would, I am certain, be highly
beneficial to the people of this country, and I think not injuri-
ous to the general government. The paper money which is now
generally at ten shillings to the dollar, would rise instantly to
par^ a benefit the people would attribute to its proper cause.

484 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 34.

The commercial part of the State would be relieved from great
and very distressing difficulties, and the demand for specie,
created by the duties, would no longer operate injuriously on
the value of our paper money. It would effectually remove
the only rational ground of complaint made against the excise
in the interior and western parts of the State ; that is, the diffi-
culty, or, as they say, the impossibility of procuring specie suffi-
cient to pay that tax, and would also prevent a very delicate and
perhaps dangerous question that must otherwise soon arise on
executions issuing from the federal court. These appear to me
as objects of some moment, and, I take it, form only a part of
the good consequences of this measure.

There are not more than £140,000 now in circulation, the
balance having been taken up by the sinking fund and de-
stroyed, and as the money would certainly rise to par, I think
the federal treasury would run little risk in receiving it ; and I
cannot prevail upon myself to entertain the idea that the general
government is so unwieldy a machine as to be incapable of being
accommodated to the interests and situations of the different
States.

Our Assembly meet at Newbern the first Monday of De-
cember, and should you think proper to write to me on this sub-
ject, you will please to direct to me at that place. I would un-
dertake that the State shall give the most satisfactory assurances
that the sinking fund tax shall be continued, and that the As-
sembly will pass any other law that might be necessary to secure
the Treasury of the United States.

I know very well that gentlemen in official situations are in
the habit of respecting no communication but such as wears the
garb of confidence or office. I have no claim to either footing,
and was I not well persuaded, even from the slight acquaintance
I have with you, that you possess a mind of a very different cast,
I should not have troubled you with this letter.
I have the honor to be,

With great respect,

Your most obedient,

William Davie.

iEx. 34.] CORRESPONDENCE. 485

FITZGERALD TO HAMILTON,

Alexandria, Nov. 21, 1791.

My Dear Sir:

It is with great reluctance I write you, particularly as Con-
gress is sitting, and I am satisfied you have full employment for
every moment of your time ; yet I cannot forbear soliciting your
kind assistance in favor of establishing a Branch of the National
Bank in this town, to effect which a memorial is forwarded to the
Directors, stating some of the advantages which would result to
the public from it.

I flatter myself, that from the Collector's returns made to you,
the importance of our trade will justify us in this request. Add
to this, that within these last twelve months we have had a very
great accession of inhabitants. The improvements, made and
making, for the accommodation and safety of shipping, are very
considerable, and no town in the United States has a more ex-
tensive and fertile back country for its support. These reasons,
joined with what is set forth in the memorial, will, I hope, induce
you to think with me, that a Branch of the Bank, established
here, will afford benefit to the public, as well as to that part of
the community more immediately connected with the place ; and
be assured, that were not these my real sentiments, I would not,
(interested as I am in the event,) request you to support the
measure. If time permits I shall be happy in a line from you on
this subject.

Believe me to be, with unfeigned regard and esteem, .
Dear Sir,

Your most obedient servant,

John Fitzgerald.

486 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 34.

HAMILTON TO SETON.

November 25, 1791.

My Dear Sir:

I seize the first moment of leisure to answer your letter of
the 21st inst. Strange as it may appear to yon, it is not more
strange than true, that the whole affair of Branches was begun, con-
tinued, and ended, not only without my participation, but against
my judgment.

When I say against my Judgment, you will not understand
that my opinion was given and over-ruled, for I never was con-
sulted ; but, that the steps taken were contrary to my private
opinion of the course which ought to have been pursued.

I am sensible of the inconveniences to be apprehended, and I
regret them, but I do not know that it will be in my power to
avert them.

Ultimately, it will be incumbent on me to place the public
funds in the keeping of the Branch ; but it may he depended upon^
that I shall ^precipitate nothing, but shall so conduct the transfer
as not to embarrass or distress your institution. I have not time
to say more at present, except that if there are finally to be two
institutions, my regard" for you makes me wish you may feel
yourself at liberty to take your fortune with the Branch which
must preponderate.

With great regard,

I remain yours, &c.,

A. K

CABOT TO HAMILTON.

December 18th, 1791.

It is well stated by a gentleman who has examined the sub-
ject, that in 1784, the British government having taken mea-
sures for drawing over to their service the whale fishermen of

JEt. 34.] CORRESPONDENCE, 487

the United States, the government of France at once saw the
danger of suffering her great maritime rival to acquire the ad-
vantage of 4 or 5000 excellent seamen, and with them an art of
immense value in marine consideration, (as the nursery of sailors,)
which they possessed almost exclusively.

France, therefore, did not hesitate to arrest these proceedings,
by giving informal but strong assurances that if the whale
fishermen would, but for a moment, resist the temptations held
out by the English, their friends in France would soon procure
for them advantages superior to those they were required to re-
fuse. Accordingly, liberal bounties in money, accompanied with
other allurements, were offered to those persons who would re-
move from the United States to Dunkirk, and from thence carry
on the whale fishery.

This measure at first did not have all the effect expected from
it, and rather than hazard the immigrationof the fishermen to the
dominions of Britain, it was thought expedient to create in
France a market for the produce of the whale fishery of the Uni-
ted States. This has been of much benefit to us ; but partly from
the fluctuating policy of France toward us, and partly from the
excessive premiums she gives to her own vessels, it is to be feared
that her whale fishery will be eventually established on the ruins
of ours. Already, this business has extended itself considerably
at Dunkirk, and the enormous profits which have been made by
the aid of public bounties, cannot fail to draw from the United
States many more adventurers.

France is undoubtedly an important market for tobacco, rice,
lumber, oil, and occasionally for some other articles; but the
ordinance of the National Assembly requiring that after October,
'91, tobacco in American ships should pay 6i livres per quintal
duty more than in French ships, (equal to near double freight,)
and determining also that after that period, American built ves.
sels cannot be sold to the citizens of France, must render our
trade to that country, in our own bottoms, comparatively small.

In the course of the late war, France opened the ports of her
colonies to foreign ships. These very soon engrossed a large
share of their trade, and soon after the peace an arret of the

488 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 34.

Council of State was passed, restricting the intercourse between
those colonies and strangers. The precise intent and effect of this
first public regulation after the peace is not within my present
recollection, and I have no authority to which I can recur; but
soon after it (in 1784) another arret was published, which estab-
lished in each of the Windward Islands one port, and in Hispa-
niola three ports, to which foreign vessels might have free access
with fish, lumber, live stock, rice, Indian corn, salted beef, (but
not pork,) vegetables of a certain kind, hides, peltry, tar, and
turpentine, but no other commodities ; the duty on fish to be three
livres per quintal, and on salted beef three livres per barrel, and
on all these commodities such local duties as might be imposed
in the Islands, beside an established one per cent, on the value.

In return, and as payment for these commodities, molasses
and rum of the islands, and goods previously imported from France,
are the only articles allowed to be brought away.

Several years after the second arret a third passed, which
raised the duty on salted beef to a dollar per barrel, and on fish
to a dollar per quintal ; and at all times a sum equal to the duty
per quintal imposed on foreign fish, was given as a bounty on
each quintal of fish of the French fisheries.

Although some important products of the United States are
excluded by the arrets or standing laws, yet the pressing wants
of the colonists have occasionally induced a suspension of those
laws in relation to particular articles ; but so versatile has been
the conduct of the French government in this part of their ad-
ministration, that the people of the United States have some*
times suffered exceedingly, though perhaps oftener profited by
these temporary indulgences. Since the commencement of the
revolution in France, and partly in consequence of scarcity
there, the colonists have been obliged to take from the United
States large supplies of flour, and some other items not usually
admitted.

The importance of the French West India market for the
fish of the United States, will appear from observing, that nearly
one-half of the whole fish is consumed there. Should this ad-
vantage be lost, the fishery would be almost, if not quite ruined.

^T.34.] CORRESPONDENCE. 489

The molasses received from the French islands is an excel-
lent payment for what they buy of us, but it may be noted that
this article has been raised to its value and consequence as an
object of commerce chiefly, if not altogether, by the people of
the United States ; it was not thought to be worth saving by
the French planters until the Anglo-Americans became its pur-
chasers and created a demand for it. At the commencement of
the molasses trade with the French it was bought by the tierce,
supposed to measure sixty gallons, or by the hogshead, supposed
to contain one hundred : the New England people at that time
used to receive upwards of ninety gallons for a tierce, and one
hundred and fifty for a hogshead ; so little was it valued by the
planters, that they for a long time submitted to this imposition
in the measure.

It has been much complained of, that at Cape Frangois bonds
are required before a vessel is allowed to trade, with such sure-
ties as cannot be had, unless the captain pays an extravagant
commission on his whole cargo, to some merchant of the place,
whether he needs any other aid of such merchant or not. What
share of this abuse, or whether any, is chargeable to the govern-
ment, I am unable to say ; or whether it extends to the other
ports of Hispaniola, I am uncertain ; but I think it does.

I am not able to discern any essential difference of principh
between the French and English colonial systems ; both aim at
a monopoly of their trade, but neither can effect it perfectly with-
out ruining the colony ; each, therefore, relaxes occasionally in
some points, and constantly in others, according to the necessity
of the case. Both nations admit nearly the same commodities,
except that France takes fish and refuses flour, while England
takes flour and refuses fish.

England being more solicitous, as well as more able to carry
the supplies of her colonies than she is to furnish them, insists
only on being the carrier. France being unable to carry the re-
quisite supplies of her colonies, insists only on furnishing them
so far as she can, and permits others to supply whatever of prime
necessity she cannot supply herself

The English reserve the exclusive right of carrying the com-

490 HAMILTON' vS WORKS. [^t. 34.

modities their colonists need from the United States, but they
impose no duty on the importation of the commodities them-
selves.

The French allow foreigners to carry certain commodities
which their colonies need, but they impose a duty on the most
valuable of those commodities, greater than the whole freight or
price of carriage is worth.

The French colonies are, I believe, more extensive than the
English ; but if the French had not from necessity taken some
things which they legally prohibited, it may be doubted whether
the exports of the United States to the British West Indies, would
not equal the exports to the French West Indies.

Some unavoidable business, and some unavoidable dissipa-
tions, have prevented me, till this moment, from obeying your
commands. Upon a review of what I have written, 'tis some
consolation in seeing how unimportant the information is, that
you have lost nothing by the delay.

Yours,

George Cabot.

TEEPLANCK TO HAMILTON.

New-York, 29th December, 1791.

Sir:

A number of your fellow-citizens, desirous of expressing the
sense they entertain of the important services you have ren-
dered your country, have raised by subscription a sum of money
to defray the expense of a portrait of you, to be executed by
Mr. Trumbull, and placed in one of our public buildings.

We have therefore to request that you will be so condescend-
ing as to allow Mr, Trumbull to wait upon you for the above
purpose, at such time as will suit your conveniency ; and will
also be pleased to permit the representation to exhibit such part
of your political life as may be most agreeable to yourself.

iET. 35.] CORRESPONDENCE. 491

We have the honor to be, with perfect sentiments of esteem
and respect, your most humble servants,

GuLiAisr Verplanck, "]

EoGER Alden,

Brockholst Livingston, )- Coinmittee,

J. Waddington,

Carlile Pollock,

HAMILTON TO VERPLANCK AND OTHERS.

Philadelphia, January 15, 1792.

Gentlemen :

The mark of esteem, on the part of fellow-citizens, to whom
I am attached by so many ties, which is announced in your letter
of the 29th of December, is entitled to my affectionate acknow-
ledgments,

I shall cheerfully obey their wish as far as respects the taking
of my portrait, but I ask that they will permit it to appear un-
connected with any incident of my political life. The simple re-
presentation of their fellow-citizen and friend will best accord
with my feelings.

With true esteem and consideration,

I have the honor to be, gentlemen, &c.

HAMILTON TO SETON.

Philadelphia, January 24, 1792.

My Dear Sir:

I feel great satisfaction in knowing from yourself that your
institution rejects the idea of a coalition with the new project^
or rather hydra of projects.

492 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [iEx. 35.

I shall labor to give what has taken place a turn favorable to
another union, the propriety of which is, as you say, clearly
illustrated by the present state of things. It is my wish that the
Bank of New- York may, by all means, continue to receive de-
posits from the Collector, in the paper of the Bank of the United
States, and that they may also receive payment for the Dutch
bills in the same paper. This paper may either be remitted to
the Treasurer or remain in the Bank, as itself shall deem most
expedient. I have explicitly directed the Treasurer to forbear
drawing on the Bank of New-York, without special direction
from me. And my intention is, to leave you in possession of all
the money you have or may receive till I am assured that the
present storm is effectually weathered.

Every body here sees the propriety of your having refused
the paper of the Bank of the United States in such a crisis of
your affairs. Be confidential with me — if you are pressed, what-
ever support may be in my power shall be afforded. I consider
the public interest as materially involved in aiding a valuable
institution like yours to withstand the attacks of a confederated
host of frantic, and, I fear, in too many instances, unprincipled
gamblers.

Adieu. Heaven take care of good men and good views !
Yours, &c.

SCHUYLER TO HAMILTON.

New-York, Sunday, Jan. 29th, 1792.

My Dear Sir:

Your favor of the 24th instant, I received yesterday. I shall
embrace the first moment which offers, and in which I can pru-
dently be absent from hence, to pay you a visit.

The bank mania has somewhat subsided ; but as in the first
paroxysm the leaders induced many to subscribe a petition
to the legislature for an incorporation, the pride of some and

^T. 35.] CORRESPONDENCE. 493

the interested views of others will not permit them to relinquish
the object. What fate will attend the application in the House
of Assembly is problematical — but I am almost certain that in the
Senate it will not meet with countenance. It is, however, prudent
to be prepared with every objection, and I wish you to state
those that have occurred to you.

I have been pressed by several persons to draft a bill for the
future conduct of the Commissioners of the Land Office, in the
preamble to which they wish to convey a censure on the board,
for their conduct in the sale to Mr. Macomb. Considering a
measure of this kind as a two-edged sword, I have advised that
if even it were proper, it would not be prudent until matters of
much importance to the State had been decided upon, and that
the business should be postponed for further consideration. This
advice was acceded to, but with so much reluctance, that I am
under apprehensions that it will be precipitated.

Mr. Kensselaer is arrived ; has received the letter you men-
tion. Before I left Albany some intimations were given of the
project you mention, and I was alarmed, as Mr. Yates had some
little time before observed to me that he apprehended his pecu-
niary affairs would be injured if he was placed in the chair of
Government. I obviated the difficulties he stated ; observed that
the mere intimation that he doubted of the propriety of being
proposed as a candidate, would be injurious to his reputation, in-
tensely distressing to those who had supported him on the
former occasion, and who had already committed themselves with
great numbers of the citizens. He seemed convinced, and from
what he has since said to Mr. Eensselaer, and the exertions he
makes with the council of appointment in favor of persons who
are unfriendly to Clinton, and whom he declares ivill use their
influence to carry the election in his favor, I am led to believe
that he will not yield to Mr. Burr's views. I shall, however, in
a day or two bring him to an explicit declaration on the subject.

As no good could possibly result from evincing any resent-
ment to Mr. Burr for the part he took last winter, 1 have on
every occasion behaved towards him as if he had not been the
principal in the business.

494 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 35.

If I cannot speedily visit you, I shall send on Cornelia, who
is anxious to be with you and her sister.
My love to Eliza and the children.

Yours, affectionately, &c.,

Ph. Schuyler.

LEDTARD TO HAMILTON.

New-York, February 1st, 1792.

Dear Sir:

On my arrival here, finding that a tide was likely to make
strongly for Mr. Burr, I grew more anxious, on the grounds
whicli I had the honor to converse with you about in Philadel-
phia. I talked with several of our common friends, but with
none confidentially, excepting General Schuyler, who, with the
same confidence, was pleased to inform me of the circumstance
of Mr. Yates resigning his pretensions. Mr. Schuyler concluded
to have an interview with you, and to let the determination of
Mr. Yates remain a secret until his return.

Mr. Yates, it is probable, will feel much inclined to return
the favor which he has received from your friends, in affording
his support to the candidate which they may propose; but
against this, it is to be calculated that supporting Mr. Burr will
best please most of his ancient friends, and tend to restore him
to their confidence, and also that the candidate in question has a
personal dominion over him. Mr. Schuyler supposes, that if
Mr. Clinton and Mr. Burr were to be the only competitors, and
his friends thrown out of the scale, it would be doubtful which
succeeded. To oppose Mr. B. with success, your friends will be
necessitated to promote the interest of the old incumbent, which
might be considered a dereliction of sentiment ; and to cherish
the hopes of a third candidate, will probably be to lose a
triumph.

iET. 35.] CORRESPONDENCE. 495

If B. finally succeeds, and you have not tlie merit of it, it
will be an event extremely disagreeable to me. With this im-
pression, I have sought repeated interviews with him, until I
could procure from him an artless declaration of his sentiments,
both with respect to the Union, on present grounds, and also
with respect to you.

He has expressed a sincere regard for the safety and well-
being of the former. With respect to yourself, he expresses an
entire confidence in the wisdom and integrity of your designs,
and a real personal friendship, and which he does not seem to
suppose you doubt of, or that you ever will, unless it may arise
from meddling interveners.

Unless you have grounds of objection which I do not know
of, I ardently wish that the result of your interview with Gen-
eral Schuyler may be an adoption of the candidate.
I am.

With entire respect and esteem.

Your very obd't humble serv't,

Isaac Ledyard.

WATSON TO HAMILTON".

New-York, February 2d, 1792.

Sir:

The nature of my business has allowed me but a few leisure
moments since my return to this place. I called pretty early,
and repeatedly, on General Schuyler, but have not had the good
fortune to fi-nd him at home; if I had, I am not sufficiently
known to him, to expect his confidential communications on a
subject so delicate as that of the approaching election.

Knowing that truth and the public good engage all your
attention, and govern all your actions, it may serve as an apology
for my suggesting the observations I have made, and the infer-
ences that result. So far then as I have been able to collect
opinions, there is some prospect that the gentleman alluded to in

496 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 36.

our last interview, may at all events be preferred to the govern-
ment ; and in case it was thought expedient to give him the
federal interest, the probability would be strong.

If that interest is denied him, and he succeeds, will it not
make him an enemy, if he is not one now ? If he is refused this
support, and fails, will he not return to the Senate of the United
States, embittered against the government and its ablest advo-
cates ? — a circumstance the more to he regretted in the present irrita-
ble state of the Legislature and body politic. If this aid is given him,
and he fails, will it not serve to moderate his conduct, or rather
to bind him by the ties of interest and gratitude to his support-
ers ? If it could be possible that he should absolve himself from
these ties, would not the ingratitude and atrocity of the act di-
minish his power of doing harm, and make all future opposition
to him equally just and popular? You will have the goodness
to recollect, that these remarks are founded upon the presump-
tion that Judge Yates chooses not to be a candidate, and that he
will resign his pretensions with most satisfaction to the character
in question.

This I am assured is the fact, without which I should not
have troubled you with these remarks.

Whenever I imagine how much easier it is to embarrass and
obstruct the benign operations of government, than to give it
the requisite tone and vigor, I am solicitous to remove talents,
perseverance, and address, as far from the opposition as possible.
I have omitted to urge any positive good that may result from
this measure, although I am strongly persuaded that a very great
one may accrue.

The absence of evil will continue to be desirable, until the
public mind becomes more quiet, and federal habits take deeper
root. I shall only add, that the cautious distance observed by
this gentleman towards all parties, however exceptionable in a
politician, may be a real merit in a Governor.

I have the honor to be, with perfect truth and esteem,
Your most humble servant,

James Watson.

Mt.35.] correspondence. 497

LEDTARD TO HAMILTON".

New-York, February 28th, 1792.

My Dear Sir:

The inclosed was left witli Mr. Hazard to forward, but was
carelessly mislaid or forgotten. I do not recollect the contents,
but well recollect the impression under which it was written, and
that the design must have been to prevent drawn swords. I
shall be able, in a few days, to convince you that on election

grounds you need not be the enemy of Mr. , and hope

nothing else will disturb the operation of the experiment I
should have admired the candor and firm integrity which dic-
tated your letter, had it been received from almost any other
person. It afforded me no new subject of pleasure or contempla-
tion, coming from whence it did. It is probable that by next
Sunday I may be able to give you the satisfaction herein inti-
mated.

I am, most respectfully in all things.

Your assured friend and obedient servant,

Isaac Ledyard.

PAGE TO HAMILTON.

March 22d, 1792.

Dear Sir:

I have snatched a few minutes from my business, to scribble
an answer to the author of the letter which I delivered to you in
the presence of Colonel Hartley. I have inclosed it for your
perusal, according to my promise, and hope it will serve as a
proof to you that I disdain to be an accomplice in a cabal
against you, and convince Mr. Blanchard that he has mistaken,
my character.

I am, dear Sir,

With real esteem and perfect respect, &c.
E 32

498 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 35.

HAMILTON TO DUER.

Philadelphia, March 14, 1792.

My Dear Duer:

Your letter of the lltli got to hand this day. I am affected
beyond measure at its contents, especially as it was too late to
have any influence upon the event you were apprehensive of,
Mr. Wolcott's instructions having gone off yesterday.

I trust, however, the alternative which they present to the
attorney of the , and the discretion he will use in manag-

ing the affair, will enable you to avoid any pernicious eclat, if
your affairs are otherwise retrievable.

Be this as it may, act '^i\h fortitude and honor. If you cannot
reasonably hope for a favorable extrication, do not plunge deeper.
Have the courage to make a full stop. Take all the care you can
in the first place of institutions of public utility, and in the next
of all fair creditors.

God bless you, and take care of you and your family. I have
experienced all the bitterness of soul on your account which a
warm attachment can inspire. I will not now pain you with any
wise remarks, though if you recover the present stroke, I shall
take great liberties with you. Assure yourself, in good and bad
fortune, of my sincere friendship and affection.

Adieu.

HAMILTON TO SETON.

Philadelphia, March 25, 1792.
If six per cents should sink below par, you may purchase on
account of the United States at par to the extent of fifty thou-
sand dollars. You will not, however, declare on whose account
you act, because, though there is, as to a purchase on that prin-

^T.35.] CORRESPONDENCE. 499

ciple, no difference of opinion among the trustees, the thing is
not formally arranged, and this is Sunday,

It will be very probably conjectured that you appear for the
public, and the conjecture may be left to have its course, but
without confession. The purchase ought, in the present state of
things, to be at auction, and not till to-morrow evening. But if
the purchase at auction will not tend as well to the purpose of
relief as a different mode, it may be departed from ; the usual
note must be made of persons, time, &c. You will consider
whether done all at once, or a part now and a part then, will
best answer the purpose ; in the state of this market, the latter
mode is found preferable. I have just received a letter from Mr,
Short, our minister resident, dated Amsterdam, 28th December,
by which he informs me that he has effected a loan for three
millions of florins at four per cent, interest, on account of the
United States. This may be announced ; and as, in the present
moment of suspicion, some minds may be disposed to consider
the thing as a mere expedient to support the stocks, I pledge
my honor for its exact truth. Why then so much despondency
among the holders of our stock? When foreigners lend the
United States at four per cent., will they not purchase here upon
a similar scale, making reasonable allowance for expense of
agency, &c, ? Why then do individuals part with so good a
property so much below its value ? Does Duer's failure affect
the soliditj^ of the government ?

After paying the present quarter's interest, I shall have near
a million of dollars in cash, and a million more in bonds from
the duties of last year. All this is truly so much before-hand.
The duties for the current year being fully adequate to the ob-
jects of the year, except the further sum of about five hundred
thousand dollars for the western expedition, for which the ways
and means have been proposed. Is the treasury of Great Britain
comparatively in so good a state? Is the nation comparatively
so equal to its debt ? Why then so much depression ? I shall
be answered, the immediate necessity for money. But if the
banks are forbearing as to the necessity of paying up, cannot the
parties give each other mutual credit and avoid so great a press ?

500 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 35.

If there are a few harpies wlio will not concur in tliis forbearance,
let such be paid and execrated, and let others forbear. The ne-
cessit}^ of great sacrifices among your dealers cannot affect the
nation, but it may deeply wound the city of New-York, by a
transfer to foreigners and citizens of other states of a large mass
of property greatly below its value. The face of your afiPairs
may undergo for a considerable time a serious change. Would
not the plan I suggested to you in my last be a means of secur-
ing more effectually the debts due to the bank, by accepting in
part payment the credits on your books ?

While I encourage due exertion in the banks, I observe that
I hope they will put nothing to risk. No calamity truly public
can happen while these institutions remain sound. They must,
therefore, not yield too far 1j3 the impulse of circumstances.

Yours, &c.

SETON TO HAMILTOlSr.

New-York, 26th March, 1792.

My Dear Sir:

I had the pleasure to receive your kind letter of yesterday,
this day at 10 o'clock. We have no public sales of stocks now
in the evenings — therefore I cannot go into the market till to-
morrow, and although the sum is small, yet be assured it will be
a relief. The Collector has furnished the list of names of those
who have duties to pay between this and the first of May, and
our Directors have given out that they will discount on a deposit
of stock. The large dealers in stock are to have a meeting this
evening, and it is reported will enter into an absolute agreement
not to draw out any specie from the banks for three months to
come — so that from to-morrow I hope the prospect will brighten.
I have made as public as possible the new loan obtained in Am-
sterdam ; it gives most universal satisfaction. The January
packet arrived this day. The orders for the purchase of the 6 per
cents, at 22s. are very extensive, if bills could be sold at par — but

JEt. 35.]

CORRESPONDENCE. 501

the present consternation and want of confidence in each other,
have reduced bills to 10 per ceut. under par, so that the orders
cannot be executed.

I am writing in such a bustle of business that I hardly know
what I say. I shall have the pleasure of writing you again to-
morrow— meanwhile have the honor to be with the greatest
esteem and respect.

HAMILTON TO Wil. SETON.
(private.)

Philadelphia, April 4, 1792.

The post of to-day brought me a letter from you. I am
pained beyond expression at the picture you and others give me
of the situation of my fellow-citizens— especially as an ignorance
of the extent of the disorder renders it impossible to judge
whether any adequate remedy can be applied.

You may apply another 50,000 dollars to purchases at such
a time as you judge it can be rendered most useful: the prices
may be 20s. for 6 per cents. ; 12s. for 3 per cents., and 12s. 6d.
for deferred. The law and the object require that it should be
known you purchase for the public. I shall, by the next post,
send an ofiicial authorization.

I have doubt, however, whether it will be best to apply this
immediately or wait the happening of the crisis — which I fear is
inevitable. If, as is represented, a pretty extensive explosion is
to take place, the depression of the funds at such a moment will
be in the extreme, and then it may be more important than now
to enter the market in force. I can, in such a case, without diffi-
culty, add a hundred thousand dollars— probably a larger sum.
But you, who are on the spot, being best able to calculate con-
sequences, I leave the proper moment of operating to your
judgment. To relieve the distressed, and support the funds, are
primary objects. As it may possibly become advisable for the

502 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 35.

bank to receive payments in stock from embarrassed persons, it
may not be amiss that you should know as a guide, that there
are at this moment orders from a respectable Dutch concern to
purchase 6 per cents, at 24s., if bills can be sold at par ; of this
I have the most unequivocal evidence. This is a proof that
foreigners will be willing to give that price. How vexatious that
imprudent speculations of individuals should lead to an alienation
of the national property at such under rates as are now given !
I presume your greatest embarrassments arise from the contracts
to pay and deliver not yet at issue. Is it possible to form any
conjecture of their extent ?

Yours, &c.

HAMILTON TO WILLIAM SETON".
(private.)

Philadelphia, April 12th, 1792.

I have your letters of the 10th and 11th, and more to my
distress and surprise, I learn by other letters a confirmation of
what you apprehended, viz., Mr. Macomb's failure. This mis-
fortune has, I fear, a long tail to it.

The inclosed, you will perceive, gives you additional lati-
tude. The terms as heretofore for six per cents, 20s., three per
cents, 12s., and deferred 12s. 6d.

You must judge of the best mode and manner of applying
the sum. The operation here not being extensive, I have found
it best to eke out my aid. I doubt whether this will answer
■with you. My reason was to keep up men's spirits by appear-
ing often, though not much at one time. All is left to you.
You will doubtless be cautious in securing your transfer before
you pay.

Yours, &c.

iEx. 35.] CORRESPONDENCE. 503

HAMILTON TO THE DIRECTORS & CO. OF THE BANK OF NEW-
YORK.

Treasury Department, April 12th, 1792.

Gentlemen :

Since my official letter to you authorizing an advance to
your cashier of fifty thousand dollars, to be applied to the pur-
chase of public debt on account of the United States, I have au-
thorized that gentleman to apply for another fifty thousand dol-
lars, and to make the like use of it. I now confirm this direction,
and add my desire that he may be furnished with a further sum of
fifty thousand dollars, making in the whole one hundred and fifty
thousand dollars, the whole for the purpose above mentioned.

With great consideration.

Yours, &c.

HAMILTON TO WILLIAM SETON.

Treasury Department, May 10th, 1792.

Sir:

I received your letter of the 7th instant, covering an account
of stock purchased by you for the United States.

I observe that you have exceeded the sum which Avas limited
by me to the amount of one thousand and ninety-eight dollars
eighty-nine cents ; but so small a difference is not very material,
and I am willing that the whole should remain on account of
the United States.

In order to a winding up of the business, I have now to re-
quest that you, will as soon as it can conveniently be done, cause
all the stock to be transferred in the names of the trustees as
heretofore, and that you will then procure from the commis-
sioner, and forward to me, the necessary certificates for transfer-
ring the stock from the books of the commissioner to those of
the treasurer.

504 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 35.

You will please to accept of my best acknowledgment for
this additional mark of your zeal for the public service, and be-
lieve me to be,

Yours, &c.

MORRIS TO HAMILTON.

London, April 10th, 1792.

Dear Hamilton :

I dined the day before yesterday, tete-a-tete^ with the ^^us-
sian minister. Count Waranzow, who is a very sensible and
well-informed man. In the course of an interesting conversa-
tion after dinner, your name was mentioned, and he expressed a
desire to see your various reports to Congress. These he means
to transmit to his brother, who is the Minister of Commerce in
Eussia, in order to undeceive him with respect to the United
States. You will not only oblige me, but do a very useful
thing, if you will transmit these reports, with any other useful
information, in an envelope, directed to the Count Waranzow,
Minister Plenipotentiary from the Court of Russia. You can
send it to the American consul here, to be delivered to him, hut
choose a private ship for the conveyance.

The count, to show the importance of spreading such in-
formation, told me, that when he came to this country, believing
as he did in Mr. Pitt's integrity, he readily adopted the state-
ment given to him of our country, which was as poor and despi-
cable as need be. He says, that he is cured of his confidence in
Mr. Pitt ; but that the impressions made with respect to ximerica
still exist to our prejudice in many places. He says, that Mr.
Pitt had at one time, he believes, some disposition to make a
commercial treaty with us, but that the arguments used by Lord
Sheffield, and the indisposition of some of his colleagues, had
changed this intention ; that he may have returned lately
towards his former mode of thinking, in consequence of our

JE.T.35.] CORRESPONDENCE. 505

prosperous situation ; but that we sliould be very much on our
guard.

I am, &c.,

GODVERNEUR MORRIS.

SETON TO HAMILTON.

Nkw-York, April 16th, 1792.

My Dear Sir:

I received your letter by the express, on Friday morning ;
previous to which, I had been relieving a few by purchases of
stock, upon the strength of the second extension of fifty thou-
sand dollars. At noon I went into the market, but the applica-
tions were so numerous, and so vastly beyond my expectation, I
found it necessary to declare, I could take but very small sums
from each. However, notwithstanding this, every one pressed
forward, and were so eager, that I could only take down names,
upon a declaration that I would average the whole. This I did,
that no one might be left Avithout some relief; so that the invest-
ment of the 100,000 dollars goes to upwards of 80 persons, from
which you may form a judgment that your orders for purchases
were well-timed. At the same time, it is an evidence of the
great and universal distress which prevails, and which I am
sorry to say is such, that it would be utterly impossible to make
purchases equal to the relief However, it cannot now be worse ;
and when the public mind calms down a little, it is to be hoped
that good will arise out of the evil — that the spirit of industry
instead of gambling will revive, and that the stocks will come to
their proper and real value.
I am.

With the highest esteem and respect, &c.

506 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 35.

HAMILTON TO VAN SCHAACK.

Treasury Department, April 20th, 1792.

Sir:

I received your letter of tlie 1st of February shortly after its
date, and have duly noticed the remarks it contained on the sub-
ject of manufactures, which will not fail to recur, when the
Legislature shall have time to go into the consideration of the
proposed arrangements. The business yet to be transacted will
not admit of their further attention to my report, than the giv-
ing such modification to the ways and means recently required,
as will encourage this interesting branch of the national indus-
try. The bill has nearly made its progress through the House
of Representatives, in a form calculated as well to produce that
effect as the necessary supplies.

The specimens of carpeting, which were very acceptable,
were immediately placed in the committee-room of the House of
Eepresentatives, among a collection of specimens of American
manufactures, transmitted to the Treasury from several of the
States.

I am, sir, with great consideration and esteem, &c.

HAMILTON TO DUER.

April 22, 1792.

My Dear Duer,

I hoped ere this to have seen you, to have afforded you
whatever of aid could have resulted from my advice, after know-
ing your real situation. But the session protracts itself, and I
can scarcely say when it will finish. Lest the information con-
tained in my last should induce you to postpone an arrange-
ment with your creditors, in the hope of speedily having an op-

^T. 35.J CORRESPONDENCE. 507

portunitj of consulting me, I liave tliought it best to apprise you
of the degree of delay which may attend my proposed visit to
New- York. Indeed, I can hardly flatter myself that my advice
could be of any real importance to you.

How are you? How are your family? At a moment of
composure I shall be glad to hear from you.

Eliza joins me in affectionate remembrances to Lady Kitty.
Farewell.

LEE TO HAMILTON.

Richmond, 6th May, 1792.

My Dear Sir:

I had your letter delivered to me last evening, and feel my-
self hurt at the suggestions it contains concerning your own
situation.

Knowing you as I do, I should ever give to your political
conduct the basis of truth, honor, and love of country, however
I might have differed from you on some measures.

When therefore I feel undiminished regard to you, I cannot
help lamenting the misery to which you continue to be exposed,
and I wish to God it could be averted. Our country's pros-
perity Avill ever be with me the first object, and next to that,
(speaking as to public matters,) the happiness of my friends.
Unfortunately, those I most love have taken different sides on
American questions, and this discord in sentiment has issued in
personal disgust and hate.

This event kept me from Congress, and will confine me to
my own State. I had once cherished a hope of finding full em-
ployment corresponding with my feelings, in France, to which
place I was almost in the act of embarkation seven weeks ago
but the confusions there, and the interposition of some of my best
friends here, arrested my project. I mean now to become a
farmer, and get a wife as soon as possible.

508 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 35

When I let you have my own riding horse I did not mean
to receive any thing for him, save the expense which attended
him in Alexandria, previous to my obtaining an opportunity of
conveying him, and your small advance exceeded this sum ; but
as you make a serious point of it, I will draw on you for the
balance of his price, which is sixteen guineas. I would censure
the delicacy which your letter exhibits on this subject, did I not
know that to one exposed to such a portion of crimination from
his foes, would not be relished even ironical censure from his
friends. Your attention to me in Philadelphia was as usual
friendly and affectionate, though your situation forbad us min-
gling much together.

Yours ever,

H. Lee.

HAMILTON TO SETON.

Philadelphia, May 25th, 1792.

My Deae Sir:

The society for the establishing of useful manufactures, at
their last meeting resolved to borrow a sum of five thousand dol-
lars upon a pledge of deferred stock. Mr. AYalker is empowered
to negotiate the loan, and I expect application will be made to
the Bank of New- York for it. I have a strong wish that the
directors of that bank may be disposed to give facilities to this
institution upon terms of perfect safety to itself I will add, that
from its situation it is much the interest of our city that it
should succeed. It is not difficult to discern the advantage
of being the immediate market of a considerable manufacturing
town. A pledge of public stock will completely fultil the idea
of perfect security. I will add more, that in my opinion banks
ought to afford accommodation in such cases upon easy terms of
interest. I think five per cent, ought to suf&ce, for a direct
public good is presented. And institutions of this kind, within

^T. 35.] CORRESPONDENCE. 509

reasonable limits, ought to consider it as a principal object to
promote beneficial public purposes.

To you, my dear sir, I will not scruple to say in confidence,
that the Bank of New-York shall suffer no diminution of its pe-
cuniary facilities from any accommodation it may afford to the
society in question. I feel my reputation much concerned in its
welfare.

I would not wish any formal communication of this letter to
the directors, but you may make known my wishes to such of
them as you may judge expedient.

With real esteem and great regard, &c.

SETON TO HAMILTON.

New-York, 28th May, 1792.

My Dear Sir:

As our bank stock is now only at 28 per cent, premium,
I think it will be better to have the note of 1200 dollars you
inclosed to me discounted, as before its period of payment,
I think the stock will be higher. Mr. Troup has endorsed it.
I cannot, however, help expressing a regret, that the extreme
delicacy of your feelings should induce you to part with a stock
so extremely more valuable than its present price in the market.
In virtue of your power of attorney, I have signed the books
for all your dividends, viz. :

Dividend on 1st Nov., 1790, - - - $ 26 25
Surplus dividend on 80th April, 1791, - 186 00

Dividend on 1st May, 1791, - - - 26 25

Dividend on 1st Nov., 1791, - - - 52 50

Dividend on 1st May, 1792, - - - 30 00

$321 00
which sum is carried to the credit of your account, which was
overdrawn before $245 yVo — so that the balance now due to you
in bank is $75 rVo-

510 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 35.

I trust you cannot doubt of the pleasure it will ever give me
to obey your commauds, and how much you gratify my feelings
by employing me in any way that I can testify the sincere re-
spect and esteem, with which I am, dear Sir, &c.

AMES TO HAMILTON".

Boston, June 10th, 1792.

Dear Sir:

Those who perceive the arduous nature of your duties ought
to wish to aid you in executing them. Whether the author of
the Path to Riches had it in view to afford you such aid or not,
I think it fit to send you the work, as our ]3olitical economy lies
much within your department. You have found the path for
our country, and it is advancing in it, though you have not
sought it for yourself. To drop this obscure way of writing, I
inclose Judge Sullivan's pamphlet on Banks, &c. The modest
title-page delights me. Where is the upright man to plead for a
people? Possibly this inquiry may be made by the people
whom the author so much desires to plead for. The fee ex-
pected for pleading is supposed to be the chair of Governor.
Another view is suggested : a state bank will afford a good field
of speculation, of which fame, that evil tongue, says, many of the
legislature were not unmindful at their last session, when the
Tontine was in discussion. My friends tell me that the ,*

the chair, the pride of state sovereignty. copy federal in-

stitutions, and the thirst for speculation will move different
parties, and produce some sort of bank or Tontine project, and
that resistance will be fruitless.

The inconsistent jargon of this pamphlet will make you smile.
It will not amuse the many, nor instruct the few, but its bulk
will deter many from reading it who will vote for a state bank,

* Defaced in original.

^T. 35.] CORRESPONDENCE. 511

presuming that there are arguments enough for it in that great
book.

All goes well in the state. The people really prosper, and,
what is more, they know and say it, and give credit to the gen-
eral government for the change they have witnessed. I feel
persuaded they are perfectly well affected to good measures. I
only fear that the high sense of honor in the paying duties is
cooling. When money is in the case merchants need watching.
Mr. Gore mentions some facts which indicate the need of vigi-
lance.

I do not wish you to answer this. I would not write at all
if by doing it I should impose that task upon you.
I am, dear Sir, with perfect esteem,

Your most obedient humble servant,

Fisher Ames.

SETON TO HAMILTON.

New-York, 11th June, 1792.

>iY Dear Sir:

I inclose you the bond of Baron Steuben, which I took up
from Mr. Cutting, with his receipt for £506 13 0, which I paid
him. I wished him to be more particular in the receipt, but he
said you had already been informed of all the items that com-
posed this sum. Bank stock still keeps from 26 to 28 per cent.,
and therefore I have not sold yours, as I am convinced it must rise,
at least it ought to rise, if people wish to purchase a stock that
will give them good interest for their money.

In the month of July last year, Mr. Pearse, the manufacturer,
arrived here from Ireland ; he brought me letters from Mr. Dig-
gis, requesting my patronage, &c., and care of the models that
he brought. I complied in every sense, and receiviag afterwards
a letter from the Secretary of State and Mr. Coxe, of what im-
portance these models were, and directions how to forward them,
&c., I paid Mr. Pearse's passage and gave him money to enable

512 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [tEt. 35.

him to get to Philadelphia. The models I sent by my son-in-law,
Mr. Yining. For the money advanced to Mr. Pearse, which was
120 dollars, I took his note of hand, which I sent to Mr. Coxe's,
as Mr. Jefferson wrote me all charges would be thankfully repaid.
However, I have never yet been paid ; and Mr. Coxe writes me
that Pearse's note to me is in your hands. I take the liberty of
mentioning this, that it may not be forgot, as it was purely 'pro
hono puhlico that I advanced the money.

SETOlSr TO HAMILTON.

New-York, June 25th, 1792.

Deae Sir :

Our directors are informed of your sentiments respecting the
loan to the Manufacturing Society. Be assured, my dear Sir,
they have so much confidence in any measure pointed out by
you, and take so much pleasure in promoting your views, which
they are all well convinced are ever intended for the public good,
that, by complying with your wishes, they have not even an op-
portunity of retaliating the obligations this institution is under
to you. Of mine, personally, I shall say nothing ; but that I am
with the greatest respect, &c.

HAMILTON TO COLONEL HETH AND OTHERS.

Philadelphia, June 2Gtli, 1792.

Gentlemen :

I have received your circular letter of the 28th of February
last.

I consider it as addressed to me in the capacity of a fellow-
soldier, and in that capacity I now acknowledge and answer it.

Eespect for you, gentlemen, and for those on whose behalf

^T. 35.] CORRESPONDENCE. 513

you write, does not permit me to be silent ; and in replying, the
frankness which is due to you and them, and which is not less
due to my own character, forbids me to dissemble.

My judgment does not accord with the views which are an-
nounced in your letter. A perseverance in them will not, I be-
lieve, be productive of any advantage to the parties, and may, I
fear, be attended with some public inconveniences, which I am
persuaded they would regret.

I also have made sacrifices with the army, and, what is less
known, for the army. I feel that I love those who remain of
that respectable band,, and that no one can be more solicitous
than myself for their welfare. I trust, therefore, they will do
justice to my motives on the present occasion.
With very respectful consideration,

I have the honor to be, gentlemen, &c.

HAMILTON TO .

(private.)

Juue 26th, 1792.

Dear Sir:

This accompanies an official letter. I acknowledge I doubt
the accuracy of the opinion of the attorney-general on the last
point, A law is not to be so literally construed as to involve
absurdity and oppression. The legislature might reasonahlij re-
strain its officers from future huying and selling of stock, but
could not reasonably prevent their making a disposition of pro-
perty which they had previously acquired according to the laws
of their country.

At the same time, for greater caution, I should in my own
case follow the strict interpretation.

All my property in the funds is about 800 dollars, 3 per cents.
These, at a certain period, I should have sold, had I not been
unwilling to give occasion to cavil.
E 33

514 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 35.

The restriction itself, as it respects the officers of the treasnry,
and I rather think the commissioners of loans, is a wise and un-
exceptionable one.

But the propriety of its further extension is not obvious, and
I doubt whether it will be lasting. The act passed in a prodi-
gious hurry.

A. H.

HAMILTON TO ELISHA BOUDINOT.

Philadelphia, July 12th, 1792.

Dear Sir:

I wrote to you, a day or two since, on the subject of the
advertisement.

You recollect there is a power to borrow to be given to the
Committee, under the seal of the Corporation. No time ought
to be lost in preparing and executing the power, and making
application for the loan. Not more than 80,000 dollars, in ad-
dition to the 10,000 already borrowed, need at first be asked for,
I shall write to Mr. Seton by to-morrow's post.

Pray, my friend, let nothing slumber.

Yours,

A. Hamilton.

HAMILTON to KING.

Philadelphia, July 25th, 1792,

My Dear Sir:

I received, lately, a letter from you, in which you expressed
sentiments according with my own, on the present complexion of
your party politics ; as, if a letter of mine to you did not mis-
carry, you will have seen. I wished that Clinton and his party

^T. 35.] CORRESPONDENCE. 515

should be placed in a just light before tlie people, and that a
spirit of dissatisfaction, within proper bounds, should be kept
alive ; and this for national purposes, as well as from a detesta-
tion of their principles and conduct.

But a resort to first principles, in any shape, is decidedly
against my judgment. I don't think the occasion will, in any
sense, warrant it. It is not for the friends of good government
to employ extraordinary expedients, which ought only to be re-
sorted to in cases of great magnitude and urgent necessity. I
reject as well the idea of a convention as of force.

To rejudge the decision of the canvassers by a convention,
has to me too much the appearance of reversing the sentence of
a court by a legislative decree. The canvassers had a final
authority in all the forms of the Constitution and laws. A
question arose in the execution of their office, not absolutely
free from difiiculty, which they have decided (I am persuaded
wrongly), but within the power vested in them. I do not feel
it right or expedient to attempt to reverse the decision, by any
means not known to the Constitution or laws.

The precedent may suit us to-day ; but to-morrow we may
see its abuse.

I am not even sure that it will suit us at all. I see already
publications aiming at a revision of the Constitution, with a view
to alterations which would spoil it. It would not be astonishing,
if a convention should be called, if it should produce more than
is intended. Such weapons are not to be played with. Even
the friends of good government, in their present mood, may
fancy alterations desirable, which would be the reverse.

Men's minds are too much unsettled, everywhere, at the
present juncture. Let us endeavor to settle them, and not to
set them more afloat. I find that strong-minded men here view
the matter in the same light with me ; and that even Mr. Jay's
character is likely, in a degree, to suffer by the idea that he
fans the flame a little more than is quite prudent. I wish this
idea to be conveyed to him with proper management. I have
thoughts of writing to him.

You see, out of the reach of the contagion, I am very cool

516 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 35.

and reasonable. If I were with you, I should probably not
escape the infection.

Farewell !

A. Hamilton.

Francis Childs is a very cunning fellow. In Philadelpbia^
in the person of his proxy, Freneau, he is a good anti-federalist
and Clintonian ; in New-York, he is a good federalist and Jay-
ite. Beckley and Jefferson pay him for the first, and the federal
citizens of New- York for the last. Observe a paragraph in his
Daily Advertiser of the 18th instant. These things ought in a
proper way to be brought into view.

HAMILTON TO KING.

July 27th, 1792.
Desirous of examining accurately the question decided by the
canvassers, I will thank you for a minute of all the authorities
which were consulted by you when you gave your opinion.

Yours, truly,

A. H.

I shall be glad to have them as soon as convenient.

KING TO HAMILTON.

Sunday, 29th July, 1792.
Mr. Jay will be with you this week, you will therefore have
an opportunity to converse with him respecting our very unplea-
sant situation. All the measures which have been pursued have

JEt.35.] correspondence
been calculated to induce tlie Legislature to call a convention to
revise tlie decision of tlie canvassers. So far as I am able to
form an opinion, a majority of the Assembly are Clintonians,
and, if so, will not agree to call a convention. Sliould tbis be
the case, the business will there terminate.

I have only a few loose notes concerning the questions decided
by the canvassers — by turning up Bohuns, or Comins, you will
find under the word sheriff, the English cases referred to which
respect the appointment and discharge of that ofl&ce. The lia-
bility of holding the office beyond the term for which sheriffs,
constables, and other annual officers are appointed, must have
arisen from the inconvenience to which the administration of
justice would have been exposed by vacancies in any of those
offices. The law on that point cannot be doubted. The practice
is common in this country, as well as in England, and property
to a great amount, in both countries, is held under decisions of
juries, returned by sheriffs exercising their office beyond their
year.

Yours sincerely,

EuFUS King.

HAMILTON TO BOUDINOT.

30th Juh^ 1792.

Dear Sir :

I expected to have set out to-day to join the Committee to-
morrow at Newark, but it is not possible. To-morrow morning
I shall embark in the Early Stage, and hope to reach you in the
afternoon ; but I pray that no business may be deferred on my
account.

Truly yours,

Alexr. Hamilton.

518 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 35.

TENCH COXE TO HAMILTON.

Flemington, New Jersey, Aug. 14th, 1792.

Deae Sir :

Before I left Philadelpliia I had notice of a cause to be tried
on the 10th instant, at this place, of the business of which I had
some knowledge. It has lasted till this day, and the counsel
think my staying may prove very important to the just decision
of the cause. It is with great pain I remain, because I doubt not
the arrangement of the compensations now requires to be acted
upon. I shall hasten to Philadelphia in five minutes after I am
dismissed.

There has been a most respectable assemblage of persons from
various parts of this State, attending the courts of nisi prius —
and oyer and terminer — and I have felt infinite satisfaction in
manifestations from every description of them, that they equally
love the General and State governments ; and that they think
the great objects of public happiness committed to the former
have been faithfully and most beneficially managed.

They are full of a firm and generous confidence in the future
intentions of the general government.

I have the honor to be, with the most respectful attach-
ment, &c.

HAMILTON TO BOUDINOT.

Philadelphia, August 13tli, 1792.

My Dear Sir :

Some skirmishing having begun in the Gazette of the United
States respecting Mr. Freneau's receiving a salary from govern-
ment, I mentioned in conversation with a friend all that I knew
of the matter, and among other things, but without naming you,
the information you had given me concerning Mr. Madison's

Mr. 35.]

CORRESPONDENCE. 519

negotiation with Freneau. Upon this he founded a very pointed
attack upon Mr. Freneau and Mr. Jefferson, which I dare say
you have seen, as also Mr. Freneau's affidavit denying all negoti-
ation with " Thomas Jefferson, Esq., Secretary of State," &c. &c.
The gentleman has since applied to me to obtain, if possible, an
authentication of the fact of the negotiation.

K I recollect right, you told me that this, if necessary, could
be done ; and if practicable, it is of real importance that it should
be done. It will confound and put down a man who is continu-
ally machinating against the public happiness.

You will oblige me in the most particular manner, by obtain-
ing and forwarding to me without delay, the particulars of ail the
steps taken by Mr. Madison — the when and where, and with lib-
erty to use the name of the informant. His af&davit to the facts,
if obtainable, would be of infinite value. Care ought to be taken
that nothing is asserted which is not unquestionable.

Truly and affectionately yours, &c.

BOUDINOT TO HAMILTON.

New-York, August 16th, 1792.

Dear Sir :

I had just returned from the Circuit when I received your
letter by yesterday's post, and had not then read the pieces you
alluded to. Judge Bradford was with me, and relating the afiair
— especially the affidavit — he said he was very much mistaken,
if he had not the relation from Freneau's own mouth. " This I
know," says he, " that at the time I was in New- York, and was
informed of Mr. J.'s writing him a letter, which he took in dudgeon,
as striking at his independence, &c., and wrote a very insulting
answer, which he showed to Mr. Childs, who prevented his send-
ing it, &c. ; and in fact related the whole story as I had it. I
have no doubt, if you fall in company with him, and bring on
the conversation with him, as soon as he returns, he will give you

520 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 35.

satisfaction on the subject. Converse witli him as if you had re-
ceived no information on the head.

Soon after I had the first conversation with you on that sub-
ject, I saw the gentleman I referred to, but I found him more
attached to F. than I supposed— and he refused allowing me to
say any thing from him. I am still in hopes, through another
channel, to ascertain the facts, which I will endeavor to do in the
course of the week, if possible, though I doubt not Judge Brad-
ford will, on reflection, be able to mention the authority from
which he had the story ; and if he had it immediately from F.
himself, it will be the best evidence that can be procured, and he
appears to have no reserve on the subject.

Have you received my letter inclosing Hall and Mort's pro-
posals ; if so, will you write your sentiments on the subject?
May we expect to see you on the 20th instant ? I see by the
papers a Mr. Nesbit has arrived from Scotland, and is with Gen-
eral Schuyler. Would it be worth while to wait to have his
opinion ?

Your letter inclosing the money I have received and for-
warded.

I am, with esteem, dear Sir,

Yours sincerely,

Elisha Boudinot.

HAMILTON TO SETON.

August 17th, 1792.

My Dear Sir :

Your letter, mentioning certain particulars respecting the two
banks, has been received, and will be duly attended to. I trust,
however, that certain appearances have in no degree proceeded
from any unkind disposition. The solution, I believe, is to be
found in the necessity of sending here a considerable sum in
specie. Large payments into the Bank of North America on

iET. 35.] CORRESPONDENCE. 521

account of the State of Pennsylvania, subscriptions to canals, &;c.,
and large calls upon the Bant: of the United States for the service
of government, joined to liberal discounts, had produced a con-
siderable balance in favor of the Bank of North America, which
rendered it expedient to draw a sum of specie from New- York,
not to leave the National Bank in any degree in the power of
the Bank of North America, which once manifested a very mis-
chievous disposition, that was afterwards repaid by acts of kind-
ness and generosity. The tide is now changing, and must
speedily reverse the balance, and I mention it in confidence, be-
cause I wish, by explaining, to cherish confidence between the
two institutions at New- York, so necessary to their mutual
interest.

Inclosed, my dear sir, is a letter to Mr. Donald of St. Yin-
cents, which I beg your most particular care in forwarding. I
presume he is a merchant there ; but a gentleman lately men-
tioned to me, that he thought the name of the governor of St.
Yincents was Donald. If so, he is probably the person intended.
I received a letter from him, giving me some information of my
father. The letter to Mr. Donald covers one to my father, who,
from a series of misfortunes, was reduced to great distress. You
will perceive from this, that I must be anxious for the safe con-
veyance of my letter. If there is any person of whom you can
make previous inquiry concerning Mr. Donald, you will oblige
me by doing it, as a guide in forwarding the letter. I mean to
send a duplicate from this place.

Affectionately, and with sincere esteem,

Yours,

A. IIa]\[ILTOK.

DAYTOX TO HAMILTON.

Elizabethtown, August 2Gth, 1792.

Dear Sir:

Having been absent with my family on a visit to Staten
Island, and to the sea-shore, I did not receive, so soon as I other-

522 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 35.

wise should, your letter of the 15tb. That Mr. Jefferson pro-
posed to Freneau to repair to Philadelphia and act in his
department as interpreter of the French language, and that,
subsequently thereto, a negotiation was had and completed be-
tween Mr. Madison and the latter, to establish and conduct a
newspaper there, are undeniable truths. Although desirous of
frustrating the machinations of a particular party, I cannot ne-
vertheless consistently comply -with your request in giving up
to public notoriety the name of my informant. In a correspon-
dence as confidential as ours, I have no hesitation in making it
known to you, more especially as such communication, while it
convinces you of the certainty of those transactions, will also
impress you with a conviction of the impropriety of that name
being again mentioned. I am indebted to Mr. Childs of New-
York for all that I knew and informed you relative to this
matter.

He, you know, is one of the printers, and interested in the
paper, and although I am well assured that he entirely disap-
proves the manner in which it is conducted, yet it is natural to
suppose that he would not willingly be instrumental in the
establishing of any fact which might operate to its disrepute or
prejudice.

With very sincere regard, yours,

JoNA. Dayton.

HAMILTON TO JAY.
(private.)

Philadelphia. Sept. 3, 1792.

My Dear Sir:

The proceedings at Pittsburgh, which you will find stated in
the inclosed paper, and other incidents in the western parts of
this State announce so determined and persevering a spirit of
opposition to the laws, as in my opinion to render a vigorous

iET. 35.] CORRESPONDENCE. 523

exertion of tlie powers of government indispensable. I have
communicated this opinion to the President, and I doubt not his
impressions will accord with it. In this case, one point for con-
sideration will be the expediency of the next Circuit Court
noticing the state of things in that quarter, particularly the
meeting at Pittsburgh and its proceedings. You will observe
an avowed object is to '^obstruct the operation of the law." This
is attempted to be qualified by a pretence of doing it by " every
legal measure." But " legal measures " to " obstruct the opera-
tion of a law " is a contradiction in terms. I, therefore, entertain
no doubt that a high misdemeanor has been committed. The
point, however, is under submission to the attorney-general for
his opinion.

There is really, my dear sir, a crisis in the affairs of the
country, which demands the most mature consideration of its
best and wisest friends.

I beg you to apply your own most serious thoughts to it, and
favor me as soon as possible with the result of your reflections.
Perhaps it will not be amiss for you to converse with Mr. King.
His judgment is sound — he has caution and energy.

Would a proclamation from the President be advisable, stat-
ing the criminality of such proceedings, and warning all persons
to abstain from them as the laws will be strictly enforced against
all offenders ?

If the plot should thicken and the application of force should
appear to be unavoidable, will it be expedient for the President
to repair in person to the scene of commotion ?

These are some of the questions which present themselves.
The subject will doubtless open itself in all its aspects to you.
With real respect and affectionate attachment,

I remain, dear Sir, your obedient servant,

A, H.

Chief Justice Jay.

524 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.^t. 35.

JAY TO HAMILTON".

New-York, Sept. 8th; 1792.

Dear Sir:

I have conferred with Mr. King on the subject of your letter
of the Sd instant. We concur in opinion that neither a procla-
mation, nor Q. particular charge by the court to the grand jury,
would be advisable at present. To us it appears more prudent
that the business be opened by the President's speech at the en-
suing session of Congress. Their address will manifest the sense
of the House, and both together operate more effectually than a
proclamation.

No strong declarations should be made unless there be ability
and disposition to follow them with strong measures. Admitting
both these requisites, it is questionable whether such operations
at this moment would not furnish the Antis with materials for
deceiving the uninformed part of the community, and in some
measure render the operations of administration odious. Let all
the branches of government move together, and let the chiefs
be committed publicly on one or the other side of the question.
I perceive symptoms of the crisis you mention — if managed with
prudence and firmness it will weaken its authors. If matters
can pass suh silentio until the meeting of Congress, I think all
will be well. The public will become informed, and the sense
of the nation become manifest. Opposition to that sense will be
clogged with apprehensions, and strong measures, if necessary,
will be approved and be supported.

If, in the mean time, such outrages should be committed as to
force the attention of government to its dignity, nothing will re-
main but to obey that necessity in a way that will leave nothing
to hazard. Success on such occasions should be certain. Whether
this should be done under the President's personal direction, must?
I think, depend on circumstances at the time, or, in other words,
on the degree of importance which those circumstances combined
may evince.

Yours affectionately,

John Jay.

iEx. 35.] CORRESPONDENCE. 5ti5

ELISHA BOUDINOT TO HAMILTON".

Newark, 13th Sept., 1792.

My Dear Sir :

There are great exertions making to get the people to petition
against the incorporation ; several persons are employed to go
about with petitions, and the people are deceived by the most
absurd falsehoods. The only mode I thought of to counteract
them, was to have petitions drawn, and hire a person calculated
for the purpose to go round with them, and I am in hopes it will
answer the purpose effectually. We shall obtain numbers who
signed the first, to sign ours, declaring they were imposed on.
So much foT: petitions.

Will you sketch the substance of a law you wish with regard
to apjorentices — or the heading of it — and I will see it carried
through the Legislature ? Had you not better be up a day or
two previous to the first Monday in October ?

The Antis are making greater exertions than you perhaps are
aware of, previous to the expected general election. Our Chief
Justice says that a number from Pkiladelpliia have been to the
lower parts of West Jersey, informing the people that a strong-
party is forming in that city against the Secretary of the Trea-
sury, requesting their aid, and that they will not choose a man
who has supported his measures, especially Mr. Boudinot, &c. &c.

My brother showed me a letter last evening, received by the
post, dated Norfolk, Yirginia — only a few lines — inclosing a
handbill for his information, signed " James Blanchard." This
handbill is addressed to the Electors and Freeholders of New
Jersey, setting forth the dangerous consequences of the measures
of the Secretary, &c., the fanding system, bank, &c. ; then giving
extracts of speeches made by Mr. Boudinot in support of them,
&c,, and warning the people to take care, &c., and says that
pamphlets should be distributed amongst them previous to the
election.

From these things it appears as if they meant to try their
strength in every State. A young gentleman of this town was

526 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [tEt. 35.

lately at Philadelphia, and at his lodgings there was a gentleman
from Virginia (whose name I do not at this moment recollect),
very violent on the subject, and said he was going the middle
and eastern States, to see what could be done with regard to
displacing the Secretary of the Treasury ; and, finding from the
conversation of the other gentleman, that Mr. Madison was not
a popular character, in Jersey at least, he asked if Mr. Morris
would not be agreeable, &c. If the federalists sleep whilst their
enemies are awake and vigilant, some mischief may be done.
I am, in haste, dear Sir,

With respect,

Yours sincerely,

Elisha Boudinot.

EING TO HAMILTON.

Sunday, 17th Sept., 1792.

If the enemies of the government are secret and united, we
shall lose Mr. Adams. Burr is industrious in his canvass, and
his object is well understood by our Antis. Mr. Edwards is to
make interest for him in Connecticut, and Mr. Dallas, who is
here and quite in the circle of the Governor and the party, in-
forms us that Mr. Burr will be supported as Vice-President in
Pennsylvania. Should Jefferson and his friends unite in the
project, the votes of Mr. A. may be so reduced, that though more
numerous than those of any other person, he may decline the
office. Nothing which has heretofore happened so decisively
proves the inveteracy of the opposition. Should they succeed
in degrading Mr. Adams, much would be to be apprehended in
respect to the measures which have received the sanction of
government.

Yours affectionately,

E. King.

^T. 35.] CORRESPONDENCE. 527

HAMILTON TO .

Philadelphia, September 21, 1792.

Dear Sir :

I take the liberty to inclose you the copy of a letter from a
very respectable friend in New-York. The contents surprised
me ; nor am I quite persuaded that the appearance of Mr. Burr
on the stage is not a diversion in favor of Mr. Clinton.

Mr, Clinton's success I should think very unfortunate ; I am
not for trusting the government too much in the hands of its
enemies. But still, Mr. C. is a man of property, and in private
life, as far as I know, of probity. I fear the other gentleman is
unprincipled, both as a public and a private man. When the
Constitution was in deliberation, his conduct was equivocal ; but
its enemies, who, I believe, best understood him, considered him
as with them. In fact, I take it, he is for or against nothing,
but as it suits his interest or ambition. He is determined, as I
conceive, to make his way to be the head of the popular party,
and to climb per fas aut nefas to the highest honors of the State,
and as much higher as circumstances may permit. Embarrassed,
as I understand, in his circumstances, with an extravagant
family, bold, enterprising, and intriguing, I am mistaken if it be
not his object to play the game of confusion, and I feel it to be a
religious duty to oppose his career.

I have hitherto scrupulously refrained from interference in
elections ; but the occasion is, in my opinion, of sufficient import-
ance to warrant, in this instance, a departure from that rule. I,
therefore, commit my opinion to you without scruple; but in
perfect confidence. I pledge my character for discernment, that
it is incumbent upon every good man to resist the present design.

528 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 35.

HAMILTON TO KING.

Sept. 23, 1792.

My Dear Sir:

Tbougli I had had a previous intimation of the possibility of
such an event, yet the intelligence contained in your letter of the
17th, surprised me. Even now I am to be convinced that the move-
ment is any thing more than a diversion in favor of Mr, Clinton ;
yet, on my part, it will not be neglected. My attention, as far as
shall be in any degree safe, will be directed to every State south
of New-York. I do not go beyond it, because other influences
would be quite as efficacious there as mine.

A good use will be made of it in this State. I wish a letter
could be written here, stating the plan, and Mr. Dallas's assertion
respecting Pennsylvania, which could be made use of without re-
serve. You well know who could write such a letter, and of
course to whom it might be addressed. Mr. Lewis would be the
most proper person to be written to. This is a matter of impor-
tance, and if practicable, no time should be lost.

I wrote Mr. Jay a long letter, which I fear reached New-
York after he had set out on the circuit, informing him that I had
concluded to advise a proclamation ; and my reasons for it, which
included some material facts not before communicated, I have
not leisure to repeat. The proclamation has been signed by the
President, and sent to Mr. Jefferson for his counter-signature ; I
expect it here on Tuesday, and have taken correspondent
measures. I believe all is prudent and safe.
Yours truly and affectionately,

A. Hamilton.

^T.35.] CORRESPONDENCE. 529

HAMILTON TO

Philadelphia, Sept. 26, 1792.

My Dear Sir:

Some days since I was surprised witli tlie following intelli-
gence, in a letter from Mr. King, whose name I disclose to you in
confidence.

'■'• Bwrr is industrious in his canvass, and his object is well un-
derstood by our Antis. Mr. Edwards is to make interest for him
in Connecticut; and Mr. Dallas, who is here, and quite in the
circle of the Governor and the party, informs us that Mr. Burr
will be supported as Vice-President in Pennsylvania. Nothing
which has heretofore happened so decisively proves the invet-
eracy of the opposition. Should they succeed, much would be
to be apprehended."

Though in my situation I deem it most proper to avoid inter-
ference in any matter relating to the elections for members of the
government, yet I feel reasons of sufiicient force to induce a de-
parture from that rule in the present instance.

Mr. Burr's integrity as an individual is not unimpeached.
As a public man, he is one of the worst sort — a friend to nothing
but as it suits his interest and ambition. Determined to climb to
the highest honors of the State, and as much higher as circum-
stances may permit ; he cares nothing about the means of effect-
ing his purpose. — 'Tis evident that he aims at putting himself at
the head of what he calls the " popular party," as affording the
best tools for an ambitious man. to work with — secretly turning
liberty into ridicule, he knows as well as most men how to make
use of the name. In a word, if we have an embryo Ccesar in
the United States, 'tis Burr.
530 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 36.

KING TO HAMILTON".

September 27th, 1792.

Care has been taken to put our friends at the Eastward on
their guard. Measures have been pursued to ascertain opinions
in different quarters ; and on this, as on a former occasion, the
object may be silently abandoned, should it appear absolutely
desperate. If Clinton should be supported, this will be the case ;
if not, the party must resort to some other Northern character ;
hence the hopes of this gentleman.

The conversation with Mr. Dallas passed between him and
me, and it would not be well that I should be publicly quoted.
As he is almost all his time with the party here, I don't find that
I can obtain such a letter as you propose.

Mr. Jay, who returned yesterday, unwell, sent me your let-
ter of the 17th. I wish that the proclamation may produce the
effects you promise yourself. If the country will support the
judiciary, all will be well. My apprehension on this point led
me to wish the effort to be made under circumstances the most
favorable to its success. I like as little as you possibly can do,
the omission of the Executive to exercise its power on a plain
and important occasion. Still, allowances must be made for the
actual condition in which we find ourselves. You cannot stop
with the proclamation. Unless the opposition subsides, the
Executive must proceed, if requisite force must be employed, to
carry the law into effect.

One good point will be secured by the proclamation, which
possibly would have been precarious without it. There might
have been a disinclination to enforce the law, had its violation
been submitted to legislative consideration, previous to any step
on the part of the Executive to carry it into execution. This
cannot be the case now. The good, from inclination, and others
from a less worthy motive, will support the Executive and
enforce the law.

Yours, &c.,

R. King.

^T. 35.] • CORRESPONDENCE. 531

JOHNSON TO HAMILTON.

New-Yohk, September 30th, 1792.

Dear Sir :

You was so good as to assure me, tlie last time I had the
pleasure to see you, that you would introduce my son, Kobert
Charles Johnson, to our minister, Mr. Pinckney, that he might
have the benefit of his protection and advice on his travels in
England, &c. Circumstances would not permit him to go at that
time ; but he has now taken a passage on board a ship bound to
Bristol, which proposes to sail on Sunday next. His sole object
is introduction and improvement ; and as I wish him to travel
as advantageously as may be, I am persuaded no name in this
country can be a more valuable recommendation to him than
yours. I beg the favor of letters of introduction for him to the
minister, and any other of your friends in England you may
think proper.

He means, also, to see Holland ; and if the trouble in France
will permit him, to visit that country also, and therefore begs a
line to Mr. Morris, and, if it be not too great a favor, to M. de
Lafayette, &c. He will, with great pleasure, execute any com-
missions in his power for you in Europe ; and both he and I
shall be extremely obliged to you for any letters or commands
you shall please to favor him with, and am,
"With the sincerest esteem.

Dear Sir,

Your most obd't serv't,
Wm. Sam'l Johnson.

532 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 35.

HAMILTON TO GEN. C. C. PINCKNEY.

Philadelphia, Oct. 10, 1792.

My Dear Sir :

I duly received your letter of the 6tli September, and have
sent an extract to Mr. Church for the explanation which is
necessary. I feel myself truly obliged by your friendly allusion
to my unpleasant situation, and for the consolation which you are
so kind as to offer me. The esteem of discerning and virtuous
men must always support a mind properly formed under the
pressure of malevolence and envy. I will not pretend that I am
insensible to the persecution which I experience ; but it may be
relied upon that I shall desert no post which I ought to endeavor
to maintain, so long as my own reputation or the public good
may render perseverance necessary or proper. When it is not
requisite, either to the one or the other, my friends will excuse
me if I recollect that I have a growing and hitherto too much
neglected family. It is to be lamented that so strong a spirit of
faction and innovation prevails at the present moment in a great
part of the country. The thing is alarming enough to call for
the attention of every friend to government. Let me not be
thought to travel out of my sphere, if I observe that a particular
attention to the election for the next Congress is dictated by the
vigorous and general effort which is making by factious men, to
introduce every where, and in every department, persons un-
friendly to the measures, if not the constitution of the National
Government. Either Governor Clinton, or Mr. Burr, of New-
York, both decidedly of the description of persons I have men-
tioned, is to be run in this quarter as Yice-President, in opposi-
tion to Mr. Adams. The former has been invariably the enemy
of national principles. The latter has no other principles than
to mount, at all events, to the full honors of the State, and to as
much more as circumstances will permit — a man in private life
not unblemished. It will be a real misfortune to the government
if either of them should prevail. 'Tis suspected by some, that
the plan is only to divide the votes of the Northern and Middle

iET. 35.] CORRESPONDENCE. 533

States, to let in Mr. Jefferson by the votes of the South. I will
not scruple to say to you, in confidence, that this also would be
a serious misfortune to the government. That gentleman, whom
I once very much esteemed^ but who does not permit me to retain
that sentiment for him, is certainly a man of sublimated and
paradoxical imagination, entertaining and propagating opinions
inconsistent with dignified and orderly government. Mr. Adams,
•whatever objections may lie against some of his theoretic opin-
ions, is a firm, honest, and independent politician. Some valu-
able characters are about to be lost to the House of Eepreseuta-
tives, of their own choice. I feared once that this would be the
case with Mr. Smith,* of your State ; but I believe his present
intention is rather to continue to serve. I trust there can be no
doubt of his success, and I wish means to be used to determine
his acquiescence. He is truly an excellent member — a ready,
clear speaker, of a sound analytic head, and the justest views. I
know no man whose loss from the House would be more severely
felt by the good cause. The delicacy of these observations from
me will, of course, occur to you ; I make them without reserve,
confiding equally in your friendship and prudence. Accept the
assurances of the cordial esteem and regard with which I have
the honor to remain,

Dear Sir,

Your obedient Servant,

Alexander Hamilton.

HAMILTON TO STEELE.

Philadelphia, October 15, 1792.

My Dear Sir:

The letter, which you did me the favor to write me, of the
19th of September, came to hand two days ago. The late symp-
toms of acquiescence in the duty on distilled spirits, which you

* Hon. Wm. Smith, South Carolina.

534 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 35.

announce in yonr quarter, are particularly satisfactory. If the
people will but make trial of the thing, their good will towards
it will increase. This has hitherto happened every where,
where the law has gone into operation. There certainly can be
no tax more eligible or less burthensome. Though I impose
on myself great circumspection on the subject of elections for
the Federal Government, yet, in relation to the characters you
mention, I feel myself more at liberty, and my entire confidence
in you will not permit me to affect reserve. I take it for granted
that, in all the Northern and Middle States, the present President
will have an unanimous vote. I trust it will be so in the South
also. A want of unanimity would be a blot on our political
hemisphere, and would wound the mind of that excellent charac-
ter to whom the country is so much indebted. For Yice-Presi-
dent, Mr. Adams will have a nearly unanimous vote in the
Eastern States. The same thing would happen in New- York, if
the electors were to be chosen by the people ; but as they will be
chosen by the Legislature, and as a majority of the existing
Assembly are Clintonians, the electors will, I fear, be of the
same complexion. In Jersey, Mr. Adams will have a unanimous
vote, and, according to present appearances, in Pennsylvania
likewise. The parties have had a trial of their strength here for
representatives, and though the issue is not finally ascertained,
there is a moral certainty, from the returns received, that the
ticket supported by the Federal interest will prevail by a large
majority. The electors nominated by the same interest, will all,
or nearly all, favor Mr. Adams. I believe the weight of Dela-
ware will be thrown into the same scale. And I think it pro-
bable there will be votes for Mr. Adams in Maryland. I presume
none in Virginia or Georgia. Of North Carolina, you can best
judge. In South Carolina he will have votes, but I am at a loss
to judge of the proportion.

This statement will inform you that Mr. Adams is the man
who will be supported in the Northern and Middle States, by
the friends of the Government. They reason thus — " Mr. Adams,
like other men, has his faults and foibles — some of the opinions
he is supposed to entertain, we do not approve ; but we believe

Ml. 35.] CORRESPONDENCE. 535

him to be honest, firm, faithful, and independent — a sincere lover
of his country — a real friend to genuine liberty ; but combining
his attachment to that with love of order and stable government.
No man's private character can be fairer than his. No man has
given stronger proofs than him of disinterested and intrepid
patriotism. "We will, therefore, support him as far preferable to
any one who is likely to be opposed to him."

Who will be seriously opposed to him, I am yet at a loss to
decide. One while, Governor Clinton appeared to be the man.
Of late, there have been symptoms of Col. Burr's canvassing for
it. Some say one or both of these will be played ofi" as a diver-
sion in favor of Mr. Jefferson. I do not scruple to say to you,
that my preference of Mr. Adams to either of these is decided.
As to Mr. Clinton, he is a man of narrow and perverse politics,
and as well under the former as under the present government,
he has been steadily, since the termination of the war with Great
Britain, opposed to national principles. My opinion of Mr. Burr
is yet to form — but, according to the present state of it, he is a
man whose only political principle is to mount at all events^ to the
highest legal honors of the nation, and as much further as cir-
cumstances will carry him. Imputations, not favorable to his
integrity as a man, rest upon him, but I do not vouch for their
authenticity.

There was a time when I should have balanced between Mr.
Jefferson and Mr. Adams ; but I now view the former as a man
of sublimated and paradoxical imagination — cherishing notions
incompatible with regular and firm government.

Thus have I opened myself to you with frankness. I doubt
not I am perfectly safe in doing it.

You give me pain by telling me that you have declined
serving in the House of Kepresentatives after the third of March
nest — and that it is doubtful whether you will attend the next
session. I anxiously hope that you will find it convenient to at-
tend, and that you will change your resolution as to not serving
in a future house. The ensuing session will be an interesting
one, and the next Congress will either anchor the government in
safety or set it afloat.

536 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 35.

My apprehension is excited when I see so many valuable
members dropping off. Mr, Laurance and Mr. Benson will not
serve again. Mr. Barnewell also declines. The house will, I
fear, lose more of its talents than it can spare.
With truest esteem and regard,
I remain, dear Sir,

Your obedient servant,

Alexander Hamilton.

M'HENRY TO HAMILTON.

20th October, 1792.

My Dear Hamilton:

I have been confined by a fever to my bed seventeen days-
Yesterday and to-day I have sat up a little.

I have just received your letter of the 10th ultimo, which ar-
rived during the height of my illness, after having gone to
Fayettville, in North Carolina, and back to Philadelphia.

I expect a visit from Bishop Carroll, on his return to Balti-
more, which may be next week. I have thought if I showed
him a paragraph in your letter it might have its use ; I have,
therefore, delayed destroying it until I hear from you. The
paragraph is, " Your project with regard to the Presidency, in a
certain event, will, I believe, not have an opportunity of being
executed. Happily for the j)ublic tranquillity the present incum-
bent, after a serious struggle, inclines, if I mistake not, to submit
to another election. If it turns out otherwise, I say unequivo-
cally— I will co-operate in running the gentleman you mention,
as one of the two who are to fill the two great offices. Which
of the two may turn up first or second^ must be an affair of some
casualty as the Constitution stands. My real respect and esteem
for the character brought into view will insure him my best
wishes in every event." Instruct me. Send me Perry's letter.

^T. 35.]

CORRESPONDENCE. 537

Adieu. If I should go to heaven before you— I shall remember
you. I must go to bed.

Yours affectionately,

James M'Henry.

CAEKOLL TO HAMILTON.

Annapolis, 22d October, 1792.

Dear Sir:

I received on the 7th instant, your favor of the 23d past. I
have delayed thus long answering it with a hope that I might
discover whether the anti-federal party in the State had in view
the person referred to in your letter. I suspect a communication
of sentiments is maintained by the leaders of this party through-
out the United States ; however, I have not heard his name even
whispered. His character I could not well see through during
the time we were together. I noticed a disposition to perplex
and puzzle, which left an unfavorable impression on my mind.
He appeared to me not to want talents, but judgment and steadi-
ness ; and I suspect he possesses of ambition a quantum sufficit
for any man.

I hope the friends of stability, in other words, the real friends
of liberty and their country, will unite to counteract the schemes
of men, who have uniformly manifested a hostile temper to the
present government ; the adoption of which has rescued these
States from that debility and confusion and those horrors which
unhappy France has experienced of late, and may still labor
under. I beg my respects to Mrs. Hamilton, and remain with
sentiments of respect and regard,
Dear Sir,

Your most obedient humble servant,

Charles Carroll, of Carrollton.

)38 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 35.

MORRIS TO HAMILTON.

Paris, October 24tli, 1792.

My Dear Sir:

I have received yours of the twenty-second of June, and am
in the hourly hope to hear farther from you. I need not tell
you that it will give me pleasure. Inclosed you will find the
copy of a letter, which I wrote to Mr. Jefferson on the 7th of
November, 1791. This, with some other communications of the
same epoch, he never acknowledged. I know not why, but I
think the paper inclosed in that letter will be agreeable to you,
though not very amusing.

It would seem that your friend jScipio is not much attached
to Pauhts, at least if I may judge from some things which I see.
However, there is a great chasm in my newspapers, which breaks
the thread of my conjectures, as well as of my information; for
I have little, I might almost say, none of the latter but from the
gazettes ; of course I know what passes about two months after
every body else. Tell me, I pray you, how Scoevola stands
affected between the parties just named. I think he never had a
very high opinion of the first mentioned, but he was attached to
Tarquin immeasurably, and that, with some local circumstances,
may have formed a stronger chain than I should otherwise sup-
pose.

You will have seen that the late Constitution of this country
has overset ; a natural accident to a thing, which was all sail and
no ballast. I desire much, very much, to know the state of
opinions with you on that subject. Some gentlemen who consi-
dered it as the acme of human wisdom, must, I suppose, find out
causes which persons on the spot never dreamt of. But in seek-
ing or inventing these causes, what will be their opinion of
present powers ; what the conduct they wish to pursue ? These
are to me important questions. Brutus will doubtless triumph,
but I wish to feel the pulse of opinion with you, or rather to
know beforehand how it is like to beat. There are pros and
cons whose action I cannot estimate. The flight of Monsieur de

iET.35.] CORRESPONDENCE. 539

Lafayette, tlie murder of the Duke de la Eocliefoucault and
others, with many similar circumstances, have, I know, affected
the ideas of some. But what will be the republican sense as to
the new republic ? Will it be taken for granted that Louis the
Sixteenth was guilty of all possible crimes, and particularly of
the enormous one of not suffering his throat to be cut, which was
certainly a nefarious plot against the people, and a manifest viola-
tion of the bill of rights ? Paulus, who is no enemy to kings,
will not believe that they are all tigers ; but I am not certain that,
if he were here, he would not consider them as monkeys.

However, we are done with them in France, at least for the
present. There are two parties here. The one consists of about
half a dozen, and the other of fifteen or twenty, who are at dag-
gers' drawing. Each claims the merit of having made the young
republic. My public letters and the gazettes will bring you ac-
quainted with things here, as fully as I can in any way commu-
nicate them. It is not worth while to detail the characters of
those now on the stage, because they must soon give place to
others. Adieu.

GOUVERNEUR MORRIS.

MORRIS TO HAMILTON.

Paris, December 24th, 1792.

My Dear Sir:

I wrote to you on the twenty-fourth of October, and have not
since received any of your letters. In that I acknowledged
yours of the 22d of June. You will have seen from the public
prints the wonderful success of the French arms, arising from
the following causes, — 1. That the enemy, deceived by the emi-
grants, counted too lightly on the opposition he was to meet
with. 2. That from like misinformation, instead of attacking on
the northern frontier, backed by the resources of Flanders, and
those which the ocean would supply, they came across the
Ardennes, to that part of Champaigne nicknamed the loicsr/, from

540 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 35.

its barrenness and misery. 3. That in this expedition, where
the difficulty of the roads, transportation and commnnication was
the greatest they expected, it so happened that the season, usually
dry and fair (when those bad roads are at the best), was one
continued rain for two months, so that at length they were
nearly stuck fast, and had as much as they could do to drag
back their cannon, &c,, through the mud. Lastly. That France
brought into the field, and has kept up until very lately, the
immense number of six hundred thousand troops. This has
been done at an average expense of about five millions sterling
per month beyond their resources, and yet they have ordered a
like army for the next campaign, and talk boldly of meeting
Great Britain also upon her element. What say you to that.
Monsieur le Financier ? But I will tell you in your ear, that in
spite of that blustering, they will do much to avoid a war with
Great Britain, if the people loill let thera ; but the truth is, that the
populace of Paris influence in a great degree the public councils.
I think they will have quite as many men as they can maintain ;
but what that may amount to is hard to determine.

The ministers here are most extraordinary people. They
make nothing of difficulties, as you shall judge by a single trait
of M. Pache, the Minister at "War. He had sent Bournonville to
occupy the Moselle river down to Coblentz, taking Treves and
other places in his way. ■ Now this way lies through a very diffi-
cult mountainous country, in which the snow is very deep, there-
fore Bournonville, having got a little neck of land between the
Saave and the Moselle, puts his troops into winter quarters, plead-
ing their nakedness as an excuse. The minister has sent him a
brace of commissioners, who have power to impress in the neigh-
borhood whatever may be needful for the troops, and then (their
wants supplied) summon him to obey his orders. I have given
to Mr. Jefferson a pretty full account of the state of things, so
that if you see that account, which I take it is of course, you
may measure by the standard now given you all other affairs.

If I may venture to judge from appearances, there is now in
the wind a storm not unlike that of the second of September.
Whether it will burst or blow over, it is impossible to determine.

iET. 35.] CORRESPONDENCE. 541

It has occurred to me, that I never yet assigned a reason why
the completion of payment of six million livres, which, at Mr.
Short's request, I had stipulated for with the government lately
abolished, appeared to me desirable. In effect I left this, as I do
many other things, to the sense of the gentle reader; but as
readers are sometimes ungentle^ it is not amiss to communicate
that reason to a friend. I saw that the new government would
be hungry, and would urge us for money in the double view of
obtaining an acknowledgment of them, as well as of supplying •
their wants. It was, therefore, I thought, right to take a position
where we might say, there is nothing due. This would leave open
a question, which it would be very delicate to answer either
way, as things appeared then, and as they are now that appear-
ances have changed. You will have seen the manoeuvres to force
me in that intrenchment ; but at last, like your friend General
Lee, I was quite at the worst for a retrograde manoeuvre.

But I concluded that supplies of money to support the colony
of St. Domingo would, in all events^ have been considered as a
good and effectual payment on our part, and had my offer of
recommending such supplies been accepted, I would on that
ground have proposed the measure, which, anticipating the next
instalments^ would have still kept open the main point as long as
you should think proper. And thus my apparent retreat was in
effect a mode of more permanent defence^ and this is more, I
believe, than poor Lee could say for himself

I am truly yours, &c.,

GOUVEENEUK MORKIS.

JAY TO HAMILTON.

New-York, December 29th, 1792.

Dear Sir:

On my return this evening from Eye, I found your letter of
the 18th inst. at my house.

542 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 35.

It is not difficult to perceive tliat your situation is unpleasant ;
and it is easy to predict that your enemies will endeavor to
render it still more so. The thorns they strew in your way will
(if you please) hereafter blossom, and furnish garlands to de-
corate your administration. Eesolve not to be driven from your
station ; and as your situation must, it seems, be militant, act
accordingly. Envy will tell posterity that your difficulties, from
the state of things^ were inconsiderable, compared with the great,,
growing, and untouched resources of the nation. Your difficul-
ties, from persons and parties will, by Time, be carried out of
sight, unless you prevent it. No other person will possess suffi-
cient facts and details to do full justice to the subject ; and I
think your reputation points to the expediency of memoirs.
You want time, it is true, — but few of us know how much time
we can find when we set about it.

Had not your letter come from the post-office, I should sus-
pect it had been opened — the wafer looked very much like it.
Such letters should be sealed with was, impressed with your
seal.

I rejoice with you in the re-election of Mr. Adams. It has
relieved my mind from much inquietude — it is a great point
gained — but the unceasing industry and arts of the Antis render
perseverance, union, and constant efforts necesssary.

Adieu, my dear sir.

Yours sincerely.

HAMILTON TO HARRISON.

Philadelphia, January 5th, 1793.

Dear Sir:

* * * * -;t Your account is returned with directory
remarks upon it. I am sorry you should have the trouble of so
many different applications, but the course of public business
requires it.

I am more sorry that we have been deprived of the pleasure

JEt. 36.] CORRESPONDENCE. 543

of seeing you. Every friend I see from a place I love, is a cor-
dial to me, and I stand in need of something of that kind now
and then.

The triumphs of vice are no new things under the sun, and I
fear, till the millennium comes, in spite of all our boasted light
and purification, hypocrisy and treachery will continue to be the
most successful commodities in the political market. It seems to
be the destined lot of nations to mistake their foes for their
friends, their flatterers for their faithful servants.

Adieu. Believe me with true esteem and regard, &c.

THOMAS PINCKNEY TO HAMILTON.

London, January 8th, 1793.

My Dear Sir:

I am informed by Messrs. Bird, Savage and Bird, merchants
of this city, that a scheme is in agitation for the payment in
London of the interest on that part of the American funds which
is in Europe, through the medium of agents to be appointed by
the Bank of the United States. As they wish, in conjunction
with another respectable house, to obtain this agency, they very'
judiciously think that your support would greatly strengthen
their application to the President and Directors of the Bank, and
have requested of me a letter of recommendation to you on the
subject; and I accede to the proposal without reluctance, as I am
persuaded that private application never influences your mind
in public appointments, at the same time that the testimony of
those acquainted with the applicants will have such weight as it
merits. With respect to the present business, I can only inform
you that the gentlemen who compose this house are respectable
in their private capacities as well as in their mercantile transac-
tions, and as far as my information goes very well connected
here ; they are known to have had considerable concerns in the
American funds already, which it is their present object to con-

544 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 36.

tinue, and to evince tliat I do not recommend where I have not
a confidence, all my transactions in the money line pass through
their hands ; which, though not considerable, are of importance
to me.

Your letter to Messrs. Vanstaphorsts and Co., was brought to
me, yesterday, by the captain of the New Pigeon, and shall be
sent by this day's mail.

I have the honor to be, with the utmost respect, yours, &c.

CAERINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Richmond, February 15th, 1793.
I have been favored with a packet from you containing several
copies of your letter of the 4th instant, to the Speaker of the
House of Eepresentatives. I had fully anticipated the decided
contradictions contained in this letter, to the suggestions which
gave rise to it, having seen the resolutions alluded to. The
copies of the letters are circulated as far as the numbers would
admit, and I think if you could send me more, they might be
distributed with good effect.

I cannot but be of opinion that you ought to rejoice in those
attacks which lead to decided contradictions. Both sides of the
question get fairly presented to public view, and truth must ulti-
mately have its due effect.

I am, with great regard.

Your sincere friend and humble servant,

Ed. Oarringtojst.

^T. 36.] CORRESPONDENCE. 545

MORRIS TO HAMILTON".

Paris, February 16tli, 1793.

Dear Sir:

My last was of the IGth. of Januar}^, of which I now inclose
a copy. It has so happened that a very great proportion of the
French officers, who served in America, have been either op-
posed to the revolution at an early day, or felt themselves
obliged, at a later period, to abandon it. Some of them are
now in a state of banishment, and their property confiscated.
Among these last there are a few, who had intrusted to their
agents the certificates received from our treasury, and these last,
under the pressure of penal decrees, either detain those certifi-
cates, or have delivered them up to those persons appointed by
the republic to take charge of confiscated property.

There certainly can be no question on this subject, under the
laws existing among nations, but I shall not undertake to decide
either on rights or pretensions to right, especially where I am
not authorized to act ; but it is proper that I should lay before
you a state of facts, for your ulterior decision. The only one at
present before me is the case of Colonel Laumoy, to whom I
shall write in answer to his applications, that I am not author
ized to make payment but on production of the certificate, and
therefore he must address himself on the subject to you, in the
full confidence that right and justice will take place, such being
the clear determination of the United States.

I am, &c.,

GrOUVERNEUR MORRIS.

BARD TO HAMILTON.

Ne-w-York, March 4th, 1793.

Sir:

I dined a few days ago with a large company at Judge Du-
ane's. In the course of the afternoon, you became the subject
E 35

546 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [tEt. 36.

of general conversation. It gave me the greatest pleasure to
hear that just and grateful applause which all the company be-
stowed upon you.

Your friend General Gates declared whenever your idea was
present to his mind, he could not help applying to you the beau-
tiful epitaph Mr. Pope wrote to the memory of his friend, Mr.
Secretary Craggs :

" Statesman, yet friend to truth, of soul sincere,
In action faithful, and in honor dear !
Who broke no promise, served no private end.
Who gained no title, and who lost no friend.
Ennobled by himself, by all approved,
Praised, wept, and honor'd, by the mass he loved."

It was unanimously and heartily agreed by this respectable com-
pany, that these lines exhibited an exact and perfect portrait of
Colonel Hamilton's character. The delight I felt at this just and
grateful eulogium has prompted me to communicate it to the
only gentleman, who will probably feel less sensibility on the
occasion, than any of his numerous friends. Though I presume,
a just tribute of praise, which flows from a grateful sense of those
great and essential benefits, man derives to his country, by su-
perior abilities and unremitting devotion to its real interests,
cannot be ungrateful to the generous donor himself.
I am. Sir,

With real respect and affection, &c.

HAMILTON TO .

August, 1793.

Dear Sir:

Poor Duer has now had a long and severe confinement, such
as would be adequate punishment for no trifling crime. I am
well aware of all the blame to which he is liable, and do not
mean to be his apologist, though I believe he has been as much

,Et. 36.J CORRESPONDENCE. 547

the dupe of his own imagination, as others have been the vic-
tims of his projects. But what then? He is a man — he is a
man with wliom we have both been in habits of friendly inti-
macy. He is a man who, with a great deal of good zeal, has in
critical times rendered valuable services to the country. He is
a husband, who has a most worthy and amiable wife, perishing
with chagrin at his situation ; — your relation by blood, mine by
marriage ; — he is a father, who has a number of fine children,
destitute of the means of education and support, every way in
need of his future exertions.

These are titles to sympathy, which I shall be mistaken if
you do not feel. You are his creditor. Your example may in-
fluence others. He wants permission, through a letter of license,
to breathe the air for /ye years. Your signature to the inclosed
draft of one, will give me much pleasure.

Yours, A. H.

CABOT TO HAMILTON.

March 4th, l/QS.

My Dear Sir:

The people of Massachusetts entertain the idea that a balance
is due to the State more than sufficient to cover her State debt,
and some anxiety has been excited in the legislation of that
State, lest she should finally fail of receiving it. After the fail-
ure of the Assumption-Bill, I intended to have had five minutes
conversation with you on the subject, but that your time seemed
to be overcharged with other business.

I hope you will find leisure and inclination to furnish me
soon with your ideas on the interesting subject of commercial
policy, and that you will say definitively whether my continu-
ance in the bank is to be desired or not, since it furnishes so co-
pious a topic for complaint. I called this morning to bid you
farewell, but you were absent.

May God bless you.

^ G. Cabot.

548 HAiMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 36.

ELISHA BOUDINOT TO HAMILTON.

Newark, March 26th; 1793.

Dear Sir:

After passing througli a fierj ordeal, I suppose you have a
few moments to breathe a milder air. The part the country in
general lake in your triumph over the envious and malicious,
— enemies to the government as well as yourself, — must convince
you that the influence of these beings extends but a little way out
of their own selfish, narrow circle.

Mr. Low has been over with me, and we have concluded to
put off the meeting of the directors till the 16th April, as then
we should have a full board, in all probability, and be more
likely to have your attendance. In fact, if you do not wish to
forsake your child, it is absolutely necessary for you to attend at
that time. Mr. Low informed Major L'Enfant, Mr. Colt, and
myself, that Colonel Ogden would make an offer at that time, to
deliver the water at Vreelandt's Point, purchase the lands neces-
sary for the canals for £20,000, and if he did, he should be of
opinion that it ought to be complied with. The Major then said,
he would not begin any part of his plan that was not in actual
operation until then ; and they concluded to discharge the labor-
ers that applied, and give out that they would not be wanted till
the 20th April. This will occasion a delay that I am sorry for.
Mr. Colt goes home, and will return by the time of our meeting.
He is, I think, every way qualified for the business, and I have
no doubt of its success under his management, as soon as the
works can be set in motion. He is very much pleased with
Peirce and Marshall, and they with him ; and harmony is fully
restored. Do not let these pompous, high-minded, tcould-he
kings, though under the false garb of republicans, draw your at-
tention from this great object, but look forward to those tranquil
days when this child will be an Hercules, and you settled on the
beautiful and peaceful banks of the Passaic, enjoying the fruits
of your labor.

I am with respect, dear Sir, yours sincerely, &c.

^T. 36.] CORRESPONDENCE. 549

CARRINGTOX TO HAMILTON.

Richmond, March 26th, 1793.

My Dear Sir:

With very great pleasure I have compUed with your request
in getting the final proceedings of the House of Eepresentatives
inserted in the most public and generally circulating paper of
this place, and sent them to Norfolk, Petersburg, Alexandria,
and Winchester, with a request, through my friends at these
places, that they be inserted in their papers, which will instantly
be done.

The votes of Colonel Griffin, upon this occasion, were caught
at by the enemies of the government, at the late election, which
took place just about the time of their appearing; and, as will
always be the case, a dangerous effect was produced amongst the
public in every county in this district ; but the activity of better
men on that day, produced what the great body of the people, I
think, are always ready to possess— a reasonable disposition — and
his election was fortunately secured, to the great mortification of
some of our most active demagogues ; and I am well assured
that, at this day, many who were carried away by the storm are
much ashamed of their conduct.

You are, my good friend, too well acquainted with mankind
to expect that you are to proceed in the administration of an
ofiice so efficacious in the operations of government as yours,
without being constantly exposed to attacks. All that you can
do is, to shield yourself, as you have done, against ultimate in-
jury, by a steady exercise of your best abilities, and manifesting
in every act an integrity, that even your enemies have not, in
all their complaints of pernicious tendency in your measures,
ventured to call in question.

You have this consolation, that do as they will with the fur-
ther progress of your systems, they have proceeded far enough
to evidence the solidity of the principles on which they were
laid, and the ability with which they were set in motion. If
they continue in their natural course, they will at last be your

550 HAMILTON'S WORKS.

[^T. 36.

most certain vindicators. If they meet with such interruption
as to destroy them, worse measures, I apprehend, will often
force the reflections of the people back upon them.
I am,

With very great regard, dear Sir,

Your afPectionate friend and humble serv't,

Ed. Carrington".

HAMILTON TO KING.

Philadelphia, April 2d, 1793.

My Dear Sir:

When you are acquainted with all the facts, I think you
will alter the opinion you appear to entertain. My application
comes literally within your rule. The loan is necessary for the
current expenditure, independent of any new advance to France,
or of purchases of the debt. This has arisen from my having
been under the necessity of remitting to Holland, for a payment,
in June, of 1,000,000 guilders, as an instalment of the principal,
and 470,000 guilders for interest of the Dutch debt.

Late advices rendering it problematical whether a loan could
be obtained for the purpose of the instalment, it became neces-
sary to make this remittance to avoid danger to the public
credit.

Hence, without a loan from the bank, I ought to calculate
upon a deficiency in the present quarter (remember we are in
April) of 672,023 dollars and 26 cents, and in the next, of
325,447 dollars and 28 cents.

This is the result of as accurate a view of receipts and ex-
penditures as can now be taken. You will anticipate that, by
all the expenditures not falling actually within the periods to
which they are applicable, the real deficiency would not be so
great as the calculated ; but you will, at the same time, perceive
that the view given supposes a state of the Treasury which ren-
ders an auxiliary indispensable.

a:t.36.] correspondence. 561

At the same time, I cannot but think that you apply your
principle too rigorously. I ought not to be forced to divert, for a
length of time, funds appropriated for other purposes, to the current
expenditure. To compel this, would be, in substance, to with-
hold the means necessary for the public service ; for it would
oblige the Treasury to employ an adventitious resource, which
ought not to be so employed, and that too at a time when it could
be employed advantageously, according to its original and true
destination. I therefore think, independent of the I'eal exigency,
the bank ought to make the loan.

The loans to government stand on very different considera-
tions from those to individuals. Besides the chartered privileges,
which are the grant of the government, the vast deposits con-
stantly on hand, and which ordinarily exceed the loans from the
bank, frequently very greatly, are an advantage which, generally
speaking, bears no proportion to the advantages of the dealings
between individuals and the bank. Consider, too, what has
been the state of things for some time past, and the real sacrifices
which have been made not to distress the institution.

If for such accommodations equivalent services are not to be
rendered, they could not easily be defended.

Besides, from the necessity of having a considerable sum on
hand in the Treasury, and the natural course of the business, the
bank is pretty sure of having always on deposit a large part ol
what it lends to the government. This does not exist, in any
thing like the same degree, in the case of individuals.

You seem to calculate that the past advances will not be re-
placed. On the contrary, it is my intention, pursuant to stipula-
tion, to repay as fast as the funds come in applicable to it ; and
in the last quarter of the year, I hope to make a considerable
progress in the reimbursement ; till then, it will not be prac-
ticable.

I do not know whether Mr. Kane stated to you the nature of
my proposal. It was, that the payments should be made in four
equal monthly instalments — the first on the first of June — and
that each instalment should be reimbursed in six months. The
real advance of the bank will be very temporary, indeed, before

552 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [tEt. 36.

greater sums will come into its vaults from the duties. In the
last quarter of the present, and the first quarter of the ensuing
year, very large receipts may be expected.

You are sure that while I seek to put myself in a proper pos-
ture, I shall not fail to have a due regard to the safety and inter-
est of the institution.

It is much to be wished that I could be enabled to make some
purchases, though this will not be the case with the loan in ques-
tion, unless a loan shall also have been obtained in Europe.

A meeting of the commissioners has lately been called by
Mr. Jeiferson, out of the course heretofore practised, in which I
have been pressed to declare whether I had or had not funds appli-
cahle to purchases. I answered so as to be safe. But you readily
perceive the design of this movement. There is no doubt in my
mind, that the next session will revive the attack with more sys-
tem and earnestness — and it is surely not the interest of any
body, or any thing^ that a serious handle should be furnished.

On the whole, I am persuaded that the Bank can do what I
ask without real inconvenience to itself; and my situation is such
that I shall be compelled to find an auxiliary.

All the cry here is for peace. How is it with you ?
Truly and affectionately,

Yours,

A. Hamilton.

JAY TO HAMILTON.

New- York, April 11th, 1793.

Dear Sir :

Your letters of the 9tli inst. were this day delivered to me, as
I was preparing to go out of town — the subject of them is impor-
tant, I have not time to judge decidedly on some of the points.
The inclosed will show what my present ideas of a proclamation
are — it is hastily drawn — it says nothing of treaties — it speaks

.f:T. 36.] CORRESPONDENCE. 553

of neutrality, but avoids the expression, because in this country
often associated with others.

I shall be at Philadelphia in my way to Richmond. I think
it better at present that too little should be said than too much.
I would not receive any minister from a regent until he was
regent de facto ; and therefore I think such intention should be
inferrible from the proclamation. Let us do every thing that may
be right to avoid war ; and if, without our fault, we should be
involved in it, there will be little room for apprehensions about
the issue. It is happy for us that we have a President who will
do nothing rashly, and who regards his own interest as insepara-
ble from the public good.

Yours sincerely, &c.

KING TO HAMILTON.

April 24th, 1793.

Averse to any connection with the war beyond what may be
permitted by the laws of strict neutrality, we are pleased to see
the Proclamation. I have no precedents with which to com-
pare it, but I could have wished to have seen in some part of it
the word " Neutrality," which every one would have understood
and have felt the force of

Having anxiously considered the points respecting which we
conversed when I was with you last, I hope you are founded in
your opinion. The change which has happened will not, per-
haps, justify us in saying "the Treaties are void" — and whether
we may contend in favor of their suspension is a point of delicacy,
and not quite free from doubt. The authority of the present
Government is coextensive with their territory, which is free
from the possession of their antagonists.

Prudence would seem to require us to move with caution,
and by delay to insure a safe decision. The mere reception of
the minister will do us no injury, although I am inclined to be-

554 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 36.

lieve, that in order to avoid being pressed on points we may wish
not to decide, it will be best to qualify the reception of the min-
ister in such a manner as will save our commitment in reference
to those questions we wish to stand open.

Our treaty with Holland may be used with advantage. The
report of Mr. Le Brun to the Convention respecting perfidy of
the monarchy towards us, is proof of such a want of good faith as
poisons the whole treaty.

Have you noticed that the 16th article of the Treaty of Com-
merce between England and France is in the teeth of the 22d
article of the Treaty of Commerce between France and us ? On
the principle that all the articles of a treaty have the force of con-
ditions, the violation of this article by France would give us
the power to renounce the whole treaty.

Examining our laws respecting the registry of our ships and
vessels, I was struck with a difficulty which will luckily be in the
way of our purchasing prizes brought into our ports by any of
the powers at war. It is w:orth your attention. As the law
stands, I do not perceive that any such vessels can be protected by
the American flag, even though owned bona fide by American
citizens. Of this point, however, I will not be confident. Such
vessels, beyond doubt, will be liable to pay the foreign tonnage.

The conduct of England in searching our ships, and impress-
ing seamen engaged under our flag, is very different in the pres-
ent armament from what it was in the late armament against
Spain. The masters of our ships which have arrived here from
England, as also those who have arrived from Ireland, speak with
the appearance of national pride when they mention the hotness
of the press and the entire exemption of ships which sail under
our flag. The circumstance is one from which we may make
pretty certain inferences. Farewell. I wish I could give assist-
ance to the measures and maxims you will pursue. We must
not become entangled with this mad war.

Yours, &c.,

EuFus King.

,£t. 36.] CORRESPONDENCE,
CARKINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Richmond, April 26, 1793.

Dear Sir :

I am favored with yours of the lOth instant. Your deter-
mination to persevere with patience in your labors to estabhsh a
permanent and successful system of revenue and credit for the
United States, must give satisfaction to all who feel that these
are the only supports of public safety and private prosperity. I
am well assured that in private life, you experienced pecuniary
advantages, and personal ease, both of body and mind, not to be
found in your present office, even were all hands to unite for
your assistance; great indeed must be then your sacrifices,
when, instead of this generous assistance, you are beset with
numerous hostilities.

To your inquiries respecting the public mind in Virginia, in
regard to the events which are happening in Europe, I will give
the most satisfactory answer I can ; it is not, however, unknown
to you, that upon things so remote, but few are heard actually
to speak, and these generally take the liberty to affix the name
of the people to their own suggestions. The truth is, that the
great body of the people desire nothing that will interrupt the
freedom, peace and happiness, they now enjoy. With regard to
the cause of France, I believe the general wish is for its success.
My own sentiments are in favor of such reforms in most of the
governments in Europe, and indeed in the world, as will give to
the human race the most free governments it can enjoy. The
experiments in France have not, however, been very flattering.
This applies to your first question.

As to the second— I believe the decapitation of the king is
pretty generally considered as an act of unprincipled cruelty,
dictated by neither justice nor policy. In my own mind, it was
a horrible transaction in every view ; and to an American, who
can even yield to its propriety, it ought to be felt as a truly sor-
rowful event.

As to the third— I have no doubt that the sense of this country

556 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 36.

is for a perfect neutrality, if it can possibly be had. My own
sentiments are, that the French, from having commenced one of
the noblest causes that ever presented itself in any country, have
lost themselves in the wildest quixotism ; my wish is that they
may recover their reason, and establish for themselves a good
government, leaving other countries to judge for themselves.
If thej^ do this, they need not fear the combinations of their
enemies.

As to the 4th and 5th — so far as I have heard observations
upon the subject of the treaty between France and America, it
appears to be considered that no alteration in the government of
either country changes the obligations of pre-existing treaties.
At the same time, it is generally held that, should we in conse-
quence of treaty, be bound to take any other than a neutral
station in the business of France, it will be an unfortunate cir-
cumstance, as we could do them no real service, and would
involve ourselves in distress. I have no doubt of its being the
general opinion, that if we, of right, have ah option, the most
perfect neutrality ought to be observed. We have in this, as
there are no doubt in every State, some characters to whom any
thing but quiet would be agreeable. This, however, is not the
case with the great body of our fellow-citizens, and the few who
are desirous of new adventures, will, doubtless, have the consent
of their countrymen to go to France in quest of them. My own
sentiments on these two questions are, that in determining what
is to be done in regard to the treaty, several considerations pre-
sent themselves. 1st. Its applicability to the present state of the
parties. 2dly. The reasonableness of calling, on the part of the
French, for a performance of it on ours, in reference to the
original motives for entering into it. 8dly. The probable conse-
quences to both parties from an attempt to fulfil the required
service. The first consideration I shall leave to those well
versed in the laws of nations ; and, perhaps, the sentiments of
the people in the Islands concerned, may claim some regard in
the determination. If they are desirous of adhering to the old
government, it may not be an insupportable opinion, that theirs
is the claim upon us for the guarantee promised in the treaty.

.1^T. 36.] CORRESPONDENCE. 557

Upon the principles of liberty and equality, it would seem that
this distinct part of the old kingdom should have a free choice
upon the subject of the revolution. The American confederacy,
as well as I recollect, demanded not the co-operation of Georgia
until she, some time after the commencement of our opposition to
Britain, voluntarily joined her sister colonies ; nor did we, during
the war, claim the allegiance of Canada ; and our connection
with these colonies in a common subjection under the British
monarchy was as complete, and locally more so, than France and
the French islands under the French monarchy. To this, it
may with some plausibility be said, that the American rise was
not a revolution of the national supreme power, but only a sepa-
ration of a part from it, and, therefore, not applicable in the pre-
sent instance. Granting this, we have a more recent one, Avhich
the principle of this objection renders certainly applicable. In
our late change of government, when a sufficient number of
States had adopted a new form to give it effect, the constituted
power did not claim right of government over the two non-
adopting States, until they, voluntarily, re-considered the subject
and adopted.

There can be no doubt but, that at the time of this event we
were an entire nation, bound together under one government,
and that the change was a revolution of the national supreme
power, as completely as that which has taken place in France. I
should suppose that, should these islands elect to place them-
selves in a situation independent of the French republic, or even
under the protection of any other power, such election would be
in perfect consistency with the avowed principles of that republic ;
and when we consider the actual situation of the islanders, as
well in regard to the nature of their property, as their depend-
ence upon foreign protection, it is highly probable that, if they
be taken by any of the maritime powers, now combined against
the French, the event will be a consequence of their desiring it.
Upon the second consideration, it must be concluded, that each
of the contracting parties had regard to the extent of its engage-
ment, and relied as much on mutual good faith in reasonable
constructions of, as compliances with the stipulation contained in

558 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 36.

the treaty ; and it would seem that, upon either involving itself
in war by voluntary acts, which cannot be supposed to have been
contemplated at the time of contract, there can be no equitable
claim upon the other for performance. Could it be at the time
of the treaty in contemplation of the United States, that a revo-
lution, such as has happened in France, was possible, and that
the new power, before organizing itself upon a rational form,
would be crusading it after the liberties of other countries, and
by that means arming all Europe against it ? Had they foreseen
that such was to be the state of French affairs, would they have
bound themselves to guarantee the islands under the consequent
wars ? I presume that had the United States at any time after
the peace thought proper to attempt the freeing of Canada from
Britain, or the Spanish colonies from Spain, neither the king, nor
even the republic of France, would have thought we had a
reasonable claim upon that nation for a participation in the war,
on account of her having, in general terms, guaranteed our
liberty and independence as well in government as commerce.
Upon the third consideration, could our attempting a compliance
with the treaty, produce good to the French cause? We have
not, nor had we at the time of the contract, a nav}'' — the only
means by which the islands can be protected against naval
powers ; we could, therefore, give no immediate defence in that
quarter. We might attack Canada, and, upon the same principle,
the Spanish colonies also ; but any offensive operation would, at
once, involve us in war with these, and all the combined powers ;
this must inevitably interrupt our trade, which neither America
nor France is in a situation to protect, and prevent those supplies
of provisions now sent to Europe, of which France is in greater
need than any of her enemies. This consequence would follow,
even should no part of the forces destined to act against the re-
public, be diverted to act in America ; and should such diversion
take place, the scene here would be so considerable as to inter-
rupt our agriculture, and abridge, if not totally prevent, a sur-
plusage of provisions for exportation. These would undoubt-
edly be the consequences to France from any attempt on our part
to assist her as an ally ; and, it does appear to me, that her true

jEt. 36.] SPONDENCE.
policy, if she shall be in temper to reflect on it, is, to be vigilant
in keeping the United States clear of the war, leaving them to
enjoy of the 7nare liherum as fully as possible. This is the only
country from which she can expect supplies of provisions, and if
we can retain the free use of the seas she will be more certain of
receiving them in the course of trade, than by a feeble attempt
of government to supply her against the fleets of her enemies.
The consequences to the United States, from an attempt to com-
ply with the treaty, need not be mentioned. They must be
evident to all who think at all on the subject ; nor will any one
whose happiness is connected with that of his country, be willing
to encounter them, but under the pressure of inevitable necessity.
This, I am inclined to think, will not occur, if we are wise. The
inhabitants of the United States ought to rejoice that, being no
longer adventurers for their own liberties, they are too remote
from the countries which have the desperate game to play, to be
brought into hazard with them.

In answer to your sixth question, I suppose the ambassador
from the French republic might be received, in form, without
the least impropriety, upon the ground of neutrality. He comes
from the prevailing authority of the nation, and it would seem
that any government refusing a reception, would manifest more
than a spirit of neutrality. The conduct of England on this
point was followed by effective measures against the republic.
The expediency of a reception in form, I have no doubt of.
Upon more considerations than the mere propriety of it, it will
prevent many cavils against our administration. It is proper for
me to inform you that we have amongst us those who are pre-
paring the people for such an event as a refusal, under the old
story of an Eastern influence in favor of monarchy in America,
consequently, unfriendly to the liberties of France. You will
readily perceive that the motive for this, arises less from a zeal
for the cause of France, than a desire to destroy the confidence
of the people in their own government.

I would be for receiving the ambassador from the French
republic, and from any other of the belligerent powers, but would
be publicly explicit as to a perfect neutrality. The French, I

O60 HAMILTON'S WORKS.

JEt. 36

suppose, have a good pretext for business with us not connected
with a participation in the war. The debt, which it appears to
be understood, ought to be paid to the existing authorities, is
certainly no unimportant ground of intercourse.

The only chance that I can now perceive for the United
States being lugged into the war is, that Great Britain may at-
tempt to restrain, by force, the passage of their ships into the
French ports with provisions, and our feeling it necessary for the
public honor, to resent the injury, should such a circumstance
happen. We shall, I suppose, have a delicate, and, perhaps,
difficult part to act. I cannot however be very apprehensive of
our being brought into the difficulty, if we evidently preserve a
neutrality. If we leave our trade open to all countries, and our
citizens free to visit all ports, I see not how Great Britain can
have a pretext to meddle with our vessels going into France,
unless laden with what are called contraband articles, or ap-
proaching places besieged, &c. Some of our hot heads throw
out opinions that we should attempt, by an order of government,
an exclusive exportation to France ; these, however, are few and
contemptible. The nation that would attempt this, without
even one armed ship, and in behalf of a nation too, whose naval
force is impaired, and far inferior to that of her enemies, would
indeed entitle itself to the ridicule of the whole world. It is
certain that France could derive no benefit from such an attempt,
which she may not secure without our infringing the rights of
neutrality. Having no navy, we must rely altogether, in the
eflbrt, upon her convoys ; and if these could cover our trading
ships, their own might, under the same convoys, pass safely home
with the provisions purchased in our ports.

I have, my dear sir, complied with your request in giving
the result of my observations and reflections upon the present
very important crisis, and have endeavored to render them
worth your trouble in asking for them. Your own judgment
will direct you how far to rely upon their accuracy. With every
sentiment of private friendship, and the fullest confidence in
your public administration,

I am your aSectionate humble servant,

Ed. Carrington.

^T. 36.] CORRESPONDENCE. 561

STEELE TO HAMILTON.

Salisbury, April 30th, 1793.

My Dear Sir:

This morning Mr. Genet, tlie French Minister, set out from
this place for Philadelphia. His route is by Eichmond, thence
to Mount Yernon, where he hopes to see the President. It will
require eighteen or twenty days for him to reach Philadelphia,
though he professes, and really seems to be in haste.

You have heard much of this citizen^ no doubt, and therefore
any thing of him from me will seem superfluous ; but as I am
writing of the man that we are all afraid of, permit me to say
that he has a good person, fine ruddy complexion, quite active,
and seems always in a bustle, more like a busy man than a man
of business. A Frenchman in his manners, he announces him-
self in all companies as the minister of the republic, &c., talks
freely of his commission, and,like most Europeans, seems to have
adopted mistaken notions of the penetration and knowledge of
the people of the United States. He is, or affects to be, highly
gratified by the affectionate treatment he has thus far expe-
rienced from the Americans, except of Charleston, where an in-
sult was offered to a French seaman, which he attributes to the
merchants, who seem in his opinion almost wholly attached to
the British. The minister, notwithstanding his good-nature,
spoke angrily of this insult, and for a moment deviated from his
system, which I think is to laugh us into the war, if he can.
The best informed men in this State, who are wholly disinter-
ested, continue uneasy, from an apprehension that our political
connection with France, and our commercial intercourse with
England, will place the United States in a delicate, if not a dan-
gerous situation during the war. My own mind has been at
ease since the communication which you were pleased to make
me of your sentiments on that subject in Philadelphia.

This conversation having been confidential, I have never con-
sidered myself at liberty to repeat any part of it, but I have often
said, on proper occasions, that the friends to neutrality and
E 36

562 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 36.

peace would find in the Secretary of the Treasury an able and
zealous friend. In short, the best men in this country rely chiefly
upon your talents and disposition to avoid the rocks which lie
upon the right hand, and upon the left, ready to dash our young
government to pieces upon the least unskilful pilotage.

This part of the country affords nothing worth attention,
except the prospect of plentiful harvests, and a good share of
political contentment.

Those who have usually been most clamorous are now in
Congress, where you may be assured they can do less evil than
at home.

With these honorable citizens I am perfectly acquainted, and
could give you a more certain description of their characters
than of the illustrious Republican who occupies a considerable
space in this letter. But you will know them soon enough.
Perhaps I may say a word or two of each of the new ones, some
time before next December, as it is certainly important that a
man in your situation should know what sort of materials he has
the misfortune to work with.

Commend me to the remembrance of Mrs. Hamilton, and
believe me to be,

With perfect respect.

Your most humble servant,

Jno. Steele.

HAMILTON TO KING.

Phtladelphu, May 2d, 1793.

The failures in England will be so seriously felt in this
country as to involve a real crisis in our money concerns.

I anxiously wish you could be here to assist in the operations
of the Bank of the United States. Never was there a time which
required more the union of courage and prudence than the

^T. 36.] CORRESPONDENCE. 563

present and approacTiing juncture. You can imagine all tliat I
could add on this subject. Is it impossible for you to spend a
month with us ?

Yours truly,

A. Hamilton.

MRS. GEN. GREENE TO HAMILTON.

Mulberry Grove, May 10th, 1793.

My Dear Sir:

Your letter, dated the 3d September, 1793, arrived here 20th
of April, and the moment I received it I got into my boat, and
hastened to town with all possible speed, having no person here
before whom I could legally swear to the inclosed facts, as nearly
as I can recollect them. Judge Pendleton was then in court ; I
did not hesitate to send for him, and told him the wretched
situation I was in on your account ; and after a little raillery he
consoled me by telling me that your affair had, some time since,
been settled very much to your honor, and that now my depo-
sition would be of no use — the fact being produced in the public
prints only could induce me to delay it a moment.

I send it therefore, now^ not with an expectation that it will
be of the least consequence, but only to show you that I can
never be ungrateful to a man whose perfections are the only
source of malicious calumny, and whose goodness to me will
never be forgotten.

It is now more than a year since I ordered Mr. Ward, of New-
York (my agent there), to pay you the sum you were so good as
to lend me in my distress, and I will thank you to write me one
line to let me know if you have received it.
I am, and ever shall be,

Your devoted, affectionate and grateful,

Cath. Greene.

Mr. Miller has just returned from Augusta, and tells me that

564 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 36.

the money has not been paid according to my order, as the cer-
tificates which were lodged for that purpose have not been sold,
but that he will make other arrangements to have it paid.

HAMILTON TO

1793.

You ask me if the newspapers of Philadelphia give a true
picture of the conduct of its citizens on the occasion of the ar-
rival of Mr. Genet, and whether the great body of them are
really as indiscreet as those papers represent them.

It gives me pleasure to be able to answer you in the nega-
tive. I can assure you upon the best evidence, that, compara-
tively speaking, but a small proportion of them have had agency
in the business.

Though the papers, on the morning of the da 3^of Mr. Genet's
arrival, announced his approach, and at o'clock three

guns were fired from the frigate as a signal to those who were
disposed to go to meet him at Gray's ferry, as had been pre-
viously concerted and notified in the papers, and though we are
told- by some of the printers, that all the outlets from the city
were crowded with persons going out to meet Mr. Genet, the
fact is, that a very inconsiderable number indeed went out. It
is seldom easy to speak with absolute certainty in such cases,
but from all I could observe or have been able to learn, I be-
lieve the number would be stated high at a hundred persons.

In the evening of the same day, according to notice in an
evening paper, which came out earlier than usual for the pur-
pose, a meeting was convened at the State House yard, under
the direction of the same persons who had projected the going
out to Gray's. This meeting was also inconsiderable. From
forty to one hundred persons give you the extremes of the num-
bers present, as reported by those who were at the meeting or in
a situation to observe it.

^T. 36.] CORRESPONDENCE. 56;")

Here a committee was appointed to prepare an address to
Mr. Genet ; and another meeting of the citizens was advertised
for the ensuing evening at the same place, the object of which ,
it seems, was to consider and approve the address.

This last meeting is stated differently, from three hundred to
one thousand. An accurate observer, who was a by-stander
and paid particular attention to the matter, assures me, that
there Avere between five and six hundred assembled. I rely
upon this as about the truth.

The persons who were met approved the address which had
been prepared, and, as you have seen, nominated a committee
to present it, whom they accompanied to Mr. Genet's lodging at
the City Tavern.

On their way to the City Tavern, their number was, as you
will imagine, considerably increased. A crowd will always draw
a crowd, whatever be the purpose. Curiosity will supply the
place of attachment to or interest in the object. What number
may have been assembled in the vicinity of the City Tavern, it
is impossible to say. The evening being pretty far advanced,
was alone an obstacle to judging.

But the true test was the meeting in the State House yard.
'Tis there we are to look for the real partisans of the measure.
And, according to this standard, it may be pronounced that not
a tenth part of the city participated in it.

You ask who were its promoters. I answer, that with very
few exceptiotis they were the same men who have been uniformly
the enemies and the disturbers of the government of the United
States. It will not be surprising, if we see ere long a curious
combination growing up to control its measures, with regard to
foreign politics, at the expense of the peace of the country —
perhaps at a still greater expense.

We too have our disorgauizers. But I trust there is enough
of virtue and good sense in the people of America to baiHe every
attempt against their prosperity, though masked under the spe-
cious garb of an extraordinary zeal for liberty. They practi-
cally, I doubt not, adopt this sacred maxim, that without gov-
ernment there is no true liberty.

566 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 36.

I agree with you in the reflections you make on the tendency
. of pubhc demonstrations of attachment to the cause of France.
'Tis certainly not wise to expose ourselves to the jealousy and
resentment of the rest of the world, by a fruitless display of zeal
for that cause. It may do us much harm, and it can do France
no good (unless indeed we are to embark in the war with her,
which nobody is so hardy as to avow, though some secretly
machinate it). It cannot be without danger and inconvenience
to our interests to impress on the nations of Europe an idea that
we are actuated by the same sinrit which has for some time past
fatally misguided the measures of those who conduct the affairs
of France, and sullied a cause once glorious, and that might have
been triumphant. The cause of France is compared with that
of America during its late revolution. Would to Heaven that
the comparison were just. Would to Heaven we could discern
in the mirror of French affairs the same decorum, the same
gravity, the same order, the same dignity, the same solemnity,
which distinguished the cause of the American Eevolution.
Clouds and darkness Avould not then rest upon the issue as
they now do. I own I do not like the comparison. When I
contemplate the horrid and systematic massacres of the 2d and
3d of September ; when I observe that a Marat and a Eobes-
pierre, the notorious prompters of those bloody scenes, sit tri-
umphantly in the convention and take a conspicuous part in its
measures — that an attempt to bring the assassins to justice has
been obliged to be abandoned ; when I see an unfortunate
prince, whose reign was a continued demonstration of the good-
ness and benevolence of his heart, of his attachment to the peo-
ple of whom he was the monarch, who, though educated in the
lap of despotism, had given repeated proofs that he was not the
enemy of liberty, brought precipitately and ignominiously to the
block without any substantial proof of guilt, as yet disclosed —
without even an authentic exhibition of motives, in decent re-
gard to the opinions of mankind ; when I find the doctrines of
atheism openly advanced in the convention, and heard with loud
applauses; when I see the sword of fanaticism extended to force
a political creed upon citizens who were invited to submit to the

jet.36.] correspondence. 567

arms of France as the harbingers of hbertj ; when I behold the
hand of rapacity outstretched to prostrate and ravish the monu-
ments^of religious worship, erected by those citizens and their
ancestors ; when I perceive passion, tumult, and violence usurp-
ing those seats, where reason and cool deliberation ought to pre-
side, I acknowledge that I am glad to believe there is no real re-
semblance between what was the cause of America and what is
the cause of France ; that the difference is no less great than
that between liberty and licentiousness. I regret whatever has
a tendency to compound them, and I feel anxious, as an Ameri-
can, that the ebullitions of inconsiderate men among us, may not
tend to involve our reputation in the issue.

JAMES HAMILTON TO HAMILTON.

St. Vincents, June 12th, 1793.

Dear Alexander :

I wrote you a letter, inclosed in one to Mr. Donald, of Vir-
ginia, since which I have had no further accounts from you. My
bad state of health has prevented my going to sea at this time —
being afflicted with a complication of disorders.

The war which has lately broke out between France and Eng-
land makes it very dangerous going to sea at this time. How-
ever, we daily expect news of a peace, and when that takes place,
provided it is not too late in the season, I will embark in the first
vessel that sails for Philadelphia.

I have now settled all my business in this part of the world,
with the assistance of my good friend, Mr. Donald, who has been
of every service to me that lay in his power, in contributing to
make my life easy at this advanced period of life. The bearer of
this, Captain Sherriff, of the brig Dispatch, sails direct for Phila-
delphia, and has promised to deliver you this letter with his own
hands ; and as he returns to this island from Philadelphia, I beg

568 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 36.

you will drop me a few lines, letting me know how you and your
family keep your health, as I am uneasy at not having heard
from you for some time past. I beg my respectful compliments
to Mrs. Hamilton and your children, and wishing you health and
happiness, I remain, with esteem, dear Alexander,

Your very affectionate father,

James Hamilton.

LEE TO HAMILTON.

Richmond, June 15th, 1793.

My Dear Sir :

"We have heard here that a circular letter from you to the
several collectors relative to French prizes has given great offence
to the British minister, and that this conduct on the part of the
United States will contribute to produce a rupture with Great
Britain. I should be very much obliged to you for the truth on
this point and its expected consequences.

Peace to America is, in one word — our all. A set of clamor-
ous desperadoes, in their fortunes or political hopes, cry aloud
for war, and I fear Great Britain is not indisposed to take advan-
tage of every event to injure us. What the intemperance of
some among us, and her solicitude to avenge past disgrace may
produce, time alone can unfold ; but I hope that the true friends
to their country will every where and on every occasion, unite
to prevent the calamity of war.

What is the real state of things in France ; and will not her
enemies, after victory there, feel the exploit but half accom-
plished, unless we also are politically changed ? On this ground
I sometimes apprehend danger, but am revived again, when I
look at the sea which divides us, and reckon on the exhausted
state of their finances. Farewell.

Henry Lee.

Mt.36.] correspondence. 569

HAMILTON TO KING.

June 15tli, 1793.

Dear Sir:

The ideas expressed in your letter of the 14th, correspond
with my view of the subject in general. I did not perceive that
any process could be devised to detain the privateer, and con-
cluded, that the issue would be to leave her in military custody.
Indeed, I believe this was rather the expectation with all, though
it was thought advisable to make the experiment of a reference
to the civil tribunal.

AYith regard to the Catharine, I also entertain the doubt you
appear to have. In the case of the Grange, the surrender was
brought about by a demand of Mr. Genet, and his interposition.
But it was in contemplation of employing the military in case of
refusal.

Yet, since that time, a libel has been filed in the District
Court in the case of another vessel, alleged to have been captured,
within the limits of our jurisdiction. And both Mr. Lewis and
Mr. Eawle, attorney of the district, hold that the District or
Admiralty Court will take cognizance of this question. They
argue that it would be a great chasm in the law, that there should
not be some competent judicial authority to do justice between
parties in the case of an illegal seizure within our jurisdiction.
That the Court of Admiralty has naturally cognizance of tortious
takings on the high seas, and as she gives relief in rem, may
cause a re-delivery. That though, as a general principle, a court
of a neutral nation will not examine the question of prize or not
prize between belligerent powers — yet this principle must except
the case of the infraction of the jurisdiction of the neutral power
itself Quoad this fact, its courts will interpose and give relief.

This is their reasoning, and it has much force. The desire of
the Executive is to have the point ascertained, and if possible to
put the affair in this train. There may arise nice difficulties
about the /ac^, and nice points about the extent of jurisdiction at
sea, which the courts had best settle.

570 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 36.

The contest in form must, as you say, be between the oivners
and the captors. For this purpose, Mr. Hammond is to cause
the proper instructions to be given.

Yours truly,

A. Hamilton.

There is a letter from me to Harrison. If Troupe has not
opened it let him do it.

HIGGINSON TO HAMILTON.

Boston, July 26th, 1793.

Dear Sir:

We have here our French party and French politics as well
as you ; and they are taking measures here, as well as with you,
to bring us to a serious point. They mean, I am satisfied, to
force a discussion on the question of their right to fit out
privateers, to originate new expeditions in our ports, to cruise on
their enemy. From the conduct and observations of the consul
here, and what we learn to be the language and conduct of the
minister in Philadelphia, there is strong reason t6 believe that it
is part of a system of policy towards us which their people are
directed to pursue. They will try how far they can use us to
their purpose without coming to points. They will then push us
to a decision that shall leave them at option to part from us, or
not, as they may think best, and on such ground as will appear
decent abroad, and not compel their partisans here to desert
them. Such is my view of French politics at this moment, rela-
tive to the United States.

This is a critical period in our affairs. We have a narrow
and difficult pass to go through ; and the longer it is delayed the
greater will be the danger, in my opinion.

^T. 36.] CORRESPONDENCE. 571

It is asked by demagogues, wliy do individuals or classes of
men interfere, who have no authority to interpret treaties, not
even for themselves as a rule of conduct ? If government, or
those whose duty it is, think the right claimed by the French is
not founded, and against treaty, the laws of nations and our in-
terest, the proper oificers would appear and the exercise of the
right be prohibited. Such observations have weight, and many
good men, who well intend and who well support government
in the execution of laws, are much perplexed and made to
waver.

In this State there is but one opinion, except in this town.
Here dwell all the seditious, and desperate ; and here we have
lately had to combat and to subdue them, both in a meeting of
the trade, and of the town. It was a good opening to give a
full approbation of the late proclamation, and to get the citizens
pledged in favor of neutrality, and the measures of government,
and to excite similar feelings and votes in other towns. I ex-
pect we shall have in this way the voice of a large part of the
State, perhaps above a hundred towns.

These proceedings you will see in the papers, but not the
effects yet.

I offer you these facts and observations, as matter of informa-
tion, which may or may not be useful. To judge from the state
of things here, the sooner we come to the touchy points, which
seem to arise out of our case, and not to be avoided, the better
it will be. Let us take our stand upon clear ground, or the best
which our case will admit, seems to be here the general lan-
guage.

But here we see in part only, and may not know of difficul-
ties which perplex government.

Pacificus is operating here without interruption. Our pa-
triots, though pressed to enter the field, dare not venture on
more than street harangues. I am pledged to meet Dr. Jarvis,
the bell-wether of the flock, either in public discussion in per-
son, or upon paper, whenever he shall notify the intention of
making a formal attack.

«^T2 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 36.

If there is a clear line of distinction, founded in reason and
upon treaty, between the refitting, &c. of prizes and privateers,
as I suppose, and the originating new armaments in our ports, it
will be very happy for us here to have it drawn. We have so
many people who have been in the habit of privateering, Avho
are now hungry and enterprising, and who have many facilities
to engage in that business, it will be very difficult to restrain
them from being concerned in the vessels fitted out, and perhaps
from going in person. In such cases the incitement will be so
strong, and the means of covering themselves under French
names, &c. so easy, that the evil may extend very far, and many
of our citizens be seduced from their duty.

I am respectfully, Sir, your humble servant,

Stephen Higginson.

KING TO HAMILTON.

New-York, Saturday, 3cl August, 1793.

The French fleet from the Chesapeake arrived here yesterday
and are in the North Eiver, above the Battery. The Ambuscade
also arrived last evening, and her accounts, confirmed by those
of many spectators of the combat, leave no doubt of the flight of
the English frigate.

You will have seen in our newspapers, an invitation for a
meeting in the fields, to address Mr. Genet, who is daily expected
here. This business originated with M. Smith, Osgood, B. Liv-
ingston, Nicholson, and others of like political character. Be-
tween two and three hundred persons assembled, and I am told
they were generally antifederal. Nicholson was in the chair.
An address was produced and adopted, and a committee of thirty
or forty persons appointed to present it.

These gentlemen will not be stopped by trifles. They already
affirm that the cause of France is that of America ; that it is time

tEt. 36] CORRESPONDENCE. 5*73

to distinguish its friends from its enemies ; that in respect to the
rumor of Mr. Genet's appeal to the people from the decision of
the Executive, the people are competent judges of their own
interest and obligations ; that there can be no danger to them
from the free exercise of their judgment on so great and interest-
ing an occasion. True it is that their decision may displease
men in high authority, but that will not prove their judgment to
have been erroneous — nay, some of these gentlemen go further,
and not only excuse, but applaud the decree of the French con-
vention, which not only contravenes our treaty of commerce, but
grossly violates the best established rules in the law of nations.
In short, my friend, unless the Executive will quickly and vigor-
ously exercise its powers in checking the influence of Mr. Genet,
it may experience the mortification of seeing them perish in its
hands. Our Chamber of Commerce will on Tuesday pass reso-
lutions approving the proclamation, and we are resolved to try
the citizens for the like purpose. But this is altogether wrong.
We have with great trouble established a Constitution, which
vests competent powers in the hands of the Executive. It is the
duty of that department to see that the laws are executed, and
the peace and order of the community preserved. It was never
expected that the Executive should sit with folded arms, that the
government should be carried on by town meetings, and those
irregular measures which disorganize the society, destroy the
salutary influence of regular government, and render the magis-
tracy a mere pageant.

The decree of the French convention has thrown the mer-
cantile people into the greatest embarrassments. Insurance on
American vessels and cargoes cannot be made without paying
war premiums. I am told that where four or five per cent, was
given, eighteen and twenty are now required. Adieu.

Yours, &c.

574 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 36.

HAMILTON TO KING.

Philadelphia, August, 13, 1793.

Dear Sir :

The post of to-daj brought me your letter of the 10th, but I
was too much engaged to reply to it by return of post.

The facts with regard to Mr. Genet's threat to appeal from
the President to the People, stand thus : —

On Saturday^ the 6th of July last, the warden of this port
reported to Governor Miffiin that the hrig Little Sarah, since called the
Petit Democrat {an English merchant vessel, mounting from tivo to
four guns, taJcen off our coast by the French frigate, the Ambuscade,
and brought into this port), had very materially augmented her mili-
tary equipments ; having then fourteen iroji cannon and six sivivels
mounted; and it being understood that her crew ivas to consist of one
hundred and twenty men.

Governor Mifflin, in consequence of this information, sent Mr.
Dallas to Mr. Genet, to endeavor to prevail upon him to enter into an
arrangement for detaining the vessel in port, without the necessity of
employing for that purpose military force.

Mr. Dallas reported to Governor Mifflin, that Mr. Genet had abso-
lutely refused to do what had been requested of him; that he had been
very angry and intemperate; that he had complained of ill-treatment
from the government, and had declared that " he would appeal from
the President to the people f' mentioned his expectation of the
arrival of three ships of the line — observing that he would know
how to do justice to his country, or, at least, he had a frigate at
his command, and could easily withdraw himself from this ; said
that he ivould not advise an attempt to take possession of the vessel, as
it would be resisted.

The refusal was so peremptory, that Governor Miflain, in con-
sequence of it, ordered out 120 men for the purpose of taking
possession of the vessel.

The conversation between Genet and Dallas was, in toto, re-
peated by Governor Mifflin to General Knox the day following,

^T. 36.] CORRESPONDENCE. 575

and the day after that, the Governor confirmed to me the decla-
ration with regard to appealing to the people ; owned that some-
thing like the threat to do justice to his country, by means of
the ships of the line, was thrown out by Mr. Genet, but showed
an unwillingness to be explicit on this point; objecting to a
more particular disclosure, that it would tend to bring Mr. Dal-
las into a scrape.

Mr. Jefferson, on Sunday, went to Mr. Genet, to endeavor to pre-
vail upon him to detain the Petit Democrat till the President could
return and decide upon the case; hut, as Mr. Jefferson afterwards
communicated, he absolutely refused to give a promise of the kind,
saying, only, that he would not probably be ready to depart before the
succeeding Wednesday, the day of the President's expected return.
This, however, Mr. Jefferson construed into an intimation that she
ivoidd remain. Mr. Jefferson also informed, that Mr. Genet had
been very unreasonable and intemperate in his conversation
(though he did not descend to particulars), and that Pallas had
likewise told him {Mr. Jefferson) that Genet had declared he would
appeal from the President to the people.

The Petit Democrat, instead of remaining as Mr. Jefferson had
concluded, fell down to Chester, previous to the Wednesday referred to,
where she teas when the President returned. A letter was written to
Mr. Genet, by order of the President, informing him that the case of
the vessel, among others, was under consideration, and desiring that
she might be detained until he should come to a decision about her ;
but this requisition was disregarded. She departed in defiance
of it.

I give the detail, that you may have the whole subject before
you ; but I cannot give leave to make use of it all. The cir-
cumstance of the letter may be omitted. It may be said, gen-
erally, that a requisition was made of Mr. Genet, by order of the
President, for the detention of the vessel. All that part, how-
ever, which is scored or underlined, may be freely made up.
This part is so circumstanced as to take away all scruples of per-
sonal or political delicacy. 'Tis not so with the rest. It can
therefore only be confidentially disclosed to persons whose dis-

576 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 36.

cretion may be relied on, and whose knowledge of it may be
useful.

It is true (as you have heard) that things, if possible still
more insulting, have since been done by Mr. Genet ; but of this,
at present, no use can be made, no more than of some antecedent
transactions nearly if not quite as exceptional. The mass would
confound Mr. Genet and his associates. Perhaps it may not be
long before a promulgation of it will take place.

I am of opinion with you, that the charge ought to be in-
sisted upon.

Yours,

A. Hamilton.

P. S, It is to be observed, that the equipments of the Petit
Democrat are, in the strictest sense, an original fitting out. She
was before a merchant vessel ; here she was converted into a
vessel commissioned for war, of considerable force.

HAMILTON TO KING.

August, 1793.

My Dear Sir:

It is not yet finally determined that there shall be a publication,
and there has been some difference of opinion on the point. But
it seems to me the publication of the letters renders it indispensa-
ble that the whole should be told. Yet, when it appears, it will
probably include only what is regularly oflicial, so that the pre-
sent question may be pursued independently.

Perhaps you will not think it necessary at first to say to whom
Dallas reported the conversation. Yet, if you deem it essential,
it may be done ; and should it be finally necessary, which is not

^T. 36.]

CORRESPONDENCE. 577

at all probable, General Knox and myself will come forward as
witnesses.

Yours truly, &c.

HIGGINSON TO HAMILTON".

Boston, August 24th, 1793.

Dear Sir:

I have tliougbt that in the present state of things it may be
useful for you to know what has been done here relative to the
French claims of a right to fit out privateers in our ports, and
the feelings and conduct of people this way on that subject.
Upon inquiry, I cannot learn that you will have received any
further information than what the newspapers will give you ; but
from them you will not learn all that may be useful. Upon this
subject there is but one opinion in every part, and throughout
this State, except in this town ; and here there are but a few who
advocate the French claims, and these are made up of inveterate
anti-federalists and men desperate in their circumstances.

The former will join any party, and pursue any measures to
embarrass the Union ; and among these are our Governor and
Lieutenant-Governor, and some others in public life, together
with some of the principal ofiicers in your department, employed
in the customs. These have thrown every obstacle in the way
of the merchants and others who have endeavored to check the
spirit for privateering which appeared among our citizens ; and
they encouraged the French consul and his partisans in fitting
out cruisers, by advocating openly their right to do it, and by
more privately advising them how to conduct. Mr. Gore has
exerted himself much to restrain them ; but he has derived no
aid from the custom-house, and he has found it difficult to make
them act even where the line of duty was too clear to be con-
E 37

5T8 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [iEx. 36.

tested ; and where it was not so clear, they have declined moving
at all — their whole weight, indeed, has been obviously in favor
of the French claims and against government. Some of them
have so conducted from habit and inclination, having been al-
ways connected intimately with the disaffected opposers of all
government, whether of the State or the Union ; others may
hereafter appear to have had a particular interest in promoting
the business.

Nor will the executive of our government afford more aid to
the Union. Memorials were presented to the governor by the
merchants and Mr. Gore, when the privateers were fitting out,
stating the facts supported by evidence. This led him to call on
the attorney-general for his opinion, who replied in writing that
the French had no such right by treaty. But the weight of his
privy counsellors over-balanced, aided by his own feelings, every
thing else ; and they were permitted to go out and cruise at the
mouth of our harbors. Fair promises were made of doing what
should appear to be proper ; but no decision was ever had upon
any question, and the French consul met with no interruption
from our government.

In a few days two prizes and a privateer arrived here on the
day when your circular letter made its appearance in the papers.
One of the prizes was replevied by the marshal. He took
possession of her ; but the consul with an armed force from the
frigate dispossessed the marshal and carried the prize under the
stern of the frigate, and gave the captain of the frigate written
orders to protect her from any arrests. The marshal remained
on board, in appearance a prisoner, for three days. Memorials
and remonstrances were made during this time to the governor,
the consul, and the captain of the frigate, to no purpose. The
former would not move in the business — the consul would not
order her to be released, and the cajDtain said he could not re-
lease her by his instructions without an order from the consul,
but added that the latter was a fool and blockhead so to con-
duct. Thus they remained till this day, when the captain of the
frigate, provoked and tired of his situation, went to sea, leaving

iET. 36.] CORRESPONDENCE. 579

the prizes behind, when the marshal again got possession of the
prize, and has brought her to the wharf.

The other prize, American property, was ordered two days
ago to be also replevied, and the precept given to the sheriS", a
governor's man, who went to ask leave of the consul to take
possession. He was refused leave, and has not dared to do it till
after the frigate was gone, when he ventured on board, but was
soon dispossessed by some armed men, or rather prevented tak-
ing possession, under the orders of the consul.

Thus has a small privateer been fitted out against law, under
the eyes of the custom-house officers and the government of the
State ; she has sent in prizes which have remained here three
days without any step being taken, — our laws have been tram-
pled on, and our executive officers, the marshal and the sheriff,
been prevented by force from doing their duty, by the orders of
a French consul and the captain of this same privateer. The
privateer is again equipping, and when ready will proceed on a
new cruise.

The spirits of the people in town are inflamed. In other
seaports they blaze, and in the country they begin to wax warm.
It would be easy to destroy the privateer, prizes, and crew, but
the laws ought to have their course, and no disorders should be
committed by the people. But the operation of the laws must
be slow and interrupted, when those whose official duty it is to
execute, do themselves obstruct them.

There certainly is not a hundred men in this town who are
even indifferent on this subject; but a full half of them, and the
most zealous against government, are men in public office, either
under the Union or the State government. Strange as it may
seem, the most violent AniVs that we have, are men who eat the
bread of the public ; and this is the effect in most cases of that
accommodating principle of bribing off opposition by offices.

I have taken the liberty of giving this short view of what has
passed, that you may see how far you may rely on the energy
of men in office to execute the laws, from a sense of duty and
upon general principles. Those of the Union, some of them

580 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [tEt. 36.

will go no farther ttan tlie clear letter of instructions will oblige
them. They like their offices too well to hazard them by diso-
beying positive and clear orders ; but these they will execute
with a slow and heavy movement. And where there is a doubt
they will certainly obstruct. Nor will our State officers, who
reside here, give you more aid ; they are in the vortex of the
governor's influence, and to this they owe their offices. If any
thing is to be done by the officers here of either set, there must
be the full force of clear and positive directions, and there being-
no laws positive, the path of duty is obscure, they must wait ex-
planation. But if directions are given, then by dictating you

offend the sovereignty of the State. They are a crew, and

they will impede all they can.

I think you ought to know your ground to stand firm,
and I have given you not a heightened view of it. My motive
is friendly both as to you and the public, and I am with truth
and respect,

Yours, &c.,

Stephen Higginson.

Mr. Gore has behaved well certainly. I shall be kept out of
sight I know by you, as I wish, unless some good will come of
appearing openly.

SEDGEWICK TO HAMILTON.

Stockbridge, 26th August, 1793.

My Dear Sir :

The inclosed will give you some pleasure, as an indication of
public opinion. It was delivered to a very large assembly com-
prehending almost every man of influence in the county, nine-
teen-twentieths of whom approved the sentiments expressed in
the apostrophe to Louis.

jEt. 36.] CORRESPONDENCE. 581

We are confidently told, that Congress will assemble before
the constitutional period. I hope not, because it would evince the
influence of the infamously seditious publications which have
abounded in your papers. If indeed the question whether this
country was under obligation to observe a neutrality in the pre-
sent war was a doubtful one, and the executive wished informa-
tion from Congressional investigation, the President's proclama-
tion should not have preceded that event. I have another mo-
tive which induces me to wish this measure may not be adopted,
however reluctant I was, not to be elected a member of the
present house, and some part of that reluctance you was at the
time acquainted with. I should now much regret its not being
in my power to attend ; and at present it would be altogether
impossible. Mrs. Sedgewick, I have reason to hope, is now re-
covering from a most deplorable state of illness. Should my
hopes be gratified, I will not desert my post.

AMES TO HAMILTON.

Boston, August 31st, 1793.

My Dear Sir:

I am happy to see the good effect of the exertions which have
been made to keep our country from meddling with the war. Our
fears have in a degree subsided. They have been strong enough
to give their full impression to the services of the ofl&cers of
government. The public mind seems to be open to receive the
truth. Such periods occur rarely, and ought not to pass away in
vain. There are many topics which ought to be touched. I
have supposed one among many good ones, to be the attempt to
point out the inconsistency of our Jacobins. The execution is de-
fective in two particulars, at least. The catalogue wants addi-

682 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 36-

tioBS as well as a better arrangement — and the very words used
by them at different times, might be quoted from the Gazettes
with some effect. Something might be added or altered in the
inclosed, if a proper person would do it. There will be no objec-
tion made to any alterations.

The press is busy here, rather overdone. The enrages are
remarkably in check.

I look forward to the next campaign with concern. I wish
nothing may be omitted to make the people understand the truth,
so well as to disarm the faction who distort it.

My principal object in writing at this time is, to mention to
you the subject of a State being sued. It was seized on here as
you must have seen. The people understand the matter imper-
fectly, and on the whole, I conceive the entire active force of the
State politics to be hostile to the decision. It is supposed the
legislature will vote their censure of the suableness of a State,
and request Congress to propose an amendment — or instruct their
senators and request their representatives to move such an amend-
ment. Is this regular ? The Constitution authorizes two modes
of amending. Either Congress may propose alterations to the
State, or a convention may be called. If specific amendments
should be moved by the States to Congress, is there not a great
mischief lurking in the precedent? However, I waive the cere-
mony of any reply from you, which, busy as you are, is needless.
I wish to call your reflections to the subject, which I think will
be stirred. We cannot doubt it will be so managed as if possible
to make difficulty.

I hope your unremitted cares do not impair your health.
I am, my dear Sir, yours truly,

Fisher Ames.

iEx. 36.] CORRESPONDENCE. 583

HAMILTON TO MRS. GENERAL GREENE.

Philadelphia, September 3d, 1793.

It is not an uncommon thing for you women, to bring us
poor men into scrapes. It seems you have brought me into one.
You- will wonder how. Hear the tale.

Shortly after I came into office, Wadsworth informed me that
Baron Glaubeck was indebted to General Greene (to whom he
had behaved in a very exceptionable manner), and that it was
intended to endeavor to purchase of Glaubeck some pay which
had been just granted to him by Congress, upon the plan of ad-
vancing to him a certain sum of money to satisfy his immediate
necessities, and the residue that was due to him to be applied to-
wards the indemnification of the General's estate for what Glau-
beck owed to it. I afterwards understood that the execution of
this plan was committed to Flint or Duer, or one or both of
them — and that a purchase of the claim was in fact made — not
indeed of Glaubeck, but of some person to whom he had parted
with it for some trifling consideration — the object being through-
out to benefit you by way of indemnification as above men-
tioned.

It likewise would appear from the Treasury records, that you
have in fact received the whole benefit of the purchase. The
conversations we had together when you were last in Philadel-
phia, assure me at least that the certificate for four-fifths of his
claim accrued immediately to your use.

Francis^ late a clerk in my department (partly from resent-
ment at a disappointment he has met with at the Treasury and
partly, I believe, from its having been made icorth his tvhile by
some political enemies of mine), endeavors to have it believed
that this transaction was a speculation in which I was engaged,
and in proof it — a draft of a power of attorney, corrected by some
interlineations in my handwriting, as he asserts.

I db not recollect this part of the business, though I think it
very possible that such a correction, in such a draft, may have
been made by me.

584 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.^t. 36-

For Duer and Flint, it seems, employed Francis to make the
purchase ; and it is not unlikely that a draft of a power for the
purpose may have been brought to me, to know from me whe-
ther it would answer the purpose of the Treasury as a competent
instrument ; and that I (believing the design to be such as I
have represented, one not only unexceptionable but laudable —
one in which my friendship for you would naturally take part)
may have taken up my pen and made such corrections as the
draft might appear to stand in need of

I give you this detail to show you how I may have been im-
plicated.

What I wish of you is, that you will have the goodness to
state in writing what you know of the aifair ; ascertaining that
the purchase was for your benefit, and the cause of it ; and that
you will take the trouble to make affidavit to the statement, and
forward it to me.

As it is an affair of delicacy, I will thank you to request
some gentleman of the law to give form and precision to your
narrative.

You perceive that it is not in one way only that I am the
object of unprincipled persecution ; but I console myself with
the lines of the poet —

He needs must be of optics keen,
Who sees what is not to be seen.

And with this belief, that in spite of calumny, the friends I love
and esteem, will continue to love and esteem me.

Yours, sincerely. A. H.

HAMILTON TO WADSWORTH.

Philadelphia. Sept. 3, 1793.

My Dear Wadsworth: ♦

Shortly after I came into office I remember your having told
me that Glaubeck (whom you represented as a worthless and un-

^T. 36.] CORRESPONDENCE. 585

grateful fellow) was indebted to General Greene's estate, I think,
for money lent him, and that it was your intention to endeavor
to effect a purchase of his public claim, and allow him some part
of it for his immediate necessities, letting the residue be an in-
demnification [original illegible] estate ; or, in other words, go to
the [original illegible] that he would [original illegible] something
[original illegible] you left the city ; that you had left the business
in charge with Flint.

The purchase of the claim was afterwards made through a
second hand, and it appears in fact that Mrs. Greene has had the
benefit of it.

Francis, lately a clerk in my department, prompted partly by
resentment, and partly, I believe, by some political enemies, gives
out that I assisted in this affair as a speculation^ and to prove it,
shows the draft of a power for assigning the claim, with some
corrections, which are said to be in my handwriting.

Whether this be so or not I really do not now recollect, but I
think it very possible that having understood the matter in the
light I have stated from you, and viewing the transaction [origi-
nal illegible] precision the course of the transaction as it stands
in your recollection, particularly what passed between you and
myself in the first instance. If not inconvenient to you, I should
even be glad that you would attest to it.

Yours affectionately,

A. Hamilton.

AFFLECK TO HAMILTON.

New- York, 7th Sept., 1793.

Sir:

A Mr. G. Francis, lately from your office, waited on Thomas
Basen, and asked him if he recollected any thing of a certificate
he had bought of him about two years ago. Basen answered he
did. Francis told Basen he was employed by you to purchase,
and that he had of you fifty dollars for his trouble ; and that you

586 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 36.

then said the profits was to be applied to the benefit of the widow
of Greene, but that you applied them to your own emolument.
Two or three days after this interview, Basen was waited on by
a lawyer from Philadelphia, who put to Basen nearly the same
questions as Francis had done, adding, " that Basen would recol-
lect himself, for that he would be called upon that session." On
Tuesday last, a printed pamphlet, containing twenty-three pages
octavo, was handed to Basen by Francis, desiring him to peruse
it till next day, when Francis returned and presented a paper to
Basen to sign, but Basen declined signing it, for the fact is, he
can neither read nor write. The pamphlet was given to me to
peruse by a neighbor, but being sent in a few minutes I had not
leisure to examine it. I have tried to get it since, but cannot.

I have mentioned the affair to Mr. E. Benson, and I doubt
not but he has notified you by this time.

My sole motive in troubling you with this communication, is
to put you on your guard — that you may be able to thwart the
efforts of malice^ envy^ and treachery^ which generally, and parti-
cularly in this case, are combined against uncommon abilities and
worth.

With great respect, I am. Sir,
Your humble servant,

W. Affleck.

P. S. — If my services can be of any use in the business, you
may command them.

WADSWORTH TO HAMILTON.

Hartford, September 13th, 1793.

Dear Sir :

I was out of town when your letter reached this place, and
have this moment returned. Glaubeck, when under the com-
mand of General Greene, persuaded the General to endorse his
bills, which came back protested, and when Glaubeck made ap-

Mt.36.] correspondence. 587

plication to Congress for compensation, I opposed his claim, and
considered him what General Greene called him in his letters to
Congress, then on file (an impostor). "When he had obtained a
grant he promised to apply some of it to the discharge of General
Greene's demand, but he avoided me. I went to your oflEice, and
finding he had actually taken out his certificates, and not finding
him at his lodgings, I returned to the office, and Mr. ISTourse showed
me the books, and that some foreign officer's debts had been
transferred, I went directly to you and asked your aid, as I
was satisfied Glaubeck intended to sell his certificate and fly the
country. Accordingly, to the best of my recollection, 3^ou drew
me a power, but Glaubeck got information that I was after him,
and kejDt concealed.

Being obliged to leave New- York I employed Mr, Flint, who
told me he could find him ; but he sold the certificate, I think
to Francis, who Mr. Flint purchased it of, and Mrs. Greene
actually had it, I have no doubt Mr. Flint can give full infor-
mation. How Francis came by the power I know not, but be-
lieve he was directed to copy it. When I accounted with Mr,
Flint for the purchase I charged the money to Mrs. Greene ; as
it had cost so much, I did not think it an object for the estate.
She has since repaid me.

I am, dear Sir,

Your humble servant,

Jer'h. Wadsworth.

MORRIS TO HAMILTON.

Paris, October 17th, 1793.

My Dear Sir:

Mr. Livingston delivered to me yours of the 25th of July,
He says that you alone gave him an idea of this country like the
reality. His astonishment proves that he did not believe you,
and, could you hear him, you might, in your turn, be astonished

588 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 36.

to find that your sound understanding, while it grasped the
future event, had never contemplated the progressive circum-
stances. I leave to others the painful task of drawing pictures,
which, to resemble the truth, must, like an Indian warrior, be
painted red and black.

It is in your character of financier, that I transmit the an-
nexed report, which suspended for a few doubtful days the weight^
which, with crushing force, falls on the moneyed men. Early in
1789, I ventured to declare, from what I then observed, that the
laws of property being violated, all would, in their turns, be
sacrificed on the same altar. Already the church, the magistra-
ture, the nobility, have passed away. Bankers, merchants, and
manufacturers, are now in the crucible. I leave to your alge-
braic science to resolve the problem of how long a su|)posed
society can exist, after property shall have been done away.
Perhaps you may be too busy to form equations, and may reply
as a statesman, that government being instituted to protect pro-
perty, is respected only in proportion to the fulfilment of that
duty, and durable only as it is respectable. I respect you too
much to contradict your opinions, and therefore confine myself
to the more agreeable task of assuring you, that

I am, &c.,

GOUVERNEUR MORRIS.

HAMILTON TO COL. OLNEY.

Philadelphia, Nov. 26, 1793.

Dear Sir :

Some embarrassment has arisen on the subject of a fit person
for District Attorney of Ehode Island. Mr. Howel has been
strongly recommended on the one hand, and positively objected

to on another ; and Mr. has been proposed in opposition.

Your opinion does not appear on either side.

The President is desirous of further information, and I have
undertaken to procure it for him. In addressing myself to you

iET. 36.]

CORRESPONDENCE. 589

on the point, I proceed on an assurance of your judgment and
candor. I request your ideas of the candidates fully and freely,
promising that it shall not in any shape compromit you. Be so
good as to state not only the qualifications of each, hut the col-
lateral circumstances affecting the ;puhlic service, which will be likely
to attend the appointment of either.

It is regretted that the affair has assumed too much a party
complexion. This suggests an inquiry whether there be not
some third character competent, eligible, and who would not be
liable to a similar difiiculty. The more speedy your answer, the
more it will oblige.

KING TO HAMILTON.

New-York, 26 Nov., 1793.

Dear Sir :

About a fortnight since I wrote to you, intimating the pro-
babihty that Mr. Jay and I should call upon you and General
Knox, on the subject of Mr. Genet's declaration that he would
appeal from the President to the people. A letter of this date
from Mr. Jay and me, will inform you and the General of the
present posture of this business. You will perceive that the
statement that we have concluded to publish is an exact trans-
cript of your letter to me of the 13th of August, omitting such
circumstances as you desired should not be communicated, and
containing only such as you permitted to be freely used.

Although this statement goes beyond the fact of Genet's
declaration that he would appeal to the people, yet the history
of the transaction, in the course of which the declaration was
made, shows that the interview between Genet and Dallas re-
spected a public concern, and that Dallas' authority was derived
from the President. We have, therefore, thought it requisite to
announce to the public that we should shortly lay before them a
particular statement of the evidence and circumstances of the
transactions.

590 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 37.

SCHUYLER TO HAMILTON.

Albany, Jan. 5th, 1794.

My Dear Sir :

We are alarmed at the state of my dear Eliza's health ; nor
are we without apprehensions on your account, from what you
say in your letter of the 26th ult. I fear much from the inces-
sant application which you are under the necessity to give to
the business of your department, increased as it of consequence
must be, whilst Congress is in session. I have hitherto been
much averse to the determination you mentioned to me, but
when I reflect on the danger which your health is exposed to,
on the incompetent reward for the most arduous and important
services, and the chagrin you experience from the weakness or
wickedness of those you have to contend with, I am reconciled
to your intentions.

I hope the real friends to liberty and good order will not
suffer themselves to be entrapped by the wily arts of those who
wish for confusion, that they may fish in troubled waters ; and
yet I have much apprehension, as the honest and well-meaning
are seldom — very seldom — sufficiently on their guard.

As the balance against this State would not have been so
extensive, if the Executive and his incompetent auditor had
severally done what was incumbent on them, as their neglect has
already been hinted to the public, I believe that side of the
question will not promote much stir on the occasion, and I do
not conceive that it will be difficult to prevent the other from
doing it.

I am advised that a credit in my favor is lodged in the Branch
Bank of New- York, for the purpose of purchasing goods for the
six nations of Indians. If you have written to me on the subject,
the letter has miscarried, or is still on its way to me.

Adieu, my dear sir. We all join in the wishes which affec-
tion dictates.

Yours ever, &c.,

Ph. Schuyler.

iET. 37.] CORRESPONDENCE. 591

ONEIDA INDIANS TO HAMILTON.

Oneida. January 15th, 1794.

Brother, attend to our Words:

We write to you in particular, because some of us know you.
We have all liea,rd that you are a friend to every body — Indians
as well as white people. We rejoice to hear it. We always
want friends among our brothers, the white people. But should
the troubles which afflict the nations over the great waters reach
this country, we shall again more particularly stand in need of
the friendship of our brethren, the people of the United States.
Nobody can tell what may happen. We think it would be good,
and we wish you, brother, to recommend it to Congress, to ad-
vise the Senecas and Onondagas at Buffalo Creek to send some
of their children to be educated at a school which is erected in
our neighborhood, where we have sent some of our children to
learn to read and write, and that provision be made for their
support. We think that such a measure would serve to
strengthen and brighten the chain of friendship with those na-
tions. Brother, we salute you. This is all we have to say.

His

John x Skanondo.

mark.
His

Peter x Oneyomka.

mark.
His

John x Onondigo,

mark.
His

Peter x Sade Karinghlin.

mark.
His

LoDwiCK x Kaghsaweta.

mark.
His

Cornelius x Kahiktoton.

mark.
His

Thomas x Shononghsis.

mark.
His

Daniel x Skanondo.

mark.

592 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 37.

MOYLAN" TO HAMILTON.

Loan Office, Pennsylvania, Jan'y 29th, 1794.

Dear Sir:

With regret I mention it, that perhaps the letter you will re-
ceive with this will be the last official one I shall have occasion
to write to you. I cannot let it go without paying the just
tribute due to you for the ease which the systematic arrange-
ments made for this office has rendered the execution of its duties
to me.

Accept, sir, the wish of a sincere friend, which is, that your
happiness in private life may, if possible, exceed your public
virtues. Believe me, with every sentiment of gratitude and
esteem,

Dear Sir,

Your obedient and very humble servant,

Stephen Moylan.

DAVID ROSS TO HAMILTON.

Bladensburgh, March 21st, 1794.

Dear Sir :

Colonel M passed through this place yesterday, in the

stage, on his way, as he says, to Congress ; yet he may, perhaps,
be going no further than Baltimore ; but, if he should go on, it
is probable he will be satisfied to have the appearance of closing
the correspondence with you, as I find he never sent forward to
the office your last, and has now withdrawn the whole of the
papers. If, however, I should be mistaken, and he should
answer your last, I need not again express my sentiments as to
your putting yourself on a footing with him. If any thing
should take place, I hope to be informed by you, as no de-
pendence can be put on the representation of it by Colonel
M .

iET. 37.] CORRESPONDENCE. 593

I was sorrj I missed you, several times before I left the city,
on the subject of Britain's then unexpected conduct towards this
country, which is now believed ; and Sedgwick's motions in Con-
gress are supposed to be brought forward in consequence of such,
belief. Those I have yet seen in your city and this State, who
were the most inclined for peace, and opposed to Madison's reso-
lutions, are for very spirited measures, if a war cannot be avoided ;
but they have a confidence, also, that no precipitate conduct will
involve us, but that we shall rather give Britain an opportunity
(after showing ourselves prepared even for offensive operations)
of altering her measures in time to avoid a war. At any rate,
the idea is, that if any declaration takes place, it should be first
on the part of Britain ; and that we should not do as the French
did — attach the people of England to the measures of their ad-
ministration, by a hasty declaration of war, instead of continuing
only acts of retaliation.

A judgment can be formed of the principles on which Madi-
son's resolutions have been brought forward and supported, by
the part their advocates take on Sedgwick's resolutions.

Yours, in haste,

David Eoss.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

(PBIVATE.)

May 6th, 1791
In answering your note of yesterday respecting the request
of Mr. Talleyrand de Perigord, I do not hesitate to declare, that
I find it difficult to hit upon a line of conduct towards characters
— under the description that gentleman is — emigrants — that is
satisfactory to my own mind, or, more properly, that is free
from exception, by avoiding what may seem incivility on one
hand, or unpleasant political consequences on the other.

I can perceive very clearly, that the consequence of receiving
E 88

594 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 37.

these characters into the public rooms, will be driving the French
minister from them. His visits are much less frequent than they
were, and an occurrence on Tuesday last (which shall be men-
tioned when you call here) has left no doubt as to the cause.

A particular introduction of these characters (out of the usual
course) would, I presume, be more noticed than the reception of
them in public. It has become expedient, therefore, in my
opinion, that principles should be adopted in these cases (not
only for the conduct of the President, but the executive officers
also) by which evils may be avoided, and uniformity observed.
What these had best be deserves consideration.

My wish is, and it is not less my duty, as an officer of the
Republic, to avoid offence to powers with whom we are in friend-
ship, by conduct towards their proscribed citizens which would
be disagreeable to them ; whilst, at the same time, these emigrants,
if people of good character, ought to understand that they will
be protected in their persons and property, and will be entitled
to all the benefits of our laws, — for the rest, they must depend
upon their own behavior, and the civilities of citizens at large,
who are less restrained by political considerations than the offi-
cers of government must be.

Yours always.

WILLIAMSON TO HAMILTON.

Edonton, May 27th, 1794,

Dear Sir :

In travelling through the country, I have lately observed a
considerable uniformity of sentiment among the people, with a
great want of consistence, of which they do not themselves appear
to be conscious. There are frequent complaints of the want of
vigorous measures in the Executive, to resent the insults of the
British nation. This they receive from a certain class of politi-
cians and political writers. There is also an observation almost

iET.37.] CORRESPONDENCE. 595

universal among the planters, that fifteen or twenty years longer
peace would make us so rich and powerful, that we should des-
pise the attempts of any nation on earth. This opinion is their
own, and they seem not to suspect, until the system is explained,
that the advocates for vigorous measures are, in effect, courting
a general war, in the hope of destroying public credit and over-
turning a government to which they have been uniform enemies.
I verily believe that this war-making project, when well under-
stood, will produce a considerable apostasy from anti-federalism.
By this day's post, I have, at the request of gentlemen con-
cerned, forwarded certain papers to Mr. Eandolph. Probably
well-authenticated claims to reparation will be sent after Mr. Jay,
in support of his complaints. The case of Mr. Armistead, that
I have forwarded, seems to have been a clear robbery, unpallia-
ted by excuse. Our people are, in general, fair traders.
I am, dear Sir, with the utmost respect.

Your most obedient servant,

Hu. Williamson.

HIGGINSON TO HAMILTON.

Boston, June 17th, 1794.

Dear Sir :

Mr. Cabot has mentioned to me that Mr. Cox was inquiring
relative to our trade to Sweden, and intimated that government
wanted to get from thence a parcel of copper and iron. I have
two vessels now going to Gottenberg, and will import any articles
that may be wanted at the same advance or benefit as I shall
get upon common iron, if the articles can be got ready in time to
come in them. Should the articles wanted not be prepared in
time for these vessels, they may be prepared to come by some
later ones.

We have, this day, letters from Jamaica informing us that
the packet with the orders of January 8th arrived there May

596 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 37.

8th, in consequence of whicli all our vessels were liberated. Two
of tlie masters, whose vessels were released, write thus to their
owners, and letters from a good house there give the same in-
formation.

I congratulate you upon the report relative to your depart-
ment. Master Giles, I think, must feel very much mortified ;
and his constituents cannot be gratified at seeing him placed so
far in the background.

I rejoice also to find that Congress are up, and that their
session has closed so much better than there was reason to appre-
hend at some periods.

With sentiments of respect, I am, Sir,

Your very humble servant,

Stephen Higginson.

HETH TO HAMILTON.

Shillelah, 6th Jvily, 1794.
Accept, I pray you, my dear friend, of my sincerest congratula-
tions, on your second and complete triumph over the invidious
persecutions of a base faction. The Keport of the Committee of
Congress, has turned out precisely as your friends here had pre-
dicted. " The more you probe, examine, and investigate Hamil-
ton's conduct, rely upon it, the greater he will appear." But it
was a cruel thing in Congress, and somewhat unprecedented, I
presume, to oblige your persecutors and prosecutors to sit as your
judges, and what was more ill-natured — to compel them to make
a report, by which they were obliged ***** mortification
surely — to convict you of purity of conduct, unshaken integrity,
and a competent watchfulness over the public interest. This
was *"** hard upon them, to be sure. And how one of them,
who had pledged himself to convict you of nothing less than

yET.37.] CORRESPONDENCE. 597

"high crimes and misdemeanors," can get the better of his
chagrin, or meet some of his credulous and deluded constituents,
without shame and confusion, I am at a loss to account. Nothing,
surely, can carry him through, but that consummate vanity and
ambition, which first tempted him to make so unprovoked and
so unwarrantable an attack. He has been completely mortified, at
a public meeting, in his own district, since his return. Instead of
entertaining all companies, as heretofore, with declamations on
the abuses in the Treasury Department, not a single syllable was
uttered about Hamilton or his conduct — he was " as mute as a
Jishy No notice was taken of any of the toasts which he gave ;
while those given by Carrington were huzzaed and applauded.
The report will be published in our papers ; when the people at
large will find that they have been shamefully imposed upon —
for, when rightly informed, they will determine right. They will
immediately discover that it was impossible for that man's hands
even to be soiled with public money, whom they had been taught
to believe had appropriated thousands to the use of himself and
his friends. They will find that an able and faithful servant
hath been vilely slandered, and most cruelly calumniated. See-
ing these things, they will naturally draw their own conclusions.
The result, very probably, may not turn out much to the advan-
tage of the leader of the forlorn hope.

I am sorry, my dear sir, as a citizen of the United States,
and a friend to our government, to understand that you are pre-
paring to retire. Your loss will be felt. But, as a private friend,
I cannot but be pleased at your endeavoring to find that con-
tentment and happiness in private pursuits, which no public em-
ployment can possibly afibrd. And your constitution must have
received a shock, which will require time, much tranquillity of
mind, and cheerful company to restore.

598 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 37.

CAREINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Richmond, July 9th, 1794.

My Dear Sir:

I do not •write this letter as congratulatory upon the final
issue of the Inquiry into the Treasury Dej^artment, as I never
conceived you exposed to receive injury therefrom. I write to
express my most sincere wishes that you will not suffer the illi-
berality with which you have been treated, to deprive the public
of your services, at least until the storm which hangs over us,
and is to be dreaded, not less from our own follies and vices than
the malignance and intrigues of foreigners, blows over. It is true
you have been abused, but this has been, and still is, the fate of
him who was supposed out of the reach of all slander. It is in-
deed the lot, in some degree, of every man amongst us who has
the sense or fortitude to speak and act rationally, and such men
must continue so to speak and act, if we are saved from anarchy.

If there have been a number of copies of the Keport of the
Committee printed, I wish you to send me as many as you can,
that they may be dispersed in this State. I can assure you that
your enemies are much less loquacious on the subject than they
once were ; and there having been pretty confident assurances
made, that the issue of the inquiry would consign the Secretary
of the Treasury to infamy, expectations have been so fixed on
that object, that the disappointment is by no means unnoticed.
The manner in which the renewal of the business came forward,
and the very long and deliberate course which it was suffered to
take, in the hands of the accusers themselves, give the issue its
best effect. Should John Jay be successful in his mission, our
good democrats, I fear, will lose too much of their influence to
be useful guardians against the strides of aristocracy. His ap-
pointment is now the theme for declamation. These watchmen
may perhaps experience the same neglect from the great body of
the people, as is instanced in the fable of the Shepherd's Boy
and the Wolves. Indeed, I am fully persuaded, that the appa-

Mt. 37.] CORRESPONDENCE. 599

rent attention they now receive, is by no means a real one ; they
speak loud in many places, and no one speaks against them ;
hence they claim a general concurrence of the people with them.
But I have never yet seen an experiment tried of a counterac-
tion, but it has produced good effects.

Let me have some copies of the Eeport if you can, and be-
lieve me to be, with great sincerity and truth,

Your friend and servant,

Edward Carringtok

HIGGrN-SON TO HAMILTON.

Boston, July 10th, 1794.

Dear Sir: ^^^

I received your lette^^^Bine 24th, and have noted your
observations relative to ^^^^Kind iron for the frigates. I be-
lieve the decision to f^Sffl^^Knglaud for the copper, is right.
It is very doubtful, with me, whether you will find copper in
Sweden properly fitted for sheathing, and not certain that they
can there prepare it equal to the English. Sheet copper was
imported from Gottenburg, last war, for our privateers ; but it
was so thick and badly drawn that it was not used ; and it was
then said, that in Sweden they had no works capable of doing it
nearly equal to the British. But iron may certainly be got
from Sweden and Eussia, of the best quality, and on the lowest
terms.

We have here had much experience, by trial, of the qualities
of the duck manufactured, in this town; so, also, must they
have had in Philadelphia, for large parcels have been there sold
and used. Our experience certainly does not support the sug-
gestions you mention ; it is esteemed here less subject to mildew
and shrinking than any other. I have, indeed, never heard of

600 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 37.

its taving mildewed in one instance. The varnisli or sizing
here used, being animal instead of vegetable, made from cow-
heels, may guard it against both those defects. It is a novel
improvement, originating with this manufactory, and intended
to prevent both mildew and shrinking. The former, it cer-
tainly has well effected, and the latter, as far as practicable,
perhaps.

How does it appear, that duck made of flax is more liable to
mildew and shrink than that made of hemp ? The Russia duck
is said to be made wholly of hemp, and that we know will both
shrink and mildew. The duck made in England is made wholly
of flax ; so, also, is the Irish and Dutch, I believe ; and all these
will both shrink and mildew. Hemp, when tarred and made
into cordage, will shrink so much, that vessels' shrouds, in long
rains or fogs, will break by mere force of contraction, when
sufficiently slack before to be safe. The superintendent of this
manufactory is an Englishman, bred up under his father, who
had the care of one of the king's^|[g|||^ies in England ; he seems
to be a complete master of the ^^^mve part of the business,
and to have a thorough knowle(^^^«he flax and other materi-
als, as to quality and preparing IHHPbut he is full of prejudice,
as those people generally are. He says, that the fibre of hemp
is too hard and wire-like to make good warp for duck ; it will
cut the filling, and the cloth will crack away. This may be
true, when not properly prepared and softened ; but that quality
may be done away by curing and dressing ; and this is exempli-
fied in a new factory, where hemp only is used. But it may be
true that the hemp-fibre, with every art, cannot be reduced so
fijie or made so even as that of flax ; and this difference may be
in favor of using flax for duck, rather than hemp. All other
things being equal, the fine fibre will make the cloth more firm
and even, .and of course will wear better.

I have clothed a number of vessels with our duck, and it has
certainly worn better than either Eussia or English of common
qualities. The experience of others who have used it, has here
established its reputation fully ; and our sailmakers all say that

^T.37.] CORRESPONDENCE. 601

it wears longer tlian those others, and never has proved liable to
mildew like them. Having often made sails of this, and of Rus-
sia or English at the same time, for the same vessels, where they
have had equal wear, the opinion of the sailmakers, after view-
ing them when they were returned to them for repair or exami-
nation, ought to have much weight'; it is perhaps the best evi-
dence we can have in the case.

Upon the whole, I believe that better duck can be got
from this factory than any that can be found in our market im-
ported from Europe ; perhaps as good as we could obtain by a
special order, and a particular desire to have the best imported.
If an order be given in time for them to select the best flax — to
have it spun and wove purposely for the frigates — I have no
doubt they will be well clothed ; and I am persuaded they will
take due pains, because the superintendent and proprietors are
desirous to supply the duck. I ought perhaps to say that I
have no interest in the factory, was this opinion to be given to
the public. ..

The rupture between Eo^gal and Algiers is renewed,— an
event very favorable to our'4#iiperce, and tending to quiet tur-
bulent spirits. Would it not be grateful to Portugal, and useful
to our country, to form a convention with her relative to those
robbers ? If we say, that having a common interest with her
in confining them within the straits, we will keep three or four
ships to assist in doing it, as soon as they can be built and fitted,
she may agree to make no truce with them without our consent,
on giving a year's or six months' notice.

I wish Mr. Jay, with our ministers at Paris and London, were
authorized to offer themselves as mediators, should the appear-
ances in Europe clearly evidence a disposition to make peace, in
the powers at war. The existing state of things may, and pro-
bably will, be such, as that all parties may earnestly wish for
peace; but the causes, objects, and circumstances of this war are
novel and extraordinary, and may prevent any overtures for
want of mediation.

What power in Europe so likely to be used for this as

602 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 37.

America ? Eussia the Frencli will refuse, and neither France
nor Britain will prefer Sweden or Denmark to us for the pur-
pose. Mr. Jay may be intrusted with the commission, and the
others not know it. He may readily learn the British pulse on
this point ; and he may collect the disposition of France by
inquiring of our minister in Paris, without stating the object of the
inquiry. With the other parties there will be no difficulty, if
those two agree upon a mediator. At least we may have some
chance of being joined with some other power in mediating, and
this would be both honorary and useful to us.

The present is a critical and important period in European
affairs ; and I wish that we may be vigilant and prepared to
make the most of events that may arise. This must apologize
for my adding these ideas, which probably are not new to you,
to a letter sufficiently long before. I must subjoin, however,
that within a short time there may be a favorable period for
making a commercial treaty with Britain, if it be eligible to
have one.

Wishing you every thing desirable, I am, with much respect,
your very humble servant,

Stephen Higginson.

P. S. A vessel has just arrived from Brest in 46 days. The
captain told me that a brig had arrived there from the Chesapeake
fleet, and was sent back directly ; that 44 sail of the line sailed
next day, six days before he sailed; that four days after he
sailed, he met the same fleet joined by others, making 52 sail,
expecting hourly to see the Chesapeake fleet ; that they had a
great number of cruising ships beside, which intercepted every
thing going in or out of the Channel ; that 42 sail of ships bound
to the W. I., with provisions, were taken from the British, and
had arrived in Brest, beside other ships, making 160 sail while
he was there about six weeks. He says that they had in Brest
the account of the Duke of York's defeat, and of some victories
over the Spaniards. This vessel, with other Americans, carried
into Brest with flour, &;c., had their cargoes taken by govern-

jet.si.] correspondence. 603

ment, but covild not get pay for them. She came here in ballast,
and the captain stayed behind to wait for payment. This is not
good usage.

HIGGINSON TO HAMILTON".

July 12th, 1794.
Two days ago a schooner arrived here from Barbadoes with
Bugars to my address. She was one of those vessels that had
been carried into that island, and condemned unjustly, no doubt,
like many others — was bought by persons in Barbadoes, • and
chartered to bring sugars here, and to return with provisions,
&c. She was known at once to have belonged to Mr. Brown, of
Newbury, by people who saw her, and were in Barbadoes when
she was condemned. This first instance of such a vessel's com-
ing here excited much irritation ; and a large number were all
day yesterday hovering about her, clamoring and threatening to
destroy her. The Jacobins seized the occasion, and made the
most of it. A large mob was last night collected, when they
drove the captain and people out of her ; they cut her rigging,
unhung her rudder, took down her topmasts and yards, and
meant perhaps to go farther : but many having collected to re-
strain them, aided by a magistrate, they went no farther, and in
fact have done no great injury. But it is evident to me, from
circumstances and characters who appeared, that this was in-
tended as an insult to the British, to serve as an engine to counter-
act the arrangements of the President, to defeat the mission of
Mr, Jay, to furnish the British with new grounds to ward off our
claims to indemnity for their depredations, to keep up the tem-
per of our people, which had become moderate, to excite new
resentment with the British, and widen the breach so as to keep
Mr. Jay at a distance.

604 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^T. 37.

This conduct here is intended to serve as a precedent, or
watchword to the Jacobins in other places, to show them how
they are to conduct upon like occasions ; and should there hap-
pen to arrive in different parts of the Union a number of such
vessels, there may be created a strong appearance of disorder in
the people, of weakness in the government, and of general hatred
to the British, By such measures a small number may make a
great noise ; may occasion an appearance very much against the
negotiations of Mr. Jay, alarming and provoking to the British,
and tending to intimidate our own good citizens. I think I am
not mistaken as to the source and object of this disorder, this
outrage. It is nothing in itself, and would have no effect per-
haps at home or abroad ; but, when viewed as a precedent, to be
followed in all such cases, it wears a serious aspect. The Jacobin
system and arrangements are well adapted to their purposes.
They make the most of every incident. They alarm, provoke,
and intimidate by appearances much more formidable than the
fact. With this clue you may perhaps judge better of events or
measures that may occur. It requires the eyes of Argus to watch
and to discover the movements and pursuits of that party ; and,
with all the attention and wisdom of the Executive, I fear they
may yet embarrass, if not involve us.

Yours,

Stephen HiGGiNsoisr.

CORBIN TO HAMILTON".

Buckingham, Middlesex, Virginia, July 20th, 1794.

Dear Sir:

Calumny and misrepresentation are the only weapons made
use of by the faction of Virginia. By a dexterous management
of these, they have brought into popular disrepute, and even into
popular odium, some of the wisest and best characters in the
United States.

Men of more than common discernment have been seduced

iET. 37.] CORRESPONDENCE. 605

by their artifices, and the voice of Truth has been silenced by
the noise of Falsehood,

The temporary ascendency which the latter has acquired
over the former, is owing to fear and ignorance. To a fear of in-
curring unpopularity by defending those who have been rendered
unpopular, and to a want of sufficient information to undertake
and support their defence. Fortified with facts, one bold advo-
cate for truth might not despair, however, in the course of a sin-
gle session of our legislature, of bafiling the shallow pretences of
calumny and the party.

If, by a zeal in the cause of virtue and talents, apportioned
to the violence and virulence with which they are attacked, it
could be brought within the compass of my feeble exertions to
become their advocate, I would cheerfully undertake the task.

Until the phalanx, into which the faction is embodied, be
broken, this unhappy State can never expect to see itself repre-
sented, as it might be, in Congress.

War is waged by this faction against every candidate who
possesses the union of requisites. Independent fortune, inde-
pendent principles, talents and integrity are denounced as badges
of aristocracy ; but if you add to these good manners and a de-
cent appearance, his political death is decreed without the benefit
of a hearing. In short, with a few exceptions, every thing that
appertains to the character of a gentleman is ostracised. That
yourself and Mr. Jay should be no favorites in Virginia, is not
to be wondered at.

But all those whose good opinion is worth your acceptance,
entertain for you both the same veneration and esteem, and hear
the aspersions of your enemies with the same indignation as I
do, who, after the closest examination and the purest conviction,
can conscientiously subscribe myself, with every sentiment of
sincerity and regard,
Dear Sir,

Your most faithful and obedient servant,

* Thomas Corbin.

606 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 37.

CAERINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Richmond, August 25th, 1794.

Dear Sir:

You have, upon sundry occasions, done me the favor to re-
quest my opinion upon the public sentiment in Virginia. Con-
ceiving that there can never have been an occurrence giving you
greater anxiety than the present insurgency in the western parts
of Pennsylvania, or upon which a knowledge of the public
opinions and dispositions here could be more interesting, I anti-
cipate your request, and proceed to give you that information
in which I feel myself very confident. Virginia will do her duty.
The requisition of the President, and as many more as the State
find it necessary to make, will be complied with, with alacrity.

It is a case which goes home to the people themselves, and
they will act according to their own principles. It is not one of
those cases in which they remain silent while democratic societies,
British debtors, and other factions presume to declare, in resolu-
tions and toasts, opinions for them. The great body of the peo-
ple of Virginia are independent planters and farmers, much at-
tached to liberty, property and domestic happiness, and busy
themselves but little about public concerns — unless they feel
that these blessings are brought into danger. Hence it is, that
factious men, for a time, succeed in giving a complexion to the
conduct of the country very different from the real temper of the
people ; and this is a misfortune under which Virginia has been
placed for several years. Virtuous men have been cried down
under a ding of monarchy, aristocracy, British influence, and
French republicanism — terms to which no rational significations
have been applied, because they have seriously recollected that
we had a country and government of our own, and, in Congress
and elsewhere, voted to preserve and prosper them. These
clamors have been set up and propagated with a degree of in-
dustry which none have with equ'al zeal opposed. Investiga-
tions for the truth have been beyond the reach of the multitude,
which has, of course, gone with the clamor. But the people of

^T.37.] CORRESPONDENCE. 607

Virginia mean to be right wlieii they can be in possession of tbe
truth. The insurgency is a case in which the truth cannot be
veiled. The great body of the country know that the govern-
ment they have chosen for themselves is a republican one, to be
directed by a majority, and when a minority openly resists the
laws passed by a majority, and thus counteracts the most essen-
tial principle of republicanism, the truth stands too fully exposed
to be perverted. Pretended republicans are compelled to sup-
port the government, or to exhibit themselves in their true char-
acter of anarchists. Taking the first turn they may not do us
much good, but taking the latter, they lose the power of doing
evil. These are my reflections on the subject, and the accounts
received from the different parts of the State, assure me that the
real state of the opinions and conduct of the country are in con-
cord with them.

I hope and trust that a radical extirpation will be effected in
this instance ; a patched-up reconciliation will only leave the em-
bers of sedition to be rekindled with greater violence at a future
day. There must be a complete conquest and serious exam-
ples of the leaders in the business.

I am, with great regard,

Your friend and servant,

Ed. Cakrington.

P. S. Should you be of opinion that a publication without
names of this letter, or any part, will be of service, you have my
consent thereto.

LEE TO HAMILTON.

Norfolk, 2d Sept., '94,

Dear Hamilton:

I am extremely chagrined on finding from your private letter
accompanying your public letter, that the intended secrecy is

608 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 37.

entirely baffled as it respected tlie call on me to take care of tlie
insurgents.

Being absent from Richmond on a visit to the forts at ISTor-
folk, the public letter was opened by the Lieutenant-Governor,
and there being no injunction of secrecy in it, the purport waa
divulged without ceremony, and before I received my letters the
report reached me of my late appointment.

I do not believe any thing but good will result from thia
accident in this State, for I am persuaded it will accelerate the
readiness of the troops, and I am confident General Morgan will
prefer me to any other ; nor can he consider his former relative
claim slighted, inasmuch as he is in the habit of obeying me aa
Commander-in-Chief of the militia, in which character I shall
act, if sad necessity so decrees. However, knowing his value,
and anxious to prevent any disturbance of harmony, I wrote to
him yesterday in terms suitable for the object I contemplated,
and hope my letter will have its designed effect.

When I return to Eichmond, which will be very soon, I will
see Carrington.

I love him dearly, and should prefer him to any other in the
character you suggest; but you ought to weigh well the objec-
tion you mention, for such is the temper of the people, and such
the eventful crisis, that no measure, however wise, ought to be
adopted which furnishes fuel for the discontented political de-
claimers in which the United States abound.

The honor you propose as possible, I receive with every re-
spect due to your goodness and friendship, and I well know the
extensive good I should derive from your wisdom, zeal, and sin-
cerity ; but really when you talk of acting in a station so infe-
rior, you add to the awkwardness of my feelings, which I assure
you are too much so already for that tranquillity of mind indis-
pensable for the conducting of business great and difiicult. A
good Adjutant-General pray secure, and save Mifflin's feelings.

God bless you,

H. Lee.

.Et. 37.] CORRESPONDENCE. 609

HAMILTON TO KING.

Philadelphia, September 17th, 1794.

When you recollect, that I have two departments on my
shoulders, and when I tell you that I have been out of health in
the bargain, you Avill perhaps admit an excuse for my not an-
swering sooner your letter some time since received.

Mr. Jay has given nothing conclusive. His letters to the
26th of June barely gave the idea that appearances were not
unfavorable. The last letter, T forget the date, but it came by
the last arrival at New-York, refers to letters which were not
received, but which are supposed to have been confided to the
Portuguese minister. This letter is couched in the same cautious
terms, considers the scale as capable of turning either way, and
advises not to relax in military preparation. The ministry, how-
ever, have certainly continued to countenance shipments to this
country, and very large ones were making. It is a strange, mys-
terious business. The change in administration had made some
pause in the negotiation,

Nothing from the "Western country authorizes an expectation
of a pacific termination of that business. All the militia are going
forward as fast as they can be got forward, Virginia, all below
the mountains, is zealous; beyond, neutral in conduct and divided
in affection, Jersey is also zealous ; so are the eastern shore of
Maryland and the town of Baltimore, Thence to Frederictown
a pretty good temper prevails ; beyond that a very insurgent
spirit and some insurrection. In Philadelphia an excellent and
productive zeal, embracing all parties, has been kindled. A good
spirit wall generally pervade the old counties. But there is much
bad leaven in the new counties, this side of, as well as beyond
the mountains — Cumberland, Franklin, Mifflin, and even North-
umberland,

Governor Lee is at the head of the Virginia militia, and will
command if the President does not go out ; he is all zeal. Gov-
ernor Howel, with equal zeal, was to march from Trenton to-day
with the van of the Jersey militia, consisting of 500 horse. Miflf-
E 89

610 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 37.

lin, who at first showed some untoward symptoms, appears now
to be exerting himself in earnest and with great effect, and goes
at the head of his mihtia.

The President will be governed by circumstances. If the
thing puts on an appearance of magnitude, he goes — if not, he
stays. There is a pro and a con in the case, li permitted^ I shall
at any rate go.

Affectionately yours.

HAMILTON TO KING.

September 22d, 1794.

I thank you, my dear Sir, for your letter of the . A few

days previously I wrote you pretty fully. I hope my letter got
to hand.

The inclosed paper gives you the substance of our European
intelligence under the Philadelphia head.

The returns from the Western counties of this State are just
come to hand. They show a valuable division, ranging on the
side of the laws the most influential men, and a respectable body
of others — but leaving a great number still uncomplying and
violent, so as to afford no appearance of submission to the laws
without the application of force. It will give you pleasure to
learn that there is every prospect of our being able to apply this
effectually, and of the issue being favorable to the authority of
the laws. It will occasion a large bill of costs, but what is that
compared wdth the object? Adieu.

Affectionately yours, &c.

iET. 37.] CORRESPONDENCE. 611

HAMILTON TO KING,

Jones' Mill, October 30th, 1794.

Dear Sir:

Our light corps, tlie Jersey infantry, and a brigade of cavalry,
are about eight and a half miles in front, beyond all the moun-
tains. This division, which has been delayed by a somewhat
worse route and the incumbrance of the public stores, will be at
the same place this evening. The left wing is at a correspond-
ing point. All is essentially well ; no appearance of opposition.
It is of great consequence that a law should, if possible, be expe-
dited through Congress, for raising 500 infantry and 100 horse,
to be stationed in the disaffected country. Without this, the ex-
pense incurred will be essentially fruitless.

A law regulating a peace process of outlawry is also urgent ;
for the best objects of punishment will fly, and they ought to be
compelled by outlawry to abandon their property, homes, and
the United States. This business must not be skinned over.
The political putrefaction of Pennsylvania is greater than I had
any idea of. Without rigor every where, our tranquillity is
likely to be of very short duration, and the next storm will be
infinitely worse than the present one.

Yours, with true esteem and regard, &;c.

M'^KENZIE TO HAMILTON.

Montreal, November 9th, 1794.

Sir:

Agreeable to your request, I will give you some few remarks
on my last expedition.

Having had no particular directions from the company, of
course no promise on my part of undertaking such a jaunt, I
left the grand portage about the usual time for Arabasca, but

612 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 37.

previously had obtained permission to remain the summer in-
land, with no other view than of employing that time in dis-
covery. The cause of my not consulting the company was, the
ill-usage I had received on my return from my former expe-
dition.

Upon my arrival, as well as that of all the canoes at Ara-
basca, I left Mr. E. McKeuzie in charge of the principal post,
and went to winter, at the last of our settlements, in the Peace
river, or Unjegah, lat. 66° 9' north, long. 117° 43' west, from
Greenwich.

In the spring, after I sent off all the property from Arabasca,
I, on the 9th May, 1793, took my departure in a north canoe,
accompanied by A. McKay, six Canadians, and two young
Indians, up the Peace river, against a very strong current. In
our route, we were rather unfortunate in not meeting with in-
habitants till we had nearly got to the mountains, and come near
the source of the river, and then we saw but three men with
their families. They were well-furnished with spears, daggers,
bar-iron, &c. I prevailed with one of those men to come and
guide us to the height of land, which he did ; wishing to bring
him further, he deserted from us.

The height of land is only seven hundred paces across — pass
two small lakes and two small carrying-places ; from these, we
continued our route down a small river, much embarrassed with
wood, rocks, &c. ; we broke our canoe, lost all our balls ; we at
last got into a large river, and this, in half a day's time, led us
into a more considerable body of water. It was not before the
third day from hence we met with natives, who were not very
amicable at our first appearance ; however, peace being estab-
lished, they gave us an account of the country, and informed us
they got what European articles they had from the West, by
land, and that they did not know where this river emptied into
the sea. I got some of them to conduct me to the next tribe ;
here I was convinced that the distance by the river, which is
very rapid, was great, and that I could not be able to perform it
in the course of the season, had I been better provided than I
was ; therefore I returned up the river, according to the Indians'

.&. 37.] CORRESPONDENCE. 613

directions, to take the route by whicTi they procure their goods.
Here I left my canoe, and the greatest part of what we had in
her, — latitude, 53° north; longitude, 122° 43' west — travelled
fifteen days to get to the sea-coast. There being many islands,
I borrowed a canoe from the natives, went about twenty leagues
out amongst the islands, where I found the latitude to be 52° 23',
longitude, 128° 15', the 22d July, 1793. I returned by the way
I went, and was back at our settlement the 24th August.
I am, Sir, yours,

Alexander McKenzie.

ST. CLAIR TO HAMILTON".

Pittsburgh, November 14th, 1794.

Sir:

The post which has been established at Lebeuf, by the State
of Pennsjdvania, seems to be at present a place of some import-
ance, and is in a critical situation. The time for which the gar-
rison is engaged is on the point of expiring ; but the Governor
has power by a late law to continue them, and I suppose will con-
tinue them. The present commanding officer is a prudent man,
and a good officer. He, however, as I am informed, will not re-
main, and the command will devolve upon a person of the name
of Miller, from Washington county, who is strongly in the inter-
est of the insurgents ; and a part of the garrison, from that county
also, have been exceedingly disorderly, and disposed to mutiny.
Pardon me for taking the liberty to suggest, that it might be well if
a party of the standing troops were sent there, for there is a con-
siderable quantity of military stores of every kind, and some
pieces of artillery, deposited in that place. The concurrence of
Governor Mifflin will no doubt be necessary, and that, I suppose,
would not be withheld.

With every sentiment of respect and regard, I have the honor
to be, Sir, your very humble servant,

A. St. Clair.

614 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 37.

CARRINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Richmond, December 12th, 1794.

My Dear Sir:

I have been favored with yours of the 1st instant. All ac-
counts from the scene of the late insurrection, agree that the
measures which have been pursued have been as successful in
their issue, as they were wise in their commencement. I have
also the satisfaction of finding that our returned troops pretty
generally agree that a less force than was called forth would
have been opposed, and that a small army could have eftected
nothing but the establishment of a civil war. This operates as
strong evidence against our good democrats, who had been loud
against the Executive for interrupting the quiet of our citizens,
and incurring an unjust expense. The propriety of a force be-
ing left in the country is also supported by the same authority,
to the no small disconcertment of those immaculate guardians of
our liberties, who were charging upon the President an avidity
in seizing an opportunity for an advance to the establishment of
a standing army. In truth, our militia have come home better
citizens than they went out, inasmuch as they have seen this
fallacious spirit of liberty, stripped of its hypocrisy, and exhibited
in its own garb. I have no doubt that their returnins; amongst
their neighbors, thus undeceived, will be productive of good con-
sequences. Our Virginians were, before this excursion, much
better citizens than certain circumstances had led those of other
States to suppose them ; and the ready obedience paid to the
late call, must have in some degree counteracted the opinions
entertained concerning them. You will recollect that after the
insurgency broke out, and before the call was put to the test, I
ventured to communicate to you a temper as belonging to our
people, different from the contraband politics of our representa-
tives. I predicted the alacrity with which the people would turn
out to support their government and its laws, and endeavored to
account for the real existence of such a contradiction in the con-
duct of the people when called on to act for themselves, and

^T. 37.] CORRESPONDENCE. 615

when acting, or said to be acting, by their representatives. The
event has verified the prediction, nor can I attempt to solve the
enigma otherwise than I then did. We have vicious and virtuous
men of abiUties ; the vicious are b6>ld in their charges upon gov-
ernment and its administration; the virtuous are criminallj
backward. The people naturally give their suffrages to those
who discover the greatest solicitude to obtain them, and who
show the greatest confidence in their claims to be trusted. In
truth, my dear Sir, I have fallen out with both ; for he from
whom an active inj ury is received, is little less a friend than he
that stands by and quietly sees the injury done.

Your observations upon the deplorable increase of a disor-
ganizing spirit, in the quarter from whence it has before been felt
in Congress, are, I apprehend, too w^cll founded ; nor have you a
consolation in the event of our late election here to fill the
Senatorial seats. There is, indeed, something extremely unac-
countable in all this— it would seem that the events of last
summer and fall were calculated to have changed even the sen-
timents of former actors on the stage of our political farce ; much
more might a change of conduct have been expected from a con-
viction that their constituents had received impressions no longer
to tolerate their opinions. Speak with the people of Virginia, in
parties, or individually, and far the greater number appear to
disapprove of the violent measures espoused by their representa-
tives in both houses, last session; yet, all their elections, in
whatever form made, turn on men most distinguished for their
violence and enmity to the government and its administration.
All this I feel and lament exceedingly, I, however, have a con-
solation, which I do not think a mistaken one, that the people of
Virginia will always revolt against the wickedness or follies of
their leaders Avhenever they are brought near enough to the pre-
cipice to see plainly their danger.

You do not feel more sensibly than I do the critical situation
in which we stand ; nor, are you more thoroughly convinced that
the southern politics have a tendency, a limited one I hope, to
a severment which cannot be taken into prospect by any man
who feels the pride of a free American, but with chagrin and

616 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 37.

humility ; the transition would be nothing less than from the
exalted station of the freest, happiest and wisest people the sun
ever shone upon, to that of the most vile, the most wretched and
the most foolish that ever stamped the human character. Being
an united people, we dictate our own laws, and say to all the
rest of the world what shall be their conduct towards us — divide
us, and we instantly become little puppets to be played off upon
each other, as shall be convenient to foreign nations, and even
foreign individuals. It would seem that the success of Genet's
projects should have stamped this lesson deeply on the mind of
every American, who was not involved in his vices.

I most heartily re-echo your opinion, that good men should
come forward and set their faces against the ills which await us,
and trust it will ere long be the case in Yirginia. Let our eastern
brethren, whose good sense and solid republicanism I daily more
and more admire, continue their zeal in supporting the true in-
terests of the commonwealth. They will prevail — an enthusiastic
folly cannot be of long duration.

On the subject of your resignation you appear to have taken
your final determination. I wish your successor may be as suc-
cessful in the effects of his measures, and that he may be as for-
tunate in repelling the attacks of faction. The papers have an-
nounced a precaution which I should certainly have taken the
liberty to recommend to you. Your notification to the House of
Representatives is a necessary caveat against future slander, for
had you remained till the last day of the session, and then re-
signed without such a precaution, a retreat from inquiry would
have been charged upon you.

I anticipate, with pleasure, your appearance in the character
of a representative, and beg you to be assured you will retain in
any station you may occupy, the public confidence and private
friendship of,

My dear Sir,

Your affectionate fellow-citizen,
Ed. Caerington.

jet.31.] correspondence. 617

CARRINGTON TO HAMILTON".

Richmond, December 26th, 1794.

Dear Sir :

I have been favored with yours of the 19th instant, covering
your private letter of the same date to Governor Lee, I hear he
has left Winchester, and will probably be here to-morrow or next
day, and have thought it best to keep his letter until his arrival.
The explanations contained in this letter to him, are such as I
had anticipated, as you might have perceived from mine to you
of the 11th.

Had there been no difficulties to encounter from a want of
appropriated funds, it would have been impossible, upon an
arrangement taken at camp on the 23d November, and was still
to be communicated at Philadelphia, for you to have sent the
money to the places designated, in time for the arrival of the sev-
eral detachments ; nor does it appear to me, that such an arrange-
ment should have been made, without a previous knowledge of
the readiness of government to meet it, as it was well known that
the service was an unforeseen one, for which the existing reve-
nues had not been assigned ; nor yet am I of opinion that dissat-
isfaction would have been the consequence of an explained com-
munication to the troops — that balances of pay must remain
unpaid for some short time after their return home. As- reason-
able and patriotic citizens, they ought not to have been dissatisfied,
because such treatment would have been consistent with every
practicable application of unascertained sums at a distance from
the treasury, even had appropriated funds been there : much
more should it be considered such in a case which, being unfore-
seen, had not been provided for by the legislature. Indeed, I
think it extremely impolitic, to impress upon the minds of the
people ideas, that the degree of punctuality which has, in this
instance, been attempted, is the only ground on which govern-
ment can expect their services when necessary for its support.
Good men may be treated like petulant children, and by that
means made equally unreasonable and perverse. On the other

618 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 37.

hand, both good and bad men may, by firm and plain lessons of
reason, be taught to accommodate their demands upon govern-
ment to the due course of an honest administration. It has been
said that this degree of punctuality is necessary, from the impos-
sibility of getting the balances into the hands of the dispersed
individuals, and that speculators would, for trifles, purchase up
the claims. It, however, appears to me, that every evil suggested
could easily have been provided against ; and, if the troops have
been duly mustered, they very probably are provided against.
Every soldier who remained to the last of his service, under the
head of his original ofiicer, whether discharged at the end of the
service or intermediately, is locally known ; if, by any means, he
has appeared under the head of another officer, his locality was,
or should have been noted in the subsequent musters, particu-
larly on the final one. Under these precautions, the balances of
pay might be sent to the respective brigadiers in the country,
who should be relied on to provide for the payment thereof to
the individuals entitled, by persons whom they might appoint,
and be responsible for ; the actual receipts of the individuals to be
rendered in the settlement of the accounts, and the genuineness of
the receipts to be proven by the oaths of the payers of the moneys.
An arrangement of this kind discards every idea of assignees re-
ceiving pajnnents, and presents a certain and sufficiently rapid
course for the passage of unpaid balances to the identical persons
entitled thereto. Moderate commissions might be allowed to the
brigadiers and their agents on these special occasions, which
would be amj^ly compensated by the relief government would
receive under convenient postponements of such demands — and
the satisfaction to the claimants when payments are necessarily
deferred. It appears to me that the brigadiers of militia may be
made very happy instruments in both the commencement and
ending of every tour of militia duty, and it would be well to in-
troduce practices of making them such. The brigade districts
embrace, each, an extent of space and numbers, convenient for
individual communications — and the brigadiers are naturally
presented as convenient and safe agents, both for the public and
the respective individuals concerned. In all the arrangements

^T. 37.] CORRESPONDENCE. 619

which have been intrusted to me in relation to the late expedi-
tion, I have endeavored to call into practice the services of the
brigadiers, where they could possibly be embraced, and they have
been found to contribute greatly to facilitate the service, and to
accommodate individuals.

Your observations upon the expensive and unwield}^ arrange-
ments of some of our lines, arising from an over-proportion of
officers, and a multiplied staff, / trust and believe, has not refer-
ence to the Virginia Hne. I think the staff was put on as mode-
rate a scale as was practicable, and early measures were taken to
consolidate the thin corps, and dismiss the supernumerary officers.
General Morgan, as well as Darke and Matthews, under whom the
Virginia line was formed, were good enough to act very confi-
dentially with me, and inclosed you will receive copies of com-
munications between me and General Morgan, leading to early
reductions of officers and wagons, two of the most devouring
sources of expense and the most productive of impediment, that
can possibly hang upon an army. I have every reason to hope
from the sum furnished to Col. Bird, who has supplied trans-
portation, forage, fuel, and straw to the Virginia line throughout
the expedition, including forage, fuel, and straw to that of Mary-
land, from and back to Fort Cumberland, that the moderation of our
staff arrangement will be apparent. I have the satisfaction to hear
from all concerned, that his supplies have been timely and ample.

Whether the inspections and musters of the troops have been
well attended to in the Virginia line, will appear by a view of
the returns. The inclosed letter from me to Major Pryor, of the
12th of October, will show you that the various objects of his
appointment were fully presented to him, and from my know-
ledge of his capacity and usual diligence, I am in hopes the pur-
poses of his appointment have been well effected.

I have not felt that the observations and information which I
now communicate were necessary to remove from your mind im-
pressions to the disadvantage of the arrangements of the Virginia
line, but it will not be unsatisfactory to you to receive them.

I am, with the greatest regard and esteem, dear Sir,
Your most obedient servant,

Ed. Carrington.

620 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 37.

LEE TO HAMILTON,

Shirley, near Richmond, 31&t Dec, 1794.

Dear Sir:

Forced to meander on my ride home to close as far as I could
the various matters which I considered under my care, I never
got to Richmond until the 29th, when Col. Carrington gave to
me your favor of the 19th December.

I am sure you understand too well my conviction of your
constant efforts to give comfort to the late army with me, to sup-
pose that I could for a moment impute to want of exertion in
you any disappointment to which they may have been submitted.

I will not, therefore, recur to that part of your letter which
explains the causes of incomplete remittance, for sure I am every
possible assistance in every way has been afforded by you. But
I will rather try to make you as happy as you ought to be, by
telling you that the money sent to Winchester, answered an ex-
cellent purpose, as it allayed all the discontents which General
Matthews' letter to me announced.

From that place I wrote to the Secretary of War for the
balance, and sent forward to the Paymaster-General his deputy,
who will, I presume, return charged with means and instructions,
unless Mr. Smith may have pursued your orders of drawing bills
for the money wanting. In this case the deputy paymaster
ought to return.

Mr. Smith had received no instructions to that effect before I
left Winchester.

I hear that you certainly leave government in all next month.
I lament the event, but heartily wish that it may be productive
of every advantage to your family you expect, and that the
affectionate gratitude of our country, to whose good joix have so
constantly and eminently contributed, may surround you in your
retirement.

From me reckon always on the most affectionate respect and
regard. Farewell,

Henry Lee.

^T.38.] CORRESPONDENCE. <321

LEE TO HAMILTON.

Shirley, near Richmond, Jan. 5, 1795.

My Dear Sir:

I wrote you the other day in reply to your letter received
from Col. Carrington.

The communicatioES from my friend since my return go to
tell me that I have become an object of the most virulent enmity
of a certain political junto who aftect to govern the United States,
and who belch their venom on every citizen not subservient to
their will. Mr. Marshall says, that my imagination cannot pre-
sent to me in true colors their invention and circulation of tales
to depreciate me.

Thus warned, I am collecting defensive weapons, lest they
may overcome by renewing their attack on me unprepared.

One point I wish to draw from you the President's opinion
upon, merely for my own satisfaction and information.

He wrote to me as Governor of Virginia to take the field,
telling me that I should command the army.

By referring to the Constitution and Law, the President has a
right to require the service of the militia, and is ex-of&cio Com-
mander-in-Chief. The militia law passed by Congress is the law
of organization, and does not mention a State Commander-in-
Chief, which is the Governor.

It is therefore argued, that the President cannot call on a
Governor to take the field.

Further, the President's calling on me as Governor to com-
mand the army was not consistent with his prudence ; for, if my
command lasted only to the short day, which closed my magis-
tracy, then a new commander might have been necessary in a
critical moment — a change which wisdom would not permit in
the arrangements.

Eefer to the Constitution of the United States, and State, and
to the Law of the first, then write to me at length, as you know
the reasons which swayed the President on the occasion.

Adieu. Yours always.

622 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 38.

P. S. — Should the reasoning of the Virginia Assembly be
just, the law of Congress ought to be amended, otherwise the
command of the army will be filled by the State Government
sending into the field the oldest ofiicer, and not by the Chief
Magistrate of the Union, who is responsible to the people for the
conduct of militia called into the field by his order.

DELANY TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, January 12, 1795.

Dear Sir:

Among that class of your fellow-citizens, who truly lament
your intended resignation, we also, as officers of the revenue of
this district, beg leave to assure you, we feel it in the most sensi-
ble degree.

And if the warmest heartfelt sentiments of your conduct, as
a statesman and in your official duties, can be pleasing or useful
to your feelings, we in the most explicit sense now offer them.

These sentiments, sir, and opinions, are founded on expe-
rience and due consideration in every instance that we know or
recognize throughout your whole administration.

We also sincerely hope you will meet in future the just and
happy fruits of an upright and virtuous conduct, in the grateful
sentiments of a free and enlightened people — for, if such is the
portion of an impartial and steady operation in office to insure
happiness and security agreeably to the Constitution and Laws,
you must certainly meet it. We are with unfeigned esteem and
great respect your obedient and most humble servants,

Sharp Delant, Collector.
W. Macpherson, S. Officer.
Walter Stewart, Surveyor.

vEt. 38.] CORRESPONDENCE. 623

EDMUND EANDOLPH TO HAMILTON".

Philadelphia, February 17, 1795.

Deae Sir :

I had intended to have paid my respects to you this morning;
but being deprived of that pleasure by a bad cold, and bad
weather, I beg leave to offer to yourself, Mrs. Hamilton and
family, my best wishes for your and their happiness ; and to
assure you of the true esteem and regard with which I am,
Dear Sir,

Your most obedient servant,

Edm. Eandolph.

M'^HENEY TO HAMILTON.

New Baltimore, February 17, 1795.

My Deae Hamilton:

The tempest weathered and landed on the same shore, I may
now congratulate you on having established a system of credit,
and having conducted the affairs of our country upon principles
and reasoning, which ought to insure its immortality, as it un-
doubtedly will your fame. Few public men have been so
eminently fortunate as voluntarily to leave so high a station with
so unsullied a character, and so well assured a reputation ; and
still fewer have so well deserved the gratitude of their country,
and the eulogiums of history. Let this console you for past toils
and pains, and reconcile you to humbler pleasures and a private
life. What remains for you, having insured fame, but to insure
felicity ? Seek for it in the moderate pursuit of your profession,
or, if public life still flatters, in that office most congenial to it ;
and which will not withdraw you from those literary objects that
require no violent waste of spirits, and those little plans that
involve gentle exercise, and which you can drop or indulge in
without injury to your family.

624 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 38.

I shall expect to hear from you as soon as you get fairly
settled. Not knowing whether I ought to address to you at
Albany or New-York, I have sent this to Mr. Murray, who will
forward it, and who I suppose knows. Adieu.

Sincerely and affectionately,

James M'Henry.

HAMILTON TO SEDGEWICK.

Bristol, February 18th, 1795.

My Dear Sedgewick:

Every moment's reflection increases my chagrin and disgust
at the failure of the propositions concerning the unsubscribed
debt. I am tortured by the idea that the country should be so
completely and unnecessarily dishonored. A day of reckoning
must come. I pray you let the yeas and nays separate the tvlieat
from the chaff. I may otherwise have to feel the distress of
wounding a friend by a shaft levelled at an enemy. The case is
an extreme one. Managements are every way improper.

Yours affectionately,

A. Hamilton.

HAMILTON TO KING.

Kingston, February 21st, 1795.

My Dear King:

The unnecessary, and capricious, and abominable assassina-
tion of the national honor, by the rejection of the propositions
respecting the unsubscribed debt, in the House of Eepresenta-
tives, haunts me every step I take, and afiiicts me more than I
can express. To see the character of the government and the
country so sported with — exposed to so indelible a blot — puts

/Et. 38.] CORRESPONDENCE, 625

my heart to the torture. Am I, then, more of an American than
those who drew their first breath on American ground? Or
what is it that thus torments me, at a circumstance so calmly
viewed by almost every body else ? Am I a fool — a romantic
Quixotte — or is there a constitutional defect in the American
mind ? Were it not for yourself and a few others, I could adopt
the reveries of De Paux as substantial truths, and could say with
him that there is something in our climate which belittles every
animal, human or brute.

I conjure you, my friend, make a vigorous stand for the
honor of your country ! Eouse all the energies of your mind,
and measure swords in the Senate with the great slayer of pub-
lic faith — the hackneyed veteran in the violation of public engage-
ments. Prevent him, if possible, from triumphing a second time
over the prostrate credit and injured interests of his country.*
Unmask his false and horrid hypothesis. Display the immense
diiference between an able statesman and the man of subtilties.
Eoot out the distempered and noisome weed which is attempted
to be planted in our political garden, to choke and wither, in its
infancy, the fair plant of public credit.

I disclose to you, without reserve, the state of my mind. It
is discontented and gloomy in the extreme. I consider the cause
of good government as having been put to an issue, and the
verdict rendered against it.

Introduce, I pray you, into the Senate, when the bill comes
up, the clause which has been rejected, freed from embarrass-
ment by the bills of credit, bearing interest on the nominal
value. Press its adoption in this the most unexceptionable
shape, and let the yeas awl nays witness the result.

Among the other reasons for this is my wish that the true
friends of public credit may be distinguished from its enemies.
The question is too great a one not to undergo a thorough ex-
amination before the community. It would pain me not to be
able to distinguish.

Adieu ! God bless you.

* Witness the forty for one scheme— a most unskilful measure, to say the best
of it.

E 40

626 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 38.

P. S. Do me the favor to revise carefully tlie course of the
bill respecting the unsubscribed debt, and let me know the par-
ticulars. I wish to be able to judge more particularly of the
underplot I suspect.

HAMILTON TO KING.

New-York, February 26th, 1795.

My Deae Sir:

I have received your letter, with the printed bills. The new
clause is an additional bad feature; yet, 'tis better the thing
should pass as it is than not at all. Every thing should be gained
that can be.

So it seems that, under the present administration of the De-
partment, Hillhouse and Goodhue are to be the ministers in the
House of Eepresentatives, and Elsworth and Strong in the
Senate. Fine work we shall have !

But I swear the nation shall not be dishonored with im-
punity.

HAMILTON TO WOLCOTT.

Albany, April 10th, 1795.

Dear Sir:

I wrote you a few lines by the last post. I sit down to fulfil
my promise then made.

The fulfilment of our foreign engagements, under the exist-
ing circumstances, is no doubt a perplexing task. But I hope it
will not be found impracticable to effect enough to preserve cha-
racter and credit.

Every thing must be done to this end, though with consider-
able sacrifices, provided you do not go so far as to endanger credit

^T. 38.] CORRESPONDENCE. 627

at home. This must at all events be kept sound, since a shock
there will be fatal, while the extraordinary situation of the times
will furnish an apology for any omissions which may happen
abroad; and by eventual indemnification, the wounds which
may be given to foreign credit may be healed. The opinion which
some entertain is altogether a false one, that it is more important
to maintain our credit abroad than at home. The latter is far
the most important nursery of resources, and consequently far
the most important to be inviolably maintained. A failure here
would be the more material, because it would argue want of
means, and could not shelter itself under the plea of temporary
embarrassments from external causes, and because it would de-
range our whole internal economy.

But, except the compromitting our whole domestic credit,
nothing must be left undone to preserve external credit,

I do not doubt that the means which have been taken down
to the first of June, inclusively, will be deemed adequate, consi-
dering the circumstances. They may, however, fail of the effect
intended. But I do not apprehend any material evil from the
delay of reimbursing the instalment of principal, if the interest
is but punctually and honestly paid. I hope our Commission-
ers, with the public and their own resources, will effect this, till
further provision can be brought into action.

As to sending specie from this country, 'tis out of the ques-
tion. 'Twould derange every thing; and our Commissioners
ought to be frankly told that it is impracticable, owing to the in-
terruption^ hy the loar, of some of the usual channels through which
we have derived our supplies of specie.

But commodities may be remitted on the public account, and
this (the resource of stock failing) must, for aught I see, be done,
unless what I shall now mention can be accomplished, with the
judgment of our Commissioners in its favor, to wit:

Let them enter into an arrangement with the constituted au-
thorities of Holland or France, (preferring the former,) to receive
at Amsterdam the sums necessary for paying those which we
shall owe, giving drafts upon our Treasury for equivalent sums.
This will enable the French or Dutch Government to obtain sup-
plies here, which they will want.

628 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 38

But may they, for this purpose, receive and^ay assignats?
Not so, if assignats are not the general currency of the country ;
but if they are, there may be no choice. Gold and silver may
not then be obtainable at all. Perhaps the Commissioners may
be able to raise funds by the sale of bills upon this country,
otherwise, as many may wish, to remit from the Netherlands.

Yet our creditors must not be paid, without a reasonable in-
demnification, in depreciated paper. Consequently our Commis-
sioners must be authorized, if obliged to pay in assignats, to aug-
ment the rate, so as to allow an equivalent.

Accordingly, if the arrangement I have intimated can be
effected, the Commissioners may give bills, florin for fl/yrin, of
gold or silver (or a dollar for 2| florins); but if they are obliged
to receive assignats, they ought to secure a premium of exchange
equal to the depreciation.

This transaction ought to be managed under the superintend-
ence of our Minister.

What I wish you were able immediately to do, is this: To
ship, without delay, commodities sufficient, together with the
moneys certainly in the command of the Commissioners, inde-
pendent of sales of stock, to pay interest to September inclusively,
writing them a letter suggesting the above plan, and authorizing
them to act upon it if they approve.

The stock remitted may be ordered to be sold in England,
which will furnish a fund upon which you can draw, in order to
prosecute other methods of remittance.

At the same time, I think it may be well to take measures
for ascertaining whether some arrangement could not be relied
upon for remitting through England to Amsterdam. I know of
no impediment, even now, to sending bullion (including Spanish
and other foreign gold and silver coin) in American bottoms to
Amsterdam; but impediments might arise. Perhaps, in this
case, London might be made an intermediary of remittances to
Holland, either by sales of stock, or commodities there.

The commodities to be remitted ought to be such as to be
liable to as little casualty as possible from war considerations ;
and they ought to be most effectually insured; and ought to

^T. 38.] CORRESPONDENCE. 629

appear authentically as those of the United States, sent to pay
their debts on their own account and risk. I suspect, however,
the other plan will be found practicable on satisfactory principles,
but no agreement ought to be for a longer term than a year.

If you are not able to seud, immediately, commodities for
payment of interest to September, it may then be of necessity
to wait further information, giving full latitude, if it has not al-
ready been given, to sell stock for payment of interest at any
time, suggesting the possibility of doing something through
London, and proposing the plan of the arrangement which has
been suggested. All the stock r -^t salable in Amsterdam ought
to be placed in London, under due precautions for security, to be
sold there as a fund.

The co-operation of our minister in Holland will be proper
throughout ; and pretty large discretions must be confided.

If a very trusty and a clever fellow could go from hence, as
agent for the treasury, with alternative instructions according to
circumstances, it might be very useful. I believe William
Smith of South Carolina would go, and he would be safe and
competent. Would not James Watson go ? He would also do.

In contemplating a possible course of things, I had my eye
upon the expedient of issuing warrants upon the treasurer, pay-
able at future periods, from two to twelve months, in nature of
Exchequer Bills. This may be a mean of providing for the
current service by credit, besides the expedient of loans from the
bank. By being negotiable, they may answer the purposes of
contractors, though articles may thereby cost something more to
the public, than on the plan of anticipated or prompt payment.

I mention this, because I foresee that, from the embarrass-
ment of foreign events, there may be a press upon the treasury.

If any thing further occurs you shall have it. Write me as
freely as you please.

Yours, with great regard,

Alexander Hamilton.

P. S. There is one idea which may deserve attention — a de-
preciated paper naturally gives to gold and silver an artificial

630 HAMILTON'S WORKS. F^t. 38.

and exaggerated value. This may even occasion an undue loss to
a debtor who is honorable enough to pay in gold and silver,
when a depreciated paper is the general currency. This is more
than just. But it may be policy in a government to submit to
it. Yet there may be bounds. The idea may be brought into
the view of our minister and commissioners for this purpose : —
To suggest, that if such an artificial advancement of gold and
silver takes place, the compensation for depreciation may be ad-
justed upon some equitable ratio. But a moderate sacrifice, for
simplicity of proceeding, may, in this case, be best.

I send a letter to the Attorney-General which you will read,
seal, and deliver. You will easily divine my reason for ad-
dressing it to him. The President ought to view this matter as
it is, but I do not write to him because I do not wish to appear
officious.

Have you taken any arrangement at Amsterdam, to facilitate
the change of foreign and domestic debt, according to the law of
last session? The moment is favorable. Facilities on the spot
may promote the object. Our commissioners and our minister
are worthy of trust. ,

KING TO HAMILTON.

Monday Morning, 17th April, 1795.

In general I agree in the course you recommend. Separate
bills will be reported to the House this morning, providing for
the Spanish, Indian, and Algerine treaties. They will pass the
House, and be sent to the Senate in the middle of the week. I
perceive no impropriety in adding to the first of these bills, re-
ceived by the Senate, and in succession to each of them, if requi-
site, a provision for the British treaty. Such amendment, if
received in the House before they take a question, it is believed,
would have influence.

The merchants and traders' petition is signed with unex-

yfiT. 38.] CORRESPONDENCE. 631

ampled unanimity. Baltimore has prepared a similar petition,
which will be very generally signed. General Smith, who is
now here, writes that the treaty has gained many friends, that
they are next to unanimous in favor of its execution ; that Anna-
polis is likewise unanimous, and that he thinks that nine-tenths
of the State are for carrying it into effect. He adds that a memo-
rial has been drawn up and signed by the most of the respectable
people of Baltimore approving the President's conduct in refusing
the papers, that he thinks a counter memorial could be obtained,
but that he has discouraged it, seeing the necessity of unanimity
at the present crisis. He returns to-morrow or next day, and
will be zealous for the execution of the treaty.

Van Cortland will leave this place on Wednesday. Would
it not be well to prepare a reception for him which may return
him in favor of the treaty? His friends may be induced to act
upon his mind, which balances, so as to decide it.

Adieu,

E. King.

GORE TO HAMILTON.

Boston, 20th April, 1795.

My Dear Sir:

I have hitherto delayed answering the letter you did me the
honor to write under date 28th February, in hopes of being
able to obtain such information on the subject as would be
agreeable to you, and afford a reasonable expectation of an adop-
tion, by the government, of your propositions respecting the un-
subscribed debt. But I am sorely mortified to find that many,
from whom you had a right to expect sound principles, and honest
politics, are crooked and perverse, and, I fear, obstinately so on
the subject of public credit. They do not view the system as
appealing to the option of the creditors, but to their necessities,
— and mortification at having assented to terms which they think
not quite so good as those proposed in your plan to the non-

632 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 38.

subscribers, is sufficient to induce the decided and warm opposi-
tion of some who have attained, over many, an influence which
is due only to the union of great talents and sound principles.

From conversing with influential men, in the district repre-
sented by Mr. Goodhue, I believe he might be induced to with-
draw his opposition — probably a fear of blame from some, for
having advised their compliance with the existing system, has
caused a part of his opposition ; or if it arises from other causes,
it might cease on his being convinced that respectable men in
his district were dissatisfied with his conduct, in this particular.

But the men who in this part of the country could influence
Mr. Strong, are of the class I mentioned in the former part of
this letter.

I feel deep regret at being obliged to communicate to you
such a character of our citizens; and shall be very happy to
attempt any thing that may be considered likely to produce a
more just way of thinking, and save our government from the
imputation which necessarily results from the rejection of your
propositions ; but I fear a sense of honor, as respects the credit
of the nation, too weak, and prejudices too deep, to admit of any
alteration.

I am, my dear Sir, very respectfully your sincere friend,

C. Gore.

HAMILTON TO KING.

April 24th, 1795.

Dear Sir:

I return you a certain draft, with a little substitute for the
close of it proposed by Mr. J with an eye to your suggestion.

Our petition went yesterday by express. It had more than
3,200 signers, which is within about 300 of the highest poll we
ever had in this city on both sides, at the most controverted elec-
tion. Nothing can more clearly demonstrate our unanimity, and

^T. 38.] CORRESPONDENCE. 6B3

1 feel no doubt of equal or greater unanimity throughout the
State.

The meeting-men have not dared to publish the names of the
committee, because it impudently contained a considerable pro-
portion of persons hostile to its object, several of them actually
on our petition. You see by this their embarrassment and their
weakness.

Yours,

Alexander Hamilton.

VARICK TO HAMILTON.

April 30th, 1795.

Dear Sir:

I have the pleasure of inclosing to you a certificate from the
Mayor and Aldermen of this, admitting you to the freedom of
this city, as their testimonial and that of the Corporation of this
city of their opinion of your merit and distinguished services in
the cause of your country.

This testimonial has remained in my hands some weeks, to be
forwarded by the Patroon, but he left us unexpectedly. After-
wards General Schuyler promised to dine with me, and I
expected to send it by him, but he also left us suddenly. I now
embrace the favorable opportunity by Mr. Henry, of conveying
it to you, with ray best wishes for your happiness, being with
sincere esteem and respect.

HAMILTON TO THE PRESIDENT.

May 5th, 1795.

The letter of which the inclosed is a copy, contains such ex-
traordinary matter that I could not hesitate to send it to you.

634 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 38.

The writer is Mr. G. M — — . I trust the information it conveys
cannot be true, yet in these wild times every thing is possible.
Your official information may serve as a comment.

Very respectfully and affectionately, I have the honor to be,
Sir, your obedient servant,

A. Hamilton.

My Dear Hamilton :

I have just now written to the President, to communicate some intelligence
lately received from Paris. This I have done in abstract ; but my correspondent
has written to me as follows : — " The government here are highly displeased with
ours — you may easily guess the reason. It has come to a very serious pitch.
A fleet is to be sent to our shore with a new minister. A definitive answer must
be given in 15 days. The government are to declare to us within a few days,
that our treaty with them is annulled. This will place Mr. Munroe in a cruel
dilemma. He is already much displeased, and a war will probably be the conse-
quence. The British will be glad of this. Perhaps we may have here a revolu-
tion from the industry of the Jacobins. The finances are worse than ever. They
cannot stand much longer." This letter is dated Paris, the 15th of last month.
You may be sure, by my communicating it to you, that I have confidence in the
source. I have barely stated to the President the intention as to a new minister.
To you I will declare my conviction, that this government cannot stand, whether
the monarchy be restored or not. The adherence to the royal cause grows daily
more numerous. If I knew decidedly the steps to be taken in aid of them, I
could tell you almost with certainty whether they would be successful or not :
for the state of that country now presents sufficient data on which to reason
soundly. I need not say to you, that if the French rulers persist in the measures
which are above mentioned, America will be obliged to take part in the war. On
a former occasion, when they talked somewhat highly, I told them that they
would certainly force us into the contest, but as certainly it would be against
them, let the predilections in their favor be ever so great, because it would be mad-
ness in us to risk our commerce against the navy of the world. That to join
them would do them no good, and would do us much evil. Thai time they
believed me. What representations Mr. Mimroe will make I cannot pretend to
divine, and much less the effect of them. Supposing, however, that you should
be driven to make the election, you will naturally weigh not only the naval force,
but also the financial resources of the opposed powers. The noisy folks with
you will undoubtedly be loud on our obligations to France, and on our long list
of grievances from England. As to the former, I think we should always seek
to perform acts of kindness towards those who, at the bidding of their prince,
stept forward to fight our battles. But would it be kind to support that power

^T. 38.] CORRESPONDENCE. 635

which now tyrannizes over France, and reduces her inhabitants to unheard of
misery ? . Would it be grateful to mix with, much less to league with those whose
laws are yet red with the blood of him who was our real protector ? Would it
be decent ? As to the conduct of Britain towards us, although I see as clearly
as others tlie grounds we have to complain, and can readily account for the
resentments which have been excited, yet I give due weight to the causes by
which that conduct was instigated,and while, in some cases, I find it unjustifiable,
I cannot consider it as in all cases inexcusable. Provided, therefore, that our
honor be saved, I am so far from thinking that the injuries we have endured
should become the source of inextinguishable hatred and perpetual war, that I
would seek in future goodofiices — the fair motive for consigning them to oblivion.
I have not, my dear Hamilton, any such view of our present political ma-
chinery as to judge what may be the effect of lofty menace. It is possible, after
all, that the demand may turn on a single pivot — that we shall no longer pretend
to claim an exemption from seizure for those goods of an enemy which m.ay be
found in our ships. If so, the case is plain and easy. We slide back to the law
of nations, which it is our interest to preserve unimpeached. Probably we shall
be called upon for our guarantee of St. Domingo, and here many curious ques-
tions will arise, in the course of which we shall see, perhaps, some very strange
things. It appears certain to me that the French directory would not risk high
language to us, if they had not received previous assurances that the people
would force our government to sacrifice the national interest. These assurances
were, I presume, given, and the present plan proposed, while victory seemed yet
bound to the French standard, and while you received official assurances of the
prosperous state of their internal affairs. The scene is now not only changed,
but almost reversed; and I presume that the language, if not the conduct, of
certain persons, will experience a similar change.

Adieu, &c.

END OF VOL. V.