NYPL RESEARCH LIBRARIES

3 3433 08173703 7
HHMM

\A.

HAMILTON"- vr.jr.KS.

~ : " ::

THE DEATH LIST) OF A DAY.

JOHN CHURCH HAMILTON.
John Church Hamilton, a son of Alexander
Hamilton, tbe first Secretary of the Treasun r,of
the United States, died early yesterday mornm* in
the IStockton cottage, on Ocean-avenue, low
Branch He had heen failing from extreme old
So^veral months, hut the immediate cause
This death was a complication of Janndice and
^tarrh. Mr. Hamilton was horn in :™££*»
, in 1792, while his father was Secretary of the Trees
urv and was only 14 years old when the latter
^w?; "led in to*^^^*™
sequently ^entered tbe Lnned^ta^es A ^ y ^
S^^^HUon. Heroes jg^

ffie^^S hVSeJened JU position in
the Army and retired to. private e. t havinsr
apply himself to the R'actKe on the study

strong l^rary tastes d^yo^ mm ; fc

of history. with a view 10 w « -Memoirs

■Between 1834 and 18 10 he put is! en n« j_

of the Life of Alexanae. H.rn »™£ 4Yft down
r,ehS" ffloS the Sera Kstitution. Two
»v«r^P..ted ^kaM^ar.

J octavo. He aiso t>u »'=> „nmmi?nts which was
Federalist,'; ^Jthnote* and comments,^

I Vrtehl^to^ od n"oynsthoen 'economical subject's were
Hamilton s opinions ou judsre Lawrence.

i I^KrollerAh^SuS «en. Grant, and.

-^^^u|^mP,thies^^eOS

guished ^"W^^^^p^Jarf Cooper,] Its
tropol-^n^ uen you, Hono • L rfn8 u were tne

es»8,«I may be permitted to avow
act oi others. i i-iaj *{ century of

a trust, near -the close > oi : dth&

t e people of ^Slg'dluSiSr of John Cornelius

chant of this C, y^ u»hwgons are Gen. Schuyler

re'd with distinction in the Mex-

> in tbe war of the rebellion;

ilton, of the Supreme Court of

n G Hamilton, the consuming

-,f tvi ennsvlvania Railroad Company,

engineer of th j*™**™ oi Westchester County.

and Alexander HamiAOLO Major.Gen. Hal-

?»l Ld after Ms' death, Major-Gen. Geow
W^X™ Another is the wife of ex-Judge

£%£ wtl b/ffi toWitJ euro* u 12 M. to-

I morrow. ^

cnildren survive
Hamilton, who;
ican war and \
Judge Charles |

Wisconsin: Wi;
engineer of th

THE WORKS

OF

ALEXANDER HAMILTON

COMPRISING

HIS CORRESPONDENCE,

HIS POLITICAL AND OFFICIAL WEITINGS,

EXCLUSIVE OF THE FEDERALIST,

CIVIL AND MILITARY.

PUBLISHED FROM THE ORIGINAL MANUSCRIPTS DEPOSITED IN
THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE,

BY ORDER OP

THE JOINT LIBRARY COMMITTEE OF CONGRESS.

• EDITED BV

JOHN C. HAMILTON,

AUTHOR OF "THE LIFE OF HAMILTON

VOL. VIL/<V^U i/N

NJEW-YORK

JOHN F TROW, PRINTER, 49 ANN-STREET

M.DCCC.LI.

Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1851, by

JOHN C. HAMILTON,

In the Clerk's Office of the District Court for the Southern District of New-York.

[JEt. 35.

POLITICAL ESSAYS.

For the Gazette of the United States.

July 25. 1702.

Mr. Fenno,

The editor of the " National Gazette " receives a salary from
government.

Qaere. Whether this salary is paid him for translations, or for
publications, the design of which is, to vilify those to whom the
voice of the people has committed the administration of our public
affairs — to oppose the measures of government, and, by false in-
sinuations, to disturb the public peace ?

In common life it is thought ungrateful for a man to bite the
hand that puts bread in his mouth ; but if the man is hired to
do it, the case is altered.

T. L.

AN AMERICAN.

For the Gazette of the United States.

I.

August 4, 1792.

Mr. Fenno,

It was easy to foresee, when the hint appeared in your Ga-
zette of the 25th July, that the editor of the National Gazette

6 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 35.

received a salary from the general government, that advantage
would be taken of its want of explicitness and particularity, to
make the circumstance matter of merit in Mr. Freneau, and an
argument of his independent disinterestedness. Such a turn of
the business cannot be permitted to succeed. It is now necessary
that the whole truth should be told, and that the real state of the
affair should be well understood.

Mr. Freneau, before he came to this city to conduct the Na-
tional Gazette, was employed by Childs and Swaine, printers of
the Daily Advertiser, in New-York, in the capacity of editor or
superintendent.

A paper more devoted to the views of a certain party, of
which Mr. Jefferson is the head, than any to be found in this
city, was wanted. Mr. Freneau was thought a fit instrument ; a
negotiation was opened with him which ended in the establish-
ment of the National Gazette, under his direction.

Mr. Freneau came here, at once editor of the National Ga-
zette, and clerk for foreign languages in the department of Mr.
Jefferson, Secretary of State; an experiment somewhat new in
the history of political manoeuvres in this country : a news-
paper instituted by a public officer, and the editor of it regularly
pensioned with the public money in the disposal of that officer ;
an example savoring not a little of that spirit, which, in the
enumeration of European abuses, is the continual theme of decla-
matory censure ; an example which could not have been set by
the head of any other department, without having long since
rung throughout the United States.

Mr. Freneau is not then, as he would have it supposed, the in-
dependent editor of a newspaper, who, though receiving a salary
from government, has firmness enough to expose its mal-admin-
istration : he is the faithful and devoted servant of the head of a
party, from whose hands he receives the boon. The whole com-
plexion of his paper exhibits a decisive internal evidence of the
influence of that patronage under which he acts.

Whether the services rendered by him are equivalent to the
compensation he receives, is best known to his employer and
himself; there is, however some room to doubt. It is well known

JEr. 35.] AN AMERICAN. 7

that his employer is, himself, well acquainted with the French
language, the only one of which Mr. Freneau is the translator,
and it may be a question how often his aid is necessary.

It is somewhat singular, too, that a man acquainted with but
one foreign language, engaged in an occupation which it may be
presumed, demands his whole time and attention— the editor of
a newspaper — should be the person selected as the clerk for
foreign languages in the department of the United States for
foreign affairs. Could no person be found acquainted with more
than one foreign language, and who in so confidential a trust could
have been regularly attached to, in the constant employ of the
department, and immediately under the eye of the head of it?

But it may be asked — is it possible that Mr. Jefferson, the
head of a principal department of the government, can be the
patron of a paper, the evident object of which is to decry the
government and its measures ? If he disapproves of the govern-
ment itself, and thinks it deserving of his opposition, can he re-
concile it to his own personal dignity, and the principles of pro-
bity, to hold an office under it, and employ the means of official
influence in that opposition ? If he disapproves of the leading
measures which have been adopted in the course of its adminis-
tration— can he reconcile it with the principles of delicacy and
propriety, to hold a place in that administration, and at the same
time to be instrumental in vilifying measures which have been
adopted by majorities of both branches of the legislature, and
sanctioned by the chief magistrate of the Union?

These questions would certainly be natural. An answer
might be left to the facts which establish the relation between the
Secretary of State and the editor of the National Gazette as the
text, and to the general tenor of that paper, as the commentary.
Let any intelligent man read the paper from the commencement of
it, and let him determine for himself whether it be not a paper
virulently hostile to the government and its measures. Let him
then ask himself whether, considering the connection which has
subsisted between the Secretary of State and the editor of that
paper, coeval with its first establishment, it be probable that the
complexion of the paper is contrary to the views of that officer.

8 HAMILTON'S WORKS. L^Et. 35

If he wishes for a confirmation of the inference which he
cannot fail to draw, as a probable one, let him be informed in ad
dition,

1st. That while the Constitution of the United States was de-
pending before the people of this country for their consideration
and decision, Mr. Jefferson, being in France, was opposed to it
in some of its most important features, and wrote his objections
to some of his friends in Virginia. That he at first went so far
as to discountenance its adoption, though he afterwards recom-
mended it, on the ground of expediency in certain contin-
gencies.

2d. That he is the declared opponent of almost all the im-
portant measures which have been devised by the government,
more especially the provision which has been made for the public
debt, the institution of the Bank of the United States, and such
other measures as relate to the public credit, and the finances of
the United States.

It is proper that these facts should be known, for if the peo-
ple of the United States believe, that their happiness and their
safety are connected with the existence and maintenance of an
efficient national or federal government ; if they continue to
think that which they have created and established worthy of
their confidence — if they are willing that the powers they have
granted to it should be exercised with sufficient latitude to at-
tain the ends they had in view in granting them, and to do the
essential business of the nation ; if they feel an honest pride in
seeing the credit of their country, so lately prostrate, elevated to
an equal station with that of any nation upon earth ; if they are
conscious that their own importance is increased by the increased
respectability of their country, which from an abject and degrad-
ed state, owing to the want of government, has, by the establish-
ment of a wise Constitution, and the measures which have been
pursued under it, become a theme for the praise and admiration
of mankind ; if they experience that their own situation is im-
proved and improving — that commerce and navigation have ad-
vanced, that manufactures are progressive — that agriculture is
thriving — that property is more secure than it was — industry more

Mr. 35.] AN AMERICAN. 9

certain of a real, not nominal reward — personal liberty perfectly
protected — that notwithstanding the unavoidable demands upon
them to satisfy the justice, retrieve the reputation, and answer
the exigencies of the country, they are neither less burthened
than they were, or more equal to the burthen they have to sus-
tain ; — if these are their opinions and their experience, let them
know and understand, that the sentiments of the officer who has
been mentioned — both as to the principles and the practice of the
Constitution which was framed by them, and has been adminis-
tered by their representatives, freely chosen — are essentially dif-
ferent from theirs.

If, on the contrary, the people of the United States are of
opinion, that they erred in adopting their present Constitution —
that it contains pernicious principles and dangerous powers —
that it has been administered injudiciously and wickedly— that
men whose abilities and patriotism were tried in the worst of
times, have entered into a league to deceive, defraud, and op-
press them ; that they are reaily oppressed and ruined, or in
imminent danger of being so; — if they think the preservation of
national Union a matter of no or small consequence ; if they
are willing to return to the situation from which they have es-
caped, and to strip the government of some of the most neces-
sary powers with which they have clothed it ; if they are de-
sirous that those which may be permitted to remain should be
frittered away by a narrow, timid, and feeble exercise of them ;
if they are disposed to see the national government transformed
into the skeleton of power; — if they are persuaded that nations
are under no ties of moral obligation — that public credit is use-
less, or something worse — that public debts may be paid or can-
celled at pleasure — that when a provision is not likely to be
made for them, the discontents to be expected from the omission
may honestly be transferred from a government able to vindi-
cate its rights to the breasts of individuals who may first be en-
couraged to become the substitutes to the original creditors and
may afterwards be defrauded without danger ;* — if to national

* Such was the advice given to Congress by Mr. Jefferson, when Minister Pie-

10 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 35.

union, national respectability, public order, and public credit,
the}7 are willing to substitute national disunion, national insigni-
ficance, public disorder, and discredit, then let them unite their
acclamations and plaudits in favor of Mr. Jefferson ; let him be
the toast of every political club, and the theme of every popular
huzza; for to those points, without examining his motives, do
the real or pretended political tenets of that gentleman most
assuredly tend.

These strictures are made from a conviction that it is impor-
tant to the people to know the characters intrusted with their
public affairs.

As Mr. Jefferson is emulous of being the head of a party
whose politics have ever aimed at depressing the national autho-
rity, let him enjoy all the glory and all the advantage of it. But
let it at the same time be understood by those who are per-
suaded that the real and permanent welfare of the country is to
be promoted by other means, that such are the views by which
he is actuated.

An" American.

ii.

August 11, 1792.
Facts, Mr. Fenno, speak louder than words, and, under cer-
tain circumstances, louder than oaths. The editor of the Na-
tional Gazette must not think to swear away their efficacy. If
he is truly, as they announce, the pensioned tool of the public
character who has been named, no violation of truth in any
shape ought to astonish ; equivocations and mental reservations
are the too common refuge of minds struggling to escape from
disgraceful imputations.

nipotentiary to the court of France, respecting the debt due to the French nation.
The precise terms are not recollected, hut the substance may he depended upon.
The poor Hollanders were to be victims.

JEt. 35.]

AN AMK1UCAN. 11

It may be very true, in a literal sense, that no negotiation
was ever opened with Mr. Freneau by Thomas Jefferson, Secre-
tary of State, and yet it may be very certain, that a negotiation
was opened with him, directly or circuitously, by a particular
friend of that officer, and expectation given of his patronage and
encouragement.

It may be very true, in the same sense, that Mr. Freneau's
coming to the city of Philadelphia, as publisher of a newspaper,
was at no time urged, advised, or influenced, by the same officer,
and yet it may be equally a fact, that it was urged, advised, and
influenced by a friend of his, in concert with him, and to answer
his views, and with authority to engage his assistance and sup-
port. It may in the strictest sense be true, that Mr. Freneau's
coming to Philadelphia was his own voluntary act; and yet true
that he came from interested motives, and to do the work of a
party ; for a man acts not the less voluntarily because he yields
to considerations of interest. It may be even true, that the edi-
tor of the National Gazette was never either directed, controlled,
or attempted to be influenced in any manner, either by the Sec-
retary of State, or any of his friends ; and yet it may, in the
strongest sense, be true, that under the influence of the emolu-
ments received from that officer, he has acted in precise confor-
mity to his known principles and views.

As to the assertion, that not a single line in the National
Gazette was ever, directly or indirectly, written, dictated, or com-
posed for it, by the Secretary of State, it is a shocking instance
of rashness and levity. Unless Mr. Freneau be himself the au-
thor of every line which has been contained in every one of his
papers (a thing not to be believed), it is impossible that he can
know that none has ever been directly or indirectly written, dictated,
or composed j^r the officer in question. And if he had been as
scrupulous about an oath as he ought to have been, he never
could have sworn so positively as he has done, to a thing which
it was impossible for him to know; temerity like this would
invalidate his testimony in a court of justice, if he were even,
as he is not in the present case, a disinterested witness.

No, Mr. Freneau, this is not the way to exculpate yourself

12 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 35.

before a judicious public, from the conclusions which are to be
drawn from the most convincing facts. Nor can it be believed,
from any thing that you have either sworn or said, that the
whole of what has been alleged is "a lie."

The material facts which have been alleged, and may be
added in confirmation, are either acknowledged, or such as you
dare not deny ; and they prove decisively your improper connec-
tion with the Secretary of State, and the influence of that con-
nection upon your press.

It is a fact which you have acknowledged, that you receive
a regular salary from the Secretary of State, as clerk in his de-
partment for foreign languages, while you pretend not to act in
any other capacity than that of translator of one foreign language.

It is a fact which you tacitly concede, that you came from
New-York, where you was in capacity of an editor or director of
a newspaper, to become in this city editor of the National Ga-
zette.

It is a fact which you dare not deny, that your appointment
as clerk for foreign languages, was cotemporary with or rather
antecedent to the commencement of your paper. The first num-
ber of your paper is dated 81st of October, 1791, your appoint-
ment was announced in the Daily Advertiser of October 26th,
1791 (a paper printed in New-York), in the following terms :
" We hear from Philadelphia that the Hon. Thomas Jefferson,
Esq., Secretary of State for the United States, has appointed
Captain Philip Freneau, Interpreter of the French language for
the Department of State."*

It is a fact, which the debates in the Virginia Convention
will testify, that Mr. Jefferson was in the origin opposed to the
present Constitution of the United States.

It is a fact known to every man who approaqjaes that officer
(for he takes no pains to conceal it, and will not thank you to
deny it), that he arraigns the principal measures of the govern-
ment, and it may be added, with indiscreet if not indecent warmth.

* It is believed that Mr. Freneau could throw light upon this question, by
naming the day when his salary commenced.

Mi. 35,]

AN AMERICAN. 13

It is a fact which results from the whole complexion of your
paper, that it is a paper intemperately devoted to the abuse of
the government, and all the conspicuous actors in it, except the
Secretary of State and his coadjutors, who are the constant
theme of your panegyric. Even the illustrious Patriot who pre-
sides at the head of the government, has not escaped your en-
venomed shafts.

And from these facts the inferences ivhich have been drawn are
irresistible.

The circumstances of your having come from another State
to set up and conduct a new paper ; the circumstance of the edi-
tor of that new paper being appointed a clerk in the Department
of State ; the coincidence in point of time of that appointment
with the commencement of your paper, or to speak more correctly,
its precedency — the conformity between the complexion of your
paper, and the known politics of the head of the department
who employed you — these circumstances, collectively, leave no
doubt of your true situation ; the conviction arising from them is
too strong to be weakened by any of those bold or even solemn
declarations, which are among the hackneyed tricks employed by
the purists in politics, of every country and age, to cheat the
people into a belief of their superior sanctity, integrity, and
virtue.

If you had been previously the conductor of a newspaper in
this city — if your appointment had been any considerable time
subsequent to the institution of your paper, there might have
been some room for subterfuge ; but as matters stand, you have
no possible escape.

The fact of the preliminary negotiation which brought you
to this city, is not material, when so many other facts presuppos-
ing it occur ; but even this, if the scruples of family connection,
or the dread of party resentment, docs not prevent the evidence
being brought forward, will be proved incontestably ; not, in-
deed, a negotiation in which Thomas Jefferson, Secretary of
State, was the immediate agent, but one carried on by a very
powerful, influential, and confidential friend and associate of that
gentleman.

14 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [J3t. 35.

That officer has had too considerable a part of his political
education amidst the intrigues of an European Court, to hazard
a direct personal commitment in such a case ; he knows how to
put a man in a situation calculated to produce all the effects he
desires, without the gross and awkward formality of telling him,
" Sir, I mean to hire you for the purpose."

It is impossible for a correct mind not to pronounce, that, in
the abstract, a connection like that which is acknowledged to sub-
sist between you and Mr. Jefferson, between the editor of a news-
paper, and the head of a department of the government, is inde-
licate and unfit, and consequently of a nature to justify suspicion.

A connection of that sort in a free country, is a pernicious
precedent, inconsistent with those pretensions to extraordinary
republican purity, of which so suspicious a parade is upon every
occasion exhibited.

The apology you attempt for it is ill-founded and inadmissible ;
-there is no law, which annexes a particular salary to the clerk-
ship in question — the appointment is under the general authority
given to the head of the department, to appoint clerks with sa-
laries not exceeding aggregatively five hundred dollars to each —
there is therefore no restriction to the sum you mention to in-
duce, as matter of necessity, the employment of a person engaged
in other occupations — and not ordinarily and regularly attached
to the department. Five hundred dollars, or even more, might
be legally given, for a clerk, competent to the duty, and if it
was not sufficient wholly to employ him, his surplus time might
be dedicated to other business of the department — nor could
there have been any mighty difficulty in finding a clerk so qua-
lified.

But if there had been such difficulty, some other character
should undoubtedly have been found — the precedent of such a
species of influence erected over the press, ought to have been
avoided. This is so obvious, that the not having avoided it is a
proof of sinister design.

The employment of Mr. Pintard, by the Secretary of State,
was a natural consequence of particular situation. Mr. Pintard,
if I am rightly informed, had been employed in the same capa-

jEt. 35.] AN AMERICAN,
city under the old government, and it was natural enough to con-
tinue him in the occupation and employment; but Mr. Pintard
was not the printer of a Gazette.

These strictures, though involving Mr. Freneau, it shall be
confessed have been drawn forth principally with a view to a
character of greater importance in the community — they aim at
explaining a public officer, who has too little scrupled to embar-
rass and disparage the government of which he is a member —
and who has been the prompter, open or secret, of unwarrantable
aspersions on men, who so long as actions, not merely profes-
sions, shall be the true test of patriotism and integrity, need never
decline a comparison with him, of their titles to the public es-
teem.

An American.

hi.

August 18th, 1792.

The charges which have been brought against "the editor of
the National Gazette," as he himself states them to be, are no
otherwise personal charges, than as they designate the person
against whom they are made.

In their application to Mr. Freneau, they affect him solely in
his capacity of editor of a public paper (which may justly be
considered as a public capacity), and in relation to matters of
public or national concern. It is therefore a mere subterfuge to
call them personal charges, and then to say they shall not be an-
swered, unless the author of them will come forward to support
them. It was easily anticipated that he might have good reasons
for not discovering himself, at least at the call of Mr. Freneau —
and it was necessary for him to find a shelter. What else could
he do? The charges brought against him are substantiated by
facts, some of them acknowledged by himself, others proved by
a reference to public documents, and to his own paper, others 0£
general notoriety.

16 HAMILTON'S WORKS. ' [Mt. 35.

The inferences from these facts are the only things which re-
main for discussion, and these so naturally flow from the premises,
that they defy the arts of sophistry to obscure them. The expe-
dient, however, which has been adopted comes rather late, con-
sidering that Mr. Freneau began to answer even under the
solemnities of an oath.

An American.

PAYMENTS OF PUBLIC DEBT.

August 29th, 1792.
The following authentic documents respecting the progress
which has been made by the present Government of the United
States, towards extinguishing the Debts contracted under the
former Government, will, it is presumed, be very acceptable to
the people of the United States ; and it is hoped that the dif-
erent editors of newspapers will give the information the general
circulation which its importance merits.

T.

Treasury Department, Register's Office, 24th August, 1792.
Sir:

I have the honor to inclose an abstract and statement of the debt incurred by the
late Government, and which has been paid off from the funds of the present Govern-
ment, amounting to one million eight hundred and forty-five thousand two hundred
and seventeen dollars forty-two cents ; but this sum will be increased, when the
balance of three hundred and ninety seven thousand twenty-four dollars thirteen
cents, remaining to be appropriated to the farther purchase of the public debt, shall
be applied, and which more particularly appears by the subjoined statement.
With every sentiment of the highest respect,
I have the honor to be, Sir,
Your most obedient and most humble servant,

Joseph Nourse, Register.
Hon. Alexander Hamilton, Secretary of the Treasury.

jEt. 35.] PAYMENTS OF PUBLIC DEBT. 17

II.

Statement of the balance which remains to be applied to the further purchase of the Pub-
lic Debt.
By the Act passed 12th August, 1790, making provision for the reduction of the
Public Debt. Section 2nd. it is enacted, That all such surplus of the product of the
duties arising from impost and tonnage to 31st December, 1790, after satisfying the
several appropriations therein specified, shall be applied to the purchase of the
public debt.

The product of said duties were .... $3 026,070 65 J
The total appropriations were 1 687,194 81

The surplus fund to 31st December, 1790 . . $1,338,875 84 J
Deduct the amount paid for 81,456,743 18 of the

public debt extinguished as per abstract . . $941,85169

Leaves a balance which remains to be applied to the

farther purchases of the public debt . . . $397,024 15£

III.

An abstract Statement of the sum extinguished of the Public Debt, also of the payment
from thcfudds of the present Government of certain claims which were incurred by
the late Government.

Purchases of the Public Debt.

Amount thereof extinguished $1,456,743 38

Warrants drawn by the Board of Treasury under the late Govern-
ment, and which have been discharged in pursuance of the Act of
Congress of 29th September, 1789 157,789 94

Civil List: for various payments made upon accounts which ori-
ginated u der the late Government 25,768 50

War Department, being for arrearages of pay due to sundry ofl&cers

of the army, and for provisions furnished 7,308 40

Abraham Skinner, late Commissary General of Prisoners, for the
Board of American Prisoners of War at Long Island ; appro,
priated by Congress, per their Act passed 12th August, 1790

Representatives of Mr. de Decoudray, balance of pay

Ditto Hon. John Laurens, his salary on an embassy to the French
Court

Francis Dana, salary on an embassy to the Court of St. Petersburg

Benson, Smith and Barker, their expenses attending the embark-
ation of the British troops at New York

His Most Christian Majesty, for military and ordnance stores sup-
plied to American ships of war, in the French West Indies .
G 2

38,683 13

2,977 24

6,017 31

2,410 30

1,000

29,029 68

18 HAMILTON'S WORKS. ' [Mr. 35.

Oliver Pollock, for balance due him for supplies at New Orleans,
with interest thereon, in conformity with the several Acts of
Congress 108.605

Mons. Gardoqui & Son, balance due for supplies furnished in Spain 502 86

Bills of exchange, which had been drawn on Foreign Commis-
sioners, not paid by them

Timothy Pickering, late Quarter-Master General, being on account
of the appropriation of $40,000, passed July 1st, 1790 .

Grants of Congress, viz : —
John McCord, per Act of Congress of 1st July, 1790 .
Jehoakim M. Tocksin, per Act of Congress of the 26th of March,
Baron de Glaubeck, per Act of 29th September, 1789 .

Seth Harding, per Act 11th August, 1790

Caleb Brewster, ditto, ditto

$1,845,217 42
Treasury Department, Register's Office, August 23rd, 1792.

Joseph Nourse, Register.

$250,542 14

4,185 50

2,077 89

1,309 71

120 00

140 26

200 00

348 57

2,118 54

CIVIS TO MERCATOR.

Sept. 5th, 1792.

Certain Treasury Documents were lately published for the
information of the community, without any precise designation
of the purpose for which they were published. They were left
to speak for themselves, with only a short introduction, denom-
inating them "Authentic documents respecting the progress
which has been made by the present government of the United
States, towards extinguishing the debts contracted under the
former government."

A writer in this Gazette of Saturday last, under the signature

JEt. 35.] CI VIS. 19

of Mercator, has thought fit to come forward, and, assigning
what he conceives to be the object of the publication, endeavors
to show, that the contrary of what was intended, is true.

What right had Mercator to suppose, that any thing more
was intended, than simply to inform the public that besides a
punctual payment of the interest on the debt, from the period at which
measures were matured to begin that payment, a considerable sum of
the Capital of the Debt has been extinguished, and that a further sum
ivillbe extinguished by a provision already made f leaving them to this
very natural inference, which will be drawn by every candid mind,
that the government has been as attentive as circumstances would
permit, at so early a period, to the extinguishment of the debt.

Bat admitting Mercator to be right in his suggestion of the
object, it is presumed that a liberal construction of all circum-
stances will justify the position, that the present government has
reduced the debt of the former government, to the extent ex-
pressed in the documents which have been published. This will
result, if it shall appear that provision was made for the interest,
as early as was reasonably practicable. To have paid the interest
from that period, and to have sunk so much of the capital in
addition, is, in fair construction, to have reduced the debt to the
extent of the capital sunk.

When Mercator undertook to suppose an object, which was
not declared, he ought to have taken care to be better informed
and more accurate. When he undertook to state an account with
the Treasury Department, he ought not only to have selected just
items, to have adverted to dates, times and possibilities, but he
ought to have stated the whole account.

This he has not done ; on the contrary he has both misrepre-
sented and suppressed facts. He has shown, in the true spirit of
a certain junto (who not content with the large share of power
they have in the government, are incessantly laboring to monop-
olize the whole of its power, and to banish from it every man
who is not subservient to their preposterous and all-grasping
views), that he has been far more solicitous to arraign, than to
manifest the truth — to take away, than to afford consolation to
the people of the United States.

20 HAMILTON'S WORKS. ' [JEi. 35.

The following particulars are proofs of his want both of accu-
racy and candor.

First. — He charges to the Treasury Department arrears of
interest, which accrued prior to its existence, that is, from the
1st of August, 1789 ; whereas the department was not instituted
till the 2d of September, nor organized till about the 13th,
when, I am informed, the Secretary of the Treasury entered upon
the duties of his office.

Secondly. — He takes as the standard of his calculation, the
whole amount of the annual interest on the whole amount of the
public debt, as it exists under the present funding system, in-
cluding all the arrears of interest made principal, and the
$21,500,000 of assumed debt — whereas the arrears which did
actually accumulate to the end of the year 1790, were only on
the principal of the foreign and domestic debt, and fall short
more than a million of dollars of the sum he states.

These simple facts prove the fallacy of his statement.
But the principle, upon which he proceeds, is not less absurd
than his calculations are fallacious.

With as much propriety might an executor be charged with
increasing the debts of his testator, by suffering the arrears of
interest on his bonds and notes to accumulate, while he was
collecting, arranging and disposing of the estate ; as the present
government, or if the phrase is preferred, the present Treasury
Department, may be charged with those arrearages, which una-
voidably accrued, during the preparatory measures for bringing
the resources of the public estate into activity. With as much
reason might it be charged with the 13,000,000 of interest, which
accumulated under the imbecile system, the old confederation, to
which, if not to worse, — a dissolution of the Union ! — the designs
of the junto evidently point or tend.

When, proceeding upon grounds so loose and unjust, Mer-
cator makes the extraordinary declaration, that the Secretary of
the Treasury " has produced an actual addition to the public debt
of more than one million and a half of dollars," is it not palpable,
that in the most malignant spirit of party he is endeavoring to
destroy the public confidence in that officer, no matter how unfair

jEt.35.] CI VIS.
the means, as one link in the chain of measures by which the
domineering aims of his party are to be effected, or the cause ot
confusion promoted ? Is it not clear that in the language and
conceptions of Mercator to provide for a debt, and to "produce"
it, amount to the same thing ?

To form a still better estimate of the spirit by which he is
actuated, let there be a review of some leading facts.

Congress met under the present government on the 1st of
April, 1789. To put it in motion they had a vast and very
arduous work before them. This was of course a primary object ;
a provision for the debt, a secondary one. It was natural then
that the first session should have been exhausted in organizing
the government, and that a systematic provision for the debt
should be postponed, as in fact it was, to the second session. A
temporary and partial provision of revenue only was accordingly
made, by very moderate duties of impost, far short of an ade-
quate fund for the support of government, and the payment of
the interest on the debt, to take effect on the 1st of August,
1789 ; which was as early as the law could be promulgated
throughout the Union, and the subordinate executive arrange-
ments made for carrying it into execution.

It has been stated, that the Treasury Department began to be
in activity on the 18th of September. Congress adjourned on
the 29th of that month, after having instructed the Secretary of
the Treasury to report concerning the debt at the ensuing session.
It is to be recollected, that without an order of the House, that
officer can propose nothing.

It is evident, that there was no responsibility on the side of
that department, for the accumulation of interest on the debt
until, at earliest, the second session, which began on the 7th of
January, 1790.

On Thursday, the 14th of January, the Secretary of the
Treasury submitted to the House of Representatives, according
to order, the plan of a provision for the public debt, compre-
hending an additional provision of revenue, for the purpose of
facing the interest. But it was not till the 4th of August that
the principles of a provision for the debt were determined by

22 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 35.

law, nor till the 10th of the same month that a supplementary
fund was established for paying the interest upon it ; and from
considerations of an obvious nature, the commencement of this
fund in operation was deferred to the 1st of January following.

Here again 'tis manifest, that there was no responsibility in
the Treasury Department, for the accumulation of interest up to
the period from which it has been punctually paid, namely, the
1st of January, 1791, because it was not in the power of that
department to have accelerated a provision for it. Nor will any
blame justly light upon Congress for the moderate delay which
ensued. It was their duty to bestow much deliberation upon the
subject. Much difference of opinion — much discussion — a con-
siderable loss of time, were to be expected in relation to a subject
so momentous, so perplexing, touching so differently so many
chords of passion and interest.

The law providing for the debt having passed, the Secretary
of the Treasury immediately seized the opportunity which was
afforded, by an unappropriated surplus of revenue to the end of
the year 1790, to make an impression on the debt. He proposed
that it should be applied to purchases of the debt, at its market
prices, which was agreed to by Congress, and has been carried
into execution, as far as circumstances have hitherto permitted.

This was certainly the best application that could have been
made of the fund. It was equally the interest of the government
and of the public creditors : — of the government, because it was
a clear gain of all the difference between the sum of specie paid,
and the sum of debt redeemed, which is already $514,891 and 69
cents, and will be more when the remaining sum appropriated
comes to be applied to further purchases ; because it was a clear
saving to the nation of all the difference in price which was paid
by foreigners in their purchases ; in consequence of the compe-
tition of the government, in the market, as a purchaser. It is
well known to every well-informed man, that the rapid apprecia-
tion of the debt, was materially owing to that circumstance, and
of course the saving to the nation by it has been very considerable.
The measure in question was equally beneficial to the public
creditors — because if the fund applied to purchases had been

JEt. 35.] CI VIS. 23

apportioned among them in payment of interest, it would have
been a mere pittance ; but applied as it was, it gave a rapid
spring to the whole value of the stock.

As it is therefore proved that the Treasury Department is
chargeable with no delay with regard to a provision for the debt,
occasioning an unnecessary accumulation of interest, in a question
of merit respecting that department which Mercator has raised,
it will follow, that the department on account of the operations
which have been advised by it, has an unbalanced claim of
merit with the community —

1st. — For all that has been or shall be saved by purchases of
the public debt, at the market prices.

2d. — For all that has been saved to the nation, for the more
advanced prices given by foreigners in their purchases of the
debt.

But there are other items of importance to be placed on the
same side of the account.

1st. — The saving resulting from the reduced rate on the new
loans for paying off the foreign debt.

2d. — The positive gain of 1,000,000 of dollars, by the insti-
tution of the Bank of the United States. The stock of the Bank
being at an advance of 50 per cent., it is clear, that the govern-
ment, by having become a proprietor to the extent of 2,000,000
of dollars, has by this single operation made an actual net profit
of 1,000,000 of dollars, that is, it can get three millions for what
will have cost it only two.

I add nothing for any saving, which has accrued from the par-
ticular modification of the domestic debt, for two reasons ; one
because the subject being more complicated would require more
illustration, and the other, because the plan adopted by the
legislature, though having the leading features of that proposed
by the Treasury Department, differs from it in some material
respects ; a strong refutation of the idea, so industriously incul-
cated, that the plans of that department are implicitly followed
by the legislature ; and a decisive proof, that they have had no
more weight than they ought to have had ; that is to say, than
they were entitled to from their intrinsic reasonableness in the

24 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 35.

unbiassed and independent judgment of majorities in the two
houses of Congress. The result of what has been said is this :
that provision was made for paying the interest of the debt as
early as could reasonably have been expected ; that no negli-
gence having happened, the arrears of interest which have accu-
mulated in the interval are properly a part of the debts of the
former government; and consequently, that the sums which
appear to have been absorbed are so much of the debts of the
old government extinguished by the new.

Mercator brings as a proof that the public debt has increased
and is increasing, "what he terms the present amount and
increasing weight of the duties of impost and excise." Let facts
decide the soundness of this logic. In the last session of Con-
gress, the only excise duty which exists was reduced upon an
average fifteen per cent. The only addition which was then
made to the imposts was for carrying on the Indian war, and by
avoiding recourse to permanent loans for that purpose, to avoid
an increase of the debt. How then can that, which was done to
avoid an increase of debt, be a proof that it has increased?

Cms.

ii.

Philadelphia, Sept. 11th, 1792.

Little other notice of the futile reply of Mercator to Civis
is necessary, than merely to put in a clear light the erroneousness
of the standard, which he has adopted for calculating the arrears
of interest to the end of the year 1790.

He takes for his standard, the present annual interest on the
whole amount of the public debt, as provided for under the funding
system; that is, 1st. Upon the former principal of the foreign and
domestic debt : — 2d. Upon the arrears of 'interest of that principal,
which on the 1st of January, 1791, and not before, became prin-
cipal, by the provisions of the funding law: — 3d. Upon the
whole amount of the assumed debt, that is, 21,500,000.

Mt. 35.]

civis. 25

Now the fact is, that the only arrears which can colorably
be computed, are those on the principal of the foreign and domestic
debt, according to the terms of interest which they actually bore,
up to the 1st January, 1791. 1st. Because, in fact, the arrears
of interest on that principal did not bear interest till the 1st Jan-
uary, 1791 ; and consequently no interest whatever accrued upon
them. And 2d, because the government of the United States
took up the State debts, as they stood at the end of the year
1791. If arrears of interest accumulated, in the mean time,
'twas the affair of the State governments, which were the
debtors and alone responsible for a provision for it, not of the
government of the United States, which only became responsible
by virtue of the assumption, from the time that it took effect,
that is, from the 1st January, 1792, from which period the
interest has been punctually paid. This is the true view of it,
unless it can be shown that the government of the United States
is answerable for the neglects and omissions of the State govern-
ments. But, what arrears may have really accumulated on this
part of the debt is unknown, as it is understood there was in
some States a provision for the interest.

Calculating then the arrears, which did actually accrue, that
is on the principal and interest of the foreign and domestic debt,
the former, according to the various rates which were stipulated
upon it, and the latter at 6 per cent., the rate which it then bore,
from the 1st of August, 1789, to the 1st of January, 1791, from
which period interest has been paid — the amount is $3,003,378 47,
that is, $1,032,980 72 less than the amount of the arrears for the
same period by Mercator. This statement is not made from any
secret sources of information, but from documents long since in
the possession of the public. If Mercator has been inattentive
to the means of information, he ought not to come forth the
instructor of his fellow citizens.

In a mere question of the increase and decrease of the public
debt, if the arrears of interest which accrued on the assumed
debt, up to the period from which the United States began to
pay interest upon it, be placed on one side of the account, the
saving or reduction, by the nature of the provision for it, ought

26 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 35.

to be placed on the other side, and the balance will be in favor
of the United States.

Had Mercator stated an account with the Treasury Depart-
ment, on his own principle candidly applied, namely, that of
setting off the surplus of revenue, to the end of the year 1790,
against the amount of the debt redeemed by purchases and pay-
ments, the account would have stood thus —

Debtor Side.
To amount of surplus revenue at the eud of the

year 1790 $1,338,875 84

Credit Side.

By the amount of the sum which appears by the
statement of the Eegister of the Treasury to
have been redeemed and paid off . . . $1,845,217 42

By sum remaining to be applied .... 397,024 13

$2,242,241 55

Balance . $903,366 71
being the amount of the public debt actually reduced, beyond the
amount of the funds remaining on hand, at the commencement
of the operation of the funding system, in virtue of antecedent
provision, and exclusive of reductions on the rates of interest.

As to the concluding remarks of Mercator, they depart from
the question. 'Tis no matter, in reference to that, whether the
items which were mentioned are circumstances of temporary
expedient, or results of the soundest policy. They constitute
positive savings and gains to the nation.

But it was not sufficient for Mercator to assert ; he ought to
have shown what sacrifice of justice or principle was involved in
them. Not having done it, it is sufficient to observe, that one
good effect of the measures of finance, which have been adopted
by the present government, is at least unequivocal. The public
credit has been effectually restored. This may be in the eyes of
Mercator of little moment. There are certain theorists who hold
both private and public credit to be pernicious. But their dis-

JE.T. 35.]

FACT. 27

ciples are not numerous ; at least among sober and enlightened
men.

The actual benefits or actual evils of the measures connected
with the Treasury Department, present and future, would be
cheerfully submitted to the Test of Experience. Happy would
it be for the country, honorable for human nature, if the experi-
ment were permitted to be fairly made. But the pains which
are taken to misrepresent the tendency of those measures, to
influence the public mind, to disturb the operations of the govern-
ment, are a decided proof, that those to whom they are attri-
butable dare not trust the appeal to such a Test. Convinced of
this, they have combined all their forces, and are making one
desperate effort to gain an ascendency in the public councils, by
means of the ensuing election, in order to precipitate the laudable
work of destroying what has been done.

Civis.

FACT.

For the National Gazette.

Sept. 11th, 1792.

Much declamation has been indulged against certain charac-
ters, who are charged with advocating the pernicious doctrine, that
" public debts are public blessings," and with being friends to a
perpetuation of the public debt of the country. Among these
characters, if the Secretary of the Treasury has not been named,
he has been pretty plainly alluded to. It is proper to examine
what foundation there is then for those charges.

That officer, it is very certain, explicitly maintained, that the
funding of the existing debt of the United States would render it
a national blessing ; and a man has only to travel through the
United States with his eyes open, and to observe the invigoration
of industry in every branch, to be convinced that the position is
well founded.

28 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 35.

But, whether right or wrong, it is quite a different thing from
maintaining, as a general proposition, that a public debt is a
public blessing ; particular and temporary circumstances might
render that advantageous at one time, which at another might
be hurtful.

It is known that prior to the revolution, a great part of the
circulation was carried on by paper money ; that in consequence
of the events of the revolution, that resource was in a great
measure destroyed, by being discredited, and that the same
events had destroyed a large proportion of the moneyed and mer-
cantile capital of the country, and of personal property generally.
It was natural to think that the chasm created by these circum-
stances required to be supplied, and a just theory was sufficient
to demonstrate, that a funded debt would answer the end. To
infer that it would have such an effect, was no more to main-
tain the general doctrine of " public debts being public bless-
ings," than the saying, that paper emissions, by the autho-
rity of government, were useful in the early periods of the
country, was the maintaining, that they would be useful in all
the future stages of its progress.

But to put the matter out of all doubt, and to show how
destitute of candor the insinuations against the Secretary of the
Treasury on this head have been, I have extracted, and shall
insert here some passages from some of his reports to the House
of Representatives, by which it will be seen, that his conduct as
well as his language have been in uniform opposition to the
doctrine charged upon him. The length of these reports, it is
probable, have prevented many well-disposed persons from being
acquainted with their contents, the presumption of which em-
boldens the calumniators of public characters and measures to
make assertions, of the falsehood of which the mere perusal of
official documents would convict them.

Extract from a report of the Secretary of the Treasury on
the subject of a provision for the public debt, presented the 14th
of January, 1790. " Persuaded, as the Secretary is, that the
proper funding of the present debt will render it a national
blessing; yet he is so far from acceding to the position, in the

Mr. 35.] FACT. 29

latitude in which it is sometimes laid down, that "public debts
are public benefits," a position inviting to prodigality, and liable to
dangerous abuse, that he ardently wishes to see it incorporated, as
a fundamental maxim in the system of public credit of the United
States, that the creation of debt should be always accompanied with
the means of extinguishment. This he regards as the true secret for
rendering public credit immortal. And he presumes that it is
difficult to conceive a situation in which there may not be an
adherence to the maxim. At least he feels an unfeigned solicitude
that this may be attempted by the United States, and that they
may commence their measures for the establishment of credit
with the observance of it."

Extract from a report of the Secretary of the Treasury on
manufactures, presented the 5th December, 1791.

After using several arguments to illustrate the operation of a
funded debt as capital, the Secretary concludes thus. " There are
respectable individuals, who from a just aversion to an accumula-
tion of public debt, are unwilling to concede to it any kind of
utility, who can discover no good to alleviate the ill with which
they suppose it pregnant, who cannot be persuaded that it ought
in any sense to be viewed as an increase of capital, lest it should
be inferred that the more debt the more capital, the greater the
burthens the greater the blessings of the community."

"But it interests the public councils to estimate every object as
it truly is ; to appreciate how far the good in any measure is
compensated by the ill, or the ill by the good ; either of them is
seldom unmixed." " Neither will it follow, that an accumulation of
debt is desirable, because a certain degree of it operates as capital.
There may be a plethora in the political, as in the natural body ;
there may be a state of things in which any such artificial capita,
is unnecessary. The debt too may be swelled to such a size as
that the greatest part of it may cease to be useful as a capital,
serving only to pamper the dissipation of idle and dissolute1
individuals ; as that the sums required to pay the interest upon
it may become oppressive, and beyond the means which a
government can employ, consistently with its tranquillity, to
raise them ; as that the resources of taxation, to face the debt,

30 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 35.

may have been strained too far to admit of extensions adequate
to exigencies, which regard the public safety."

" Where this critical point is, cannot be pronounced ; but it
is impossible to believe that there is not such a point."

" And as the vicissitudes of nations beget a perpetual tendency
to the accumulation of debt, there ought to be in every government
a perpetual, anxious, and unceasing effort to reduce that which at any
time exists, as fast as shall be practicable, consistently with integrity
and good faith.""

Extract from a report of the Secretary of the Treasury rela-
tive to additional supplies for carrying on the Indian War, pre-
sented the 16th of March, 1792.

" The result of mature reflection is, in the mind of the Secre-
tary, a strong conviction that the last of the three expedients
which have been mentioned (that was the raising of the sum
required, by taxes) is to be preferred to either of the other two."

" Nothing can more interest the national credit and prosperity,
than a constant and systematic attention to husband all the means
previously possessed for extinguishing the present debt, and to avoid,
as much as possible, the incurring any new debt.'11

" Necessity alone, therefore, can justify the application of any
of the public property, other than the annual revenues, to the
current service, or to the temporary and casual exigencies of
the country — or the contracting of an additional debt, by loans,
to provide for those exigencies."

"Great emergencies might exist in which loans would be
indispensable. But the occasions which will justify them, must
be truly of that description." " The present is not of such a
nature. The sum to be provided is not of magnitude enough to
furnish the plea of necessity." " Taxes are never welcome to a
community. They seldom fail to excite uneasy sensations more
or less extensive ; hence a too strong propensity in the govern-
ment of nations to anticipate and mortgage the resources of
posterity, rather than encounter the inconveniences of a present
increase of taxes."

" But this policy, when not dictated by very peculiar circumstances,
is of the ivorst kind. Its obvious tendency is, by enhancing the

Mt. 35.] AMICUS. 31

permanent burthens of the people, to produce lasting distress,
and its natural issue is in national bankruptcy."

" It will be happy if the councils of this country, sanctioned
by the voice of an enlightened community, shall be able to pur-
sue a different course."

Here is example added to precept. In pursuit of a doctrine,
the opposite of that which is charged upon him, the Secretary
did not scruple to hazard the popularity of his administration
with a class of citizens, who, as a class, have been among the
firmest friends of the government, and the warmest approvers of
the measures which have restored public credit. The circum-
stance indeed has been a weapon dexterously wielded against
him by his enemies ; who, in consequence of the increase of
duties proposed, have represented him as the oppressor of trade.
A certain description of men are for getting out of debt, yet are
against all taxes for raising money to pay it off; they are among
the foremost for carrying on war, and yet will have neither loans
nor taxes. They are alike opposed to what creates debt, and to
what avoids it.

In the first case their meaning is not difficult to be divined ; in
the last, it would puzzle any man, not endowed with the gift of
second sight, to find it out, unless it be to quarrel with and pull
down every man who will not consent to walk in their leading
strings ; or to throw all things into confusion.

Fact.

AMICUS.

September 11th, 1792.

A writer in the Gazette of Saturday last, after several obser-
vations with regard to certain charges which have been lately
brought forward against the Secretary of State, proceeds to make
or insinuate several charges against another political character.

As to the observations which are designed to exculpate the

82 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 35.

Secretary of State, I shall do nothing more than refer to the dis-
cussions which have taken place, and appear to be in a train to
be pursued in the Gazette of the United States.

As to the charges which have been brought against the other
public character alluded to, I shall assert, generally, from a long-
intimate and confidential acquaintance with him, added to some
other means of information, that the matters charged, as far as
they are intelligible, are either grossly misrepresented, or palpa-
bly untrue.

A part of them is of a nature to speak for itself without com-
ment, the malignity and turpitude of the accuser denoting
clearly the personal enemy in the garb of the political oppo-
nent.

The subject and the situation of the parties naturally impose
silence, but this is not the first attempt of the kind that has been
made fruitlessly hitherto, and I doubt not, equally fruitlessly in
time to come. An opinion on the experience of 15 years, the
greatest part of the time under circumstances affording the best
opportunity for an accurate estimate of character, cannot be
shaken by slanderous surmises. The charge of which I shall take
more particular notice, is contained in the following passage:

"Let him explain the public character, who, if uncontradict-
ed fame is to be regarded, opposed the Constitution in the grand
convention, because it was too republican, and advocated the
British monarchy as the perfect standard to be approached as nearly
as the people could be made to bear.11 This, I affirm to be a gross
misrepresentation. To prove it is so, it were sufficient to appeal to
a single fact, namely, that the gentleman alluded to, was the only
member from the State to which he belonged, who signed the Con-
stitution, and it is notorious against tbe prevailing weight of the
official influence of the State, and against what would probably
be the opinion of a large majority of his fellow-citizens, till bet-
ter information should correct their first impressions.

How, then, can he be believed to have opposed a thing which
he actually agreed to, and that in so unsupported a situation, and
under circumstances of such peculiar responsibility ? To this I
shall add two more facts — one, that the member in question,

JEt. 35] AMICUS. 33

never made a single proposition to the Convention which was not
conformable to the republican theory — the other, that the highest
toned of any of the propositions made by him was actually voted
for by the representation of several States, including some of the
principal ones ; and including individuals, who, in the estimation
of those, who deem themselves the only republicans, are pre-
eminent for republican character— %iore than this I am not at
liberty to say.

It is a matter generally understood, that the deliberations of
the Convention, which were carried on in private, were to remain
undisturbed. And every prudent man must be convinced of the
propriety both of the one and the other. Had the deliberations
been open while going on, the clamors of faction would have
prevented any satisfactory result ; had they been afterwards dis-
closed, much food would have been afforded to inflammatory
declamation. Propositions made without due reflection, and per-
haps abandoned by the proposers themselves, on more mature
reflection, would have been handles for a profusion of ill-natured
accusation.

Every infallible declaimer, taking his own ideas as the per-
fect standard, would have railed without measure or mercy at
every member of the Convention, who had gone a single line
beyond his standard.

The present is a period fruitful in accusation — much anony-
mous slander has and will be vented — no man's reputation can.
be safe, if charges in this form are to be lightly listened to.
There are but two kinds of anonymous charges that can merit
attention — where the evidence goes along with the charge — and
where reference is made to specific facts, the evidence of the
truth or falsehood of which is in the power or possession of the
party accused, and he at liberty to make a free use of it. None
of the charges brought forward in this instance, fall within either
of these rules.

Amicus.

g

34 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 35.

CATULLUS TO AEISTIDES.

For the Gazel^ of the United States.

Sept. 15th, 1792.

Though there would be no great hazard of mistake in in-
ferring the writer of the paper under the signature of Aristid.es
from " the appropriate and prominent features " which charac-
terize the style of that paper; yet I forbear to imitate the
example which has been set, with too little decorum, by naming
or describing the supposed author. The similitude of style, or
any other circumstance merely probable, is too slight a founda-
tion for so improper a procedure.

Peculiar circumstances which it is not necessary to explain,
uniting with the conjecture which is indulged respecting the real
Aristides, lead to a change of the original party to the charges.
The discussion will be taken up and pursued by one, who is
willing to be responsible for the allegations he shall make, and
who consequently will not refuse to be known on proper terms,
to the officer concerned. It is, however, not meant to invite
inquiry on that head. It is most advisable that none should be
made. For any public purpose, none will be requisite. For any
personal one, none will be proper. What shall be said, will
merely apply to public conduct, and will be supported by proof
and argument.

Why then, it may be asked, the intimation of a willingness to
be known, if required ? The answer is merely to put an end to
the epithets " cowardly assassin," " striking in the dark," and
other tropes and figures of a similar nature. Some rhetoric may
be spoiled, but the elucidation of truth will be promoted.

It occurs at once to an observant reader, that Aristides passes
over, in total silence, the leading article of charge brought by the

Mt. 35.] CATULLUS. 36

American against Mr. Jefferson, namely, — That he is the insti-
tutor and patron of a certain Gazette published in this city, the
object and tendency of which are to vilify and depreciate the
government of the United States, to misinterpret and traduce
the administration of it, except in the single department of which
that gentleman is the head ; implicating in the most virulent
censure the majorities of both houses of Congress, the heads
both of the Treasury and "War departments, and sparing not even
the Chief Magistrate himself ; that in the support of this paper,
thus hostile to the government, in the administration of which
he holds so important a trust, he has not scrupled to apply the
money of that very government, departing by this conduct from
the rules of official propriety and obligation, and from the duty
of a discreet and patriotic citizen.

This is the leading and main charge, which has been brought
by the American against Mr. Jefferson, which he supports in
several ways.

1st.— By direct proof of an official connection between the
Secretary of State and the editor of the National Gazette,
coeval with, or rather antecedent to, the first establishment of that-
paper.

2d. — By the suggestion of his being opposed to the present
government of the United States, while it was under the consi-
deration of the people.

3d. — By the suggestion of his being opposed to the principal
measures which have been adopted in the course of its adminis-
tration, particularly those relating to the finances.

The object of the above recapitulation is to show the true
original state of the question, in order that it may be clearly seen
how entirely Aristides, in his defence, loses sight of the principal
point, and contents himself with an indirect endeavor to involve
it in uncertainty, by disputing or denying some positions which
form only the collateral evidence.

It will now remain to see how the charges of the American
have been and can be supported.

As to the connection between the Secretary of State and the
editor of the National Gazette, neither of the following facts

36 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 35.

can or will be disputed. If any of them should be denied, it will
be proved beyond the possibility of doubt.

1st. — That the editor of the National Gazette is a clerk in
the Department of State for foreign languages, and as such
receives a salary of two hundred and fifty dollars a year.

2d. — That he became so, antecedent to the establishment of
his Gazette, having actually received his salary from the 17th
August, 1791, and not having published the first number of his
paper till the 31st of October following.

3d. — That at the time he became so, there was another cha-
racter, a clerk, in the same department, who understood the
French language ; and that the editor of the National Gazette is
a translator of that language only.

4th. — That the appointment was not made under any special
provision, marking out a particular clerkship of the kind, its
duties, or its emoluments ; but, under a general authority to
appoint clerks, and allow them salaries not exceeding the average
of 500 dollars to each.

5th. — That the editor of the National Gazette, immediately
preceding the establishment of that paper, was the superintendent
or conductor of a paper belonging to Childs and Swaine, printed
at New- York.

These are the facts : the conclusion is irresistible. The
secret intentions of men being in the repositories of their own
breasts, it rarely happens, and is therefore not to be expected,
that direct and positive proof of them can be adduced.

Presumptive facts and circumstances must afford the evidence ;
and when these are sufficiently strong they ought to decide.

We find the head of a department taking the editor of a
Gazette into his employment, as a clerk, with a stated salary —
not for any special purpose, which could not have been accom-
plished otherwise ; for he had, at the time, in his department, a
clerk who was capable of performing the very service required,
and could without difficulty have procured others similarly qua-
lified ; nor from any particular necessity arising from a too limited
allowance, or any other cause ; for he had it in his power to
allow an adequate compensation to a character who might have
been regularly attached to the department.

Mr. 35.] CATULLUS. 37

The very existence of such a connection, then, is alone a suffi-
cient foundation for believing that the design of the arrangement
was to secure an influence over the paper, the editor of which
was so employed. But the circumstances which attend it
explain the nature of it beyond a doubt. That which has been
just mentioned, namely, there having been previously a clerk in
the department qualified to render the service, is a weighty one.
The coming of a new printer, from another State, to institute a
new paper, his having been appointed clerk in the department
prior to his removal to this city — his having been compensated
before he was even present, to satisfy the appearance of his ren-
dering service ; these circumstances give a point and energy to
the language of the transaction which render it unequivocal.
There perhaps never was a more flimsy covering for the pen-
sioning of a printer. Some ostensible ground for giving him the
public money was necessary to be contrived — the clerkship of
foreign languages was deemed a plausible pretext. But no man
acquainted with human nature, or with the ordinary rules of
political intrigue, can be deceived by it.

The medium of negotiation between the Secretary of State
and Mr. Freneau, in order to the institution of his paper, is
known, and documents are possessed which ascertain the person,
but they are at present withheld, from considerations of a parti-
cular nature. These are the more readily yielded to, because
the facts which have been stated render it unnecessary to
exhibit them. These facts prove, to the satisfaction of every
impartial mind, that Mr. Jefferson is the Institutor and Patron
of the National Gazette.

As to the complexion and tendency of that Gazette, a refer-
ence to itself is sufficient. No man, who loves the government,
or is a friend to the public tranquillity, but must reprobate it as
an incendiary and pernicious publication, and condemn the aus-
pices under which it is supported.

In another paper, the charges which have occasioned so much
umbrage to Aristides will be more correctly stated and enforced.
The precise terms of the advice which was given by Mr. Jefferson
to Congress, respecting the transfer of the French debt to a com-
pany of Hollanders, will be recited.

38 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 35.

This characteristic trait in the political principles of that
gentleman, will be submitted to the honest feelings not only of
the great body of the yeomanry, to whom such affected appeals
are so often made, but to honest men of whatsoever class and
condition.

Catullus.

ii.

Sept. 19th, 1792.

The " American," to confirm the inferences resulting from
the official connection between the Secretary of State and the
editor of. the National Gazette, appeals to a conformity of the
political principles and views of that officer with those which are
sedulously inculcated in that Gazette. If this conformity exists,
it certainly affords a strong presumption, in aid of direct facts, of
the operation of his influence on the complexion of that paper.

The circumstances of conformity alleged, fall under two
heads ; one, That the Secretary of State was in the origin
opposed to that Constitution, which it is the evident object of
the National Gazette to discredit : the other, That he has been,
and is, opposed to those measures which it is the unremitted, and,
it may be said, the avowed endeavor of that paper to censure
and subvert.

In contradiction to the first suggestion, Aristides cites an
authority, which the American appears to have relied upon in
support of his assertion ; the speech of Mr. Pendleton in the
Convention of Virginia. Let an analysis of this speech show
whether it supports or contradicts the assertion.

Mr. Pendleton represents a certain letter of Mr. Jefferson as
containing these particulars — a strong wish that the first nine con-
ventions may accept the new Constitution because it would secure
the good it contains, which is great and important. 2d. A wish
that the four latest, whichever they should be, might refuse to
accede to it till amendments were secured. 3d. A caution to take

JEt. 35. J CATULLUS. 39

care that no objection to the form of the government should pro-
duce a schism in the Union ; which Mr. Jefferson admits to be
an incurable evil.

From this it appears, that though Mr. Jefferson was of
opinion that the Constitution contained " great and important
good," and was desirous that the first nine deliberating States
should consent to it for the sake of preserving the existence of
the Union, yet he had strong objections to the Constitution ; so
strong, that he was willing to risk an ultimate dismemberment in
an experiment to obtain the alterations which he deemed neces-
sary.

If the four last deliberating States (particularly if they had
happened to be States in geographical contiguity, which was
very possible) had refused to ratify the Constitution, what might
not have been the consequence ? Who knows whether the as-
senting States would have been willing to have been coerced into
the amendments which the non-assenting States might have
been disposed to dictate ? Calculating the intrigues and machi-
nations which were to have been expected to stand in the way,
who can say, if even two-thirds of both houses of Congress
should have been found willing to propose that three fourths of
the legislatures, or conventions, in three-fourths of the States
would have been brought to adopt the required amendments ?

Could any thing but objections to the Constitution of the most
serious kind have justified the hazarding an eventual schism in
the Union, in so great a degree as. would have attended an ad-
herence to the advice given by Mr. Jefferson ? Can there be
any perversion of truth in affirming that the person who enter-
tained those objections was opposed to the Constitution?

The opposition which was experienced in every part of the
United States, acknowledged the necessity and utility of the
Union ; and, generally speaking, that the Constitution contained
many valuable features; contending only that it wanted some
essential alterations to render it upon the whole a safe and good
government.

It may be satisfactory to review what was said in the same
convention of Virginia by some other members on the subject of
the letter in question.

40 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 35.

Mr. Henry (p. 109 of the "Debates") replies thus to Mr.
Pendleton : — " The honorable gentleman has endeavored to ex-
plain the opinion of Mr. Jefferson, our common friend, into an
advice to adopt this new government. He wishes nine States to
adopt, and that four States may be found somewhere to reject it.
Now, sir, I say, if we pursue his advice, what are we to do ? To
prefer form to substance ? for give me leave to ask, what is the
substantial part of his counsel ? It is, sir, that four States should
reject. They tell us that, from the most authentic accounts, New
Hampshire will adopt it. Where then will four States be found
to reject, if we adopt it? If we do, the counsel of this worthy
and enlightened countryman of ours will be thrown away," &c.
Whether this gentleman argued sincerely from his impression of
the true import of the letter, or made an attempt " to pervert
Mr. Jefferson's sentiments," as Aristides affirms, must be re-
served to his own consciousness, and to the candid construction
of an impartial public.

Mr. Madison, in reply to Mr. Henry (p. 122 of the same De-
bates), expresses himself thus: — "The honorable member, in
order to influence our decision, has mentioned the opinion of
a citizen, who is an ornament to this State. When the name of
this distinguished character was introduced, I was much sur-
prised. Is it come to this, then, that we are not to follow our oivn
reason f Is it proper to adduce the opinions of respectable men,
not within these walls ? If the opinion of an important charac-
ter were to weigh on this occasion, could we not adduce a char-
acter equally great on our side ? Are we, who (in the honorable
gentleman's opinion) are not to be guided by an erring world,
now to submit to the opinion of a citizen beyond the Atlantic 1 I be-
lieve that were that gentleman now on this floor, he would be for
the adoption of this Constitution. I wish his name had never
been mentioned; I wish every thing spoken here relative to
his opinion, may be suppressed, if our debates should be pub-
lished. I know that the delicacy of his feelings will be wound-
ed, when he will see in print what has and may be said con-
cerning him on this occasion. I am in some measure acquainted
with his sentiments on this subject. It is not right for me to un-

JEt. 35.] CATULLUS. 41

fold what he has informed me. But I will venture to assert that
the clause now discussed is not objected to by Mr. Jefferson.
He approves of it, because it enables the government to carry on
its operations," &c. It is observable that Mr. Madison neither ad-
vocates the accuracy of Mr. Pendleton's comment nor denies the
justice of that of Mr. Henry. His solicitude appears to be to
destroy the influence of what he impliedly admits to be the
opinion of Mr. Jefferson, to press out of sight the authority of
that opinion, and to get rid of the subject as fast as possible. He
confesses a knowledge of Mr. Jefferson's sentiments, but pru-
dently avoids disclosure, wrapping the matter in mysterious re-
serve, and leaving the public to this day to conjecture what was
the precise import of the sentiments communicated. Enough,
however, is seen to justify the conclusion, that if the spirit of Air.
Jefferson's advice had prevailed with the convention, and full
credence had been given to the expected adoption by New
Hampshire, Virginia, North Carolina, New- York, and Rhode
Island, would have temporarily thrown themselves out of the
Union. And whether in that event, they would have been at
this day re-united to it, or whether there would be now any
Union at all, is happily a speculation which need only be pur-
sued to derive the pleasing reflection, that the danger was wisely
avoided.

To understand more accurately what the "American " meant
in asserting that Mr. Jefferson had been opposed to the Consti-
tution, let him be compared with himself. In his first paper he
expresses himself thus :—" While the Constitution of the United
States was depending before the people of this country for their
consideration and decision, Mr. Jefferson being in France was
opposed to it in some of its most important features, and wrote his
objections to some of his friends in Virginia. He at first went so
far as to discountenance its adoption ; though he afterwards recom-
mended it on the ground of expediency in certain contingencies."

From this it is evident, that so far from denying, he has even
admitted that Mr. Jefferson, at one stage of the business, recom-
mended the adoption of the Constitution to his fellow-citizens,
but upon a contingency. And this is literally the fact, as estab-

42 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 35.

lislied by the letter quoted in the debates of the convention.
The advice is to adopt, if nine States had not previously adopt-
ed; to reject, if that number of States had previously adopted.
This is clearly to adopt, or not, upon a contingency. Thus the
authority appealed to by " Aristides" confirms the latter part of
the American's assertion, without contradicting the former part
of it.

Aristides has not denied, nor do I believe he will deny, that
Mr. Jefferson, in his early communications, discountenanced the
adoption of the Constitution in its primitive form. I know the
source of the American's information. It is equally authentic
and friendly to Mr. Jefferson. Allowing for the bare possibility
of misapprehension, it exactly accords with the statement which
has been made of it. If the fact shall be denied, the source of
information will be indicated, under due guards for the delicacy
of the proceeding.

This will serve either to confirm, or, in case of misconception,
to correct.

I add, that some of Mr. Jefferson's objections to the Constitu-
tion have not been removed by the amendments which have been
proposed. Part of his objections went to the structure of parti-
cular parts of the government.

As to the second fact which the " American " corroborates,
the charge of Mr. Jefferson's participation in the views of the
National Gazette, it is in a degree conceded by " Aristides." He
confesses, nay, he even boasts Mr. Jefferson's abhorrence of some
of the leading principles of Mr. Hamilton's fiscal administration,
— that is, the leading principles of those measures which have
provided for the public debt and restored public credit.

It would have been well if " Aristides " had told us what
those leading principles are which are the objects of so much ab-
horrence to Mr. Jefferson.

The leading principles of Mr. Hamilton's administration have
been — that the public debt ought to be provided for, in favor of
those who, according to the express terms of the contract, were
the true legal proprietors of it ; that it ought to be provided for,
in other respects, according to the terms of the contract, except so

Mr. 35.] CATULLUS. . 43

far as deviations from it should be assented to by the creditors,
upon the condition of a fair equivalent — that it ought to be
funded on ascertained revenues pledged for the payment of in-
terest, and the gradual redemption of principal — that the debts
of the several States ought to be comprised in the provisions, on
the same terms with that of the United States — that to render this
great operation practicable, avoid the oppression of trade and in-
dustry, and facilitate loans to the government in cases of emer-
gency, it was necessary to institute a national bank — that indi-
rect taxes were, in the actual circumstances of the country, the
most eligible means of revenue ; and that direct taxes ought to
be avoided as much and as long as possible.

I aver, from competent opportunities of knowing Mr. Jeffer-
son's ideas, that he has been hostile to all these positions, except,
perhaps, the last ; and that even in regard to that, his maxims
would oblige the government in practice speedily to resort to di-
rect taxes.

I aver, moreover, that Mr. Jefferson's opposition to the admi-
nistration of the government has not been confined to the mea-
sures connected with the Treasury Department, but has extended,
to use the words of the American, to almost all the important
measures of the government. The exceptions to the generality
of both the preceding assertions, I am content to rest on a desig-
nation by Mr. Jefferson, or by any person, who shall speak from
a knowledge of his sentiments, of those principles of the fiscal
department, or of those measures of the government of any im-
portance, which he does approve. I insist only, that the designa-
tion be precise and explicit, and come with such marks of
authenticity, as are adapted to the nature of an anonymous dis-
cussion.

To give an idea of the accuracy with which Aristides dis-
closes Mr. Jefferson's opinions, I shall cite one of his phrases with
a short observation. He asserts that a suggestion against Mr.
Jefferson, which he states, is made on no better foundation than
his being opposed to some of the principles of the funding sys-
tem, of the national bank, and certain other measures of the Se-
cretary of the Treasury. It is matter of general notoriety, and

44 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 35.

unquestionable certainty, that Mr. Jefferson has been opposed to
the national bank in toto, to its constitutionality, and to its expe-
diency. With what propriety is it then said, that he has been
opposed only to " some of the principles of that institution."

I proceed now to state the exact tenor of the advice which
Mr. Jefferson gave to Congress respecting the transfer of the
debt due to France to a company of Hollanders. After mention-
ing an offer which had been made by such a company for the
purchase of the debt, he concludes with these extraordinary ex-
pressions, " If there is a danger of the public payment not being
punctual, I submit whether it may not be better, that the dis-
contents tohich would then arise should be transferred from a court
of whose good ivill toe have so much need to the breasts of a private
company?-1

The above is an extract which was made from the letter in
Feb., 1787. The date of it was not noted, but the original being
on the files of the Department of State, will ascertain that and
all other particulars relating to its contents. The genuineness of
the foregoing extract may be depended upon.

This letter was the subject of a report from the Board of
Treasury in Feb., 1787. That board treated the idea of the trans-
fer proposed, as both unjust and impolitic : — unjust, because the
nation would contract an engagement which there was no well-
grounded prospect of fulfilling; impolitic, because a failure in the
payment of interest, on the debt transferred (which was inevitable),
would justly blast all hopes of credit with the citizens of the
United Netherlands in future pressing exigencies of the Union ;
and gave it as their opinion, that it would be advisable for Con-
gress, without delay, to instruct their minister at the court of
France, to forbear giving his sanction to any such transfer.
x ■* -x- * * •* *

Congress agreeing in the ideas of the board, caused an instruc-
tion to that effect to be sent to Mr. Jefferson. Here, then, was
a solemn act of government condemning the principle as unjust
and impolitic.

If the sentiment contained in the extract which has been re-
cited, can be vindicated from the imputation of political profligacy,

JEt. 35.] CATULLUS. £5

then is it necessary to unlearn all the ancient notions of justice,
and to substitute some new-fashioned scheme of morality in their
stead.

Here is no complicated problem which sophistry may en-
tangle or obscure. Here is a plain question of moral feeling. A
government is encouraged, on the express condition of not having
a prospect of making a due provision for a debt which it owes, to
concur in a transfer of that debt, from a nation well able to bear
the inconveniences of failure or delay, to individuals whose total
ruin might have been the consequence of it, and that upon the
interested consideration of having need of the good will of the
creditor nation, and, with the dishonorable motive, as it is clearly
implied, of having more to apprehend from the discontents of
that nation, than from those of disappointed and betrayed indi-
viduals. Let every honest and impartial mind, consulting its
own spontaneous emotions, pronounce for itself upon the recti-
tude of such a suggestion. Let every sober and independent
member of the community decide whether it is likely to be a
misfortune to the country, that the maxims of the officer at the
head of its Treasury Department are materially variant from those
of the author of that suggestion.

And let Aristides prove, if he can, that Mr. Jefferson gave
advice " expressly contrary to that which has been ascribed to
him." Amidst the eccentric ramblings of this political comet, its
station in another revolution will not prove that its appearance
was not, at one time, at the place which has been assigned for it.

The American, it ought to be confessed, has in this instance
drawn larger than the life. This he has done by blending with
the fact the sudden though natural comments of an honest
indignation. But the original itself, in its true size and shape,
without the help of the least exaggeration, is to the moral eye a
deformed and hideous monster.

Say, Aristides ! did the character to whom you are so partial,
imitate, in this case, the sublime virtue of that venerable Athe-
nian, whose name you have assumed— did he dissuade his
countrymen from adopting a proposition, because though " nothing
could be more advantageous, nothing could be more unjust ?"

46 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 35.

Did lie not rather advise them to do what was both disadvanta-
geous and unjust? May he not, as a public man, discard all
apprehension of ostracism, for being the superlatively just.

Catullus.

P. S. Some additional observations are reserved for another
paper.

ill.

Sept. 29th, 1792.

Aristides complains that the American has charged Mr. Jef-
ferson with being the patron and promoter of national disunion,
national insignificance, public disorder, and discredit. The Ameri-
can, however, has only affirmed, that " the real or pretended
political tenets of that gentleman tend " to those points.

The facts which have been established clearly demonstrate,
that, in the form in which it is made, the charge is well founded.

If Mr. Jefferson's opposition to the funding system, to the
bank, and to the other measures which are connected with the
administration of the national finances, had ceased, when those
measures had received the sanction of law ; nothing more could
have been said, than, he had transgressed the rules of official
decorum, in entering the lists against the head of another depart-
ment (between whom and himself there was a reciprocal duty to
cultivate harmony), that he had been culpable in pursuing a line
of conduct, which was calculated to sow the seeds of discord in
the executive branch of the government, in the infancy of its
existence.

But when his opposition extended beyond that point, when it
was apparent, that he wished to render odious, and of course to
subvert (for in a popular government these are convertible terms),
all those deliberate and solemn acts of the legislature, which had
become the pillars of the public credit, his conduct deserved to
be regarded with a still severer eye.

JEt. 35.] CATULLUS. 47

Whatever differences of opinion may have preceded those
acts, however exceptionable particular features in them may have
appeared to certain characters, there is no enlightened nor dis-
creet citizen but must agree, that they ought now to remain
undisturbed. To set afloat the funding system, after the faith of
the nation has been so deliberately and solemnly pledged to it —
after such numerous and extensive alienations of property for
full value have been made under its sanction — with adequate
revenues little burthensome to the people — in a time of profound
peace* — with not even the shadow of any public necessity — on
no better ground than that of theoretical and paradoxical dogmas
— would be one of the most wanton and flagitious acts, that ever
stained the annals of a civilized nation.

Yet positions tending to that disgraceful result have been
maintained, in public discourses, by individuals known to be de.
voted to the Secretary of State ; and have been privately smiled
upon as profound discoveries in political science.

Yet the less discreet, though not least important partizans of
that officer, talk familiarly of undoing the funding system as a
meritorious work. Yet his Gazette (which may fairly be re-
garded as the mirror of his views), after having labored for
months to make it an object of popular detestation, has at length
told us in plain and triumphant terms, that " the funding system
has had its day ;" and very clearly, if not expressly, that it is
the object of the party to overthrow it.

The American, then, has justly, and from sufficient data, in-
ferred, that Mr. Jefferson's politics, whatever may be the motives
of them, tend to national disunion, insignificance, disorder, and
discredit. That the subversion of the funding system would
produce national discredit proves itself. Loss of credit, the rea-
son being the same, must attend nations, as well as individuals
who voluntarily and without necessity, violate their formal and
positive engagements.

Insignificance and disorder, as applied to communities, equally

* The partial Indian hostilities which exist can hardly be deemed an interrup-
tion of the general peace.

48 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 35.

with individuals, are the natural offspring of a loss of credit,
premeditatedly and voluntarily incurred.

Disunion would not long lag behind. Soberminded and virtu-
ous men in every State would lose all confidence in, and all respect
for a government, which has betrayed so much levity and incon-
stancy, so profligate a disregard to the rights of property and to
the obligations of good faith. Their support would of course be
so far withdrawn or relaxed, as to leave it an easy prey to its
enemies. These comprise the advocates for separate confedera-
cies ; the jealous partizans of unlimited sovereignty, in the State
governments — the never to be satiated lovers of innovation and
change — the tribe of pretended philosophers, but real fabricators
of chimeras and paradoxes, the Catalines and the Cassars of the
community (a description of men to be found in every repub-
lic), who, leading the dance to the tune of liberty without law,
endeavor to intoxicate the people with delicious but poisonous
draughts to render them the easier victims of their rapacious am-
bition ; the vicious and fanatical of every class who are ever
found the willing or deluded followers of those seducing and
treacherous leaders.

But this is not all — the invasion of sixty millions of pro-
perty could not be perpetrated without violent concussions. The
States, whose citizens, both as original creditors and purchasers
own the largest portions of the debt (and several such there are),
would not remain long bound in the trammels of a party which
had so grossly violated their rights. The consequences in expe-
riment would quickly awaken to a sense of injured right, and in-
terest such of them, whose representatives may have wickedly
embarked, or been ignorantly betrayed into the atrocious and
destructive project.

Where would all this end but in disunion and anarchy ? — in
national disgrace and humiliation ?

Aristides insinuates, that the American has distinguished Mr.
Jefferson, as " the Cataline of the day — the ambitious incendiary."
Those epithets are not to be found in either of the papers under
that signature. But the American has said, that Mr. Jefferson
"has been the prompter, open or secret, of unwarrantable asper-

jEt. 35.] CATULLUS. 49

sions on men, who, as long as actions, not merely professions,
shall be the true tests of patriotism and integrity, need never de-
cline a comparison with him of their titles to the public esteem,"
and he is supported in the assertion by facts.

Not to cite or trace those foul and pestilent whispers which,
clandestinely circulating through the country, have, as far as was
practicable, contaminated some of its fairest and worthiest cha-
acters, an appeal to known circumstances will justify the charge.

Some time since, there appeared in print certain speculations,
which have been construed into an advocation of hereditary dis-
tinctions in government. These (whether with or without
foundation, is to this moment matter of conjecture) were ascribed
to a particular character, pre-eminent for his early, intrepid
faithful, persevering and comprehensively useful services to his
country — a man, pure and unspotted in private life, a citizen
having a high and solid title to the esteem, the gratitude, and the
confidence of his fellow-citizens.

The first volume of the " Eights of Man," makes its appear-
ance. The opportunity is eagerly seized, to answer the double
purpose of wounding a competitor, and of laying in an additional
stock of popularity ; by associating and circulating the name of
Thomas Jefferson, with a popular production of a favorite writer,
on a favorite subject.

For this purpose, the Secretary of State sits down and pens
an epistle to a printer in the city of Philadelphia, transmitting
the work for republication, and expressing his approbation of it
in a way which we learn, from the preface of that printer to his
edition of the work, was calculated not only to do justice to the
rights of Mr. Paine, but to do honor to Mr. Jefferson ; by direct-
ing the mind to a contemplation of that republican firmness and
democratic simplicity, which ought to endear him to every friend
to the " Rights of Man."

The letter, as we learn from the same preface, contained the

following passages : "I am extremely pleased to find it will be

reprinted here, and that something is at length to be publicly

said against the political heresies which have sprung up among

G 4

50 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 35.

us." " I liave no doubt our citizens will rally a second time
round tlie standard of common sense."

There was not a man in the United States acquainted with
the insinuations which had been propagated, who did not in-
stantly apply the remark, and the signal was so well understood
by the partisans of the writer, that a general attack immediately
commenced. The newspapers in different States resounded with
invective and scurrility against the patriot, who was marked out
as the object of persecution, and if possible, of degradation.

Under certain circumstances, general expressions designate a
person or an object as clearly as an indication of it by name. So
it happened in the present case. The javelin went directly to its
destination.

But it was quickly perceived that discerning and respectable
men disapproved the step. It was of consequence to endeavor
to maintain their good opinion. Protestations and excuses as
frivolous as awkward were multiplied to veil the real design.

"The gentleman alluded to, never once entered into the
mind. It was never imagined that the printer would be so
incautious as to publish the letter or any part of it. Nothing
more was in view than to turn a handsome period, and avoid the
baldness of a note that did nothing but present the compliments
of the writer."

Thus a solemn invocation to the people of America, on the
most serious and important subject, dwindled at once into a
brilliant conceit, that tickled the imagination too much to be
resisted. The imputation of levity was preferred to that of

malice.

But when the people of America presented themselves to the
disturbed patriotic fancy, as a routed host, scattered and dispersed
by political sorcerers ; how was it possible to resist the heroic,
the chivalrous desire of erecting for them some magic standard
of orthodoxy, and endeavoring to rally them round it for mutual
protection and safety ?

In so glorious a cause, the considerations that a citizen of the
United States had written in a foreign country a book containing
strictures on the government of that country which would be

iET. 35.] CATULLUS. 51

regarded by it as libellous and seditious, tliat lie bad dedicated
tbis book to tbe Chief Magistrate of tbe Union, tbat a repub-
lication of it under tbe auspices of tbe Secretary of State, would
wear tbe appearance of its having been promoted, at least of its
being patronized by tbe government of tbis country, were con-
siderations too ligbt and unimportant to occasion a moment's
hesitation or pause.

Those who, after an attentive review of circumstances, can be
deceived by tbe artifices, which have been employed to varnish
over this very exceptionable proceeding, must understand little
of human nature, must be little read in the history of those arts
which in all countries and at all times have served to disguise
tbe machinations of factious and intriguing men.

The remaining circumstance of public notoriety, which fixes
upon Mr. Jefferson the imputation of being tbe prompter or
instigator of detraction, exists in his patronage of the National
Gazette.

Can any attentive reader of that Gazette, doubt for a moment
tbat it has been systematically devoted to the calumniating and
blackening of public characters ? Can it be a question, that a
main object of the paper is to destroy the public confidence in a
particular public character, who it seems is to be hunted down at
all events, for the unpardonable sin of having been the steady,
invariable, and decided friend of broad national principles of
government ? Can it be a question, that the persecution of tbe
officer alluded to, is agreeable to the views of the institutor of the
paper ?

Does all tbis proceed from motives purely disinterested and
patriotic ? Can none of a different complexion be imagined, that
may at least have operated to give a stimulus to patriotic zeal ?

No. Mr. Jefferson has hitherto been distinguished as the
quiet, modest, retiring philosopher ; as the plain, simple, unam-
bitious republican. He shall not now, for the first time, be
regarded as tbe intriguing incendiary, the aspiring turbulent
competitor.

How long it is since tbat gentleman's real character may have
been divined, or whether this is only tbe first time, that the secret

52 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEi. 35.

has been disclosed, I am not sufficiently acquainted with the
history of his political life to determine ; but there is always a
"first time" when characters studious of artful disguises are
unveiled ; when the vizor of stoicism is plucked from the brow
of the epicurean ; when the plain garb of Quaker simplicity is
stripped from the concealed voluptuary ; when Cassar coyly re-
fusing the proffered diadem, is seen to be Caesar rejecting the
trappings, but tenaciously grasping the substance of imperial
domination.

It is not unusual to defend one post by attacking another.
Aristides has shown a disposition to imitate this policy. He by
clear implication tells us, and doubtless means it as a justification
of the person whom he defends, that attachment to aristocracy,
monarchy, hereditary succession, a titled order of nobility, and all
the mock pageantry of Kingly government, form the appropriate
and prominent features in the character to which he boasts Mr.
Jefferson's opposition, and which it seems to be a principal part
of the business of his Gazette to depreciate. This is no more
than what has been long matter for malevolent insinuation. I
mistake, however, the man to whom it is applied, if he fears the
strictest scrutiny into his political principles and conduct ; if he
does not wish there " were windows in the breast," and that
assembled America might witness the inmost springs of his
public actions. I mistake him— however a turn of mind less
addicted to dogmatizing than reasoning, less fond of hypotheses
than experience, may have led to speculative doubts concerning
the probable success of the republican theory — if he has not
uniformly and ardently, since the experiment of it began in the
United States, wished it success ; if he is not sincerely desirous
that the sublime idea of a perfect equality of rights among
citizens, exclusive of hereditary distinctions, may be practically
justified and realized ; and if among the sources of the regret
which his language and conduct have testified, at the overdriven
maxims and doctrines that too long withstood the establishment
of firm government in the United States, and now embarrass the
execution of the government which has been established, a
principal one has not been their tendency to counteract a fair

JEt. 35.] CATULLUS. 53

trial of tlie theory to which he is represented to be adverse. I
mistake him, if his measures proceeding upon the ground of a
liberal and efficient exercise of the powers of the national govern-
ment, have had any other object than to give it stability and
duration : the only solid and rational expedient for preserving repub-
lican government in the United States.

It has been pertinently remarked by a judicious writer, that
Ccesar, who overturned the republic, was the Whig, Cato, who died
for it, the Tory of Eome ; such, at least, was the common cant of
political harangues, the insidious tale of hypocritical dema-
gogues.

Catullus.

IV.

October 17th, 1792.

Attempts in different shapes have been made to repel the
charges which have been brought against the Secretary of State.
The defence of him, however, in the quarter in which he has
been principally assailed, has hitherto gone no further than a
mere show of defending him. I speak as to his improper con-
nection with the editor of the National Gazette. But a more
serious and more plausible effort has been made to obviate the
impression which arises from his having been originally an
objector to the present Constitution of the United States.

For this purpose several letters said to have been written by
Mr. Jefferson while in Europe have been communicated. How
far they are genuine letters or mere fabrications ; how far they
may have been altered or mutilated, is liable, from the manner of
their appearance, to question and doubt. It is observable also,
that the extract of a letter of the 6th July, contained in the
American Daily Advertiser of the 10th instant, though it seems
to be intended as part of the one which is mentioned in the
Debates of the Virginia Convention, does not answer to the de-
scription given of it by Mr. Pendleton, who professes to have

54 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 35

seen it. For Mr. Pendleton expressly states with regard to that
letter, that Mr. Jefferson, after having declared his wish respecting
the issue of the deliberations upon the Constitution, proceeds to
enumerate the amendments which he wishes to be secured. The ex-
tract which is published, speaks only of a bill of rights, as the
essential amendment to be obtained by the rejection of four
States, which by no means satisfies the latitude of Mr. Pendle-
ton's expressions.

Such, nevertheless, as it is, it affords an additional confirma-
tion of that part of the American's statement, which represents
Mr. Jefferson as having advised the people of Virginia to adopt
or not upon a contingency.

It happens likewise, that the letters which have been com-
municated tend to confirm the only parts of the American's
statement of the sentiments and conduct of Mr. Jefferson, in
relation to the Constitution, which remained to be supported ;
namely, "that he was opposed to it in some of its most important
features, and at first went so far as to discountenance its adoption."
By this I understand without previous amendments.

From the first of those letters, dated "Paris, the 20th Decem-
ber, 1787," it appears that Mr. Jefferson among other topics of
objection " disliked, and greatly disliked, the abandonment of the
principle of rotation in office, and most particularly in the case of
President," from which the inference is clear, that he would have
wished the principle of rotation to have extended not only to the
executive, but to the other branches of the government, to the
Senate at least, as is explained hj a subsequent letter. This
objection goes to the structure of the government in a very im-
portant article ; and while it justifies the assertion that Mr. Jef-
ferson was opposed to the Constitution, in some of its most im-
portant features, it is a specimen of the visionary system of
politics of its author. Had it been confined to the office of Chief
Magistrate, it might have pretended not only to plausibility but
to a degree of weight and respectabilit}-. By being extended to
other branches of the government, it assumes a different charac-
ter, and evinces a mind prone to projects which are incompatible
with the principles of stable and systematic government, dis-

^Et. 35.] CATULLUS. 55

posed to multiply the outworks, and leave the citadel weak and
tottering.

But the fact not the merit of the objection is the material point.
In this particular, it comes fully up to the suggestion which has
been made.

It now only remains to see how far it is proved, that Mr.
Jefferson at first discountenanced the adoption of the Constitution
in its primitive form.

Of this, a person acquainted with the manner of that gentle-
man, and with the force of terms, will find sufficient evidence in
the following passage: " I do not 'pretend to decide, what would
be the best method of procuring the establishment of the man-
ifold good things in the Constitution, and of getting rid of the
bad : whether by adopting it in hopes of future amendment ;
or after it has been duly weighed and canvassed by the people :
after seeing the parts they generally dislike, and those they gene-
rally approve, to say to them, We see now what you wish — send
together your deputies again — let them frame a Constitution for
you, omitting wha* you have condemned, and establishing the
powers you approve."

Mr. Jefferson did not explicitly decide which of these two
modes was best, and while it is clear that he had not determined in
favor of an adoption without previous amendments, it is not
difficult to infer from the terms of expression employed, that he
preferred the last of the two modes ; a recurrence to a second
convention. The faintness of the phrase "in hopes of future
amendment," and the emphatical method of displaying the alter-
native, are sufficient indications of the preference he entertained.

The pains which he takes in the same letter to remove the
alarm naturally inspired by the insurrection which had happened
in Massachusetts, are an additional illustration of the same bias.
It is not easy to understand what other object his comments on
that circumstance could have, but to obviate the anxiety which
it was calculated to inspire, for an adoption of the Constitution,
without a previous experiment to amend it.

It is not possible to avoid remarking by the way, that these
comments afford a curious and characteristic sample of logic and

56 HAMILTON'S WORKS. \JErs. 35.

calculation. " One rebellion, in thirteen States, in the course of
eleven years, is but one for each State in a century and a half;"
while France, it seems, had had three insurrections in three
years. In the latter instance the subdivisions of the entire
nation are confounded in one mass ; in the former, they are the
ground of calculation. And thus a miserable sophism is gravely
made a basis of political consolation and conduct. For, accord-
ing to the data stated, it was as true that the United States had
had one rebellion in eleven years, endangering their common
safety and welfare, as that France had had three insurrections in
three years.

Thus it appears from the very documents produced in excul-
pation of Mr. Jefferson, that he in fact discountenanced, in the
first instance, the adoption of the Constitution, favoring the idea
of an attempt at previous amendments by a second convention ;
which is the only part of the allegation of the American that
remained to be established.

As to those letters of Mr. Jefferson which are subsequent to
his knowledge of the ratification of the Constitution by the
requisite number of States, they prove nothing but that Mr. Jef-
ferson was willing to play the politician.

They can at best only be received as acts of submission to
the opinion of the majority which he professes to believe infal-
lible, resigning to it, with all possible humility, not only his
conduct but his judgment.

It will be remarked that there appears to have been no want
of versatility in his opinions. They kept pace tolerably well
with the progress of the business, and were quite as accommo-
dating as circumstances seemed to require. On the 31st July,
1788, when the adoption of the Constitution was known, the
various and weighty objections of March, 1787, had resolved
themselves into the simple want of a bill of rights ; in November
following, on the strength of the authority of three States (over-
ruling in that instance the maxim of implicit deference for the
opinion of a majority), that lately solitary defect acquires a com-
panion in a revival of the objection to the perpetual re-eligibility
of the President. And another convention, which appeared no

JEt. 35.] CATULLUS. .r>7

very alarming expedient while the entire Constitution was in
jeopardy, became an object to be deprecated, when partial amend-
ments to an already established Constitution were alone in
question.

From the fluctuations of sentiment which appear in the let-
ters that have been published, it is natural to infer, that had the
whole of Mr. Jefferson's correspondence on the subject been
given to the public, much greater diversities would have been
discovered.

In the preface to the publication of the letters under consid-
eration, the question is put, "Wherein was the merit or offence
of a favorable or unfavorable opinion of the Constitution, and to
whom rendered ?"

It is a sufficient answer to this question, as it relates to the
present discussion, to say, that the intimation which was given
of Mr. Jefferson's dislike of the Constitution, in the first instance,
was evidently not intended as the imputation of a positive
crime, but as one link in a chain of evidence tending to prove
that the National Gazette was conducted under his auspices, and
in conformity to his views.

After showing that the editor of that paper was in his pay,
and had been taken into it some short time previous to the
commencement of the publication, the inference resulting from
the circumstance, of that paper being a political engine, in his
hands, is endeavored to be corroborated, first, by the suggestion
that Mr. Jefferson had originally serious objections to the Con-
stitution ; secondly, by the further suggestion, that he has disap-
proved of most of the imporant measures adopted in the course
of the administration of the government.

■ In this light, and with this special reference, were those sug-
gestions made, and certainly as far as they are founded in fact,
the argument they afford is fair and forcible. A correspondency
of the principles and opinions of Mr. Jefferson, with the com-
plexion of a paper, the conductor of which is in the regular pay
of his department, is surely a strong confirmation of the conclu-
sion— that the paper is conducted under his influence, and agree-
ably to his views.

58 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 35.

Nothing but a known opposition of sentiment on the part of
Mr. Jefferson to the doctrines inculcated in the National Gazette,
could obviate the inference deducible from his ascertained and
very extraordinary connection with it. A coincidence of senti-
ments is a direct and irresistible confirmation of that inference.

An effort scarcely plausible has been made by another Aris-
tides* to explain away the turpitude of the advice, which was
given respecting the French debt. It is represented that a com-
pany of adventuring speculators had offered to purchase the debt
at a discount, foreseeing the delay of the payment, calculating
the probable loss, and willing to encounter the hazard. The
terms employed by Mr. Jefferson refute this species of apology.
His words are : " If there is a danger of the public payments not
being punctual, I submit whether it may not be better, that the
discontents which would then arise, should be transferred from a
court, of whose good ivill ive have so much need, to the breasts of a
private company."

He plainly takes it for granted that discontents ivoidd arise
from the want of an adequate provision, and proposes that they
should be transferred to the breasts of individuals. This he could
not have taken for granted if, in his conception, the purchasers
had calculated on delay and loss.

The true construction then is, that the company expected to
purchase at an under value, from the probability that the court
of France might be willing to raise a sum of money on this fund,
at a sacrifice, — supposing that the United States, counting on her
friendly indulgence, might be less inclined to press the reim-
bursement, not that they calculated on material delay or neglect
when the transfer should be made to them. They probably
made a very different calculation (to wit), that as it would be ruin-
ous to the credit of the United States abroad, to neglect any part
of its debt which was contracted there with individuals, from the
impossibility of one part being distinguishable from another in
the public apprehension ; this consideration would stimulate to

* The total dissimilarity of style and manner, leaves no doubt that the writer
of the first piece signed " Aristides," is a different person from the writer of the
last. The forces are well marshalled.

jEt. 35.] CATULLUS. 59

exertions to provide for it. And so it is evident, from his own
words, that Mr. Jefferson understood it.

But the persons who offered to purchase were speculators.
The cry of speculation as usual is raised, and this, with some
people, is the panacea, the universal cure for fraud and breach
of faith.

It is true, as alleged, that Mr. Jefferson mentioned an alter-
native, the obtaining of money by new loans, to reimburse the
court of France ; but this is not mentioned in any way that de-
rogates from, or waives the advice given in the first instance.
He merely presents an alternative, in case the first idea should be
disapproved.

It may be added, that the advice respecting the transfer of
the debt was little more honorable to the United States as it re-
garded the court of France, than as it respected the Dutch com-
pany. "What a blemish on our national character, that a debt
of so sacred a nature should have been transferred at so consi-
derable a loss to so meritorious a creditor !

A still less plausible effort has been made to vindicate the
National Gazette from the charge of being a paper devoted to
the calumniating and depreciating the government of the United
States. No original performance in defence of the government
or its measures, has, it is said, been refused by the editor of that
paper. A few publications of that tendency have appeared in it,
principally, if not wholly, since the public detection of the situa-
tion of its conductor.

What a wretched apology ! Because the partiality has not
been so daring and unprecedented, as to extend to a refusal of
original publications in defence of the government, a paper
which industriously copies every inflammatory publication against
it that appears in any part of the United States ; and carefully
avoids every answer which is given to them, even when specially
handed to the editor for the purpose, is not to be accounted a
malicious and pernicious engine of detraction and calumny to-
wards the government ! ! !

But happily here no proof nor argument is necessary. The
true character and tendency of the paper may be left to the evi-

60 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 35.

dence of every reader's senses and feelings. And Aristides, as
often as he looks over that paper, must blush, if he can blush, at
the assertion " that it has abounded since its commencement with
publications in favor of the measures of the government."

Deception, however artfully veiled, seldom fails to betray
some unsound part. Aristides assures us that Mr. Jefferson
" has actually refused in any instance to mark a single paragraph,
which appeared in the foreign prints, for republication in the
National Gazette." On what ground was such an application to
Mr. Jefferson made, if he was not considered as the patron of the
paper ? What printer would make a similar application to the
head of any other department ? I verily believe none. And I
consider the circumstance stated as a confirmation of the relation
of patron and client between the Secretary of State and the
editor of the National Gazette.

The refusal, if it happened, is one of those little under-plots,
with which the most intriguing man in the United States is at
no loss, to keep out of sight the main design of the drama.

Catullus.

METELLTJS.

October 24, 1792.
The votaries of Mr. Jefferson, whose devotion for their idol
kindles at every form in which he deigns to present himself,
have deduced matter of panegyric from his opposition to the
measures of the government. 'Tis according to them the sub-
limest pitch of virtue in him, not only to have extra-officially
embarrassed plans, originating with his colleagues in the course
of their progress, but to have continued his opposition to them,
after they had been considered and enacted by the legislature,
with such modifications as appeared to them proper, and had

vEt. 35.] METELLUS. 61

been approved by the chief magistrate. Such conduct, it seems,
marks " a firm and virtuous independence of character." If any
proof were wanting of that strange inversion of the ideas of de-
corum, propriety, and order, which characterizes a certain party,
this making a theme of encomium of what is truly a demonstra-
tion of a caballing, self-sufficient, and refractory temper, would
afford it.

In order to show that the epithets have been misapplied, I
shall endeavor to state what course a firm and virtuous indepen-
dence of character, guided by a just and necessary sense of de-
corum would dictate to a man in the station of Mr. Jefferson.

This has been rendered more particularly requisite by the
formal discussion of the point, which appears to be the object of
a continuation of a defence of that gentleman, in the American
Daily Advertiser of the 10th inst.

The position must be reprobated that a man who had accept-
ed an office in the Executive Department, should be held to
throw the weight of his character into the scale, to support a
measure which in his conscience lie disapproved, and in his station
had opposed — or, that the members of the administration should
form together a close and secret combination, into whose measures
the profane eye of the public should in no instance pry. But
there is a very obvious medium between aiding or countenancing,
and intriguing and machinating against a measure ; between op-
posing it in the discharge of an official duty, or volunteering an
opposition to it in the discharge of no duty ; between entering
into a close and secret combination with the other members of
an administration, and being the active leader of an opposition
to its measures.

The true line of propriety appears to me to be the following:
A member of the administration, in one department, ought only
to aid those measures of another which he approves — where he
disapproves, if called upon to act officially, he ought to manifest
his disapprobation, and avow his opposition, but out of an official
line he ought not to interfere as long as he thinks fit to continue a
part of the administration. When the measure in question has be-
come a law of the land, especially with a direct sanction of the

62 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 35.

chief magistrate, it is peculiarly his duty to acquiesce. A contrary
conduct is inconsistent with his relations as an officer of the go-
vernment, and with a due respect as such for the decisions of the
legislature, and of the head of the Executive Department. The
line here delineated, is drawn from obvious and very important
considerations. The success of every government — its capacity
to combine the exertion of public strength with the preservation
of personal right and private security, qualities which define the
perfection of a government, must always naturally depend on
the energy of the Executive Department. This energy again
must materially depend on the union and mutual deference which
subsist between the members of that department, and the confor-
mity of their conduct with the views of the executive chief.

Difference of opinion between men engaged in any common
pursuit, is a natural appendage of human nature. When only ex-
erted in the discharge of a duty, with delicacy and temper, among
liberal and sensible men, it can create no animosity ; but when it
produces officious interferences, dictated by no call of duty —
when it volunteers a display of itself in a quarter where there is
no reponsibility, to the obstruction and embarrassment of one
who is charged with an immediate and direct responsibility, it
must necessarily beget ill-humor and discord between the parties.
Applied to the members of the executive administration of any
government, it must necessarily tend to occasion, more or less,
distracted councils, to foster factions in the community, and prac-
tically to weaken the government.

Moreover, the heads of the several Executive Departments
are justly to be viewed as auxiliaries to the executive chief. Op-
position to any measure of his, by either of those heads of de-
partments, except in the shape of frank, firm, and independent
advice to himself, is evidently contrary to the relations which
subsist between the parties. And it cannot well be controverted
that a measure becomes his, so as to involve the duty of acquies-
cence on the part of the members of his administration, as well
by its having received his sanction in the form of a law, as by its
having previously received his approbation.

In the theory of our government, the chief magistrate is him-

Mt. 35.] ME TELL US. 63

self responsible for the exercise of every power vested in him
by the Constitut^m. One of the powers intrusted to him, is that
of objecting to bills which have passed the two houses of Con-
gress. This supposes the duty of objecting, when he is of opi-
nion that the object of any bill is either unconstitutional or perni-
cious. The approbation of a bill implies, that he does not think
it either the one or the other ; and it makes him responsible to
the community for this opinion. The measure becomes his by
adoption, nor could he escape a portion of the blame which should
finally attach itself to a bad measure, to which he had given his
consent.

I am prepared for some declamation agaiast the principles
which have been laid down. Some plausible flourishes have
already been indulged ; and it is to be expected that the public
ear will be still further assailed with the commonplace topics that
so readily present themselves, and are so dexterously detailed by
the traffickers in popular prejudices. But it need never be feared
to submit a solid truth to the deliberate and final opinion of an
enlightened and sober people.

What! (it will probably he asked,) is a man to sacrifice his
conscience and his judgment to an office? Is he to be a dumb
spectator of measures which he deems subversive of the rights or
interests of his fellow-citizens ? Is he to postpone to the frivolous
rules of a false complaisance, or the arbitrary dictates of a tyran-
nical decorum, the higher duty which he owes to the com-
munity ?

I answer, no ! he is to do none of these things. If he cannot
coalesce with those with whom he is associated, as far as the rules
of official decorum, propriety, and obligation may require, with-
out abandoning what he conceives to be the true interest of the
community, let him place himself in a situation in which he will
experience no collision of opposite duties. Let him not cling to
the honor or emolument of an office, whichever it may be that
attracts him, and content himself with defending the injured
rights of the people by obscure or indirect means. Let him
renounce a situation which is a clog upon his patriotism ; tell
the people that he could no longer continue in it without forfeit-

64 HAMILTON'S WORKS. |>Et. 35.

ing his duty to them, and that he had quitted it to be more at
liberty to afford them his best services. -

Such is the course which would be indicated by a firm and
virtuous independence of character. Such the course that would
be pursued by a man attentive to unite the sense of delicacy
with the sense of duty — in earnest about the pernicious tendency
of public measures, and more solicitous to act the disinterested
friend of the people, than the interested ambitious and intriguing
head of a party.

Metellus.

CATULLUS.

Nov. 24, 1792.

It was my intention to have closed with my last paper the
discussion of Mr. Jefferson's conduct, in the particulars which
have been suggested, but the singular complexion of the last
number* of a series of papers originating in the American Daily
Advertiser, obliges me to resume it.

As if bold assertion were capable of imposing any thing for
truth, an attempt is made in the papers alluded to, to impress
the following opinions : — 1st. That the extract which was given
of Mr. Jefferson's letter, on the subject of a proposition for the
transfer of the French debt, is "false," "deceptive," and "mu-
tilated." These are the epithets in different passages applied to
it. 2d. That Mr. Jefferson was the mere vehicle, or, to use the
precise terms, "only the vehicle of communication to Congress."
3d. That he "discountenanced" the proposition. 4th. That the
" only " proposition which he made to Congress was to borrow
the money in Holland to discharge the debt.

* No. IV.

Mr. 35. J CATULLUS. 65

To give color to these assertions, I am called upon to produce
the entire paragraph, from which the extract has been made, and
it is suggested that the whole was deposited in the quarter from
whence the extract is believed to have been taken.

I pledge my veracity that this suggestion is unfounded ; as is
another — that the information which has been communicated by
me is derived from the opportunities of official situation. I
affirm unequivocally that I obtained, through different channels,
a full knowledge of the transaction in February, 1787 — being in
no public station whatever — that I then saw the extract, which
has been published, and which was at that time taken from the
original letter, and has been since preserved in the most authentic
form. That I then also received information equally authentic
of the general. substance of the letter, as relating to the matter in
question, and of all other particulars concerning it, which have
heretofore been stated, and which have been preserved in a man-
ner, that admits no doubt of their accuracy or genuineness. For
this, I again appeal to the letter itself, on the files of the Depart-
ment of State, where alone, as far as I am informed, its entire
contents are deposited, and which I entertain no doubt will con-
firm not only the truth of the extract which has been given, but
the justness of the representation of the contents of the letter in
all other respects.

Considering the extract as genuine, which undoubtedly it is,
it speaks for itself — and unequivocally falsifies the suggestion that
Mr. Jefferson was "only the vehicle" of communication to Con-
gress. It imports, without the possibility of evasion, advice to
accede to the proposition which was made to the Dutch company,
on the dishonorable ground of there being danger, that the public
payments would not be punctual, and of its being in that case ex-
pedient to transfer the discontents, which would arise from the
want of punctuality, from the court of France to the breasts of a
private company. It therefore clearly makes him more than the
mere vehicle of communication — the patron and adviser of the
measure upon the condition which has been stated. It as clearly
refutes the astonishing assertion that he " discountenanced " the
proposition, whatever subterfuge may be brought to color it.
G 5

66 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 35.

And it equally destroys the other allegation, that the only propo-
sition which Mr. Jefferson made to Congress, was to borrow the
money in Holland to discharge the debt.

It has been admitted, that there was another proposition, in
the same letter, of that import ; but it is denied, under the appeal
which has been made, that it in any maimer derogates from the
advice contained in the extract. It is understood to have been
offered as an alternative, in case the proposition of the Dutch
company should not be approved— as another mode which
might be adopted to effect the payment to France.

It will be remarked by an attentive reader, that while an art-
ful attempt is made to bring into question the genuineness of the
extract, a direct denial of its genuineness is not hazarded. Re-
course is had to equivocal implications. It is said, to be "false"
and " deceptive," not in terms, but " upon a sound construction,"

that "the contents of the letter, even in the extract published,

have been shamefully misrepresented" — not that the extract is itself
a forgery, but that " other parts of the letter, absolutely necessary
for the full comprehension of it, are kept back." The jargon of
asserting, that a literal extract from a paper is " false and decep-
tive upon a sound construction'' is a proof of the embarrassment
of the commentator. Whoever will examine the extract will
perceive, that as to the purpose to which it has been applied, it
is an entire thing. The sentiment reprobated, is there complete,
and can be affected by nothing collateral. The inferences result-
ing from it can only be repelled by establishing that the extract
is in terms false. This, I believe, will not be pretended.

It is as little true (in the sense in which it is evidently meant
to be understood) that the proposition for the transfer of the debt
has been imposed upon Mr. Jefferson as his own, as it is that he
discountenanced it. It has been acknowledged that the offer
was first made by the Dutch company; and has only been
maintained that Mr. Jefferson advised its acceptance on principles
contrary to good morals ; a position which can never be over,
thrown without introducing a new system of ethics. In this
sense, too, and with the disapprobation which belongs to it, was
it understood by those to whom the advice was addressed, to the
honor of the public councils of the day.

jEt. 35.] CATULLUS. 67

It is suggested that the animadversions upon Mr. Jefferson's
conduct in these papers proceed from "private revenge." This
supposes some private injury, real or imagined. The assertor
must be not a little embarrassed to support the probability of
such a cause. It is affirmed that none such exists. Private
revenge, therefore, cannot be the stimulus. Let facts speak the
true motives.

Catullus.

VI.

Deer. 22d, 1792.

If perseverance can supply the want of judgment, Mr. Jef-
ferson has an excellent advocate in the writer of his " vindica-
tion." But I mistake, if his last attempt is not found to involve
still more deeply the character he wishes to extricate.

To repel the imputation on Mr. Jefferson arising from the
advice which he gave to Congress respecting the debt to France,
he not only labors to show that, taken in all its circumstances,
it is not of the exceptionable complexion under which it has been
represented, but endeavors to infuse a belief, that the sense of
the extract originally communicated has been altered by the
interpolation of certain words, as well as by the suppression of a
part of a paragraph, from which the extract is derived.

It will strike the most careless observer as not a little extra-
ordinary, that a person who by undertaking to state the contents
of a letter with precise accuracy, and even to detect a minute
verbal deviation, must be understood to have access to the
original, should, instead of submitting to the public eye a literal
transcript of that original, content himself with giving his own
paraphrase of it, and should expect that this would be accepted
upon the strength of his assurance, that it exhibits the genuine
contents of the letter, on the point in dispute contained in one
paragraph only — " that the arrangement of the idea is the same,
and that in substance nothing has been added to or taken from

68 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 35.

it," thus modestly offering his own construction of substance, the
very thing in question, for the thing itself.

That the extract, as given by me, is correct in every material
expression, is proved by the statement in the Vindication. That
it is literally correct, I must continue to believe until something
more to be depended upon than constructive substance is offered in
lieu of it.

The information I possess is drawn from two sources ; one a
memorandum in the handwriting of a friend, which was given to
me as an exact transcript of the words of the letter, and which
was copied verbatim, in the second of these papers : the other, a
document of unquestionable authenticity, not long since consulted,
which states the contents of Mr. Jefferson's letter in the following
form : —

Mr. Jefferson suggests that " if there is a danger of the public
payments not being punctual, v:hether it might not be better that
the discontents which would then arise, should be transferred
from a court, of whose good will we have so much need, to the
breasts of a private company."

"That the credit of the United States is sound in Holland,
and that it would probably not be difficult to borrow in that
country the whole sum of money due to the court of France ;
and to discharge that debt without any deduction, thereby doing
what would be grateful to the court, and establishing with them
a confidence in our honor."

This statement in the document alluded to serves to confirm
the memorandum, in form as well as substance. Speaking in the
third person, it represents Mr. Jefferson as suggesting " whether it
might not be better, &c," whence it is natural to infer, that
speaking in the first person in the letter, the terms are, " I sub-
mit whether it may not be better, &c."

The form of conveying the idea by way of question is
common to both vouchers ; and the word " whether," which is
also common to both, presupposes the words "I suggest," or "I
submit," the last being the most accurate, and in that view the
most likely to have been used.

It is observable, also, that the same statement disconnects the

JEt. 35.] CATULLUS. 69

two propositions, and gives them a distinct and independent aspect.
The conjunction " but," which is alleged to be in the original,
does not appear in that statement.

It is possible, nevertheless, that some immaterial departures
from literal precision may have found their way into the tran-
scripts, which are relied upon. But while this concession as a
bare possibility is made, it is not intended as an escape from a
rigorous responsibility for the essential accuracy of the disclosure.
If there be in what has been communicated as a literal extract,
any expression the least material, tending to the crimination of Mr.
Jefferson, which is not to be found in the original, it is admitted
to be inexcusable. But not having been possessed of the original,
as has been several times stated, any accidental variation of
expression, not affecting at all the sense of the quotation, or not
affecting it disadvantageously to Mr. Jefferson, cannot be admitted
to be of moment in regard either to the merits of the discussion
or to the fairness of the procedure. To press such a variance as
an objection, is to cavil, and to betray a consciousness of weak-
ness.

Now it happens that the variance which is alleged to exist,
if it has any influence upon the meaning of the passage, has one
favorable to Mr. Jefferson ; taking it for granted that his apolo-
gist has given a true account of it. This will be seen by care-
fully contrasting the phraseology in the two cases.

The extract as stated by me, is in these words, " If there is a
clanger of the •public payments not being punctual, I submit whether
it may not be better that the discontents which would then arise, should
be transferred from a court, of whose good will we have so much need,
to the breasts of a private company P

The statement in the vindication represents that Mr. Jefferson
" having stated the proposition as above (referring to the propo-
sition for the purchase of the debt), observes further upon it in its
relation to this country, that if there be a danger our payments
may not be punctual, it might be better that the discontents
which would then arise, should be transferred from a court, of
whose good will we have so much need, to the breasts of a private
company."

70 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 35.

All the material and exceptionable phrases are the same in
the two statements. The only difference between them is, that
in the first Mr. Jefferson is made to submit in the modest form of
a question, " whether it might not be better" the identical sentiment
or advice, which, in the last, he is made to convey in the affirma-
tive tone of an observation, that " it might be better." The last
mode of expression is certainly stronger than the first, and if the
sentiment conveyed be, as it undoubtedly is, an improper one,
the censure due to it is increased by the greater degree of decision
with which it is expressed, as being an indication of a more
decided state of mind concerning it. This remark, which might
otherwise appear nice and critical, is naturally drawn forth by
the attempt to have it understood that the words " / submit
whether" which are said to have been interpolated, have an
influence upon the sense of the clause injurious to Mr. Jefferson.*

The result is, that the alteration of terms said to have been
made, if real, must have been casual, because it either does not
vary the sense, or varies it favorably to Mr. Jefferson ; and con-
sequently, that the charge which has been brought rests upon
him in its primitive force, unmitigated by the alleged change of
terms.

In like manner, admitting the statement of what is said to
follow as a part of the same paragraph, to be truly represented
in the vindication, it either corresponds with the view I have
heretofore given of the matter, or it implicates Mr. Jefferson in
greater reprehensibility than has been yet charged upon him. It
either presents an alternative proposition predicated upon the
supposition of a state of things different from that which is the basis
of the first, namely, the danger of a deficiency of means for
punctual payment, and in that case does not derogate from the
first ; or proceeding upon the supposition of the same state of
things, it contains advice to Congress to avail themselves of the
yet sound state of their credit in Holland, treacherously to induce
individuals upon the invitation of the government to lend their

* The words " might not be better," arc also said to have been interpolated,
though all but the " not '" are in the quotation made by the Vindicator ; a specimen of
his accuracy.

,Et. 35.] CATULLUS. 71

money on the ordinary terms, for the purpose of making full pay-
ment to France, in order to guard her from loss, and preserve
her confidence, in direct contemplation of not being able to
render the stipulated justice to those individuals. If this was
the advice of Mr. Jefferson, it leaves his conduct without even
those slight extenuations which have been supposed to afford a
semblance of apology. It takes away the feeble pretexts deduced
from the offer having originated with the company, and from
their gaining a considerable boon in the first purchase.

The last, I acknowledge, is the construction best warranted
by the structure of the paragraph as delineated in the vindication.
This, as it there stands, would be the most obvious and natural
reading. If there be a danger that our payments may not be
punctual, it may be better that the discontents which would then
arise should be transferred from a court, of whose good will we
have so much need, to the breasts of a private company. But
still it has occurred to me that we may do what is preferable to
accepting the proposition of the Dutch company. We may find
occasion to do what would be grateful to the court of France, and
establish with them a confidence in our honor. Our credit is
good in Holland — may it not be possible then to borrow there
the four and twenty millions due to France, and pay them the
whole debt at once ? This, besides transferring the discontents to
be expected from the want of punctual payments, from the court
of France to the breasts of individuals, would have the further
advantage of saving that court from any loss on our account. It
is in this sense only, that the first suggestion can be considered
as overruled by, or absorbed in the last, and that Mr. Jefferson
can be said to have discountenanced the proposition made by the
Dutch company. If this be the meaning intended to be con-
tended for, no pains will be taken to dispute it ; and the comment
will be left to Mr. Jefferson's most partial admirers.

The writer of the vindication continues to insist that Mr. Jef-
ferson was only the vehicle of communication, assigning as
reasons for this assertion, that the transaction had taken place
between the parties, before any mention was made of it to him,
and that in communicating it to Congress, he only made known

72 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 35.

to that body the desire both of the company and of the French
court, that the opinion which he gave arose out of the proposition,
was in furtherance of the views of the parties, and that, in fact, no
decision could be formed on it, either by the Congress, or himself,
without a comparison of the parties as creditors of the United
States. But these reasons do not prove that Mr. Jefferson was
only the vehicle of communication, they prove the contrary ;
that he was both the vehicle of communication, and the patron,
though not the author of the proposition. The precise difference
between being the mere vehicle, and being both the vehicle and
the patron of a proposition, consists in this : that in the first case
the agent does nothing more than communicate the proposition ;
in the last, he gives an opinion arising out of it, in furtherance
of the views of the proposers ; which is exactly what is acknow-
ledged to have been done by Mr. Jefferson.

The plea that there could be no immoralitg or indelicacy, in
espousing a proposition coming from the parties interested,
amounts to nothing. The charge is not that advice was given
to accede to the proposition, but that advice was given to
accede to it, upon a ground which was dishonorable and unjust.
It is the condition upon which the acceptance is advised that
constitutes the culpability.

In No. 4 of the vindication, the attack upon Mr. Jefferson is
said to proceed from private revenge. In No. 5, it changes its na-
ture, and becomes an attack upon principles — a monarchical plot
against the republican character of the community. How long
and how often are the people of America to be insulted with this
hypocritical rant ? When will these political pharisees learn
that their countrymen have too much discernment to be the dupes
of their hollow and ostentatious pretensions? That the citi-
zens know how to distinguish the men who serve them from
those who only flatter them, the men who have substantial claims
to their confidence from those who study to conceal the want of
qualities, really solid and useful, under the mask of extraordi-
nary and exclusive patriotism and purity?

It is curious to observe the pathetic wailings which have been
produced by the animadversions in these papers. It would seem

Mt. 35.] CATULLUS. 73

as if a certain party considered themselves as the sole and right-
ful censors of the Republic ; and every attempt to bestow praise
or blame not originating with them, as an usurpation of their
prerogative, every stricture on any of their immaculate band as
a breach of their privilege. They appear to think themselves
authorized to deal out anathemas, without measure or mercy,
against all who dare to swerve from their standard of political
orthodoxy, which are to be borne without retaliation or murmur.
And if any symptom of either shows itself, they are sure to raise
the dismal cry of persecution ; themselves the first to assail, and
the first to complain. But what is not permitted to men who have
so clearly established a title, little less than divine, to a mono-
poly of all the patriotic virtues !

The only answer which is due to the feint of offering to enter
into arrangements for ascertaining whether the writer of these
papers has, in the instance under consideration, been guilty of
misrepresentation — and the breach of an official duty — is to re-
mind the public, that in my first paper I declared myself willing
to be known on proper terms to the officer concerned. To this
I adhere in the spirit of the original intimation, but I deem a
personal disclosure to any subaltern of his improper; nor do I
perceive that it is in the present case necessary to an investigation
of the fticts. The writer of the vindication admits in substance
what is alleged ; and as to his collateral statements, it has been
shown that they imply more blame on the character meant to be
exculpated than was origiually charged. I forbear any comment
on the indecency of naming upon conjecture the person who
has been named as the author of these papers, or upon the palpa-
ble artifice of making an avowal of them, by that particular per-
son, the condition of a disclosure of the name of the writer of
the vindication. Indecency and artifice are the proper weapons
of such adversaries.

Catullus.

74 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [J3x. 35.

A PLAIN HONEST MAN.

For the Gazette of the United States.

1792.

In consequence of the intimation contained in the first number
of the vindication of Mr. Jefferson, which originated in the Ame-
rican Daily Advertiser, that, "if any doubt should be suggested
of the authenticity of the extracts published, they should be im-
mediately made accessible to others," a person called upon
Mr. Dunlap to obtain an inspection of those originals. He re-
plied that they had not been left with him, neither was he pos-
sessed of the necessary information where to direct or inquire,
but if desired he would, by advertisement, notify the application
for a perusal of the letters.

A statement of this answer, as extraordinary as unexpected,
was prepared to be inserted, in this Gazette, and was communicat-
ed to Mr. Dunlap with a view to verify its accuracy. The even-
ing before that destined for its appearance, Mr. D. called upon
the person and informed him that the originals were now to be
seen, and would be communicated to any person who might in-
cline to see them, observing, at the same time, that it appeared to
him that it could not be necessary to publish the statement
which has been mentioned, as intended. This was accordingly
foreborne.

On the 17th November, Mr. D. was again applied to and
again proposed an advertisement, but afterwards hinted, as a pre-
liminary condition of the letters being seen, that the person in
whose possession the letters were should be made acquainted
with the name of the person who applied for that purpose. Mr.
D. afterwards said he would apply again for the letters and have
them in his own possession to show them, agreeable to the decla-
ration published— but after this, being again applied to, answer-
ed as before, that the applicant must be previously known.

Mt. 36.]

OBSERVER. 75

On the a note appeared in Mr. Dimlap's paper of

that day, which, after commenting on the disingenuousness of
some doubts hinted in one of the papers, under the signature of
Catullus, gives "notice that any gentleman of known honor and
delicacy who shall be named to the editor of the American Daily
Advertiser, shall have an opportunity of examining not only the
passages extracted, but the entire contents of the original letter."

What gentleman of real delicacy would be willing to present
himself under the professed character of a " gentleman of known
honor and delicacy," at the hazard of being affronted by a rejec-
tion to obtain the proffered access ? Is not an offer so clogged
a felo de se ? What is the natural inference ? If I am not, Mr.
Printer, a " gentleman of known honor and delicacy," I hope
you will not think the worse of me for being only

A Plain Honest Man.

OBSERVER,

1793.
Among the observations which have appeared as containing
the debates in congress, respecting the official conduct of the Secre-
tary of the Treasury, Mr. Findley is represented as having made
the following assertions : '' That the Secretary of the Treasury
had acknowledged that he had not applied the money borrowed in
Europe agreeably to the legal appropriations of the President. That
he had acknowledged his having drawn to this country, and ap-
plied in Europe to uses for which other moneys were appropriated,
three millions of dollars. — That he had acknowledged his having
drawn from Europe more money than the law authorized him to
do. — That he was influenced to do so by motives not contemplat-
ed by the law, and had either applied it, or drawn it from Eu-
rope, with the design of applying it to uses not authorized, and

76 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Ma. 36-

that he had broken in upon the fund appropriated for the dis-
charge of the French debt."

Before I read this speech I had carefully perused the different
communications made bjr the Secretary of the Treasury to the
House of Representatives, and after reading it I was led to revise
them. The result has been that I have found all these assertions
attributed to Mr. Findley either direct untruths or palpable mis-
representations, and I challenge Mr. Findley or any of his friends
to produce the passages which will warrant them. The truth is,
that Mr. Findle}' has palmed upon the Secretary his own reason-
ings and inferences for points conceded by him. The commen-
tary has been substituted for the text.

Observer.

PACIFICUS.

NO. I.

June 29th, 1793.

As attempts are making, very dangerous to the peace, and,
it is to be feared, not very friendly to the Constitution of the
United States, it becomes the duty of those who wish well to
both, to endeavor to prevent their success.

The objections which have been raised against the proclama-
tion of neutrality, lately issued by the president, have been
urged in a spirit of acrimony and invective, which demonstrates
that more was in view than merely a free discussion of an im-
portant public measure. They exhibit evident indications of a
design to weaken the confidence of the people in the author of
the measure, in order to remove or lessen a powerful obstacle to
the success of an opposition to the government, which, however
it may change its form according to circumstances, seems still to
be persisted in with unremitting industry.

This reflection adds to the motives connected with the mea-

JEt. 36.] PACIFICUS. 77

sure itself, to recommend endeavors, by proper explanations, to
place it in a just light. Such explanations, at least, cannot but
be satisfactory to those who may not themselves have leisure or
opportunity for pursuing an investigation of the subject, and who
may wish to perceive that the policy of the government is not
inconsistent with its obligations or its honor.

The objections in question fall under four heads :

1. That the proclamation was without authority.

2. That it was contrary to our treaties with France.

3. That it was contrary to the gratitude which is due from
this to that country, for the succors afforded to us in our own
revolution.

4. That it was out of time and unnecessary.

In order to judge of the solidity of the first of these objec-
tions, it is necessary to examine what is the nature and design of
a proclamation of neutrality.

It is to make Jcnoivn to the powers at war, and to the citizens
of the country whose government does the act, that such country
is in the condition of a nation at peace with the belligerent
parties, and under no obligations of treaty to become an associate
in the tear with either, and that this being its situation, its inten-
tion is to observe a corresponding conduct, by performing
towards each the duties of neutrality ; to warn all persons within
the jurisdiction of that country, to abstain from acts that shall
contravene those duties, under the penalties which the laws of
the land, of which the /us gentium is part, will inflict.

This, and no more, is conceived to be the true import of a
proclamation of neutrality.

It docs not imply that the nation which makes the declara-
tion will forbear to perform to either of the warring jjowers any
stipulations in treaties which can be executed, without becoming
& party in the war. It therefore does not imply in our case that
the United States will not make those distinctions, between the
present belligerent powers, which are stipulated in the 7th and
22d articles of our treaty with France ; because they are not
incompatible with the state of neutrality ; and will in no shape
render the United States an associate or party in the war. This

78 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 36.

must be evident, when it is considered that even to furnish
determinate succors of ships or troops to a power at war, in
consequence of antecedent treaties having no 'particular reference to
the existing quarrel, is not inconsistent with neutrality : a position
equally well established by the doctrines of writers and the
practice of nations.*

But no special aids, succors, or favors; having relation to
war, not positively and precisely stipulated by some treaty of the
above description, can be afforded to either party, without a
breach of neutrality.

In stating that the proclamation of neutrality does not imply
the non-performance of any stipulations of treaties, which are not
of a nature to make the nation an associate in the war, it is con-
ceded that an execution of the clause of guaranty, contained in
the eleventh article of our treaty of alliance with France, would
be contrary to the sense and spirit of the proclamation ; because
it would engage us with our whole force as an auxiliary in the
war ; it would be much more than the case of a definite succor,
previously ascertained.

It follows, that the proclamation is virtually a manifestation
of the sense of the government, that the United States are, under
the circumstances of the case, not bound to execute the clause of
guaranty.

If this be a just view of the force and import of the proclama-
tion, it will remain to see, whether the president, in issuing it,
acted within his proper sphere, or stepped beyond the bounds of
his constitutional authority and duty.

It will not be disputed, that the management of the affairs of
this country with foreign nations is confided to the government
of the United States.

It can as little be disputed, that a proclamation of neutrality,
when a nation is at liberty to decline or avoid a war in which
other nations are engaged, and means to do so, is a usual and a
proper measure. Its main object is to prevent the 7iation's being
responsible for acts done by its citizens, ivithout the privity or conni-

* See Vatel, Book III., Chap. 6: Sec. 101.

Mi. 36.] PACIFICUS. 79

vance of the government, in contravention of the principles of neu-
trality ;* an object of the greatest moment to a country whose
true interest lies in the preservation of peace.

The inquiry then is, what department of our government is
the proper one to make a declaration of neutrality, when the
engagements of the nation permit, and its interests require that
it should be done ?

A correct mind will discern at once, that it can belong neither
to the legislative nor judicial department, of course must belong
to the executive.

The legislative department is not the organ of intercourse
between the United States and foreign nations. It is charged
neither with making nor interpreting treaties. It is therefore not
naturally that member of the government, which is to pronounce
the existing condition of the nation, with regard to foreign
powers, or to admonish the citizens of their obligations and duties
in consequence ; still less is it charged with enforcing the obser-
vance of those obligations and duties.

It is equally obvious, that the act in question is foreign to the
judiciary department. The province of that department is to
decide litigations in particular cases. It is indeed charged with
the interpretation of treaties, but it exercises this function only
where contending parties bring before it a specific controversy.
It has no concern with pronouncing upon the external political
relations of treaties between government and government. This
position is too plain to need being insisted upon.

It must then of necessity belong to the executive department
to exercise the function in question, when a proper case for it
occurs.

It appears to be connected with that department in various
capacities : — As the organ of intercourse between the nation and
foreign nations ; as the interpreter of the national treaties, in those
cases in which the judiciary is not competent, that is, between
government and government ; as the power which is charged
with the execution of the laws, of which treaties form a part; as

* See Vatcl, Book III., Chap. 7, Sec. IIS.

80 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 36.

that which is charged with the command and disposition of the
public force.

This view of the subject is so natural and obvious, so anal-
ogous to general theory and practice, that no doubt can be enter-
tained of its justness, unless to be deduced from particular pro-
visions of the Constitution of the United States.

Let us see, then, if cause for such doubt is to be found there.

The second article of the Constitution of the United States,
section first, establishes this general proposition, that " the exe-
cutive power shall be vested in a President of the United
States of America."

The same article, in a succeeding section, proceeds to delineate
particular cases of executive power. It declares, among other
things, that the president shall be commander in chief of the
army and navy of the United States, and of the militia of the
several states, when called into the actual service of the United
States ; that he shall have power, by and with the advice and
consent of the senate, to make treaties ; that it shall be his duty
to receive ambassadors and other public ministers, and to take care
that the laws be faithfully executed.

It would not consist with the rules of sound construction, to
consider this enumeration of particular authorities as derogating
from the more comprehensive grant in the general clause, further
than as it may be coupled with express restrictions or limitations ;
as in regard to the co-operation of the senate in the appointment
of officers, and the making of treaties ; which are plainly quali-
fications of the general executive powers of appointing officers
and making treaties. The difficulty of a complete enumeration
of all the cases of executive authority, would naturally dictate
the use of general terms, and would render it improbable that a
specification of certain particulars was designed as a substitute
for those terms, when antecedently used. The different mode of
expression employed in the constitution, in regard to the two
powers, the legislative and the executive, serves to confirm this
inference. In the article which gives the legislative powers of
the government, the expressions are, " All legislative powers
herein granted shall be vested in a congress of the United

.Et. 36.] PACIFICUS. 81

States." In that which grants the executive power, the ex-
pressions are, " The executive power shall be vested in a President
of the United States."

The enumeration ought therefore to be considered, as intended
merely to specify the principal articles implied in the definition
of executive power ; leaving the rest to flow from the general
grant of that power, interpreted in conformity with other parts
of the Constitution, and Avith the principles of free government.

The general doctrine of our Constitution then is, that the
executive power of the nation is vested in the President; subject
only to the exceptions and qualifications, which are expressed in
the instrument.

Two of these have been already noticed ; the participation of
the senate in the appointment of officers, and in the making of
treaties. A third remains to be mentioned ; the right of the
legislature "to declare war, and grant letters of marque and
reprisal."

"V\7ith these exceptions, the executive power of the United States
is completely lodged in the President. This mode of construing
the Constitution has indeed been recognized by Congress in
formal acts, upon full consideration and debate ; of which the
power of removal from office is an important instance. It will
follow, that if a proclamation of neutrality is merely an executive
act, as it is believed, has been shown, the step which has been
taken by the President is liable to no j ust exception on the score
of authority.

It may be said, that this inference would be just, if the power
of declaring war had not been vested in the legislature; but thai
this power naturally includes the right of judging, whether the
nation is or is not under obligations to make war.

The answer is, that however true this position may be, it will
not follow, that the executive is in any case excluded from a
similar right of judgment, in the execution of its own functions.

If on the one hand, the legislature have a right to declare war,

it is on the other, the duty of the executive to preserve peace,

till the declaration is made ; and in fulfilling this duty, it must

necessarily possess a right of judging what is the nature of the

g 6

82 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 36.

obligations which the treaties of the country impose on the
government; and when it has concluded that there is nothing in
them inconsistent with neutrality, it becomes both its province
and its duty to enforce the laws incident to that state of the
nation. The executive is charged with the execution of all laws,
the law of nations, as well as the municipal law, by which the
former are recognized and adopted. It is consequently bound,
by executing faithfully the laws of neutrality, when the country
is in a neutral position, to avoid giving cause of war to foreign
powers.

This is the direct end of the proclamation of neutrality. It
declares to the United States their situation with regard to the
contending parties, and makes known to the community, that the
laws incident to that state will be enforced. In doing this, it
conforms to an established usage of nations, the operation of
which, as before remarked, is to obviate a responsibility on the
part of the whole society, for secret and unknown violations of
the rights of any of the warring powers by its citizens.

Those who object to the proclamation will readily admit, that
it is the right and duty of the executive to interpret those articles
of our treaties which give to France particular privileges, in order
to the enforcement of them : but the necessary consequence of
this is, that the executive must judge what are their proper
limits; what rights are given to other nations, by our contracts
with them; what rights the law of nature and nations gives, and
our treaties permit, in respect to those countries with which we
have none ; in fine, what are the reciprocal rights and obligations
of the United States, and of all and each of the powers at war.

The right of the executive to receive ambassadors and other
public ministers, may serve to illustrate the relative duties of the
executive and legislative departments. This right includes that
of judging, in the case of a revolution of government in a foreign
country, whether the new rulers are competent organs of the
national will, and ought to be recognised, or not; which, where a
treaty antecedently exists between the United States and such
nation, involves the power of continuing or suspending its
operation. For until the new government is acknowledged, the

Mt. 36.] PACIFICUS. 83

treaties between the nations, so far at least as regards public
rights, are of course suspended.

This power of determining virtually upon the operation of
national treaties, as a consequence of the power to receive public
ministers, is an important instance of the right of the executive,
to decide upon the obligations of the country with regard to
foreign nations. To apply it to the case of France, if there had
been a treaty of alliance, offensive and defensive, between the
United States and that country, the unqualified acknowledgment
of the new government would have put the United States in a
condition to become an associate in the war with France, and
would have laid the legislature under an obligation, if required,
and there was otherwise no valid excuse, of exercising its power
of declaring war.

This serves as an example of the right of the executive, in
certain cases, to determine the condition of the nation, though it
may, in its consequences, affect the exercise of the power of the
legislature to declare war. Nevertheless, the executive cannot
thereby control the exercise of that power. The legislature is
still free to perform its duties, according to its own sense of them ;
though the executive, in the exercise of its constitutional powers,
may establish an antecedent state of things, which ought to weigh
in the legislative decisions.

The division of the executive power in the Constitution,
creates a concurrent authority in the cases to which it relates.

Hence, in the instance stated, treaties can only be made by
the president and senate jointly; but their activity may be con-
tinued or suspended by the President alone.

No objection has been made to the President's having acknow-
ledged the republic of France, by the reception of its minister,
without having consulted the senate ; though that body is con-
nected with him in the making of treaties, and though the con-
sequence of his act of reception is, to give operation to those
heretofore made with that country. But he is censured for
having declared the United States to be in a state of peace and
neutrality, with regard to the powers at war ; because the right
of changing that state, and declaring ivar, belongs to the legislature.

84 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 36.

It deserves to be remarked, that as the participation of the
senate in the making of treaties, and the power of the legislature
to declare war, are exceptions out of the general " executive
power" vested in the President, they are to be construed strictly,
and ought to be extended no further than is essential to their
execution.

While, therefore, the legislature can alone declare war, can
alone actually transfer the nation from a state of peace to a state
of hostility, it belongs to the "executive power" to do whatever
else the law of nations, co-operating with the treaties of the
country, enjoin in the intercourse of the United States with
foreign powers.

In this distribution of authority, the wisdom of our Constitu-
tion is manifested. It is the province and duty of the executive
to preserve to the nation the blessings of peace. The legislature
alone can interrupt them by placing the nation in a state of war.
But though it has been thought advisable to vindicate the
authority of the executive on this broad and comprehensive
ground, it was not absolutely necessary to do so. That clause
of the Constitution which makes it his duty to " take care that
the laws be faithfully executed," might alone have been relied
upon, and this simple process of argument pursued.

The President is the Constitutional executor of the laws.
Oar treaties, and the laws of nations, form a part of the law of the
land. He, who is to execute the laws, must first judge for him-
self of their meaning. In order to the observance of that con-
duct which the laws of nations, combined with our treaties, pre-
scribed to this country, in reference to the present war in Europe,
it was necessary for the President to judge for himself, whether
there was anything in our treaties, incompatible with an adher-
ence to neutrality. Having decided that there was not, he had a
right, and if in his opinion the interest of the nation required it,
it was his duty as executor of the laws, to proclaim the neutrality
of the nation, to exhort all persons to observe it, and to warn
them of the penalties which would attend its non-observance.

The proclamation has been represented as enacting some new
law. This is a view of it entirely erroneous. It only proclaims

JEt.36.] pacificus. 85

a, fact, with regard to the existing state of the nation ; informs the
citizens of what the laws previously established require of them
in that state, and notifies them that these laws will be put in exe-
cution against the infractors of them.

NO. II.

July 3d, 1793.

The second and principal objection to the proclamation,
namely, that it is inconsistent with the treaties between the
United States and France, will now be examined.

It has been already shown, that it does not militate against
the performance of any of the stipulations in those treaties,
which would not make us an associate or party in the war, and
especially that it does not interfere with the privileges secured to
France by the seventeenth and twenty-second articles of the
treaty of commerce ; which, except the clause of guaranty, con-
stitute the most material discriminations to be found in our
treaties in favor of that country.

Official documents have likewise appeared in the public
papers, which serve as a comment upon the sense of the pro-
clamation in this particular, proving that it was not deemed by
the executive, incompatible with the performance of the stipula-
tions in those articles, and that in practice iliey are intended to
be observed.

It has, however, been admitted, that the declaration of neu-
trality excludes the idea of an execution of the clause of guaranty.

It becomes necessary therefore to examine, whether the
United States would have a valid justification for not complying
with it, in case of their being called upon for that purpose by
France.

Without knowing how far the reasons which have occurred
to me, may have influenced the President, there appear to me to
exist very good and substantial grounds for a refusal.

86 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 36.

The alliance between the United States and France, is of the
defensive kind. In the caption, it is denominated a " treaty of
alliance eventual and defensive." In the body (article the second)
it is called a defensive alliance. The words of that article are as
follows : " The essential and direct end of the present defensive
alliance is to maintain effectually the liberty, sovereignty, and
independence, absolute and unlimited, of the United States, as
well in matters of government, as of commerce."

The leading character then of our alliance with France being
defensive, it will follow that the meaning, obligation, and force
of every stipulation in the treaty, must be tested by the principles
of such an alliance ; unless in any instance terms have been used
which clearly and unequivocally denoted a different intent.

The principal question consequently is : what is the nature
and effect of a defensive alliance ? When does the casus foederis
take place in relation to it ?

Eeason, the concurring opinions of writers, and the practice
of nations, will all answer : " When either of the allies is attached"
when " war is made upon him, not when he makes war upon
another : in other words, the stipulated assistance is to be given
" when our ally is engaged in a defensive, not when he is engaged
in an offensive war." This obligation to assist only in a defen-
sive war, constitutes the essential difference between an alliance
which is merely defensive, and one which is both offensive and
defensive. In the latter case, there is an obligation to co-operate
as well when the war, on the part of our ally, is of the latter, as
when it is of the former description. To affirm, therefore, that
the United States are bound to assist France in the war in which
she is at present engaged, will be to convert our treaty with her
into an alliance offensive and defensive, contrary to the express
and reiterated declarations of the instrument itself.

This assertion implies, that the war in question is an offensive
war on the part of France.

And so it undoubtedly is, with regard to all the powers with
whom she was at war, at the time of issuing the proclamation.

No position is better established, than that the nation which
first declares, or actually begins a war, whatever may have been

At. 36.] PACIFICUS. 87

the causes leading to it, is tliat which makes an offensive war.
Nor is there any doubt, that France first declared and began the
war, against Austria, Prussia, Savoy, Holland, England, and
Spain.

Upon this point, there is apt to be some incorrectness of
ideas. Those who have not examined subjects of such a nature,
are led to imagine that the party which commits the first injury,
or gives the first provocation, is on the offensive side, though
hostilities are actually begun by the other party.

But the cause or the occasion of the war, and the war itself,
are things entirely distinct. It is the commencement of the war
itself which decides the question, whether it be offensive or
defensive. All writers on the laws of nations agree in this
doctrine; but it is most accurately laid down in the following
extracts from Burlemaqui.*

" Neither are we to believe (says he) that he who first injures
another, begins by that an offensive war, and that the other who
demands the satisfaction for the injury received, is always on the
defensive. There are a great many unjust acts, which may

kindle a war, and which, however, are not the war itself; as the

ill treatment of a prince's ambassadors, the plundering of his

subjects, &c."

If, therefore, we take up arms to revenge such an unjust act,

we commence an offensive, but a just war ; and the prince who has

done the injury, and will not give satisfaction, makes a defensive,

but an unjust war.

We must therefore affirm, in general, that the first who takes

up arms, whether justly or unjustly, commences an offensive war;

and he who opposes him, whether with or without reason, begins

a defensive war.

France then being on the offensive in the present war, and

our alliance with her being defensive only, it follows, that the

casus foederis, or condition of our guaranty, cannot take place;

and that the United States are free to refuse a performance of

that guaranty if demanded.

* Vol. II., Book IV., Chap. III., Sec. 4, 5.

S8 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 36.

Those wlio are disposed to justify indiscriminately every thing
in the conduct of France, may reply that though the war, in point
of form, may be offensive on her part, yet in point of principle, it
is defensive ; was in each instance a mere anticipation of attacks
meditated against her, and was justified by previous aggressions
of the opposite parties.

It is believed that it would be a sufficient answer to this
observation to say, that in determining the legal and positive
obligations of the United States, the only point of inquiry is,
whether the war was in fact begun by France, or by her enemies;
that all beyond this is too vague, too liable to dispute, too much
matter of opinion to be a proper criterion of national conduct ;
that when a war breaks out between two nations, all others, in
regard to the positive rights of the parties, and their positive
duties towards them, are bound to consider it as equally just on
both sides ; that consequently in a defensive alliance, when war
is made upon one of the allies, it is the duty of the other to
fulfil the conditions stipulated on its part, without inquiry,
whether the war is rightfully begun or not ; as on the other
hand, when war is commenced by one of the allies, the other is
exempted from the obligation to assist, however just the com-
mencement of it may have been.

This doctrine is founded upon the utility of clear and certain
rules for determining the reciprocal duties of nations, in order
that as little as possible may be left to opinion, and to the subter-
fuges of an over-refining or unfaithful casuistry.

Some writers indeed of high authority affirm, that it is a tacit
condition of every alliance, that one ally is not bound to assist
the other in a war manifestly unjust. But this is questioned by
other respectable authorities on the ground which has been stated.
And though the manifest injustice of the war has been affirmed
by some, to be a good cause for not executing the formal obliga-
tions of a treaty, I have nowhere seen it maintained, that the
abstract justice of a war will of itself oblige a nation to do what
its formal obligations do not enjoin : if this however were not
the true doctrine, an impartial examination would prove, that
with respect to some of the powers, France is not blameless in

jEt. 36.] PACIFICUS. 89

the circumstances which preceded and led to the war ; that if she
received, she also gave causes of offence, and that the justice of
the war, on her side, is in those cases not a little problematical.

There are prudential reasons, which dissuade from going
largely into this examination, unless it shall be rendered neces-
sary by the future turn of the discussion.

It will be sufficient here to notice cursorily the following
facts :

France committed an aggression upon Holland, in declaring
the navigation of the Scheldt free, and acting upon that declara-
tion ; contrary to treaties in which she had explicitly acknow-
ledged, and even guarantied, the exclusive right of Holland to
the use of that river ; and contrary also to the doctrines of the
best writers, and the established usages of nations in such cases.

She gave a general and very serious cause of alarm and um-
brage by the decree of the 19th of November, 1792, whereby the
convention, in the name of the French nation, declare, that they
will grant fraternity and assistance to every people who wish to
recover their liberty ; and charge the executive power to send
the necessary orders to the generals to give assistance to such
people, and to defend those citizens who have been, or who may
be vexed for the cause of liberty ; which decree was ordered to
be printed in all languages.

This very extraordinary decree amounted exactly to what
France herself had most complained of; an interference by one
nation in the internal government of another.

When a nation has actually come to a resolution to throw off
a yoke, under which it may have groaned, and to assert its
liberties, it is justifiable and meritorious in another, to afford
assistance to the one which has been oppressed, and is in the act
of liberating itself; but it is not warrantable for any nation
beforehand, to hold out a general invitation to insurrection and
revolution, by promising to assist every people who may wish to
recover their liberty, and to defend those citizens of every
country, who have been, or who may be vexed for the cause of
liberty ; still less to commit to the generals of its armies the dis-
cretionary power of judging, when the citizens of a foreign

00 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEr. 36.

country have been vexed for the cause of liberty by their own
government.

For Vatel justly observes, as a consequence of the liberty and
independence of nations, " that it does not belong to any foreign
power, to take cognizance of the administration of a sovereign
of another country, to set himself up as a judge of his conduct,
or to oblige him to alter it."

It had a natural tendency to disturb the tranquillity of nations,
and to excite everywhere fermentation and revolt : it therefore
justified neutral powers, who were in a situation to be affected by
it, in taking measures to repress the spirit by which it had been
dictated.

But the principle of that decree received a more particular
application to Great Britain, by some subsequent circumstances.

Among the proofs of this are two answers, which were given
by the President of the National Convention, at a public sitting
on the 28th of November, to two different adresses ; one pre-
sented by a deputation from " the Society for Constitutional
information in London," the other by a deputation of English
and Irish citizens at Paris.

The following are extracts from these answers :

" The shades of Penn, of Hampden, and of Sidney, hover
over your heads ; and the moment, without doubt, approaches,
in which the French will bring congratulations to the national
Convention of Great Britain."

" Nature and principles draw towards us England, Scotland,
and Ireland. Let the cries of friendship resound through the
TWO republics" — "Principles are waging war against tyranny,
which will fall under the blows of philosophy. Eoyalty in
Europe is either destroyed or on the point of perishing, on the
ruins of feudality : and the declaration of rights placed by the
side of thrones, is a devouring fire which will consume them —
Worthy Eepublicans, &c."

Declarations of this sort cannot but be viewed as a direct
application of the principle of the decree to Great Britain ; and
as an open patronage of a revolution in that country ; a conduct
which, proceeding from the head of the body that governed

Mt. 36.] PACIFIC US. 91

France, in the presence and on behalf of that body, was un-
questionably an offence and. injury to the nation to which it
related.

The decree of the 15th of November, is a further cause of
offence to all the governments of Europe, By that decree, " the
French nation declares, that it will treat as enemies the people,
who, refusing or renouncing liberty and equality, are desirous of
preserving their prince and privileged castes, or of entering into
an accommodation with them, &c." This decree was little short
of a declaration of war against all nations having princes and
privileged, classes.

The formal and. definitive annexation to France of the territo-
ries over which her arms had temporarily prevailed, is another
violation of just and moderate principles, into which the conven-
tion was betrayed by an intemperate zeal, if not by a culpable
ambition ; and of a nature to justify the jealousy and ill-will of
every neighboring state.

The laws of nations give to a power at war nothing more than
a usufructuary or possessory right to the territories which it ac-
quires ; suspending the absolute property and dominion, till a
treaty of peace, or something equivalent, shall have ceded or
relinquished the conquered territory to the conqueror. This
rule is one of primary importance to the tranquillity and security
of nations — facilitating an adjustment of their quarrels, and the
preservation of ancient limits.

But France, by incorporating with herself in several instances
the territories she had acquired, violated that rule, and multiplied
infinitely the obstacles to peace and accommodation. The doc-
trine that a nation cannot consent to its own dismemberment,
but in a case of extreme necessity, immediately attached itself to
all the conquered territories ; while the progressive augmentation
of the dominions of the most powerful empire in Europe, on a
principle not of temporary possession, but of permanent acquisi-
tion, threatened the independence of all other countries, and gave
to neighboring neutral powers the justest cause of discontent
and apprehension. It is a principle well agreed, and founded on
substantial reasons, that whenever a particular state adopts

92 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 36.

maxims of conduct contrary to those generally established among
nations, calculated to interrupt their tranquillity and to expose
their safety, they may justifiably make common cause to resist
and control the state which manifests a disposition so suspicious
and exceptionable.

Whatever partiality maybe entertained for the general object
of the French revolution, it is impossible for any well-informed
or sober-minded man, not to condemn the proceedings which
have been stated, as repugnant to the rights of nations, to the
true principles of liberty, to the freedom of opinion of mankind ;
or not to acknowledge as a consequence of this, that the justice of
the war on the part of France, with regard to some of the powers
with which she is engaged, is from those causes questionable
enough to free the United States from all embarrassment on that
score, if indeed it be at all incumbent upon them to go into the
inquiry.

The policy of a defensive alliance is so essentially distinct
from that of an offensive one, that it is every way important not
to confound their effects. The first kind has in view the prudent
object of mutual defence, when either of the allies is involuntarily
forced into a war by the attack of some third power. The latter
subjects the peace of each ally to the will of the other, and obliges
each to partake in the other's wars of policy and interest, as well
as in those of safety and defence. To preserve their boundaries
distinct, it is necessary that each kind should be governed by
plain and obvious rules.

This would not be the case, if instead of taking as a guide the
simple fact of who began the war, it was necessary to travel into
metaphysical niceties about the justice or injustice of the causes
which led to it :

Inasmuch also as the not furnishing a stipulated succor, when
it is due, is itself a cause of war, it is very requisite that there
should be some palpable criterion for ascertaining when it is due.
This criterion, as before observed, in a defensive alliance, is the
commencement or not, of the war by our ally, as a mere matter
of fact.

Other topics serving to illustrate the position that the United

JEt. 36.] PACIFIC US. 93

States are not bound to execute the clause of guaranty, are
reserved for another paper.

NO. III.

July 6th, 1793.

France, at the time of issuing the proclamation, was engaged
in war with a considerable part of Europe, and likely to be em-
broiled with almost all the rest, without a single ally in that
quarter of the globe.

In such a situation, it is evident, that however she may be
able to defend herself at home, of which her factions and internal
agitations furnish the only serious doubt, she cannot make ex-
ternal efforts in any degree proportioned to those which can be
made against her.

This state of things alone discharges the United States from
an obligation to embark in her quarrel.

It is known, that we are wholly destitute of naval force.
France, with all the great maritime powers united against her, is
unable to supply this deficiency. She cannot afford us that
species of co-operation which is necessary to render our efforts
useful to her, and to prevent our experiencing the destruction of
our trade, and the most calamitous inconveniences in other
respects.

Our guaranty does not look to France herself. It does not
relate to her immediate defence, but to the defence and preserva-
tion of her American colonies ; objects of which she might be
deprived, and yet remain a great, a powerful, and a happy nation.

In the actual situation of this country, and in relation to a
matter of only secondary importance to France, it may fairly be
maintained, that an ability in her to supply, in a competent de-
gree, our deficiency of naval force, is a condition of our obliga-
tion to perform the guaranty on our part.

Had the United States a powerful marine, or could the)- com-

94 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Ex. 36.

mand one in time, this reasoning would not be solid ; but circum-
stanced as they are, it is presumed to be well founded.

There would be no proportion between the mischiefs and
perils to which the United States would expose themselves, by
embarking in the war, and the benefit which the nature of their
stipulation aims at securing to France, or that which it would be
in their power actually to render her by becoming a party.

This disproportion would be a valid reason for not executing
the guaranty. All contracts are to receive a reasonable construc-
tion. Self-preservation is the first duty of a nation ; and though
in the performance of stipulations relating to war, good faith
requires that its ordinary hazards should be fairly met, because
they are directly contemplated by such stipulations, yet it does
not require that extraordinary and extreme hazards should be
run ; especially where the object to be gained or secured is only
a partial or particular interest of the ally, for whom they are to
be encountered.

As in the present instance, good faith does not require that
the United States should put in jeopardy their essential interests,
perhaps their very existence, in one of the most unequal contests
in which a nation could be engaged, to secure to France — what?
Her West India islands and other less important possessions in
America. For it is always to be remembered, that the stipulations
of the United States do, in no event, reach beyond this point. If
they were, upon the strength of their guaranty, to engage in the
war, and could make any arrangement with the belligerent
powers, for securing to France those islands and those possessions,
they would be at perfect liberty instantly to withdraw. They
would not be bound to prosecute the war one moment longer.

They are under no obligation in any event, as far as the faith
of treaties is concerned, to assist France in defence of her liberty;
a topic on which so much has been said, so very little to the pur-
pose, as it regards the present question.

The contest in which the United States would plunge them-
selves, were they to take part with France, would possibly be
still more unequal than that in which France herself is engaged.
With the possessions of Great Britain and Spain on both flanks,

Mt. 36.] PACIFICUS. 95

the numerous Indian tribes under the influence and direction of
those powers, along our whole interior frontier, with a long ex-
tended sea-coast, with no maritime force of our own, and with
the maritime force of all Europe against us, with no fortifications
whatever, and with a population not exceeding four millions ;
it is impossible to imagine a more unequal contest, than that in
which we should be involved in the case supposed. From such
a contest we are dissuaded by the most cogent motives of self-
preservation, no less than of interest.

We may learn from Vatel, one of the best writers on the laws
of nations, that "if a state which has promised succors, finds
itself unable to furnish them, its very inability is its exemption ;
and if the furnishing the succors would expose it to an evident
danger, this also is a lawful dispensation. The case would ren-
der the treaty pernicious to the state, and therefore not obligatory.
But this applies to an imminent danger threatening the safety of
the state : the case of such a danger is tacitly and necessarily
reserved in every treaty."*

If too, as no sensible and candid man will deny, the extent of
the present combination against France, is in a degree to be
ascribed to imprudences on her part, the exemption to the
United States is still more manifest and complete. No country
is bound to partake in hazards of the most critical kind, which
may have been produced or promoted by the indiscretion and
intemperance of another. This is an obvious dictate of reason,
with which the common sense and common practice of mankind
coincide.

To the foregoing considerations, it may perhaps be added with
no small degree of force, that military stipulations in national
treaties, contemplate only the ordinary case of foreign war, and
are irrelative to the contests which grow out of revolutions of
government ; unless where they have express reference to a
revolution begun, or where there is a guaranty of the existing
constitution of a nation, or where there is a personal alliance for
the defence of a prince and his family.f

* See Book III., Chap. VI., Sec. 92. f Puffendorf, Book VIII., Chap. IX., Sec. 9.

96 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 36.

The revolution in France is the primitive source of the war in
which she is engaged. The restoration of the monarchy is the
avowed object of some of her enemies, and the implied one of
all. That question then is essentially involved in the principle
of the Avar ; a question certainly never in the contemplation of
the government with which our treaty was made, and it may
thence be fairly inferred, never intended to be embraced by it.

The inference is, that the United States fulfilled the utmost
that could be claimed by the nation of France, when they so far
respected its decision as to. recognize the newly constituted
authorities ; giving operation to the treaty of alliance for future
occasions, but considering the present war as a tacit exception.
Perhaps too, this exception is, in other respects, due to the cir-
cumstances under which the engagements between the two
countries were contracted. It is impossible, prejudice apart, not
to perceive a delicate embarrassment between the theory and fact
of our political relations to France.

On these grounds, also, as well as that of the present war
being offensive on the side of France, the United States have
valid and honorable pleas to offer against the execution of the
guaranty, if it should be claimed by France. And the President
was in every view fully justified in pronouncing, that the duty
and interest of the United States dictated a neutrality in the
war.

NO. IV.

July 10th, 1793.

A third objection to the proclamation is, that it is inconsistent
with the gratitude due to France, for the services rendered to us
in our revolution.

Those Avho make this objection disavow, at the same time, all
intention to maintain the position, that the United States ought
to take part in the war. They profess to be friends to our
remaining at peace. "What then do they mean by the objection ?

^t. 36.] PACIFIC US. 97

If it be no breach of gratitude to refrain from joining France
in the war, how can it be a breach of gratitude to declare, that
such is our disposition and intention ?

The two positions are at variance with each other ; and the
true inference is, either that those who make the objection really
wish to engage this country in the war, or that they seek a pre-
text for censuring the conduct of the Chief Magistrate, for some
purpose very different from the public good.

They endeavor in vain to elude this inference by saying,
that the proclamation places France upon an equal footing with
her enemies ; while our treaties require distinctions in her favor,
and our relative situation would dictate kind offices to her, which
ought not be granted to her adversaries.

They are not ignorant, that the proclamation is reconcilable
with both those objects, as far as they have any foundation in
truth or propriety.

It has been shown that the promise of " a friendly and impar-
tial conduct " towards all the belligerent powers, is not incom-
patible with the performance of any stipulations in our treaties,
which would not include our becoming an associate in the war ;
and it has been observed, that the conduct of the executive, in
regard to the seventeenth and twenty-second articles of the treaty
of commerce, is an unequivocal comment upon the terms. They
were, indeed, naturally to be understood, with the exception of
those matters of positive compact, which would not amount to
taking part in the war ; for a nation then observes a friendly and
impartial conduct towards two contending powers, when it only
performs to one of them what it is obliged to do by stipulations
in antecedent treaties, which do not constitute a participation in
the war.

Neither do those expressions imply, that the United States
will not exercise their discretion in doing kind offices to some of
the parties, without extending them to the others, so long as they
have no relation to war ; for kind offices of that description may,
consistently with neutrality, be shown to one party and refused
to another.

If the objectors mean, that the United States ought to favor
g 7

98 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 36.

France, in things relating to war, and where they are not bound
to do it by treaty ; they must in this case also abandon their pre-
tension of being friends to peace. For such a conduct would
be a violation of neutrality, which could not fail to produce war.

It follows then, that the proclamation is reconcilable with all
that those who censure it contend for ; taking them upon their
own ground, that nothing is to be done incompatible with the
preservation of peace.

But though this would be a sufficient answer to the objection
under consideration ; yet it may not be without use, to indulge
some reflections on this very favorite topic of gratitude to France ;
since it is at this shrine that we are continually invited to sacri-
fice the true interests of the country ; as if "all for love, and the
world well lost," were a fundamental maxim in politics.

Faith and justice, between nations, are virtues of a nature the
most necessary and sacred. They cannot be too strongly incul-
cated, nor too highly respected. Their obligations are absolute,
their utility unquestionable ; they relate to objects which, with
probity and sincerity, generally admit of being brought within
clear and intelligible rules.

But the same cannot be said of gratitude. It is not very often,
that between nations, it can be pronounced with certainty, that
there exists a solid foundation for the sentiment ; and how far it
can justifiably be permitted to operate, is always a question of
still greater difficulty.

The basis of gratitude is a benefit received or intended, which
there was no right to claim, originating in a regard to the interest
or advantage of the party on whom the benefit is, or is meant to
be, conferred. If a service is rendered from views relative to
the immediate interest of the party who performs it, and is pro-
ductive of reciprocal advantages, there seems scarcely in such a
case, to be an adequate basis for a sentiment like that of gratitude.

The effect at least would be wholly disproportioned to the
cause, if such a service ought to beget more than a disposition to
render in turn a correspondent good office, founded on mutual
interest and reciprocal advantage. But gratitude would require
much more than this ; it would exact to a certain extent, even a

Mt. 36.] PACIFIC US. 99

sacrifice of the interest of the party obliged to the service or
benefit of the one by whom the obligation had been conferred.

Between individuals, occasion is not unfrequently given for
the exercise of gratitude. Instances of conferring benefits from
kind and benevolent dispositions or feelings towards the person
benefited, without any other interest on the part of the person
who renders the service, than the pleasure of doing a good action,
occur every day among individuals. But among nations they
perhaps never occur. It may be affirmed as a general principle,
that the predominant motive of good offices from one nation to
another, is the interest or advantage of the nation which performs
them.

Indeed, the rule of morality in this respect is not precisely the
same between nations, as between individuals. The duty of
making its own welfare the guide of its actions, is much stronger
upon the former than upon the latter ; in proportion to the greater
magnitude and importance of national, compared with individual
happiness, and to the greater permanency of the effects of national
than of individual conduct. Existing millions, and for the most
part future generations, are concerned in the present measures of
a government ; while the consequences of the private actions of
an individual ordinarily terminate with himself, or are circum-
scribed within a narrow compass :

Whence it follows that an individual may, on numerous occa-
sions, meritoriously indulge the emotions of generosity and be-
nevolence, not only without an eye to, but even at the expense
of, his own interest. But a government can rarely, if at all, be
justifiable in pursuing a similar course : and, if it does so, ought
to confine itself within much stricter bounds.* Good offices
which are indifferent to the interest of a nation performing them
or which are compensated by the existence or expectation of
some reasonable equivalent, or which produce an essential good
to the nation to which they are rendered, without real detriment

* This conclusion derives confirmation from the reflection, that under everv
form of government, rulers are only trustees for the happiness and interest of their
nation, and cannot, consistently with their trust, follow the suggestions of kindness
or humanity towards others, to the prejudice of their constituents.

100 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 36.

to the affairs of the benefactors, prescribe perhaps the limits of
national generosity or benevolence.

It is not here meant to recommend a policy absolutely selfish
or interested in nations ; but to show, that a policy regulated by
their own interest, as far as justice and good faith permit, is, and
ought to be, their prevailing one ; and that either to ascribe to
them a different principle of action, or to deduce, from the sup-
position of it, arguments for a self-denying and self-sacrificing
gratitude on the part of a nation, which may have received from
another good offices, is to misrepresent or misconceive what
usually are, and ought to be, the springs of national conduct.

These general reflections will be auxiliary to a just estimate
of our real situation with regard to France ; of which a closer
view will be taken in a succeeding paper.

no. V.

July 13th, 1793.
France, the rival, time immemorial, of Great Britain, had, in
the course of the war which ended in 1763, suffered from the
successful arms of the latter the severest losses and the most
mortifying defeats. Britain from that moment had acquired an
ascendant in the affairs of Europe, and in the commerce of the
world, too decided and too humiliating to be endured without
extreme impatience, and an eager desire of finding a favorable
opportunity to destroy it, and to repair the breach which had
been made in the national glory. The animosity of wounded
pride, conspired with calculations of interest, to give a keen edge
to that impatience, and to that desire.

The American revolution offered the occasion. It early
attracted the notice of France, though with extreme circumspec-
tion. As far as countenance and aid may be presumed to have
been given prior to the epoch of the acknowledgment of our in-
dependence, it will be no unkind derogation to assert, that they

Mt. 36.J PACIFIC US. 101

were marked neither with liberality, nor with vigor ; that
they wore the appearance rather of a desire to keep alive dis-
turbances which might embarrass a rival, than of a serious design
to assist a revolution, or a serious expectation that it could be
effected.

The victories of Saratoga, the capture of an army, which went
a great way towards deciding the issue of the contest, decided
also the hesitations of France. They established in the govern-
ment of that country, a confidence of our ability to accomplish
our purpose, and, as a consequence of it, produced the treaties of
alliance and commerce.

It is impossible to see in all this any thing more, than the con-
duct of a jealous competitor, embracing a most promising oppor-
tunity to repress the pride, and diminish the power of a dangerous
rival, by seconding a successful resistance to its authority, with
the object of lopping off a valuable portion of its dominions. The
dismemberment of this country from Great Britain was an ob-
vious, and a very important interest of France. It cannot be
doubted, that it was both the determining motive and an adequate
compensation, for the assistance afforded to us.

Men of sense, in this country, derived encouragement to the
part which their zeal for liberty prompted them to take in our
revolution, from the probability of the co-operation of France and
Spain. It will be remembered, that this argument was used in
the publications of the day ; but upon what was it bottomed ?
Upon the known competition between those nations and Great
Britain, upon their evident interest to reduce her power and cir-
cumscribe her empire ; not certainly upon motives of regard to
our interest, or of attachment to our cause. Whoever should
have alleged the latter, as the grounds of the expectation held
out. would have been then j ustly considered as a visionary or a
deceiver. And whoever shall now ascribe to such motives the
aid which we did receive, would not deserve to be viewed in a
better light.

The inference from these facts is not obscure. Aid and co-
operation, founded upon a great interest, pursued and obtained
by the party rendering them, is not a proper stock upon which to

102 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 36.

engraft that enthusiastic gratitude, which is claimed from us by
those who love France more than the United States.

This view of the subject, extorted by the extravagancy of such
a claim, is not meant to disparage the just pretensions of France
to our good-will. Though neither in the motives to the succors
which she furnished, nor in their extent, (considering how pow-
fully the point of honor, in such war, reinforced the considera-
tions of interest when she was once engaged,) can be found a suf-
ficient basis for that gratitude which is the theme of so much
declamation ; yet we shall find, in the manner of affording them,
just cause for our esteem and friendship.

France did not attempt, in the first instance, to take advantage
of our situation to extort from us any humiliating or injurious
concessions, as the price of her assistance ; nor afterwards, in the
progress of the war, to impose hard terms as the condition of par-
ticular aids.

Though this course was certainly dictated by policy ; yet it
was a magnanimous policy, such as always constitutes a title to
the approbation and esteem of mankind ; and a claim to the
friendship and acknowledgment of the party in whose favor it
is practised.

But these sentiments are satisfied on the part of the nation,
when they produce sincere wishes for the happiness of the party
from whom it has experienced such conduct, and a cordial dis-
position to render all good and friendly offices, which can be
rendered without prejudice to its own solid and permanent
interests.

To ask of a nation so situated, to make a sacrifice of substan-
tial interest ; to expose itself to the jealousy, ill-will, or resent-
ment of the rest of the world ; to hazard, in an eminent degree,
its own safety, for the benefit of the party who may have ob-
served towards it the conduct which has been described ; would
be to ask more than the nature of the case demands, more than
the fundamental maxims of society authorize, more than the
dictates of sound reason justify.

A question has arisen, with regard to the proper object of that
gratitude, which is so much insisted upon : whether it be the

Mt. 36.] PACIFICUS. 103

unfortunate prince by whom the assistance received was given ;
or the nation of whom he was the chief or the organ ? It is ex-
tremely interesting to the national justice, to form right concep-
tions on this point.

The arguments which support the latter idea, are as follows :

"Louis the XVI. was but the constitutional agent of the
French people. He acted for and on behalf of the nation ; it was
with their money and their blood he supported our cause. It is
to them, therefore, not to him, that our obligations are due. Louis
the XVI., in taking our part, was no doubt actuated by state
policy. An absolute prince could not love liberty. But the
people of France patronized our cause with zeal, from sympathy
in its object. The people, therefore, not its monarch, are entitled
to our sympathy."

This reasoning may be ingenious ; but it is not founded in
nature or fact.

Louis the XVI., though no more than the constitutional agent
of the nation, had at the time the sole power of managing its
affairs, the legal right of directing its will and its force. It
belonged to him to assist us, or not, without consulting the
nation ; and he did assist without such consultation. His will
alone was active ; that of the nation passive. If there was kind-
ness in the decision, demanding a return of good- will, it was the
kindness of Louis XVI. — his heart was the depository of the sen-
timent. Let the genuine voice of nature, then, unperverted by
political subtleties, pronounce whether the acknowledgment,
which may be due for that kindness, can be equitably transferred
from him to others, who had no share in the decision ; whether
the principle of gratitude ought to determine us to behold with
indifference his misfortunes, and with satisfaction the triumphs
of his foes.

The doctrine, that the prince is the organ of his nation, is
conclusive to enforce the obligations of good faith between two
states ; in other words, the observance of duties stipulated in
treaties for national purposes ; and it will even suffice to continue
to a nation a claim to the friendship and good-will of another,
resulting from friendly offices done by its prince ; but it would

104 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 36.

be to carry the principle much too far, and to render it infinitely
too artificial to attribute to it the effect of transferring such a
claim from the prince to the nation, by way of opposition and
contrast. Friendship, good- will, gratitude for favors received,
have so inseparable a reference to the motives with which, and
to the persons by whom they were rendered, as to be incapable
of being transferred to another at his expense.

But Louis XVI., it is said, acted from reasons of state, without
regard to our cause ; while the people of France patronized it
with zeal and attachment.

As far as the assertion with regard to the monarch may be
well founded, and is an objection to our gratitude to him, it
destroys the whole fabric of gratitude to France. For our grati-
tude is, and must be, relative to the services performed. The
nation can only claim it on the score of their having been ren-
dered by their agent with their means. If the views with which
he performs them divested them of the merit which ought to
inspire gratitude, none is due. The nation no more than their
agent can claim it.

With regard to the individual good wishes of the citizens of
France, as they did not produce the services rendered to us as a
nation, they can be no foundation for national gratitude. They
can only call for a reciprocation of individual good wishes. They
cannot form the basis of public obligation.

But the assertion takes more for granted than there is reason
to believe true.

Louis the XVI., no doubt took part in our contest from reasons
of state ; but Louis the XVI. was a man, humane, and kind-
hearted. The acts of his early youth had entitled him to this
character. It is natural for a man of this disposition to become
interested in the cause of those whom he protects or aids ; and
if the concurrent testimony of the period may be credited, there
was no man in France more personally friendly to the cause of
this country than Louis the XVI. I am much misinformed, if
repeated declarations of the venerable Franklin did not attest
this fact.

It is a just tribute to the peojDle of France to admit, that the}''

Mt. 36.] PACIFICUS. 105

manifested a lively interest in the cause of America ; but while
motives are scanned, who can say how much of it is to be ascribed
to the antipathy which they bore to their rival neighbor ; how
much to their sympathy in the object of our pursuit ? It is cer-
tain that the love of liberty was not a national sentiment in
France, when a zeal for our cause first appeared among that
people.

There is reason to believe too, that the attachment to our
cause, which ultimately became very extensive, if not general,
did not originate with the mass of the French people. It began
with the circles more immediately connected with the court, and
was thence diffused through the nation.

This observation, besides its tendency to rectify ideas, which
are calculated to give a false current to the public feeling, may
serve to check the spirit of illiberal invective, which has been
wantonly indulged against those distinguished friends of Ame-
rica, who, though the authors of the French revolution, have
fallen victims to it ; because their principles would not permit
them to go the whole length of an entire subversion of the
monarchy.

The preachers of gratitude are not ashamed to brand Louis
the XVI. as a tyrant, La Fayette as a traitor. But Iioav can we
wonder at this, when they insinuate a distrust even of a ! ! !

In urging the friendly disposition to our cause, manifested by
the people of France, as a motive to our gratitude towards that
people, it ought not to be forgotten, that those dispositions were
not confined to the inhabitants of that country. They were em-
inently shared by the people of the United Provinces, produced
to us valuable pecuniary aids from their citizens, and eventually
involved them in the war on the same side with us. It may be
added too, that here the patronage of our cause emphatically
began with the mass of the community, not originating as in
France with the government, but finally implicating the govern-
ment in the consequences.

Our cause had also numerous friends in other countries ;
even in that with which we were at war. Conducted with pru-
dence, moderation, justice, and humanity, it may be said to have

106 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 36.

been a popular cause among mankind, conciliating the counte-
nance of princes, and the affection of nations.

The dispositions of the individual citizens of France can
therefore in no sense be urged, as constituting a peculiar claim
to our gratitude. As far as there is foundation for it, it must be
referred to the services rendered to us ; and, in the first instance,
to the unfortunate monarch that rendered them. This is the
conclusion of nature and reason.

NO VI.

July 17th, 1793.

The very men who not long since, with a holy zeal, would
have been glad to make an auto dafe of any one who should have
presumed to assign bounds to our obligations to Louis the XVI.,
are now ready to consign to the flames those who venture even
to think that he died a proper object of our sympathy or regret.
The greatest pains are taken to excite against him our detestation.
His supposed perjuries and crimes are sounded in the public ear,
with all the exaggerations of intemperate declaiming. Ail the
unproved and contradicted allegations, which have been brought
against him are taken for granted, as the oracles of truth, on no
better grounds than the mere general presumptions, that he
could not have been a friend to a revolution which stripped him
of so much power ; that it is not likely the convention would
have pronounced him guilty, and consigned him to so igno-
minious a fate, if he had been really innocent.

It is possible that time may disclose facts and proofs, which
will substantiate the guilt imputed to Louis : but these facts and
proofs have not yet been authenticated to the world ; and justice
admonishes us to wait for their production and 'authentication.

Those who have most closely attended to the course of the
transaction, find least cause to be convinced of the criminality of
the deceased monarch. While his counsel, whose characters

At. 36.] PACIFICUS. 107

give weight to their assertions, with an air of conscious truth,
boldly appeal to facts and proofs, in the knowledge and posses-
sion of the convention, for the refutation of the changes brought
against him, the members of that body, in all the debates upon
the subject which have reached this country, either directly from
France, or circuitously through England, appear to have con-
tented themselves with assuming the existence of the facts
charged, and inferring from them a criminality which, after the
abolition of the royalty, they were interested to establish.

The presumption of guilt drawn from the suggestions which
have been stated, is more than counterbalanced by an opposite
one, which is too obvious not to have occurred to many, though
'I do not recollect yet to have met with it in print. It is this :

If the convention had possessed clear evidence of the guilt of
Louis, they would have promulgated it to the world in an
authentic and unquestionable shape. Respect for the opinion of
mankind, regard for their own character, the interest of their
cause, made this an indis23ensable duty ; nor can the omission be
satisfactorily ascribed to any other reason than the want of such
evidence.

The inference is, that the melancholy catastrophe of Louis
XVL, was the result of a supposed political expediency, rather
than of real criminality.

In a case so circumstanced, does it, can it consist with our
justice or our humanity, to partake in the angry and vindictive
passions which it is endeavored to excite against the unfortunate
monarch ? Was it a crime in him to have been born a prince ?
Could this circumstance forfeit his title to the commiseration
due to his misfortunes as a man ?

Would gratitude dictate to a people, situated as are the peo-
ple of this country, to lend their aid to extend to the son the
misfortunes of the father ? Should we not be more certain of
violating no obligation of that kind, and of not implicating the
delicacy of our national character, by taking no part in the con-
test, than by throwing our weight into either scale ?

Would not a just estimate of the origin and progress of our
relations to France, viewed with reference to the mere question

108 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 36.

of gratitude, lead us to this result — that we ought not to take
part against the son and successor of a father, on whose sole will
depended &e assistance which we received ; that we ought not
to take part with him against the nation, whose blood and whose
treasure had been, in the hands of the father, the means of that
assistance ?

But we are sometimes told, by way of answer, that the cause
of France is the cause of liberty ; and that we are bound to
assist the nation on the score of their being engaged in the
defence of that cause. How far this idea ought to carry us, will
be the subject of future examination.

It is only necessary here to observe, that it presents a ques-
tion essentially different from that which has been in discussion.
If we are bound to assist the French nation, on the principle of
their being embarked in the defence of liberty, this is a con-
sideration altogether foreign to that of gratitude. Gratitude has
reference only to kind offices- received. The obligation to assist
the cause of liberty, must be deduced from the merits of that
cause and from the interest we have in its support. It is possible
that the benefactor may be on one side ; the defenders and sup-
porters of liberty on the other. Gratitude may point one way,
the love of liberty another. It is therefore important to just
conclusions, not to confound the two things.

A sentiment of justice, more than the importance of the ques-
tion itself, has led to so particular a discussion respecting the
proper object of whatever acknowledgment may be due from the
United States, for the aid which they received from France
during their own revolution.

The extent of the obligation which it may impose is by far
the most interesting inquiry. And though it is presumed, that
enough has been already said to evince, that it does in no degree
require us to embark in the war ; yet there is another, and a
very simple view of the subject, which is too convincing to be
omitted.

The assistance derived from France was afforded by a great
and powerful nation, possessing numerous armies, a respectable
fleet, and the means of rendering it a match for the force to be

jEt. 36.] PACIFICUS. 109

encountered. The position of Europe was favorable to the en-
terprise ; a general disposition prevailing to see the power of
Britain abridged. The co-operation of Spain was very much a
matter of course, and the probability of other powers becoming
engaged on the same side not remote. Great Britain was alone,
and likely to continue so ; France had a great and persuasive
interest in the separation of this country from her. In this situa-
tion, with much to hope and little to fear, she took part in our
quarrel.

France is at this time singly engaged with the greatest part
of Europe, including all the first-rate powers except one ; and in
danger of being engaged with the rest. To use the emphatic
language of a member of the national convention, she has but
one enemy, and that is all Europe. Her internal affairs are,
without doubt, in serious disorder ; her navy comparatively in-
considerable. The United States are a young nation: their
population, though rapidly increasing, still small ; their resources,
though growing, not great; without armies, without fleets;
capable, from the nature of the country and the spirit of its in-
habitants, of immense exertions for self-defence, but little capable
of those external efforts which could materially serve the cause
of France. So far from having any direct interest in going to
war, they have the strongest motives of interest to avoid it. By
embarking with France in the war, they would have incom-
parably more to apprehend than to hope.

This contrast of situations and inducements is alone a con-
clusive demonstration, that the United States are not under an
obligation, from gratitude, to join France in the war. The utter
disparity between the circumstances of the service to be rendered,
and of the service received, proves, that the one cannot be an
adequate basis of obligation for the other. There would be a
manifest want of equality, and consequently of reciprocity.

But complete justice would not be done to this question of
gratitude, were no notice to be taken of the address which has
appeared in the public papers, (the authenticity of which has not
been impeached,) from the convention of France to the United
States, announcing the appointment of the present minister pleni-

110 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 36.

potentiary. In that address the convention informs us, that " the
support which the ancient French court had afforded the United
States to recover their independence, was only the fruit of a
base speculation ; and that their glory offended its ambitious
views, and the ambassadors of France bore the criminal orders
of stopping the career of their prosperity."

If this information is to be admitted in the full force of the
terms, it is very fatal to the claim of gratitude towards France.
An observation similar to one made in a former paper occurs
here. If the organ of the nation, on whose will the aid which
was given depended, acted not only from motives irrelative to
our advantage, but from unworthy motives, or, as is alleged, from
a base speculation ; if afterwards he displayed a temper hostile to
the confirmation of our security and prosperity, he acquired no
title to our gratitude in the first instance, or he forfeited it in the
second. And the people of France, who can only demand it in
virtue of the conduct of their agent, must, together with him,
renounce the pretension. It is an obvious principle, that if a
nation can claim merit from the good deeds of its sovereign, it
must answer for the demerit of his misdeeds.

But some deductions are to be made from the suggestions in
the address of the convention, on account of the motives which
evidently dictated the communication. Their zeal to alienate
the good- will of this country from the late monarch, and to in-
crease the odium of the French nation against the monarchy,
which was so ardent as to make them overlook the tendency of
their communication to deprive their votaries among us of the
plea of gratitude, may justly be suspected of exaggeration.

The truth probably is, that the base speculation charged,
amounts to nothing more than that the government of France, in
affording us assistance, was actuated by the motives which have
been attributed to it, namely, the desire of promoting the interest
of France, by lessening the power of Great Britain, and opening
a new channel of commerce to herself ; that the orders said to
have been given to the ambassadors of France, to stop the career
of our prosperity, are resolvable into a speculative jealousy of
the ministers of the day, lest the United States, by becoming as

JEt. 36.] PACIFICUS. Ill

powerful and great as they are capable of being under an efficient
government, might prove formidable to the European possessions
in America. With these qualifications, the address offers no new
discovery to the intelligent and unbiased friends of their country.
They knew long ago, that the interest of France had been the
governing motive of the aid afforded ; and they saw clearly
enough in the conversation and conduct of her agents, while the
present Constitution of the United States was under considera-
tion, that the government, of which they were the instruments,
would have preferred our remaining under the old form. They
perceived also, that these views had their effect upon some of the
devoted partisans of France among ourselves ; as they now per-
ceive, that the same characters are embodying, with all the aid
they can obtain, under the same banner, to resist the operation
of that government of which they withstood the establishment.

All this was, and is seen ; and the body of the people of
America are too discerning to be long in the dark about it : too
wise to have been misled by foreign or domestic machinations,
they adopted a Constitution which was necessary to their safety
and to their happiness : too wise still to be ensnared by the same
machinations, they will support the government they have esta-
blished, and will take care of their own peace, in spite of the
insidious efforts which are employed to detach them from the one,
and to disturb the other.

The information which the address of the convention con-
tains, ought to serve as an instructive lesson to the people of this
country. It ought to teach us not to overrate foreign friend-
ships ; and to be upon our guard against foreign attachments.
The former will generally be found hollow and delusive ; the
latter will have a natural tendency to lead us aside from our own
true interest, and to make us the dupes of foreign influence.
Both serve to introduce a principle of action, which, in its effects,
if the expression may be allowed, is anti-national. Foreign in-
fluence is truly the Grecian horse to a republic. We cannot be
too careful to exclude its entrance. Nor ought we to imagine,
that it can only make its approaches in the gross form of direct
bribery. It is then most dangerous when it comes under the

112 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEi. 36.

patronage of our passions, under the auspices of national pre-
judice and partiality.

I trust the morals of this country are yet too good to leave
much to be apprehended on the score of bribery. Caresses, con-
descensions, flattery, in unison with our prepossessions, are infi-
nitely more to be feared : and as far as there is opportunity for
corruption, it is to be remembered, that one foreign power can
employ this resource as well as another ; and that the effect must
be much greater, when it is combined with other means of in-
fluence, than where it stands alone.

NO. VII.

July 20th, 1793.
The remaining objection to the proclamation of neutrality,
still to be discussed, is, that it was out of time and unnecessary.

To give color to this objection it is asked, why did not the
proclamation appear, when the war commenced with Austria and
Prussia ? Why was it forborne, till Great Britain, Holland, and
Spain, became engaged ? Why did not the government wait,
till the arrival at Philadelphia of the minister of the French
republic ? Why did it volunteer a declaration not required of it
by any of the belligerent parties ?

To most of these questions, solid answers have already
appeared in the public prints. Little more can be done, than to
repeat and enforce them.

Austria and Prussia are not maritime powers. Contraven-
tions of neutrality as against them, were not likely to take
place to any extent, or in a shape that would attract their notice.
It would therefore have been useless, if not ridiculous, to have
made a formal declaration on the subject, while they were the
only parties opposed to France.

But the reverse of this is the case with regard to Spain, Hol-
land and England. These are all commercial and maritime

^Et.36.] PACIFICUS. 113

nations. It was to be expected, that their attentions would be
immediately drawn towards the United States with sensibility,
and even with jealousy. It was to be feared that some of our
citizens might be tempted by the prospect of gain to go into
measures which would injure them, and hazard the peace of the
country. Attacks by some of these powers upon the possessions
of France in America, were to be looked for as a matter of course.
While the views of the United States, as to that particular, were
problematical, they would naturally consider us as a power that
might become their enemy. This they would have been the
more apt to do on account of those public demonstrations of
attachment to the cause of France, of which there has been so
prodigal a display. Jealousy, every body knows, especially if
sharpened by resentment, is apt to lead to ill treatment ; ill treat-
ment to hostility.

In proportion to the probability of our being regarded with
a suspicious, and consequently an unfriendly eye, by the powers
at war with France ; in proportion to the danger of imprudences
being committed by any of our citizens, which might occasion a
rupture with them, the policy on the part of the government, of
removing all doubt as to its own disposition, and of deciding the
condition of the United States, in the view of the parties con-
cerned, became obvious and urgent.

Were the United States now, what, if we do not rashly throw
away the advantages we possess, they may expect to be in fifteen
or twenty years, there would have been more room for an
insinuation which has been thrown out, namely, that they ought
to have secured to themselves some advantage, as the considera-
tion of their neutrality : an idea, however, the justice and mag-
nanimity of which cannot be commended. But in their present
situation, with their present strength and resources, an attempt
of that kind could have only' served to display pretensions at
once excessive and unprincipled. The chance of obtaining any
collateral advantage, if such a chance there was, by leaving doubt
of their intentions, as to peace or war, could not wisely L«ve
been put, for a single instant, in competition with the tendency
of a contrary conduct to secure our peace.
g 8

114 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 36.

The conduciveness of the declaration of neutrality to that end,
was not the only recommendation to the adoption of the measure.
It was of great importance that our own citizens should under-
stand, as soon as possible, the opinion which the government
entertained of the nature of our relations to the warring parties,
and of the propriety or expediency of our taking a side, or re-
maining neuter. The arrangements of our merchants could not
but be very differently affected by the one hypothesis or the
other • and it would necessarily have been very detrimental and
perplexino- to them to have been left in uncertainty. It is not
requisite to say, how much our agriculture and other interests
would have been likely to have suffered by embarrassments to

our merchants.

The idea of its having been incumbent on the government to
delay the measure for the arrival of the minister of the French
republic is as absurd as it is humiliating. Did the executive
stand in need of the logic of a foreign agent to enlighten it as to
the duties or interests of the nation? Or was it bound to ask
his consent to a step which appeared to itself consistent with the
former, and conducive to the latter? _

The sense of our treaties was to be learnt from the instru-
ments themselves. It was not difficult to pronounce beforehand,
that we had a greater interest in the preservation of peace, than
in any advantages with which France might tempt our participa-
tion in the war. Commercial privileges were all that she could
offer of real value in our estimation, and a carte blanche on this
head would have been an inadequate recompense for renouncing
peace and committing ourselves voluntarily to the chances of so
precarious and perilous a war. Besides, if the privileges which
miaht have been conceded were not founded in a real, permanent
mutual interest, of what value would be the treaty that should
concede them? Ought not the calculation, in such case, to be
upon a speedy resumption of them, with perhaps a quarrel as
the pretext? On the other hand, may we not trust that com-
mercial privileges, which are truly founded in mutual interest,
will grow out of that interest ; without the necessity of giving a
premium for them at the expense of our peace ?

iEi\ 36.] PACIFICUS. 115

To what purpose then was the executive to have waited for
the arrival of the minister ? Was it to give opportunity to con-
tentious discussions ; to intriguing machinations ; to the clamors
of a faction won to a foreign interest ?

Whether the declaration of neutrality, issued upon or without
the requisition of any of the belligerent powers, can only be
known to their respective ministers, and to the proper officers of
our government. But if it be true, that it issued without any
such requisition, it is an additional indication of the wisdom of
the measure.

It is of much importance to the end of preserving peace, that
the belligerent nations should be thoroughly convinced of the
sincerity of our intentions to observe the neutrality we profess ;
and it cannot fail to have weight in producing this conviction,
that the declaration of it was a spontaneous act ; not stimulated
by any requisition on the part of either of them ; but proceeding
purely from our own view of our duty and interest.

It was not surely necessary for the government to wait for
such a requisition ; while there were advantages, and no disad-
vantages, in anticipation. The benefit of an early notification to
our merchants, conspired with the consideration just mentioned
to recommend the course which was pursued.

If in addition to the rest, the early manifestation of the views
of the government has had any effect in fixing the public opinion
on the subject, and in counteracting the success of the efforts
which, it was to be foreseen, would be made to distract and dis-
unite, this alone would be a great recommendation of the policy
of having suffered no delay to intervene.

What has been already said, in this and in preceding papers,
affords a full answer to the suggestion, that the proclamation was
unnecessary. It would be a waste of time to add more.

But there has been a criticism several times repeated, which
may deserve a moment's attention. It has been urged, that the
proclamation ought to have contained some reference to our
treaties ; and that the generality of the promise to observe a con-
duct friendly and impartial towards the belligerent powers, ought
to have been qualified with expressions equivalent to these, " as
far as may consist with the treaties of the United States."

116 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEtx. 36.

The insertion of such a clause would have entirely defeated
the object of a proclamation, by rendering the intention of the
government equivocal. That object was to assure the powers at
war, and our own citizens, that in the opinion of the executive,
it was consistent with the duty and interest of the nation to
observe neutrality, and that it was intended to pursue a conduct
corresponding with that opinion. Words equivalent to those
contended for would have rendered the other part of the declara-
tion nugatory, by leaving it uncertain, whether the executive did or
did not believe a state of neutrality to be consistent with our treaties.
Neither foreign powers, nor our own citizens, would have been
able to have drawn any conclusion from the proclamation ; and
both would have had a right to consider it as a mere equivoca-
tion.

By not inserting any such ambiguous expressions, the pro-
clamation was susceptible of an intelligible and proper construc-
tion. While it denoted on the one hand, that in the judgment
of the executive, there was nothing in our treaties obliging us to
become a party in the tear ; it left it to be expected on the other,
that all stipulations compatible with neutrality, according to the
laws and usages of nations, would be enforced. It follows, that
the proclamation was, in this particular, exactly what it ought to
have been.

The words, "make known the disposition of the United
States," have also given a pretext for cavil. It has been asked,
how could the President undertake to declare the disposition of
the United States ? The people, for aught he knew, may have
a very different sentiment. Thus, a conformity with republican
propriety and modesty is turned into a topic of accusation.

Had the President announced his own disposition, he would
have been chargeable with egotism, if not presumption. The
constitutional organ of intercourse between the United States
and foreign nations, whenever he speaks to them, it is in that
capacity ; it is in the name and on the behalf of the United
States. It must therefore be with greater propriety, that he
speaks of their disposition, than of his own.

It is easy to imagine, that occasions frequently occur in the

JEt. 36.] NO JACOBIN. 117

communications to foreign governments and foreign agents,
which render it necessary to speak of the friendship or friendly
disposition of the United States, of their disposition to cultivate
harmony and good understanding, to reciprocate neighborly
offices, and the like. It is usual, for example, when public
ministers are received, for some complimentary expressions to
be interchanged. It is presumable, that the late reception of the
French minister did not pass, without some assurance on the
part of the President, of the friendly disposition of the United
States towards France. Admitting it to have happened, would
it be deemed an improper arrogation ? If not why was it more
so, to declare the disposition of the United States to observe a
neutrality in the existing war ?

In all such cases, nothing more is to be understood, than an
official expression of the political disposition of the nation, inferred
from its political relations, obligations, and interests. It is never
to be supposed, that the expression is meant to convey the pre-
cise state of the individual sentiments or opinions of the great
mass of the people.

Kings and princes speak of their own dispositions; the
magistrates of republics, of the dispositions of their nations. The
President, therefore, has evidently used the style adapted to his
situation, and the criticism upon it is plainly a cavil.

NO JACOBIN.

I.

August, 1793.

It is publicly rumored in this city, that the minister of the
French republic has threatened to appeal from the President of the
United States to the people.

Various publications which have recently appeared in the

118 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 36.

papers, particularly that under the signature of " Jiiba" in the
National Gazette of the 10th instant, and that under the signa-
ture of "a Jacobin" in the General Advertiser of Friday last,
seem to have begun the appeal.

Several traits in the latter carry conjectures of the writer to
the source of the threatened appeal. The idiom of it is evidently
foreign, and it abounds in terms and phrases which are said by
those who have access to him, to be frequently in the mouth of
the supposed author. That the idiom is foreign will appear to
a competent judge of the English language, from the structure of
every sentence ; but there are particular expressions which will
prove it even to those who have no very accurate knowledge of
it. Witness these extracts : "I cannot be convinced that a plan
of this kind should be approved by Congress or the people of the
United States," — " through a desire of giving a proof of the loyalty
and confidence which ought to exist between the agents of free
nations." The word " loyalty " in the English language is only
used to denote fidelity to a prince, to a lover, or to a mistress.
In the French it is a familiar expression of good faith, candor,
sincere dealing, &c.

That it probably proceeds from the source of the threatened
appeal is to be inferred from the positive assertion of things,
which if true, can only be known to the principal officers of the
general government, and to the public agents of France. It is
said, that orders were given to the military to take possession of
a French vessel without previous complaint, explanation, or com-
munication with the agents of the French republic. Again it is said,
the minister of France caused to be returned, the Grange, upon a
simple request of the American government. Declarations like
these, could only with propriety be made with so much peremp-
toriness by parties to the transaction.

Indeed, they seem intended to dismiss even the appearance of
concealment. Let us now see in what manner the heavy charges
of breach of treaty, which are brought against the executive of
the general government, are supported.

The first is the detention of French vessels armed in the ports of
the United States ; which is said to be contrary to the 22d article

^t. 36.] NO JACOBIN. 119

of the treaty of commerce between the United States and
France.

The words of the French original upon which this construc-
tion is put, are as follows. " II ne sera permis a aucun corsaire
etranger non appartenant a quelque sujet de sa majeste tres
chretienne ou a aucun citoyen des dits Etats Units, lequel aura
un commission de la part d'un prince ou d'une puissance en guerre
avec Tune des deux nations, d'armer leurs vaissaux dans les
ports de l'une des deux parties ni d'y vendre les prizes qu'il aura
faites, &c."

The true translation of these words is, it shall not be per-
mitted to any foreign privateer, not belonging to subjects of His Host
Christian Majesty, nor to citizens of the United States, which shall
have commissions from a prince or power at war with one of the
two nations, to arm their vessels in the ports of the one or the
other of the two parties, nor there to sell the prizes which they
shall have made, &c.

The plain and evident meaning of this translation is, that
neither of the contracting parties shall be at liberty to permit the
privateers of a power at war with the other, to fit or arm in its
ports, or sell their prizes there, &c.

But this stipulation not to permit the privateers of powers at
war with either of the parties, to fit or arm in the ports of the
other, can by no rule of construction be turned into an agreement
to permit the privateers of one party when engaged in war with a
third power, with whom the other party is at peace, to fit or arm
in the ports of the party at peace. This would be to convert
a prohibition against doing one thing into a contract to do another.

Nor is there a syllable in the Avhole sentence that even im-
plies such a contract. The attempt seems to be to deduce it from
the words " not belonging to subjects of His Most Christian Majesty,
nor citizens of the United States, " as if these words were introduced
by way of exception to the generality of the terms " foreign pri-
vateers," to imply that the privateers of the subjects or citizens
of the parties might be permitted to fit or arm in the ports of
each other.

But these words " not belonging, &c," must be taken merely as

120 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 36.

words of additional description, more clearly to express what is in-
tended by the terras u foreign privateers." Nor are they useless to
this end. The sense of the terms " foreign privateers," is not
sufficiently precise or clear without them, for the privateers of
either party would be foreign with respect to the other, but the
intention being to designate privateers foreign to both parties.
To render this intention unequivocal, the words " not belonging to
the subjects of His Most Christian Majesty, nor to the citizens of
the United States," are added, which fixes the true meaning. It
is equivalent to having said, it shall not be permitted to foreign
privateers, that is to say, privateers "not belonging," &c. Unless
too, these words are understood in this manner, they make non-
sense of the whole clause. To perceive this, it is only necessary
to remark, that the foreign privateers intended to be prohibited
from the privilege of arming, &c, are expressly those which have
commissions from a power at war with one of the parties.

Then, if the words " not belonging, &c," are to be used as
words of exception, the natural reading of the clause would be as
follows. " It shall not be permitted to foreign privateers which
have commissions from a prince or state at war with one of the
two nations, to fit or arm in the ports of the other unless those
privateers so commissioned belong to the subjects or citizens of
the one or the other of the contracting parties."

This exception would then operate to produce one of these
two effects, both equally absurd. Either to authorize one of the
contracting parties to permit privateers belonging to their own
citizens, under commission from a power at war with the other,
to fit or arm in its ports ; thus allowing its subjects or citizens
with impunity, and even countenance, to partake in the war
against the other of the contracting parties ; or to authorize one
of the parties to permit privateers belonging to the subjects or
citizens of the other, under commission from a power at war with
such other party, to fit or arm in the ports of the first mentioned
party ; thus enabling one party to give aid and countenance to
the subjects of the other, when carrying on war against their own
nation or sovereign, and consequently in the situation of rebels
or pirates.

At. 36.] NO JACOBIN. 121

No sense more rational can be given to the words in question,
when understood as words of exception, having regard to the due
and natural connection and import of the terms which imme-
diately precede and succeed. It follows that they cannot be
understood as words of exception, but merely as words of descrip-
tion, and that the inference attempted to be drawn from them is
forced and unwarrantable. Indeed, neither as words of exception,
or as words of description, do they give the least color to that
inference.

If the printed copies of the treaty are accurate, the punctua-
tion is a farther illustration that the words " not belonging, &c,"
are merely words of additional description. In the French ori-
ginal, they are not divided even by a comma from the words
"corsaire etranger," — "foreign privateer," which they imme-
diately follow, forming with them the first member of the sen-
tence and connected with the next member of it by the pronoun
"lequel," or which il ne sera permis a aucun corsaire etranger
non appartenant a quel que sujet de sa majeste tres chretienne, ou
a un citoyen des dits Etats Unis, lequel, &c.

The words in question cannot, without making the clause
nonsense, be understood as words of exception in another view.
The words " foreign privateers" are naturally to be understood as
privateers foreign to both parties. If the words, u not belonging,
&c," are not taken as words of additional description, but of ex-
ception, that is to say, if they are to be understood as equivalent
to saying, " except privateers belonging to the subjects of, and
commissioned by one of the parties," it leads to a contradiction
of terms : it would be equivalent to saying, " it shall not be per-
mitted to foreign privateers, not foreign, &c," for privateers be-
longing to the subjects of and commissioned by one of the parties,
would not be foreign to both the parties.

But if it were possible consistently with the context, to give
the words " non appartenant," or " not belonging," the effect of
an exception favoring the construction which is contended for,
it could not at any rate go further than to authorize vessels pre-
viously fitted out and commissioned in the ports of France, and
coming into our ports in the capacity of privateers, there to fit or

122 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [2Et. 36.

arm ; it could not possibly extend to the original fitting out,
arming, and commissioning of privateers by one party in the
ports of another ; the expressions of every part of the clause pre-
suppose that the vessels intended are already privateers, having
commissions, &c, when they come into the ports of the respective
parties.

And it is well known, that the detention complained of
applies entirely to vessels which have been made privateers in
our own port.

If any confirmation were requisite, in so plain a case, of the
construction which appears to have been adopted by the execu-
tive of the general government, it might be found in the regula-
tions of France herself at the time our treaty Avith her was made.
Those regulations show, that it was the policy of France to
restrict to her own ports the fitting out of privateers, with a
variety of precautions to secure their good behavior, their
accountability, and the rights and interests of all concerned ; from
which it is to be inferred that the clause in question, was not
intended to establish a right on either side to fit out privateers
in the ports of the other, such a right being incompatible with
the then existing policy of France.

Indeed, such a right would be incompatible with the pre-
servation of peace by either party, when the other was engaged
at war, for as it would make one auxiliary to the other in this
vexatious and irritating mode of hostility to an indefinite extent,
it would be stronger than the case of a definite succor stipulated
on a defensive alliance, and could not fail to involve the party
permitting it in the war.

It is not presumable that a mere incidental regulation in a
treaty of commerce could have been intended to include a con-
sequence so important ; and it could only have been admitted
upon the strength of terms explicit and unequivocal.

All advantages relating to war, which are stipulated in favor
of one nation, so as to be incommunicable to another, include
more or less of hazard. They are apt to produce irritations,
which produce war. In every case of doubt, therefore, upon the
construction of treaties, the rule is against the concession of such

jEt. 36.] NO JACOBIN. 123

advantages. The principles of interpretation favor nothing that
tends to put the peace of a nation in jeopardy. It is incumbent
on a power at war, claiming of a neutral nation, on the ground of
treaty, particular privileges of a military nature, to rest his pre-
tensions upon clear and definite, not upon doubtful or obscure
expressions. When founded upon expressions of the latter kind,
this claim is always to be rejected.

Hence, consequently, the pretension to fit or arm in our ports
privateers antecedently commissioned in the ports of France,
beyond the mere point of reparation, is inadmissible. It is not
necessary to admit it for the sake of finding a useful object for
the clause in question. That clause will have a very natural
and a very useful application, when it is understood as merely a
prohibition to prevent a power at war with the other, to fit or
arm privateers in the ports of the party at peace. For without
it each party would have been at liberty to grant by treaty such
a right to other powers, which is now prevented.

An argument against every construction of this kind, may be
drawn from the seventeenth article of the treaty of commerce.
This article grants affirmatively to the armed vessels of each
party, certain privileges in the ports of the other. 'Tis there we
should naturally look for a privilege so important as the one
claimed ; not in an article, the general object of which plainly is
to exclude other powers from privileges in the ports of the con-
tracting parties. The omission of the privilege claimed in the
clause where it would naturally be included, is a reason against
admitting it upon a forced construction of a clause where it would
not naturally be expected.

Upon the whole, there is no plausible ground for the preten-
sion set up. The natural construction of the clause of the treaty
which has been quoted, obviously excludes it, and the United
States cannot, ex gratia, accede to it without departing from neu-
trality, and encountering the mischiefs of a war with which they
have nothing to do.

The result is, that a pretension to fit out privateers in our
ports against our will, is an insult to our understandings, and a
glaring infraction of our rights.

124 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 36.

Tlie residue of the Jacobin's charges will be hereafter exa-
mined.

" No Jacobin."

NO. II.

1793.

The next charge of breach of treaty exhibited by the Jacobin
against the executive of the United States is, to use his own
language, " the seizure of prizes made known to the agents of
the French republic at the moment those prizes were held up for
sale. The orders given to the military to take possession of a
French vessel, without previous complaint, explanation, or com-
munication with the agents of the French republic, said to be
contraventions of the 17th article of the treaty of commerce, by
which it is provided " that it shall be lawful for the ships of war
and privateers of either party, freely to carry whithersoever they
please, the ships and goods taken from their enemies, without
being obliged to pay any duty to the officers of the admiralty
or any other judges, and without those prizes entering into the
ports of the one party or the other, being liable to be arrested or
seized, nor can the officers of the places take cognizance of the
validity of the said prizes, which may go out and be conducted
freely and in all liberty to the places expressed in their com-
missions, which the commanders of the said vessels shall be
obliged to show, &c."

It is presumed, that the facts complained of are more par-
ticularly applicable to the case of the ship William, arrested in
this port ; though it is understood that the same proceedings,
with some small difference of circumstances, took place in the
case of another vessel in New-York.

To judge of the propriety of the complaint in each case, it is
necessary to attend to the following particulars. According to
the general laws and usage of nations, the jurisdiction of every
country extends a certain distance into the sea along the whole

Mt. 36.] NO JACOBIN. 125

extent of its coast. What this distance is, remains a matter of
some uncertainty, though it is an agreed principle that it at least
extends to the utmost range of cannon shot, that is, not less
than four miles. But most nations claim and exercise jurisdic-
tion to a greater extent. Three leagues, or nine miles, seem to
accord with the most approved rule, and would appear from
Martin, a French author, to be that adopted by France, though
Valin, another French author, states it at only two leagues, or
six miles.

Within this distance of the coast of a neutral country, all
captures made by a power at war upon its enemy, are illegal and
null, on the principle of its being a violation of the jurisdiction
and protection of the neutral country. This principle, founded
on the most evident reason, is asserted by all writers, and prac-
tised upon by all nations.

Every nation has a right to prevent a violation of its juris-
diction, and consequently to prevent the making of captures
within that jurisdiction. A right to redress if such captures be
made is a necessary consequence. A neutral nation is bound to
prevent injuries within its jurisdiction to a power with which it is
at peace, by any other power. In other words, it owes fair guard
and protection to the citizens and subjects of every power with
which it is at peace. It is therefore bound to exert itself to pre-
vent captures within the limits of its protection of the subjects or
property of one power by another power, and if such capture
happens to avail itself of its own right of redress, against the
power making it, for the purpose of effecting a restitution of the
person or thing captured.

This is too plain to be denied ; but it is pretended that the
redress of the injury is to be sought through the channel of ne-
gotiation only, and not by the immediate exertion of the autho-
rity of the neutral nation, to cause restitution to be made in the
first instance, either by means of courts of justice, or by the use
of the public force.

It may boldly be affirmed that this position is founded neither
on principle nor the opinion of writers, nor on the practice of
nations ; not on principle, because it is unreasonable to suppose

126 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mi. 36.

that a nation ought to postpone the opportunity of redressing
itself and of doing justice to another, upon the uncertain issue of
a negotiation of which it cannot forsee the success. When the
object is out of its reach, the way of negotiation ought to be pur-
sued ; for the alternative then is to negotiate or go to war, and a
due moderation requires that a preference should be given to the
milder course ; but if the object to which the injury relates is
within its power, the most prudent as well as the most dignified
and efficacious course is to embrace the opportunity of rectifying
what has been done amiss, for this seems to terminate the affair,
and avoid the controversies and heats too often incident to nego-
tiation.

The position in question is not founded on the opinion of
writers, for these establish a contrary doctrine — as may be seen in
Bynkershoek's Quasstiones Publici Juris, Book I, Chap. 8 ; Vatel,
Book II. Sec. 84, 101, 102, and 289 ; 2 K. Inst., 587-589 ; Leo-
line Jenkin's Life and Papers, vol. 1, xcv. ; vol. 2, page 727, 733,
751, 752, 754, 755, 780 ; Woodeson's Lectures, page 443 ; Doug-
lass' Rep., 595 ; Lee on Captures, Cap. IX. — nor on the practice of
nations, for this is in favor of summary prevention and redress,
as may be seen by one example which those writers quote, and
is within experience of individuals among ourselves. A neutral
fortress never scruples to fire upon the vessels of any power
which attempts to commit a hostility against another power
within reach of its cannon, nor a neutral sovereign or magistrate
to prevent or restore captures made within his jurisdiction.*

The foregoing observations will lead to a right judgment of
the merits of the complaint which is made.

* Indeed our treaties with several powers oblige us to this conduct. In the 5th
article of that with Holland, the 2d of that with Sweden, the 7th of that with
Prussia, the United States in affirmance of the general doctrine of the laws of
nations " bind themselves by all means in their power to endeavor to protect all
vessels and other effects belonging to the subjects and inhabitants of those powers
respectively, in their ports, roads, havens, internal seas, passes, rivers, and as far as
their jurisdiction extends at sea, and to recover and cause to be restored to the
true proprietors, all such vessels and effects which shall be taken under their
(protection) jurisdiction," which is a plain indication that our then negotiators and
government never dreamt of the newly invented construction of that treaty.

JEt. 36.] NO JACOBIN. 127

Each of the vessels in question is understood to have been
taken within a distance short of the least of the two distances
which has been mentioned as forming the rule observed by
France, one of them seems less than three miles, the other within
less than five miles.

It may therefore be affirmed that both these captures were
made within the limits of the protection of the United States,
and in violation of their jurisdiction. And it will follow, from the
principles which have been maintained, that the United States
have a right and are bound to cause restitution of those prizes.

To this conclusion is opposed that provision of the article
which declares, that the local officers cannot take cognizance of
the validity of the prizes which are carried by one party into the
harbors or ports of the other.

But there is no established rule of interpretation with regard
either to laws or treaties, than that general expressions shall
never be so understood as to involve unreasonableness or ab-
surdity. According to this rule the general expression " the
local officers," (les officers des lieux) " cannot take cognizance of
the validity of the prizes," must naturally be understood with
reference to prizes made on the high seas without the jurisdiction
of the party into whose harbors or ports they are brought, not
with reference to prizes taken within the protection and jurisdic-
tion of such party. The following qualification is from the
nature of things implied in the general terms, to wit : provided
the prizes have not been taken within the jurisdiction of the
party in whose ports they shall be. An interpretation so exten-
sive as to embrace prizes made within the jurisdiction of such
party, would lead to a consequence not less absurd than this.
A vessel of the United States might be taken by a French priva-
teer in the port of Philadelphia, and there would be no power to
question the validity of the prize or enforce restitution. Such a
consequence is too violent to be admissible, and a position which
includes it refutes itself. It can never be imagined that any
nation could mean to tie up her hands to such an extent.

If then prizes of vessels belonging to the United States or
their citizens shall be excepted, it will follow that the clause

128 HAMILTON'S WORKS. L^T- 36-

cannot in this respect be taken in a literal sense ; and if it is to
be taken in a rational, not a literal sense, it will admit the excep-
tions of all prizes taken within the jurisdiction or protection of
the party within whose territories they are found, being at peace
with the nation of whom or of whose citizens it is made, for a
state owes protection not only to its own citizens but to the citi-
zens of every other nation with which it is at peace, coming
within its jurisdiction for commerce or any other lawful cause.
Nor can it even be supposed upon the strength of mere general
expressions that it has meant to exchange the right of affording
protection and security by its own power and authority, for that
of negotiating with another nation the reparation which may be
due to a violation of its jurisdiction. So essential an alienation
of jurisdiction could only be deduced from precise and specific
as well as express terms.

Besides such an inference is broader even than the letter of
the clause. Tis only to the ofiiciers des lieux, the local officers, or
officers of the harbors, ports or places to which the prizes are
brought, that the cognizance of their validity is forbidden ; 'tis
not to the general judiciary tribunals or general executive autho-
rity of the country that such cognizance is denied. The ex-
pressions, officiers des lieux, are not of a nature to comprehend
them. They are therefore under no prohibition by the treaty,
and consequently, as far as consists with the jus gentium or law
of nations, are at liberty to interpose.

And the rule of the law of nations is this, that a neutral
nation shall not interpose to examine the validity of prizes made
by a power at war, from its enemies, at any place except one
which is within the jurisdiction of such neutral nation. It is of
the essence of jurisdiction to redress all wrongs which happen
within its sphere. Powers at war have no right in derogation
from the peculiar jurisdiction of a neutral nation. That juris-
diction therefore is in the same force against them as against
powers at peace. What would be a marine trespass in the one
case, is so in the other. A capture within the protection or
jurisdiction of a neutral state is not a lawful act of war, but a

JEt.36.] no jacobin. 129

mere trespass, of course -within the competency of the neutral
state to redress it.*

It may be asked why, if this was the rule of the law of na-
tions, there should have been a particular article of treaty con-
cerning it ? The answer is, 1st. That it is a common practice to
introduce into treaties stipulations recognizing the rules of the
law of nations, in order to avoid controversy about them, of
which there are several examples in our treaties. 2d. That the
article secures to France something more than the usage of
several nations admits, namely, a right to continue in our ports
an indefinite time, and the benefit of an exclusion of the pri-
vateers of her enemies, having made prizes of the subjects, people,
or property of France, from the degree of asylum to which they
would otherwise be entitled. These are sufficient objects for the
article without giving to it an extension subversive of the just
and necessary jurisdiction of the country.

It is clearly demonstrated by what has been said that the
government of the United States has an undoubted right to in-
terpose authority, not by mere negotiation, to effect the restora-
tion of the ships in question to their original owners, and that
the doing so, either by a direct exertion of the public force or
by means of judicial process, is consistent both with the laws of
nations, and with the true meaning of our treaty with France.
It therefore gives no handle to the complaint of breach of treaty.
To what department of the government it most regularly belongs
to effect the requisite redress — whether to the Executive or to the
Judiciary, or to both indiscriminately, is not yet settled in this
country, nor is it material to any foreign nation. It is a mere
question between the departments of our own government. So
long as nothing is done which is contrary to the laws of nations

* The rights of war only take place in the countries of the powers at war, or on
the high seas which are common to hoth. If acts of hostility are committed within
a neutral territory, they do not partake of the rights of war, they cannot be judged
of by the laws of war, nor have any of the rules of war the smallest relation to
them. As trespasses they are liable to be redressed in the ordinary course of
justice, as infringements of territorial rights they claim redress and punishment
from the executive authority of the injured country.

G 9

130 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 36.

or to treaty, a foreign power can have no ground of com-
plaint.

As to the point of previous application to the agents of the
foreign nation concerned, this belongs to a mere question of
civility, not of right ; there being in every such case a direct
responsibility on the part of the neutral nation to the power
whose citizens or property may have been captured. The power
making the capture cannot justly be dissatisfied if the surest
method of performing its duty is adopted by the neutral nation.
This is to take the prize in the first instance into custody, till a
fair and full examination can be had into the fact with regard to
the place of capture, as was done in the instances in question.

This course, too, would naturally obtain till some arrange-
ment should have been concerted between the government and
the agents of the powers at war, and is the only one which can
be observed in places where there are no such agents. And it
would seem, from what took place in the case of the William,
immediately after her seizure, that such an arrangement has been
subsequently agreed upon ; which is a proof that the course pur-
sued was not the effect of unkindly disposition. But if there
had been a disposition to proceed with strictness and rigor, it
will be shown in the sequel that it was fully warranted by the
very disrespectful treatment we have experienced from the
agents of France, who have acted towards us from the beginning
more like a dependent colony than an independent nation. A
state of degradation, to which I trust that the freedom of the
American mind will never deign to submit.

No Jacobin.

no. III.

1793.
Another accusation against the Executive of the United
States preferred by the Jacobin, is derived from this circumstance ;
^hat while by the treaty between the United States and France

&t. 36.] NO JACOBIN. 131

the goods of her enemies on board our ships are exempt from
capture, the goods of France on board our ships are subject to
the depredation of her enemies, without any steps being taken by
the executive to cause French property to be returned, and to
prevent similar hardships being in future imposed.
• This has, if possible, still less color than any of the others.

By the general law of nations as laid down by writers, and
practised upon by nations, previous to the late war between the
United States and Great Britain, this rule was clearly and fully
established.

That the goods of an enemy in the ships of a friend (that is,
of a neutral power) are lawful prizes, and that the goods of a
friend in the ships of an enemy (those called contraband ex-
cepted) are not lawful prizes. This rule is founded upon the
principle that one enemy may lawfully take the goods of another
wheresoever he finds them, except within the jurisdiction or
dominion of a neutral state. Of course he may take them upon
the high seas, where no nation can have jurisdiction or dominion.
Vattel, book iii., s. 115, 116 ; Bynkershoek. Quass. Jur. Pub.,
lib. i., cap. 13, 14.

It necessarily follows that French property taken by the
enemies of France in American vessels, is by the law of na-
tions lawful prize, and that American property (not of the
contraband kind) taken by Frenchmen in the ships of their
enemies, is not according to the same law lawful prize. To the
forming a right judgment then on this part of the Jacobin's
charges, and to determine whether France is not benefited rather
than injured by the alterations which have taken place, the fol-
lowing observations may perhaps be useful.

During the war between the United States and Great Britain,
certain powers who associated under the denomination of the
armed neutrality, asserted a rule the reverse of that which had
before prevailed and which has been stated But this association,
made with a view to the then existing war, terminated with it.
The United States never acceded to that association. They con-
tented themselves with introducing its principle into their treaties
with such powers with whom they formed treaties. Accordingly

132 HAMILTON'S WORKS. |>Et. 36.

it is to be found in our treaties with France, Holland, Sweden,
and Prussia.

Great Britain, on her part, has never acceded to the new prin-
ciple as a general rule ; and there are other powers of Europe
who did not originally unite in the attempt to introduce it, and
who are not known to have since done any act amounting to an
adoption of it.

An established rule of the law of nations can only be altered
by agreements between all the civilized powers, or a new usage
generally adopted and sanctioned by time.

Neither having happened in the present case, the old prin-
ciple must be considered as still forming the basis of the general
law of nations,, liable only to the exceptions resulting from par-
ticular treaties.

With France, Holland, Sweden, and Prussia, four of the
belligerent parties, we have treaties containing the new principle ;
but with Eussia, England, Spain, Portugal, Austria, Savoy, we
have no such treaties. Against the former powers, therefore, we
have a right to claim the new principle, as they would against
us, were we in a state of war and they at peace. Between us
and the latter powers the old rule must govern until a departure
from it can be regulated by mutual consent.

As we cannot of right assert the new principle against those
powers with whom we have not established it by treaty, so
neither can we even in prudence or good policy insist upon it,
unless we are prepared to support it by arms.

There is not a doubt that all the powers who are at liberty to
pursue the old rule will do it. In a war of opinion and passion
like the present, concessions to ill-founded or doubtful preten-
sions are not to be expected. Nor are the United States in a
condition to attempt to enforce such claims.

But it seems that the not having hitherto manifested a dispo-
sition towards this species of knight-errantry, is an injury and
offence to France. The Jacobin deems it a breach of our treaty
with her, that we do not quarrel with other nations for an object
which we can claim of them neither by the law of nations nor
by treaty.

JEt. 36.] NO JACOBIN. 133

It appears that the Jacobin is ready enough to insist upon
and even to enlarge constructively all the peculiar advantages
which our treaty with France gives to her ; but any circumstance
of supposed inconvenience to her, is in his eyes a sore grievance,
while he seems insensible to those which operate against us.
This very reasonable gentleman ought to remember, that if the
property of the enemies of France in our ships is protected by
our treaty with her, the property of our citizens in the ships of
these enemies loses by that treaty the immunity or security to
which it would otherwise be entitled, and that this important
sacrifice on our part was agreed to, that Ave might have the ad-
vantage of being the carriers during European wars.

His silence on this head can only be accounted for on the
supposition that if he really belongs to this country, he is
blinded to her interests by foreign influence. He ought to
remember that the citizens of France have already enjoyed the
sweets of this departure by treaty from the law of nations at the
expense of our citizens. This happened in the case of the brig
Little Sarah, on board of which was a quantity of flour belonging
to citizens of Philadelphia. This flour was considered and
treated as a lawful prize.

He ought also to remember that it is at best problematical
whether the citizens of the United States have not more property
afloat in the bottoms of the powers at war with France, than the
citizens of France have afloat in bottoms of the United States,
and consequently whether the balance is not in favor of France.

What is there in our history that can authorize our being
degraded with the supposition that we are ignorant both of our
duties and our rights ?

The result of what has been shown evidently is, that the
Jacobin 's charge has no better foundation than that the Executive
of the United States has not quarrelled with the enemies of
France, for doing what by the law of nations they have a right
to do.

No Jacobin.

134 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [,Et. 36.

NO. IV.

1793.

I have, I believe, sufficiently answered charges which the
Jacobin has brought against the Executive of the United States.

In doing this, it has been shown that the claim of a right on
the part of France to fit out privateers in the ports of the United
States, as derived from treaty, is without foundation. As this is
the basis on which it has been rested, and indeed it is the only
one upon which it could rest if at all to be supported, it is not
necessary, by way of answer to the Jacobin, to discuss how the
claim of such a right would stand independent of treaty. But a
few remarks on this point, for the information of those who may
not be familiar with subjects of the kind, may not be without
use.

It is a plain dictate of reason and an established principle of
the law of nations, that a neutral state in any matter relating to
war (not specially promised by some treaty made prior to the
commencement of the war and without reference to it) cannot
lawfully succor, aid, countenance, or support either of the parties
at war with each other : cannot make itself, or suffer itself to be
made, with its own consent, permission, or connivance, an instru-
ment of the hostility of one party against the other, and as a
consequence of these general principles cannot allow one party
to prepare within its territories the means of annoying the other,
or to carry on from thence against the other, with means pre-
pared there, military expeditions of any sort by land or water.

To allow such practices is manifestly to associate with one
party against the other. The state which does it ceases thereby
to be a neutral state, becomes an enemy, and may be justly
treated as such. In common life it is readily understood that
whoever knowingly assists my enemy to injure me becomes him-
self, by doing so, my enemy also ; and the reason being the
same, the case cannot be different between nations.

Could it be necessary to enforce principles so clearly founded
on common sense by authorities and precedents, it might be

Mr. 36.]

NO JACOBIN. 135

done by an appeal to writers and to the general practice of na-
tions. The following are a few of these that might be adduced :
Vattel, book iii. sec. 104 ; Bynkershoek, Quest. Jur. Pub., lib.
i. cap. 4, particularly pages 69-70 of Latin edition; Idem,
cap. 8, particularly page 65 of the same edition; Leoline
Jenkins, 2d vol., 728, 756; Valin, lib. iii. tit. ix. art. xiv. p.
272.

Some of these establish only the general principles, others of
them go directly to the point of carrying on military expeditions
from the territories of the neutral state, and even to that of fit-
ting out privateers in the ports of such state ; pronouncing the
neutral state to be answerable for the consequences, and giving
the party injured a right to reparation. This reparation may
either be in damages, to be paid by the neutral state, or by repri-
sals, at the option of the party injured.

It appears from them, moreover, that on the ground of the
laws of neutrality, some nations (if it be not a general usage) go
so far as to exclude from remaining in their ports more than
twenty -four hours (if not detained by tempest), armed vessels of
one belligerent party coming within its ports with prizes made
of another. It was an article of the marine ordinances of France
under the former gorvernment (and it is not known to have
been changed), that " no vessel taken by a captain having a
foreign commission, can remain more than twenty-four hours in
the ports or harbors of France, if not detained there by tempest,
or if the prize has not been made of the enemies of France."

And Valin, advocate and procurator for the king at the seat
of the admiralty of Rochelle, has this comment upon that arti-
cle, " Plenary asylum is due only to those with whom we are not
at war. To enemies we owe no more than the safety of their
lives ; to others we owe hospitality and good treatment, with
liberty to go away when they judge proper.

" Nevertheless, as neutrality with two powers at war permits
not to succor one to the prejudice of the other, to conciliate
this consideration with the right of asylum, nations have tacitly
agreed, and usage has made it a common law, that asylum shall
be granted to foreign armed vessels with their prizes; that is to

136 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 36.

say, if entered into a port through tempest, as long as the bad
weather shall not permit them to put to sea, and for four-and-
twenty hours only, if they shall have put in from any other
cause.

" Thus, except the case of tempest, vessels being in a condi-
tion to make sail, there is an obligation to make them depart
and return to sea after twenty -four hours, whatever danger there
may be of recapture by their enemies ; otherwise it would be to
violate the laws of neutrality."

(See the authorities before referred to.)

The same idea which is to be found in this author, appears
in the writings of Leoline Jenkins, also above referred to, who
was judge of the High Court of Admiralty of England, in the
reign of James II. This serves to show the extreme nicety
of nations on the point of neutrality. But how much stronger
the case of fitting out armed vessels in a neutral port to make
prizes, than that of simply coming into and staying in it with
prizes that have been made !

Another reflection occurs in relation to this point, which is
this : that the government of the United States, in a matter at
least of doubtful propriety, has given to France a doubtful privi-
lege to which she was not entitled by treaty, that of selling the
prizes made by her armed vessels in their ports; the treaty
stipulated nothing more than a free access and egress. Let it be
judged from this how far a disposition to deny France the privi-
leges which she may claim by treaty has governed. It is true,
and in that the United States must seek their justification with
other powers, that writers are not agreed as to this rule with re-
gard to prizes; some considering it as lawful to sell them in neu-
tral ports, as may be seen, Vattel, book iii. cap. 7, sec. 232.
But still it appears that the government, in a doubtful case, has
followed the course which favors France. And it is questiona-
ble whether the examples of national regulations, and the opin-
ions of a judge and a lawyer versed. in the practice of courts of
admiralty and more drawn to attend critically to the point of
usage, ought not to have more weight than those of writers who
were in a situation to have been guided more by general theory.

jEt. 36.] NO JACOBIN. 137

It appears likewise that the Regent of Sweden, who, like us,
has pursued the path of neutrality in the present war, has made
the point of fitting out privateers a particular article of prohibi-
tion ; an example in practice which has great weight in the ques-
tion. The governments of Europe know by long experience
the usages of war, and without consulting the authorities or pre-
cedents, are able to pronounce with facility on what is lawful,
what unlawful.

The example, then, of Sweden, is a respectable confirmation
of what is the usage of nations on the point in question.

It is easy too to discern that the United States would become
one of the most mischievous enemies which the maritime powers
opposed to France could have, if from their territories armed
vessels could be fitted out to an indefinite extent, with the full use
of the means to cruise against the trade of those powers, if the
prizes made by such armed vessels could be brought into their
ports and sold ; and if their professed neutrality could give asy-
lum and security to these vessels and the fruits of their depreda-
tions. The inference is, that such a state of things could not
possibly be long tolerated by those powers, but would lead
inevitably to involving the United States in the war.

A consequence, no doubt, well understood, and unquestiona-
bly intended by the agents of France, who, with delusive profes-
sions of not desiring to embark this country in the war, are
industriously employing every expedient that can tend to pro-
duce the event.

No Jacobin.

August 16. 1793.

The observations hitherto made have been designed to vindi-
cate the Executive of the United States from the aspersions cast
upon it by the Jacobin. Let us now examine what has been the
conduct of the agents of France.

13S HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 36.

Mr. Genet, charged with the commission of Minister Plenipo-
tentiary from the French Republic to the United States, arrived
first at Charleston, South Carolina. Instead of coming immedi-
ately on to the seat of government, as in propriety he ought to
have done, he continued at that place and on the road so long as
to excite no small degree of observation and surprise. Here, at
once, the system of electrifying the people (to use a favorite
phrase of the agents of France) began to be put in execution.
Discerning men saw, from this first opening of the scene, what
was to be the progress of the drama. They perceived that nego-
tiation with the constitutional organs of the nation was not the
only means to be relied upon for carrying the points with which
the Representative of France was charged — that popular in-
trigue was at least to second, if not to enforce, the efforts of ne-
gotiation.

During the stay of Mr. Genet at Charleston, without a possi-
bility of sounding or knowing the disposition of our government
on the point, he causes to be fitted out two privateers, under
French colors, and commissions to cruise from our ports against
the enemies of France. Citizens of the United States are engaged
to serve on board these privateers, contrary to the natural duties
of humanity between nations at peace, and contrary to the posi-
tive stipulations of our treaties with some of the powers at war
with France. One of these privateers makes a prize of an Eng-
lish vessel, brings her into the port of Charleston, where a Consul
of France proceeds to try, condemn, and sell her ; unwarranted
bj usage, by treaty, by precedent, by permission. It is impossi-
ble for a conduct less friendly or less respectful than this to have
been observed. To direct violations of our sovereignty, amount-
ing to a serious aggression, was added a dangerous commitment
of our peace, without even the ceremony of previously feeling
the pulse of our government. The incidents that attended Mr.
Genet's arrival here, previous to his reception, though justly sub-
ject to criticism, shall be passed over in silence. Breaches of de-
corum lose their importance when mingled with injuries and out-
rages.

This offensive commencement of his career was not made an

Mr. 36.] NO JACOBIN. 139

objection to his reception ; though it would probably have been
so in any other country in the world. It has not been alleged
either that there was any want of cordiality in that reception.
We shall see what return was made for this manifestation of mod-
eration and friendship. Knowing, as we do, the opposition of
the government to the prevention of fitting out privateers in our
ports, it cannot be doubted that an early opportunity was taken
to make known its disapprobation to the French Minister; nor
is it possible that the Executive of the United States can have
neglected to remonstrate against so improper an exercise of Con-
sular jurisdiction as that which has been mentioned ; yet we have
seen that the practice of fitting out privateers has been openly
persisted in. Their number has so increased, and their depreda-
tions have been so multiplied, as to give just cause of alarm for
the consequences to the peace of this country. It is also matter
of notoriety that the Consuls of France have gone on with the
condemnation of prizes ; that one of them has had the audacity,
by a formal protest to the District Court of New- York, not only
to deny its jurisdiction, but to arrogate to himself a complete and
exclusive jurisdiction over the case.

The aggravating circumstances which attended the fitting out
the Little Democrat at this port, under the very nose of the gov-
ernment; the means which were used to obtain a suspension of
her progress until the return of the President to the seat of gov-
ernment ; the refusal which those overtures met with ; the intem-
perate and menacing declarations which they produced on the
part of the French Minister — have been the subject of general
conversation.

How much more there is in the case ; what further contempt
of the government may have succeeded the return of the Presi-
dent, can only be matter of conjecture. We know, however, that
the Little Democrat proceeded to sea ; and we conclude, from the
known consistency of our Chief Magistrate, that this could not
have been with his consent.

Prosecutions have been instituted, and carried on, against
some of our citizens for entering into the service of France. It i?
known that Mr. Genet has publicly espoused and patronized the

140 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 36.

practice, even, as it is asserted without contradiction, to the feeing
of counsel for carrying on the defence of the guilty ; and we see,
but a few days since, an advertisement from the Consul of France
at Philadelphia, inviting to enter into her service, not only her
own citizens but all friends to liberty, including of course the
citizens of the United States.

We read of cases in which one nation has raised men for
military service in the dominions of another, with the consent of
the nation in whose territories they were raised ; but the raising
of men, not only without the consent but against the will of the
government of the country in which they are raised ; is a novelty
reserved for the present day, to display the height of arrogance
on one side and the depth of humiliation on the other. This is
but a part of the picture.*

No Jacobin.

REPLY OF WASHINGTON.

Draft by Hamilton.
To Nicholas Cruger, Esq., Chairman of a Meeting of the Citizens of New-York,

1793.

Sir:

Your letter, conveying to me the resolutions of the citizens of
New- York at their late meeting, affords me much satisfaction.

The approving voice of my fellow-citizens can never be heard
by me with indifference. That of the inhabitants of your re-
spectable metropolis must always give particular pleasure. An
unanimity so perfect as appears to have prevailed among them
upon an occasion so interesting to our national peace and hap-
piness, furnishes an example of good sense, moderation, and
patriotic virtue, which cannot cease to be remembered to their
honor. Discerning in it a sure pledge of their firm and perse-

* Hamilton being ill with the yellow fever, these essays were not continued.

jEt.37.] AMERICANUS. 141

vering support, I request you to make known to them the high,
sense I entertain of the dispositions they have manifested, and
the complete reliance I place upon those dispositions.

I cannot omit the opportunity of publicly uniting with them
in acknowledging the prompt and decided co-operation of the
Governor of New-York, towards the support of the neutrality of
our country. The disposition hitherto shown by the Chief Ma-
gistrates of the several States in relation to this point, is a pleas-
ing evidence of a spirit of concern for the general good, happily
calculated to harmonize and invigorate all the parts of our politi-
cal system.

George Washington.

AMERICANUS.
i.

February 1, 1794.
The two following papers were prepared some time since, but from
particular circumstances have been postponed. The fresh appearances
of a covert design to embark the United States in the war, induce their
publication at this time.

An examination into the question how far regard to the cause
of Liberty ought to induce the United States to take part with
France in the present war, is rendered necessary by the efforts
which are making to establish an opinion, that it ought to have
that effect. In order to a right judgment on the point, it is re-
quisite to consider the question under two aspects.

I. Whether the cause of France be truly the cause of Liberty,
pursued with justice and humanity, and in a manner likely to
crown it with honorable success.

II. Whether the degree of service we could render, by partici-

142 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 37.

patingin the conflict, was likely to compensate, by its utility to the
cause, the evils which would probably Aoav from it to ourselves.

If either of these questions can be answered in the negative,
it will result, that the consideration which has been stated ought
not to embark us in the war.

A discussion of the first point will not be entered upon. It
would involve an examination too complicated for the compass
of these papers ; and, after all, the subject gives so great scope to
opinion, to imagination, to feeling, that little could be expected
from argument. The great leading facts are before the public ;
and by this time most men have drawn their conclusions so
firmly, that the issue alone can adjust their differences of opin-
ion. There was a time when all men in this country entertained
the same favorable view of the French revolution. At the pre-
sent time, they all still unite in the wish, that the troubles of
France may terminate in the establishment of a free and good
government; and dispassionate, well-informed men must equally
unite in the doubt whether this be likely to take place under
the auspices of those who now govern the affairs of that coun-
try. Bat agreeing in these two points, there is a great and seri-
ous diversity of opinion as to the real merits and probable issue
of the French revolution.

None can deny, that the cause of France has been stained by
excesses and extravagances, for which it is not easy, if possible,
to find a parallel in the history of human affairs, and from which
reason and humanity recoil. Yet many find apologies and ex-
tenuations with which they satisfy themselves ; the}r still see in
the cause of France, the cause of liberty ; they are still sanguine
in the hope, that it will be crowned with success; that the French
nation will establish for themselves not only a free, but a repub-
lican government, capable of promoting solidly their happiness.
Others, on the contrary, discern no adequate apology for the hor-
rid and disgusting scenes, which have been and continue to be
acted. They conceive, that the excesses which have been com-
mitted, transcend greatly the measure of those which, with every
due allowance for circumstances, were reasonably to have been
expected. They perceive in them proofs of atrocious depravity

jEt. 37.] AMERICANUS. 143

in tlie most influential leaders of the revolution. They observe
that among these, a Marat* and a Kobertspjerre, assassins
still reeking with the blood of their fellow-citizens, monsters who
outdo the fabled enormities of a Busiris and a Procrustes, are pre-
dominant in influence as well as iniquity. They find every where
marks of an unexampled dissolution of all the social and moral
ties. They see nowhere any thing but principles and opinions
so wild, so extreme, passions so turbulent, so tempestuous, as
almost to forbid the hope of agreement in any rational or well-
organized system of government. They conclude that a state of
things like this is calculated to extend disgust and disaffection
throughout the nation, to nourish more and more a spirit of
insurrection and mutiny ; facilitating the progress of the invading
armies, and exciting in the bowels of France commotions, of
which it is impossible to compute the mischief, the duration, or
the end : that if by the energy of the national character, and the
intrinsic difficulty of the enterprise, the enemies of France shall
be compelled to leave her to herself, this era may only prove
the commencement of greater misfortunes : that after wading
through seas of blood, in a furious and sanguinary civil war,
France may find herself at length the slave of some victorious
Sylla, or Marius, or Caesar: and they draw this afflicting infer-
ence from the whole view of the subject, that there is more
reason to fear, that the Cause of True Liberty has received a
deep wound in the mismanagements of it, by those who, unfor-
tunately for the French nation, have for a considerable time past
maintained an ascendant in its affairs, than to regard the revolu-
tion of France in the form it has lately worn, as entitled to the
honors due to that sacred and all important cause ; or as a safe
bark in which to freight the fortunes, the liberties, and the
reputation of this now respectable and happy land.

AVithout undertaking to determine which of these opposite
opinions rests most firmly on the basis of facts, I shall content
myself with observing, that if the latter is conceived to have but

* This man has lately met a fate, which, though the essential interests of so-
ciety will not permit us to approve, loses its odium in the contemplation of the
character.

144 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 37.

a tolerable foundation, it is conclusive against the propriety of
our engaging in the war, merely through regard for the cause of
Liberty. For when we resolve to put so vast a stake upon
the chance of the die, we ought at least to be certain that the
object for which we hazard is genuine, is substantial, is real !

Let us then proceed to the discussion of the second question.
To judge of the degree of aid which we could afford to France
in her present struggle, it may be of use to take a brief view of
the means with which we carried on the war, that accomplished
our own revolution.

Our supplies were derived from six sources. 1st, paper mo-
ney; 2d, domestic loans; 3d, foreign loans; 4th, pecuniary
taxes , 5th, taxes in specific articles ; 6th, military impress.

The first of these resources, with a view to a future war, may
be put out of the question. Past experience would forbid its be-
ing again successfully employed, and no friend to the morals,
property, or industry of the people, to public or private credit,
would desire to see it revived.

The second would exist, but probably in a more limited ex-
tent. The circumstance of a depreciating paper, which the
holders were glad, as they supposed, to realize, was a considerable
motive to the loans obtained during the late war. The magnitude
of them, however, even then, forms a small proportion to the ag-
gregate expense.

The third resource would be equally out of the question
with the first. The principal lending powers would be our ene-
mies, as they are now those of France.

The three remaining items — pecuniary taxes — taxes on spe-
cific articles — military impress, could be employed again in a fu-
ture war, and are the resources upon which we should have
chiefly to rely ; for the resource of domestic loans, though valu-
able, is not a very extensive one, in a community where capitals
are so moderate as in ours.

Though it is not to be doubted, that the people of the United
States would hereafter, as heretofore, throw their whole property
into a common stock for their common defence against internal
invasion, or an unprovoked attack — who is there sanguine

At. 37.] AM ERIC ANUS. 145

enough to believe, that large contributions of any kind, could be
extracted from them to carry on an external war, voluntarily un-
dertaken for a foreign and speculative purpose ?

The expectation were an illusion. Those who may entertain
it ought to pause and reflect, whatever enthusiasm might have
been infused into a part of the community would quickly yield
to more just and sober ideas, inculcated by experience of the
burthens and calamities of war. The circuitous logic by which
it is attempted to be maintained, that a participation in the war is
necessary to the security of our own liberty, would then appear
as it truly is, a mere delusion, propagated by bribed incendiaries,
or hair-brained enthusiasts ; and the authors of the delusion
would not fail to be execrated as the enemies of the public weal.

The business would move on heavily in its progress, as it was
in its origin impolitic, while the faculty of the government to ob-
tain pecuniary supplies, would, in the case supposed, be circum-
scribed within a narrow compass ; levies of men would not be
likely to be more successful. No one would think of detaching
the militia for distant expeditions abroad ; and the experience we
have had in our Indian enterprises, do not authorize strong ex-
pectations of going far by voluntary enlistments, where the ques-
tion is not, as it was during the last war, the defence of the fun-
damental rights and essential interests of the whole community.
The severe expedient of drafting from the militia, a principal re-
liance in that war, would put the authority of government in the
case to a very critical test.

This summary view of what would be our situation and pros-
pects, is alone sufficient to demonstrate the general position, that
our ability to promote the cause of France, by external exertions,
could not be such as to be very material to the event.

Let us, however, for more complete elucidation, inquire to
what particular objects they could be directed.

Fleets we have not, and could not have, in time, or to an
extent, to be of use in the contest.

Shall we raise an army and send it to France ? she does not
want soldiers. Her own population can amply furnish her armies.

G 10

146 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 37.

The number we could send, if we could get them there at all,
would be of no weight in the scale.

The true wants of France are of system, order, money, provi-
sions, arms, military stores.

System and order we could not give her by engaging in the
war. The supply of money in that event would be out of our
power. At present we can pay our debt to her in proportion as
it becomes due. Then we could not do this — provision and
other supplies, as far as we are in condition to furnish them,
could not be furnished at all. The conveyance of them would
become more difficult — and the forces we should be obliged our-
selves to raise, would consume our surplus.

Abandoning then, as of necessity we must, the idea of aiding
France in Europe, shall we turn our attention to the succor of
her islands? Alas ! we should probably have here only to com-
bat their own internal disorders, to aid Frenchmen against French-
men — whites against blacks, or blacks against whites ! If we
may judge from the past conduct of the powers at war with
France, their effort is immediately against herself; — her islands
are not, in the first instance, a serious object. But grant, as it is
not unlikely, that they become so, is it evident that we can co-
operate efficaciously to their preservation ; or if we can, what
will this have to do with the preservation of French liberty ?
The dangers to this arise from the invasion of foreign armies,
carried into the bosom of France — from the still more formidable
assault of civil dissension and the spirit of anarchy.

Shall we attack the islands of the powers opposed to
France ?

How shall we without a competent fleet carry on the neces-
sary expeditions for the purpose ? Where is such a fleet ? How
shall we maintain our conquests after they are made ? What
influence could the capture of an island or two have upon the
general issue of the contest? These questions answer them-
selves— or shall we endeavor to make a diversion in favor of
France, by attacking Canada on the one side and Florida on the
other ?

This certainly would be the most, indeed the only eligible

JEt. 37.] AMERICANUS. 147

mode of aiding France in war, these enterprises may be con-
sidered as within the compass of our means.

But while this is admitted, it ought not to be regarded as a
very easy task. The reduction of the countries in question
ought not to be undertaken without considerable forces, for rein-
forcements could be brought to both those countries from the
West India possessions of their respective sovereigns ; relying on
their naval superiority, they could spare from the islands all the
troops which were not necessary for the preservation of their
internal tranquillity.

These armies are then to be raised and equipped, and to be
provided with all the requisite apparatus for operation. Pro-
portionate magazines are to be formed for their accommodation
and supply.

Some men, whose fate it is to think loosely, may imagine that
a more summary substitute could be found in the militia. But
the militia, an excellent auxiliary for internal defence, could not
be advantageously employed in distant expeditions, requiring
time and perseverance. For these, men regularly engaged for a
competent period, are indispensable. The conquest of Canada,
at least, may with reason be regarded as out of the reach of a
militia operation.

If war was resolved upon, the very preparation of the means
for the enterprises which have been mentioned would demand
not less than a year ; before this period was elapsed, the fate of
France, as far as foreign invasion is concerned, would be decided.
It would be manifest, either that she could or could not be subju-
gated by force of external coertion. Our interposition would be
too late to benefit her. It appears morally certain, that the war
against France cannot be of much duration. The exertions are
too mighty to be long protracted.

The only way, on which the enterprises in question could
serve the cause of France, would be by making a diversion of a
part of those forces, which would otherwise be directed against
her. But this consequence could not be counted upon. It would
be known, that we could not be very early ready to attack with
effect, and it would be an obvious policy to risk secondary objects

148 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 37.

rather than be diverted from the efficacious pursuit of the main
one. It would be natural in such case to rely for indemnification
on the successful result of the war in Europe. The governments
concerned imagine that they have too much at stake upon that
result, not to hazard considerably elsewhere, in order to secure
the fairest chance of its being favorable to their wishes.

It would not probably render the matter better, to precipitate
our measures for the sake of a more speedy impulse. The
parties ought in such case to count upon the abortion of our
attempts from their immaturity, and to rely the more confidently
upon the means of resistance already on the spot. Indeed, that
very precipitation would leave no other option.

We could not therefore flatter ourselves that the expedient
last proposed — that of attacking the possessions of Great Britain
and Spain in our neighborhood, would be materially serviceable
to the cause of France.

But to give the argument its fairest course, I shall take
notice of two particulars in respect to which our interference
would be more sensibly felt. These are the depredations which
our privateers might make upon the commerce of the maritime
enemies of France, and what is of far greater consequence, the
direct injury which would accrue to that of Great Britain from
the interruption of intercourse between the two countries, con-
sidering the shock lately sustained by mercantile credit in that
country — the real importance to it of our imports from thence,
and our exports thither — the large sums which are due, and in
a continual course of remittance from our merchants — a war
between the United States and Great Britain could not fail to be
seriously distressing to her.

Yet it would be weak to calculate upon a very decisive in-
fluence of these circumstances. The public credit of Great Bri-
tain has still energy sufficient to enable her to struggle with
much partial derangement. Her private credit, manifestly dis-
ordered by temporary causes, and propped as it has been by the
public purse, seems to have recovered in a great degree, its
impaired tone. Her commerce, too suddenly interrupted by the
breaking out of the war, may be presumed to have resumed its

JEt. 37.] AMERICANUS. 149

wonted channels, in proportion as the progress of her naval pre-
parations has tended to give it protection, and though the beino-
at war with us would be very far from a matter of indifference
either to her commerce or to her credit, yet it is not likely that it
would arrest her career, or overrule those paramount considera-
tions which brought her into her present situation.

When we recollect how she maintained herself under a pri-
vation of our commerce, through a seven years' war with us,
united for certain periods of it with France, Spain, and Holland,
though we perceive a material difference between her present
and her then situation, arising from that very effort, yet we
cannot reasonably doubt that she would be able, notwithstanding
a similar privation, to continue a war, which in fact does not call
for an equal exertion on her part, as long as the other powers
with which she is associated shall be in condition to prosecute
it with a hope of success; nor is it probable, whatever may be
the form or manner of the engagement, that Great Britain could,
if disposed to peace, honorably make a separate retreat. It is
the interest of all parties in such cases, to assure to each other a
co-operation; and it is presumable, that this has taken place in
some shape or other between the powers at present combined
against France.*

The conclusion from the several considerations which have
been presented, carefully and dispassionately weighed, is this,
that there is no probable prospect of this country rendering
material service to the cause of France, by engaging with her in
the war.

It has been very truly observed in the course of the pub-
lications on the subject, that if France is not in some toay or other
wanting to herself slie will not stand in need of our assistance ; and
ifs/ie is, our assistance cannot save her.

Americaxus.

* The treaties between Great Britain, Spain, Russia, and Prussia, which since
writing the above have made their appearance, confirm what is here conjectured.

150 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 37.

NO. II.

February 8th, 1794.

Let us now turn to the other side of the medal ; to be struck
with it, it is not necessary to exaggerate.

All who are not willfully blind must see and acknowledge,
that this country at present enjoys an unexampled state of pros-
perity. That war would interrupt it need not be affirmed. We
should then by war lose the advantage of that astonishing pro-
gress in strength, wealth, and improvement, which we are now
making, and wh'ich, if continued for a few years, will place our
national rights and interests upon immovable foundations. This
loss alone would be of infinite moment : it is such a one as no
prudent or good man would encounter but for some clear ne-
cessity or some positive duty. If, while Europe is exhausting
herself in a destructive war, this country can maintain its peace,
the issue will open to us a wide field of advantages, which even
imagination can with difficulty compass.

But a check to the progress of our prosperity is not the
greatest evil to be anticipated. Considering the naval superiority
of the enemies of France, we cannot doubt that our commerce
would in a very great degree be annihilated by a war. Our
agriculture would of course with our commerce receive a deep
wound. The exportations which now continue to animate it
could not fail to be essentially diminished. Our mechanics
would experience their full share of the common calamity. That
lively and profitable industry, which now spreads a smile over
all of our cities and towns, would feel an instantaneous and rapid
decay.

Nine-tenths of our present revenues are derived from com-
mercial duties. Their declension must of course keep pace with
that of the trade. A substitute cannot be found in other sources
of taxation, without imposing heavy burthens on the people.
To support public credit and carry on the war would suppose
exactions really grievous. To abandon public credit would be
to renounce an important mean of carrying on the war ; besides

Mi. 37.]

AMERICAN US. 151

the sacrifice of the public creditors and the disgrace of a national
bankruptcy.

We will not call in the aid of savage butcheries and depreda-
tions to heighten the picture. 'Tis enough to say, that a general
Indian war, excited by the united influence of Britain and Spain,
would not fail to spread desolation throughout our frontier.

To a people who have so recently and so severely felt the evils
of war, little more is necessary than to appeal to their own recol-
lection, for their magnitude and extent.

The war which now rages is, and for obvious reasons is likely
to continue to be, carried on with unusual animosity and rancor.
It is highly probable that the resentment of the combined powers
against us, if we should take part in it, would be, if possible, still
more violent than it is against France. Our interference would
foe regarded as altogether officious and wanton. How far this
idea might lead to the aggravation of the ordinary calamities of
war, would deserve serious reflection.

The certain evils of our joining France in the war, are suf-
ficient dissuasives from so intemperate a measure. The possible
one#are of a nature to call for all our caution, all our prudence.

To defend its own rights, to vindicate its own honor, there
are occasions when a nation ought to hazard even its existence.
Should such an occasion occur, I trust those who are most averse
to commit the peace of the country, will not be the last to face
the danger, nor the first to turn their backs upon it.

But let us at least have the consolation of not having rashly
courted misfortune. Let us have to act under the animating re-
flection of being engaged in repelling wrongs, which we neither
sought nor merited ; in vindicating our rights, invaded without
provocation; in defending our honor, violated without cause. Let
us not have to reproach ourselves with having voluntarily bar-
tered blessings for calamities.

But we are told that our own liberty is at stake upon the
event of the war against France — that if she foils, we shall be
the next victim. The combined powers, it is said, will never
forgive in us the origination of those principles which were the
germs of the French revolution. They will endeavor to eradi-
cate them from the world.

152 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEr. 37.

If this suggestion were ever so well founded, it would perhaps
be a sufficient answer to it to say, that our interference is not
likely to alter the case ; that it would only serve prematurely
to exhaust our strength.

But other answers more conclusive present themselves.

The war against France requires, on the part of her enemies,
efforts unusually violent. They are obliged to strain every
nerve, to exert every resource. However it may terminate, they
must find themselves spent in an extreme degree ; a situation
not very favorable to the undertaking a new, and even to Europe
combined, an immense enterprise.

To subvert by force republican liberty in this country,
nothing short of entire conquest would suffice. This conquest,
with our present increased population, greatly distant as we are
from Europe, would either be impracticable, or would demand
such exertions, as following immediately upon those which will
have been requisite to the subversion of the French revolution,
would be absolutely ruinous to the undertakers.

It is against all probability that an undertaking, pernicious
as this would be, even in the event of success, would* be
attempted against an unoffending nation, by its geographical
position, little connected with the political concerns of Europe.

But impediments would arise from more special causes.
Suppose France subdued, and a restoration of the monarchy in its
ancient form, or a partition effected — to uphold either state of
things, after the general impulse in favor of liberty which has
been given to the minds of twenty -four millions of people, would
in one way or another find occupation for a considerable part of
the forces which had brought it about.

In the event of an unqualified restoration of the monarchy,
if the future monarch did not stand in need of foreign legions for
the support of his authority, still the powers which had been con-
cerned in the restoration could not sufficiently rely upon the
solidity of the order of things re-established by them, not to keep
themselves in a posture to be prepared against the disturbance of
it, till there had been time to compose the discordant interests
and passions produced by the revolution, and bring back the

iET. 37.J AMERICANUS. 153

nation to ancient habits of subordination — in the event of a par-
tition of France, it would of course give occupation to the forces
of the conquerors to secure the submission of the dismembered
parts.

The new dismemberment of Poland will be another obstacle
to the detaching of troops from Europe for a crusade against this
country — the fruits of that transaction can only be secured to
Eussia and Prussia by the agency of large bodies of forces, kept
on foot for the purpose, within the dismembered territories.

Of the powers combined against France, there are only three
whose interests have any material reference to this country ;
England, Spain, Holland. As to Holland, it will be readily con-
ceded that she can have no interest or feeling to induce her to
embark in so mad and wicked a project. Let us see how the
matter will stand with regard to Spain and England.

The object of the enterprise against us must be, either the
establishment in this country of a royal in place of our present
republican government, the subjugation of the country to the
dominion of one of the parties, or its division among them.

The establishment of an independent monarchy in this
country would be so manifestly against the interests of both
those nations, in the ordinary acceptation of this term in politics,
that neither of them is at all likely to desire it.

It may be adopted as an axiom in our political calculations,
that no foreign power which has valuable colonies in America,
will be propitious to our remaining one people under a vigorous
government.

No man, I believe, but will think it probable, however dis-
advantageous the change in other respects, that a monarchical
government, from its superior force, would ensure more effectually
than our present form, our permanent unity as a nation. This
at least would be the indubitable conclusion of European cal-
culators ; from which may be confidently inferred a disinclination
in England and Spain to our undergoing a change of that kind.

The only thing that can be imagined capable of reconciling
either of those powers to it, would be the giving us for monarch
a member of its own royal family, and forming something like a
family compact.

154 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 37.

But here would arise a direct collision of interests between
them. Which of them would agree that a prince of the family
of the other, should, by reigning over this country, give to that
other a decided preponderancy in the scale of American affairs ?

The subjugation of the United States to the dominion of
those powers, would fall more strongly under a like considera-
tion. 'Tis impossible that either of them should consent that the
other should become master of this country, and neither of them
without madness could desire a mastery, which would cost more
than 'twas worth to maintain it, and which, from an irresistible
course of things, could be but of very short duration.

The third, namely the division of it between them, is the
most colorable of the three suppositions. But even this would
be the excess of folly in both. The dominion of neither of them
could be of any permanency, and while it lasted, would cost
more than it was worth. Spain on her part could scarcely fail
to be sensible that, from obvious causes, her dominion over the
part which was allotted to her, would be altogether transient.

The first collision between Britain and Spain would indu-
bitably have one of two effects, either a temporary reunion of
the whole country under Great Britain, or a dismission of the
yoke of both.

The latter, by far the most probable and eventually certain,
would discover to both the extreme absurdity of the project. If
the first step was a reunion under Great Britain, the second, and
one not long deferred, would be a rejection of her authority.

The United States, rooted as are now the ideas of indepen-
dence, are happily too remote from Europe to be governed by
her ; dominion over any part of them would be a real misfortune
to any nation of that quarter of the globe.

To Great Britain, the enterprise supposed would threaten
serious consequences in more ways than one. It may safely be
affirmed, that she would run by it greater risks of bankruptcy
and revolution, than we of subjugation. A chief proportion of
the burthen would unavoidably fall upon her as the monied and
principal maritime power, and it may emphatically be said, that
she would make war upon her own commerce and credit. There

JEt. 37.]

AMERICANUS. 155

is the strongest ground to believe that the nation would disrelish
and oppose the project. The certainty of great evils attending it,
the dread of much greater, experience of the disasters of the last
war, would operfte upon all : many, not improbably a majority,
would see in the enterprise a malignant and wanton hostility
against liberty, of which they might themselves expect to be the
next victim. Their judgments and their feelings would easily
distinguish this case from that either of their former contest with
us, or their present contest with France. In the former, they
had pretensions to support which were plausible enough to mis-
lead their pride and their interest. In the latter, there were
strong circumstances to rouse their passions, alarm their fears,
and induce an acquiescence in the course which was pursued.

But a future attack upon us, as is apprehended, would be so
absolutely pretextless, as not to be understood. Our conduct will
have been such as tof entitle us to the reverse of unfriendly or
hostile dispositions ; while powerful motives of self-interest would
advocate with them our cause.

But Britain, Spain, Austria, Prussia, and perhaps even Rus-
sia, will have more need and a stronger desire of peace and
repose, to restore and recruit their wasted strength and exhausted
treasures, to re-invigorate the interior order and industry of their
respective kingdoms, relaxed and depressed by war, than either
means or inclination to undertake so extravagant an enterprise
against the liberty of this country.

If there can be any danger to us, it must arise from our
voluntarily thrusting ourselves into the war. Once embarked,
nations sometimes prosecute enterprises of which they would not
otherwise have dreamt. The most violent resentment, as before
intimated, would no doubt in such case be kindled against us,
for what would be called a wanton and presumptuous inter-
meddling on our part ; what this might produce, it is not easy
to calculate.

There are two great errors in our reasoning upon this subject.
One, that the combined powers will certainly attribute to us the
same principles, which they deem so exceptionable in France ;
the other, that our principles are in fact the same.

156 HAMILTON'S WORKS.

[Mt. 37.

If left to themselves, they will all, except one, naturally see
in us a people who originally resorted to a revolution in govern-
ment, as a refuge from encroachments on rights and privileges
antecedently enjoyed, not as a people who from*choice sought a
radical and entire change in the established government, in pur-
suit of new privileges and rights carried to an extreme, irrecon-
cilable perhaps with any form of regular government. They
will see in us a people who have a due respect for property and
personal security ; who, in the midst of our revolution, abstained
with exemplary moderation from every thing violent or sangui-
nary, instituting governments adequate to the protection of per-
sons and property ; who, since the completion of our revolution,
have in a very short period, from mere reasoning and reflection,
without tumult or bloodshed, adopted a form of general govern-
ment calculated, as well as the nature of things would permit, to
remedy antecedent defects, to give strength and security to the
nation, to rest the foundations of liberty on the basis of justice,
order and law ; who have at all times been content to govern
themselves, without intermeddling with the affairs or govern-
ments of other nations; in fine, they will see in us sincere
republicans, but decided enemies to licentiousness and anarchy ;
sincere republicans, but decided friends to the freedom of opinion,
to the order and tranquillity of all mankind. They will not see
in us a people whose best passions have been misled, and whose
best qualities have been perverted from their true direction by
headlong, fanatical, or designing leaders, to the perpetration of
acts from which humanity shrinks, to the commission of out-
rages over which the eye of reason weeps, to the profession and
practice of principles which tend to shake the foundations of
morality, to dissolve the social bands, to disturb the peace of
mankind, to substitute confusion to order, anarchy to govern-
ment.

Such at least is the light in which the reason or the passions
of the powers confederated against France, lead them to view her
principles and conduct. And it is to be lamented, that so much
cause has been given for their opinions. If, on our part, we give
no incitement to their passions, facts too prominent and too deci-

^Et. 37.] TULLY. 157

sive to be combated, will forbid their reason to bestow the same
character upon us.

It is therefore matter of real regret, that there should be an
effort on our part to level the distinctions which discriminate our
case from that of France, to confound the two cases in the view
of foreign powers, and to pervert or hazard our own principles
by persuading ourselves of a similitude which does not exist.

Let us content ourselves with lamenting the errors which a
great, a gallant, an amiable, a respectable nation has been be-
trayed, with uniting our wishes and our prayers, that the Supreme
Ruler of the world will bring them back from those errors to a
more sober and more just way of thinking and acting, and will
overrule the complicated calamities which surround them, to
the establishment of a government under which they may be
free, secure, and happy. But let us not corrupt ourselves by
false comparisons or glosses, nor shut our eyes to the true nature
of transactions which ought to grieve and warn us, nor rashly
mingle our destiny in the consequences of the errors and extra-
vagancies of another nation.

Amekicanus.

TULLY.

To the People of the United States.

I.

August 23, 1794.

It has, from the first establishment of your present Constitu-
tion, been predicted, that every occasion of serious embarrass-
ment which should occur in the affairs of the government, every
misfortune which it should experience, whether produced from
its own faults or mistakes, or from other causes, would be the
signal of an attempt to overthrow it, or to lay the foundation of
its overthrow, by defeating the exercise of constitutional and

158 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 37.

necessary authorities. The disturbances which have recently
broken out in the western counties of Pennsylvania, furnish
an occasion of this sort. It remains to see whether the predic-
tion which has been quoted proceeded from an unfounded jea-
lousy excited by partial differences of opinion, or was a just
inference from causes inherent in the structure of our political
institutions. Every virtuous man, every good citizen, and espe-
cially every true republican, must fervently pray, that the
issue may confound and not confirm so ill-omened a prediction.

Your firm attachment to the government YOU have estab-
lished, cannot be doubted.

If a proof of this were wanting to animate the confidence of
your public agents, it would be sufficient to remark, that as often
as any attempt to counteract its measures appear, it is carefully
prepared by strong professions of friendship to the government
and disavowals of any intention to injure it. This can only re-
sult from a conviction that the government carries with it your
affections ; and that an attack upon it, to be successful, must veil
the stroke under the appearances of good will.

It is therefore very important that you should clearly dis-
cern, in the present instance, the shape in which a design of turn-
ing the existing insurrection to the prejudice of the government
would naturally assume. Thus guarded, you will more readily
discover and more easily shun the artful snares which may be
laid to entangle your feelings and your judgment, and will be
the less apt to be misled from the path by which alone you can
give security and permanency to the blessings you enjoy, and
can avoid the incalculable mischiefs incident to a subversion of
the just and necessary authority of the laws.

The design alluded to, if it shall be entertained, would not
appear in an open justification of the principles or conduct of the
insurgents, or in a direct dissuasion from the support of the gov-
ernment. These methods would produce general indignation
and defeat the object. It is too absurd and shocking a position
to be directly maintained, that forcible resistance by a sixtieth
part of the community to the representative will of the whole,
and to constitutional laws expressed by that will, and acquiesced

Mt. 37.] TULLY. 159

in by the people at large, is justifiable or even excusable. It is
a position too untenable and disgusting to be directly advocated,
that flie government ought not too be supported in exertions to
establish the authority of the laws against a resistance so incapa-
ble of justification or excuse.

The adversaries of good order in every country have too
great a share of cunning, too exact a knowledge of the human
heart, to pursue so unpromising a cause. Those among us
would take upon the present occasion one far more artful, and
consequently far more dangerous.

They would unite with good citizens, and perhaps be among
the loudest in condemning the disorderly conduct of the insur-
gents. They would agree that it is utterly unjustifiable, con-
trary to the vital principle of republican government, and of the
most dangerous tendency. But they would, at the same time,
slily add, that excise laws are pernicious things, very hostile to
liberty (or perhaps they might more smoothly lament that the
government had been imprudent enough to pass laws so con-
trary to the genius of a free people), and they would still more
cautiously hint that it is enough for those who disapprove of
such laws to submit to them — too much to expect their aid in
forcing them upon others. They would be apt to intimate fur-
ther, that there is reason to believe that the Executive has been
to blame, sometimes by too much forbearance, encouraging the
hope that the laws would not be enforced, at other times in pro-
voking violence by severe and irritating measures ; and they
would generally remark, with an affectation of moderation and
prudence, that the case is to be lamented, but difficult to be re-
medied ; that a trial of force would be delicate and dangerous ;
that there is no foreseeing how or where it would end ; that it is
perhaps better to temporize, and by mild means to allay the fer-
ment, and afterwards to remove the cause by repealing the ex-
ceptionable laws. They would probably also propose, by antici-
pation of and in concert with the views of the insurgents, plans
of procrastination. They would say, if force must finally be
resorted to, let it not be till after Congress has been consulted,
who, if they think fit to persist in continuing the laws, can make

160 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 37.

additional provision for enforcing their exe cution. This, too,
they would argue, will afford an opportunity for the public sense
to be better known, which (if ascertained to be in favor of the
laws) will give the government greater assurance of success in
measures of coercion.

By these means, artfully calculated to divert YOUR attention
from the true question to be decided, to combat by prejudices
against a particular system, a just sense of the criminality and
danger of violent resistance to the laws ; to oppose the sugges-
tion of misconduct on the part of government to the fact of
misconduct on the part of the insurgents ; to foster the spirit of
indolence and procrastination natural to the human mind, as an
obstacle to the vigor and exertion which so alarming an attack
upon the fundamental principles of public and private security
demands; to distract your opinion on the course proper to be
pursued, and consequently on the propriety of the measures
which may be pursued. They would expect (I say) by these
and similar means equally insidious and pernicious, to abate
your just indignation at the daring affront which has been of.
fered to your authority and your zeal for the maintenance and
support of the laws, to prevent a competent force, if force is
finally called forth, from complying with the call, and thus to
leave the government of the Union in the prostrate condition of
seeing the laws trampled under foot by an unprincipled combi-
nation of a small portion of the community, habitually disobe-
dient to laws, and itself destitute of the necessary aid for vindi-
cating their authority.

Virtuous and enlightened citizens of a new and happy coun-
try ! ye could not be the dupes of artifices so detestable, of a
scheme so fatal ; ye cannot be insensible to the destructive con-
quences with which it would be pregnant ; ye cannot but re-
member that the government is your own work, that those who
administer it are but your temporary agents ; that you are called
upon not to support their power, but your own power. And
you will not fail to do what your rights, your best interests,
your character as a people, your security as members of society,
conspire to demand of you.

TULLY.

JEt. 37.] TULLY. 161

II.

August 25: 1794.

It has been observed that the means most likely to be em-
ployed to turn the insurrection in the western country to the
detriment of the government, would be artfully calculated among
other things " to divert your attention from the true question to
be decided."

Let us see then what is this question. It is plainly this —
Shall the majority govern or be governed? shall the nation
rule or be ruled ? shall the general will prevail, or the will of a
faction ? shall there be government, or no government ? It is
impossible to deny that this is the true, and the whole question.
]So art, no sophistry can involve it in the least obscuri:

The Constitution you have ordained for yourselves and your
posterity contains this express clause: "The Congress shall have
r to lay and collect taxes, duties, imposts, and excises, to pay
the debts, and provide for the common defence and general welfare
of the United States.*' You have, then, by a solemn and delibe-
rate act, the most important and sacred that a nation can perform,
pronounced and decreed, that your representatives in Congress
shall have power to lay excises. You have done nothing since to
reverse or impair that decree.

Your representatives in Congress, pursuant to the comm> -
derived from you, and with a full knowledge of the public exi-
gencies, have laid an excise. At three succeeding sessions they
have revised that act, and have as often, with a degree of unani-
mity not common, and after the best opportunities of knowing
your sense, renewed their sanction to it, you have acquiesced in
it, it has gone into general operation: and you have actually paid
more than a million of dollars on account of it.

But the four western counties of Pennsylvania, undertake to
rejudge and reverse your decrees. You have said, " The Cong - -
shaM have power to lay excises." They say, " The Cong. --
not have this power."' Or, what is equivalent — they shall not ex-
ercise it: for a power that may not be exercised is a nr.!

G 11

162 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 37.

Your representatives have said, and four times repeated it, " An
excise on distilled spirits shall be collected." They say it shall
not be collected. We will punish, expel, and banish the officers
who shall attempt the collection. We will do the same by every
other person who shall dare to comply with your decree expressed
in the constitutional charter ; and with that of your representa-
tives expressed in the laws. The sovereignty shall not reside
with you, but with us. If you presume to dispute the point
by force, we are ready to measure swords with you, and if une-
qual ourselves to the contest, we call in the aid of a foreign
nation. We will league ourselves with a foreign power.

If there is a man among us who shall affirm that the question
is not what it has been stated to be — who shall endeavor to perplex
it by ill-timed declamations against excise laws — who shall strive
to paralyze the efforts of the community by invectives or insinua-
tions against the government — who shall inculcate directly, or
indirectly, that force ought not to be employed to compel the
insurgents to a submission to the laws, if the pending experiment
to bring them to reason (an experiment which will immortalize
the moderation of the government) shall fail — such a man is not
a good citizen ; such a man, however he may prate and babble
republicanism, is not a republican ; he attempts to set up the will
of a part against the will of the whole, the will of a faction
against the will of the nation, the pleasure of a few against your
pleasure, the violence of a lawless combination against the
sacred authority of laws pronounced under your indisputable
commission.

Mark such a man, if such there be. The occasion may enable
you to discriminate the true from pretended republicans; your
friends from the friends of. faction. 'Tis in vain that the latter
shall attempt to conceal their pernicious principles under a crowd
of odious invectives against the laws. Your answer is this:
" We have already in the constitutional act decided the point
against you, and against those for whom you apologize. We
have pronounced that excises may be laid, and consequently that
they are not, as you say, inconsistent with Liberty. Let our will
be first obeyed, and then we shall be ready to consider the

jEt. 37.] TULLY. 163

reasons which can be afforded to prove our judgment has been
erroneous : and if they convince us to cause them to be observed.
We have not neglected the means of amending in a regular
course the constitutional act. And we shall know how to make
our sense be respected whenever we shall discover that any part of
it needs correction. But as an earnest of this, it is our intention
to begin by securing obedience to our authority, from those who
have been bold enough to set it at defiance. In a full respect
for the laws, we discern the reality of our power and the means
of providing for our welfare as occasion may require ; in the con-
tempt of the laws we see the annihilation of our power ; the
possibility, and the danger of its being usurped by others, and
of the despotism of individuals succeeding to the regular autho-
rity of the nation." That a fate like this may never await you,
let it be deeply imprinted in your minds, and handed down to
your latest posterity, that there is no road to despotism more sure
or more to be dreaded than that which begins at anarchy.

Threats of joining the British are actually thrown out — how

far the idea may go is not known.

Tully.

HI.

August 28, 1794.
If it were to be asked, "What is the most sacred duty, and the
greatest source of security in a Eepublic ? the answer would be,
An inviolable respect for the Constitution and Laws — the first
growing out of the last. It is by this, in a great degree, that the
rich and the powerful are to be restrained from enterprises against
the common liberty — operated upon by the influence of a general
sentiment, by their interest in the principle, and by the obstacles
which the habit it produces erects against innovation and en-
croachment. It is by this, in a still greater degree, that caballers,
intriguers, and demagogues, are prevented from climbing on the
shoulders of faction to the tempting seats of usurpation and tyr-
anny.

164 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 37.

Were it not that it might require too long a discussion, it
would not be difficult to demonstrate that a large and well-organ-
ized Republic can scarcely lose its liberty from any other cause
than that of anarchy, to which a contempt of the laws is the high
road.

But, without entering into so wide a field, it is sufficient to
present to your view a more simple and a more obvious truth,
which is this : that a sacred respect for the constitutional law is
the vital principle, the sustaining energy of a free government.

Government is frequently and aptly classed under two descrip-
tions— a government of force, and a government of laws ; the
first is the definition of despotism — the last, of liberty. But how
can a government of laws exist when the laws are disrespected
and disobeyed ? Government supposes control. It is that power
by which individuals in society are kept from doing injury to
each other, and are brought to co-operate to a common end. The
instruments by which it must act are either the authority of
the laws or force. If the first be destroyed, the last must be
substituted ; and where this becomes the ordinary instrument of
government, there is an end to liberty !

Those, therefore, who preach doctrines, or set examples which,
undermine or subvert the authority of the laws, lead us from free-
dom to slavery ; they incapacitate us for a government of LAWS,
and consequently prepare the way for one of force, for mankind
must have government of one sort or another. There are,
indeed, great and urgent cases where the bounds of the Constitu-
tion are manifestly transgressed, or its constitutional authorities
so exercised as to produce unequivocal oppression on the commu-
nity, and to render resistance justifiable. But such cases can
give no color to the resistance by a comparatively inconsiderable
part of a community, of constitutional laws distinguished by no
extraordinary features of rigor or oppression, and acquiesced in
by the body of the community.

Sucli a resistance is treason against society, against liberty,
against every thing that ought to be dear to a free, enlightened,
and prudent people. To tolerate it, were to abandon your most
precious interests. Not to subdue it, were to tolerate it. Those

jEt. 37.] TULLY. 165

who openly or covertly dissuade you from exertions adequate to
the occasion, are your worst enemies. They treat you either as
fools or cowards, too weak to perceive your interest or your duty,
or too dastardly to pursue them. They, therefore, merit and
will, no doubt, meet your contempt. To the plausible but hol-
low harangue of such conspirators you cannot fail to reply, How
long, ye Catilines, will ye abuse our patience ?

To urge the execution of that system, would manifest, it is
said, an intemperate spirit; and to excite your disapprobation of
that course, you are threatened with the danger of a civil war,
which is called the consummation of human evil.

To crown the outrage upon your understandings, the insur-
gents are represented as men who understand the principles of
freedom, and know the horrors and distresses of anarchy, and
who, therefore, must have been tempted to hostility against the
laws by a radical defect, either in the government or in those
intrusted with its administration. How thin the partition which
divides the insinuation from the assertion, that the government is
in fault, and the insurgents in the right ! •

Fellow-citizens : A name, a sound has too often had influence
on the aftairs of nations; an excise has too long been the
successful watchword of party. It has even sometimes led astray
well-meaning men. The experiment is now to be tried whether
there be any spell in it of sufficient force to unnerve the arm
which may be found necessary to be raised in defence of law and
order.

The jugglers who endeavor to cheat us with the sound, have
never dared to venture into the fair fields of argument. They are
conscious that it is easier to declaim than to reason on the subject.
They know it to be better to play a game with the passions and
prejudices, than to engage seriously with the understanding of
the auditory. You have already seen that the merits of excise
laws are immaterial to the question to be decided — that you have
prejudged the point by a solemn constitutional act, and that until
you shall have revoked or modified that act, resistance to its op-
eration is a criminal infraction of the social compact, an inversion
of the fund-amenta! principles of Republican Government, and a

166 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEr. SI.

daring attack upon tour Sovereignty, — which you are bound, by
every motive of duty and self-preservation, to withstand and de-
feat. The matter might safely be suffered to rest here : but I shall
take a future opportunity to examine the reasonableness of the
prejudice which is inculcated against excise laws, and which has
become the pretext for excesses tending to dissolve the bands of
society.

Fellow-citizens: You are told that it will be intemperate to
urge the execution of the laws which are resisted. What? Will it
be indeecKntemperate in your Chief Magistrate, sworn to main-
tain the Constitution, charged faithfully to execute the laws, and
authorized to employ for that purpose force, when the ordinary
means fail — will it be intemperate in him to exert that force,
when the Constitution and the laws are opposed by force ? Can
he answer it to his conscience, to you, not to exert it?

Yes, it is said ; because the execution of it will produce civil
war — the consummation of human evil.

Fellow-citizens : Civil war is, undoubtedly, a great evil. It is
one that every good ntan would wish to avoid, and will deplore
if inevitable. But it is incomparably a less evil than the de-
struction of Government. The first brings with it serious but
temporary and partial ills : the last undermines the foundations
of our security and happiness ; and where should we be if it were
once to grow into a maxim, that force is not to be used against
the seditious combinations of parts of the community to resist the
laws ? This would be to give a carte blanche to ambition, to
licentiousness, to foreign intrigue, to make you the prey of the
gold of other nations — the sport of the passions and vices of in-
dividuals among yourselves. The hydra Anarchy would rear
its head in every quarter. The goodly fabric you have established
would be rent asunder, and precipitated into the dust. You knew
how to encounter civil war rather than surrender your liberty to
foreign domination ; you will not hesitate now to brave it rather
than to surrender your sovereignty to the tyranny of a faction ;
you will be as deaf to the apostles of anarchy now as you were to
the emissaries of despotism then. Your love of liberty will guide
you now as it did then ; you know that the power of the major-

Mr. 37.] TULLY. 16 Y

ity and liberty are inseparable. Destroy that, and this perishes.
But, in truth, that which properly can be called civil war is not
to be apprehended — unless from the act of those who endeavor
to fan the flame, by rendering the Government odious. A civil
war is a contest between two great parts of the same empire.
The exertion of the strength of the nation to suppress resistance
to its laws, by a sixtieth part of itself, is not of that description.

After endeavoring to alarm you with the horrors of civil war,
an attempt is made to excite your sympathy in favor of the
armed faction, by telling you that those who compose it are men
who understand the principles of freedom, and know the horrors
and distresses of anarchy, and must therefore have been prompted
to hostility against the laws by a radical defect either in the
government or in its administration. Fellow-citizens, for an
answer to this you have only to consult your senses. The
natural consequences of radical defect in a government, or in its
administration, are national distress and suffering. Look around
you — where is it ? Do you feel it ? Do you see it ?

Go in quest of it beyond the Alleghany, and instead of it you
will find that there also a scene of unparalleled prosperity up-
braids the ingratitude and madness of those who are endeavoring
to cloud the bright face of our political horizon, and to mar the
happiest lot that beneficent Heaven ever indulged to undeserving
mortals.

When you have turned your eyes towards that scene, exa-
mine well the men whose knowledge of the principles of freedom
is so emphatically vaunted — where did they get their better know-
ledge of those principles than that which you possess ? How is
it that you have been so blind or tame as to remain quiet, while
they have been goaded into hostility against the laws by a rad-
ical defect in the government or its administration ? Are you
willing to yield them the palm of discernment, of patriotism, or
of courage ?

TULLY.

168 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mi. 37.

IV.

Sept. 2, 1794.
The prediction mentioned in my first letter begins to be ful-
filled. Fresh symptoms every moment appear of a dark conspi-
racy, hostile to your government, to your peace abroad, to your
tranquillity at home. One of its orators dares to prostitute the
name of Franklin, by annexing it to a publication as insidious
as it is incendiary. Aware of the folly and the danger of a
direct advocacy of the cause of the insurgents, he makes the
impudent attempt to enlist your passions in their favor by false
and virulent railings against those who have heretofore repre-
sented you in Congress. The foreground of the piece presented
you with a bitter invective against that wise, moderate, and
pacific policy, which in all probability will rescue you from the
calamities of a foreign war, with an increase of new dignity and
with additional lustre to the American name and character.
Your representatives are delineated as corrupt, pusillanimous,
and unworthy of your confidence ; because they did not plunge
headlong into measures which might have rendered war inevi-
table ; because they contented themselves with preparing for it,
instead of making it, leaving the path open to the Executive for
one last and solemn effort of negotiation ; because they did not
display either the promptness of gladiators, or the blustering of
bullies, but assumed that firm, yet temperate attitude, which
alone is suited to the representatives of a brave but rational
people ; who deprecated war, though they did not fear it ; and
who have a great and solid interest in peace, which ought only
to be abandoned when it is unequivocally ascertained that the
sacrifice is absolutely due to the vindication of their honor and
the preservation of their essential rights ; because, in fine, your
representatives wished to give an example to the world, that the
boasted moderation of republican governments was not (like the
patriotism of our political barkers) an empty declaration, but a
precious reality.

The sallies of a momentary sensibility, roused and stung by

JEt. 38.] HORATIUS. 169

injury, were excusable. It was not wonderful, that the events of
war were under the first impressions heard from good and pru-
dent men. But to revive them at this late hour, when fact and
reflection unite to condemn them ; to arraign a conduct which
has elevated the national character to the highest point of true
glory ; to hope to embark you in the condemnation of that con-
duct, and to make your indignation against it useful to the cause
of insurrection and treason, are indications of a wrong-headedness,
perverseness, or profligacy, for which it is not easy to find terms
of adequate reprobation.

Happily the plotters of mischief knew ye not. They derive
what they mistake for your image from an original in their own
heated and crooked imaginations, and they hope to mould a
wise, reflecting, and dispassionate people to purposes which pre-
suppose an ignorant, unthinking, and turbulent herd.

But the declamation against your representatives for their
love of peace, is but the preface to the main design. That design
is to alienate you from the support of the laws, by the spectre of
an odious excise system, baneful to liberty, engendered by cor-
ruption, and nurtured by the instrumentality (favored word,
fruitful source of mountebank wit) of the enemies of freedom.

Tully.

HORATIUS.

To the People of the United States.

May, 1795.

Countrymen and Fellow-Citizens :

Nothing can be more false or ridiculous, justly considered,
than the assertion that great sacrifices of your interests are made
in the treaty with Great Britain.

As to the controverted points between the two nations, the
treaty provides satisfactorily for the great and essential ones ;
and only foregoes objects of an inferior and disputable nature, of

170 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 38.

no real consequence to the permanent welfare of the country.
As to trade, the dilemma is this : if an article is added for grant-
ing us such privileges in the British West Indies, as are satis-
factory to us, it will give a duration of twelve years to the
treaty, and will render it as good a one as the most sanguine
could desire, and a better one than any other power of Europe
can make with us ; for no other power in Europe can give us
the advantages in the East Indies, which this treaty confers.

If that article be not added, the commercial part of the treaty
will expire in two years after the present war, by its own
limitation.

It is therefore preposterous to talk of great sacrifices in a
commercial sense. This observation is to be understood with the
exception of the third article ; which regulates the trade between
us and the neighboring British territories, which is permanent,
and which is certainly a precious article ; inevitably throwing
into our lap the greatest part of the fur trade, with the trade of
the two Canadas. This is a full answer to the idle tale of sacri-
fices by the treaty, as the pretext for violating your Constitution,
and for sullying your faith and your honor.

It is an unquestionable truth, fellow-citizens, one which it is
essential you should understand, that the great and cardinal sin
of the treaty in the eyes of its adversaries is, that it puts an end
to controversy with Great Britain.

We have a sect of politicians among us, who, influenced by
a servile and degrading subserviency to the views of France,
have adopted it as a fundamental tenet, that there ought to sub-
sist between us and Great Britain, eternal variance and discord.

What we now see is a part of the same system which led the
ministry of Louis the XVIth to advise our commissioners for
making peace to treat with Great Britain without the acknow-
ledgment of our independence ; wishing that the omission of
this acknowledgment might perpetuate a jealousy and dread of
Great Britain, and occasion a greater necessity for our future
dependence on France.

It is a part of the same system, which, during our war with
Great Britain, produced a resolution of our public councils, with-

JEt. 38.]

HORATIUS. 171

out adequate motive or equivalent, to sacrifice the navigation of
the Mississippi to Spain ; and which also begat a disposition to
abandon our claim to any equal participation in the cod-fisheries.

It is a part of the same disgraceful system which fettered our
commissioners for making peace with the impolitic and humil-
iating instruction to submit all their motions to the direction of
the French Cabinet, and which attempted a censure upon them
for breaking through that system, and in consequence of it
effecting a peace, glorious and advantageous for this country
beyond expectation.

The present rulers of France proclaimed to the world the
insidious and unfriendly policy of the former government to-
wards this country. Their successors may hereafter unmask
equally insidious and unfriendly views in the present rulers.

But if you are as discerning as I believe you to be, you will
not wait for this evidence to form your opinion. You will see in
the conduct of the agents of that government, wherever they
are, that they are machinating against your independence, peace,
and happiness ; — that not content with a fair competition in your
trade, on terms of equal privilege, they are laboring to continue
you at variance with Great Britain, in order that you may be de-
pendent on France.

This conduct in the known agents of a foreign government
is not to be wondered at. It marks the usual and immemorial
policy of all the governments of Europe.

But, that any of your countrymen, that men who have been
honored with your suffrages, should be the supple instruments
of this crooked policy, that they should stoop to nourish and
foster this exotic plant, and should exchange the pure and holy
love of their own country for a meretricious foreign amour — that
they should be willing to sacrifice your interests to their animos-
ity against one foreign nation, and their devotion for another, is
justly matter of surprise and indignation. No terms of reproba-
tion are too severe for so faithless and so unworthy a conduct.

Reason, religion, philosophy, policy, disavow the spurious
and odious doctrine, that we ought to cherish and cultivate en-
mity with any nation whatever.

1^2 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [iEr. 38.

In reference to a nation with whom we have such extensive
relations of commerce as with Great Britain— to a power so capa-
ble, from her maritime strength, of annoying us— it must be the
offspring of treachery or extreme folly. If you consult your
true interest, your motto cannot fail to be, "Peace and Tkade
with all nations— beyond our present engagements, political
connection with none." You ought to spurn from you, as the
box of Pandora, the fatal heresy of a close alliance, or in the
language of Genet, a true family compact with France. This
would at once make you a mere satellite of France, and entangle
you in all the contests, broils and wars of Europe.

'Tis evident that the controversies of Europe must often grow
out of causes and interests foreign to this country. Why then
should we, by a close political connection with any power of Eu-
rope, expose our peace and interest, as a matter of course, to all
the shocks with which their mad rivalship and wicked ambition
so frequently convulse the earth ? 'Twere insanity to embrace
such a system. The avowed and secret partisans of it merit our
contempt for their folly, or our execration for their depravity.

HORATIUS.

CAMILLUS.

DEFENCE OF MR. JAY'S TREATY.
NO. I.

July 22, 1795.

It was to have been foreseen, that the treaty which Mr. Jay
was charged to negotiate with Great Britain, whenever it should
appear, would have to contend with many perverse dispositions,
and some honest prejudices; that there was no measure in which
the government could engage, so little likely to be viewed according
to its intrinsic merits— so very likely to encounter misconception,
jealousy, and unreasonable dislike. For this, many reasons may
be assigned.

Mt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 173

It is only to know the vanity and vindictiveness of human
nature, to be convinced, that while this generation lasts, there
will always exist among us, men irreconcilable to our present
national Constitution ; embittered in their animosity in propor-
tion to the success of its operations, and the disappointment of
their inauspicious predictions. It is a material inference from
this, that such men will watch, with lynx's eyes, for opportunities
of discrediting the proceedings of the government, and will dis-
play a hostile and malignant zeal upon every occasion, where
they think there are any prepossessions of the community to favor
their enterprises. A treaty with Great Britain was too fruitful
an occasion not to call forth all their activity.

It is only to consult the history of nations, to perceive, that
every country, at all times, is cursed by the existence of men,
who, actuated by an irregular ambition, scruple nothing which
they imagine will contribute to their own advancement and im-
portance : in monarchies, supple courtiers ; in republics, fawning
or turbulent demagogues, worshipping still the idol, power, wher-
ever placed, whether in the hands of a prince or of the people, and
trafficking in the weaknesses, vices, frailties, or prejudices of the
one or the other. It was to have been expected, that such men,
counting more on the passions than on the reason of their fellow-
citizens, and anticipating that the treaty would have to struggle
with prejudices, would be disposed to make an alliance with pop-
ular discontent, to nourish it, and to press it into the service of
their particular views.

It was not to have been doubted, that there would be one or
more foreign powers, indisposed to a measure which accommo-
dated our differences with Great Britain, and laid the foundation
of future good understanding, merely because it had that effect.
Nations are never content to confine their rivalships and en-
mities to themselves. It is their usual policy, to disseminate them
as widely as they can, regardless how far it may interfere with
the tranquillity or happiness of the nations which they are able
to influence. — Whatever pretensions may be made, the world is
yet remote from the spectacle of that just and generous policy,
whether in the cabinets of republics or of kings, which would

174 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

dispose one nation, in its intercourses with another — satisfied with
a due proportion of privileges and benefits — to see that other
pursue freely, its true interest with regard to a third ; though at
the expense of no engagement, nor in violation of any rule of
friendly or fair procedure. It was natural, that the contrary
spirit should produce efforts of foreign counteraction to the treaty ;
and it was certain that the partisans of the counteracting power
would second its efforts by all the means which they thought
calculated to answer the end.

It was known, that the resentment produced by our revolu-
tion war with Great Britain, had never been entirely extinguish-
ed, and that recent injuries had rekindled the flame with addi-
tional violence. It was a natural consequence of this, that many
should be disinclined to any amicable arrangement with Great
Britain, and that many others should be prepared to acquiesce
only in a treaty which should present advantages of so striking
and preponderant a kind, as it was not reasonable to expect could
be obtained, unless the United States were in a condition to give
the law to Great Britain, and as, if obtained under the coercion of
such a situation, could only have been the short-lived prelude of
a speedy rupture to get rid of them.

Unfortunately, too, the supposition of that situation has serv-
ed to foster exaggerated expectations ; and the absurd delusion
to this moment prevails, notwithstanding the plain evidence to
the contrary, which is deducible from the high and haughty
ground still maintained by Great Britain against victorious
France.

It was not to be mistaken, that an enthusiasm for France and
her revolution, throughout all its wonderful vicissitudes, has con-
tinued to possess the minds of the great body of the people of
this country ; and it was to be inferred, that this sentiment would
predispose to a jealousy of any agreement or treaty with her
most persevering competitor — a jealousy so excessive, as would
give the fullest scope to insidious arts to perplex and mislead
the public opinion. It was well understood, that a numerous
party among us, though disavowing the design, because the
avowal would defeat it, have been steadily endeavoring to make

JEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 175

the United States a party in the present European war, by advo-
cating all those measures which would widen the breach between
us and Great Britain, and by resisting all those which would
tend to close it ; and it was morally certain, that this party would
eagerly improve every circumstance which could serve to render
the treaty odious, and to frustrate it, as the most effectual road
to their favorite goal.

It was also known beforehand, that personal and party rival-
ships, of the most active kind, would assail whatever treaty
might be made, to disgrace, if possible, its organ.

There are three persons prominent in the public eye, as the
successor of the actual President of the United States, in the
event of his retreat from the station, Mr. Adams, Mr. Jay, and
Mr. Jefferson.

No one has forgotten the systematic pains which have been
taken to impair the well-earned popularity of the first gentleman.
Mr. Jay, too, has been repeatedly the object of attacks with the
same view. His friends, as well as his enemies, anticipated that
he could make no treaty which would not furnish weapons
against him : and it were to have been ignorant of the indefatiga-
ble malice of his adversaries, to have doubted that they would
be seized with eagerness and wielded with dexterity.

The peculiar circumstances which have attended the two last
elections for governor of this State,* have been of a nature to
give the utmost keenness to party animosity. It was impossible
that Mr. Jay should be forgiven for his double, and, in the last
instance, jriumphant success ; or that any promising opportunity
of detaching from him the public confidence, should pass unim-
proved.

Trivial facts frequently throw light upon important designs.
It is remarkable, that in the toasts given on the 4th of July,
wherever there appears a direct or indirect censure of the treaty,
it is pretty uniformly coupled with compliments to Mr. Jefferson,
and to our late governor, Mr. Clinton, with an evident design to
place those gentlemen in contrast with Mr. Jay, and, decrying

* New- York.

176 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mi. 38.

him, to elevate them. No one can be blind to the finger of party
spirit, visible in these and similar transactions. It indicates to us
clearly, one powerful source of opposition to the treaty.

No man is without his personal enemies. Pre-eminence even
in talents and virtue is a cause of envy and hatred of its possessor.
Bad men are the natural enemies of virtuous men. Good men
sometimes mistake and dislike each other.

Upon such an occasion as the treaty, how could it happen
otherwise, than that personal enmity would be unusually busy,
enterprising, and malignant ?

From the combined operations of these different causes, it
would have been a vain expectation that the treaty would be gen-
erally contemplated with candor and moderation, or that reason
would regulate the first impressions concerning it. It was certain,
on the contrary, that however unexceptionable its true character
might be, it would have to fight its way through a mass of un-
reasonable opposition ; and that time, examination, and reflec-
tion, would be requisite to fix the public opinion on a true basis.
It was certain that it would become the instrument of a systema-
tic effort against the national government and its administration ;
a decided engine of party to advance its own views at the hazard
of the public peace and prosperity.

The events which have already taken place, are a full comment
on these positions. If the good sense of the people does not
speedily discountenance the projects which are on foot, more me-
lancholy proofs may succeed.

Before the treaty was known, attempts were mace to pre-
possess the public mind against it. It was absurdly asserted,
that it was not expected by the people, that Mr. Jay was to make
any treaty ; as if he had been sent, not to accommodate differ-
ences by negotiation and agreement, but to dictate to Great
Britain the terms of an unconditional submission.

Before it was published at large, a sketch, calculated to pro-
duce false impressions, was handed out to the public, through a
medium noted for hostility to the administration of the govern-
ment.— Emissaries flew through the country, spreading alarm and
discontent : the leaders of clubs were every where active to seize

Mi. 38.] CAMILLUS. 177

the passions of the people, and preoccupy their judgments against
the treaty.

At Boston it was published one day, and the next a town-
meeting was convened to condemn it ; without ever being read,
without any serious discussion, sentence was pronounced against it.

Will any man seriously believe, that in so short a time, an
instrument of this nature could have been tolerably understood
by the greater part of those who were thus induced to a con-
demnation of it? Can the result be considered as any thing
more than a sudden ebullition of popular passion, excited by the
artifices of a party, which had adroitly seized a favorable mo-
ment to furorize the public opinion ? This spirit of precipitation
and the intemperance which accompanied it, prevented the body
of the merchants and the greater part of the most considerate
citizens, from attending the meeting, and left those who met
wholly under the guidance of a set of men, who, with two or
three exceptions, have been the uniform opposers of the govern-
ment.

The intelligence of this event had no sooner reached New-
York, than the leaders of the clubs were seen haranguing in
every corner of the city, to stir up our citizens into an imitation
of the example Of the meeting at Boston. An invitation to meet
at the city-hall quickly followed, not to consider or discuss the
merits of the treaty, but to unite with the meeting at Boston to
address the President against its ratification.

This was immediately succeeded by a hand-bill, full of invec-
tives against the treaty, as absurd as they were inflammatory, and
manifestly designed to induce the citizens to surrender their
reason to the empire of their passions.

In vain did a respectable meeting of the merchants endeavor,
by their advice, to moderate the violence of these views, and to
promote a spirit favorable to a fair discussion of the treaty ; in
vain did a respectable majority of the citizens of every descrip-
tion attend for that purpose. The leaders of the clubs resisted
all discussion, and their followers, by their clamors and vocifera-
tions, rendered it impracticable, notwithstanding the wish of a
manifest majority of the citizens, convened upon the occasion.
G 12

178 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [j£t. 38.

Can we believe, that the leaders were really sincere in the
objections they made to a discussion, or that the great and mixed
mass of citizens then assembled, had so thoroughly mastered the
merits of the treaty as that they might not have been enlightened
by such a discussion ?

It cannot be doubted that the real motive to the opposition,
was the fear of a discussion ; the desire of excluding light ; the
adherence to a plan of surprise and deception. Nor need we
desire any fuller proof of the spirit of party which has stimu-
lated the opposition to the treaty, than is to be found in the cir-
cumstances of that opposition.

To every man who is not an enemy to the national govern-
ment, who is not a prejudiced partisan, who is capable of com-
prehe4ding the argument, and dispassionate enough to attend to
it with impartiality, I flatter myself I shall be able to demon-
strate satisfactorily in the course of some succeeding papers —

1. That the treaty adjusts, in a reasonable manner, the points
in controversy between the United States and Great Britain, as
well as those depending on the inexecution of the treaty of peace,
as those growing out of the present European war.

2. That it makes no improper concessions to Great Britain,
no sacrifices on the part of the United States. ;

3. That it secures to the United States equivalents for what
they grant.

4. That it lays upon them no restrictions which are incompa-
tible with their honor or their interest.

5. That in the articles which respect war, it conforms to the
laws of nations.

6. That it violates no treaty with, nor duty towards any
foreign power.

7. That compared with our other commercial treaties, it is,
upon the whole, entitled to a preference.

8. That it contains concessions of advantages by Great
Britain to the United States, which no other nation has obtained
from the same power.

9. That it gives to her no superiority of advantages over
other nations with whom we have treaties.

-Et. 38.] CAMILLUS. 179

10. The interests of primary importance to our general -wel-
fare, are promoted by it.

11. That the too-probable result of a refusal to ratify, is war,
or what would be still worse, a disgraceful passiveness under
violations of our rights, unredressed, and unadjusted: and con-
sequently that it is the true interest of the United States, that
the treaty should go into effect.

It will be understood, that I speak of the treaty as advised
to be ratified by the Senate — for this is the true question before
the public.

Camillus.

no. n.

1795.

Previous to a more particular discussion of the merits of the
treaty, it may be useful to advert to a suggestion which has been
thrown out, namely, That it was foreseen by many, that the mis-
sion to Great Britain would produce no good result, and that the
event has corresponded with the anticipation.

The reverse of this position is manifestly true.

All must remember the very critical posture of this country,
at the time that mission was resolved upon. A recent violation
of our rights, too flagrant and too injurious to be submitted to,
had filled every American breast with indignation, and every
prudent man with alarm and disquietude. A few hoped, and the
body of the community feared, that war was inevitable.

In this crisis, two sets of opinions prevailed, one looked to
measures which were to have a compulsory effect upon Great
Britain, the sequestration of British debts, and the cutting off" in-
tercourse wholly or partially between the two countries: the
other to i preparations for war, and one more effort of nego-

tiation, under the solemnity of an extraordinary mission, to
ave: I

That the latter was the best opinion, no truly sensible man

180 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

can doubt ; and it may be boldly affirmed, that the event has
entirely justified it.

If measures of coercion and reprisal had taken place, war, in
all human probability, would have followed.

National pride is generally a very untractable thiDg. In the
councils of no country does it act with greater force, than in
those of Great Britain. "Whatever it might have been in her
power to yield to negotiation, she could have yielded nothing to
compulsion, without self-degradation, and without the sacrifice
of that political consequence, which, at all times very important
to a nation, was peculiarly so to her at the juncture in question.
It should be remembered, too, that from the relations in which
the two countries have stood to each other, it must have cost
more to the pride of Great Britain to have received the law from
us than from any other poweV.

When one nation hdt cause of complaint against another, the
course marked out by practice, the opinion of writers, and the
principles of humanity, the object being to avoid war, is to pre-
cede reprisals of any kind, by a demand of reparation. To be-
gin with reprisals is to meet on the ground of war, and put the
other party in a condition not to be able to recede without hu-
miliation.

Had this course been pursued by us, it would not only have
rendered war morally certain, but it would have united the Bri-
tish nation in a vigorous support of their government, in the pro-
secution of it : while, on our part, we should have been quickly
distracted and divided. The calamities of war would have
brought the most ardent to their senses, and placed them among
the first in reproaching the government with precipitation, rash-
ness, and folly, for not having taken every chance, by pacific
means, to avoid so great an evil.

The example of Denmark and Sweden is cited in support of
the coercive plan. Those powers, it is asserted, by arming and
acting with vigor, brought Great Britain to terms.

But who is able to tell us the precise course of this transac-
tion, or the terms gained by it? Has it appeared that either
Denmark or Sweden has obtained as much as we have done — a

JEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 181

stipulation of reparation for tlie violation of our property, con-
trary to the laws of war ?

Besides, what did Denmark and Sweden do ? They armed,
and they negotiated. They did not begin by retaliations and
reprisals. The United States also armed and negotiated, and,
like Denmark and Sweden, prudently forbore reprisals. The
conduct of the three countries agreed in principle, equally steer-
ing clear of a precipitate resort to reprisals, and contradicting
the doctrines and advice of our war party.

The course pursued by our government was then in coinci-
dence with the example of Denmark and Sweden — and, it may be
added, was in every view the wisest.

Few nations can have stronger inducements than the United
States to cultivate peace. Their infant state in general — their
want of a marine in particular, to protect their commerce, would
render war, in an extreme degree, a calamity. It would not
only arrest our present rapid progress to strength and prosperity,
but would probably throw us back into a state of debility and
impoverishment, from which it would require years to emerge.

Our trade, navigation, and mercantile capital, would be es-
sentially destroyed. Spain being an associate of Great Britain,
a general Indian war might be expected to desolate the whole
extent of our frontier — our exports obstructed, agriculture would
of course languish ; all other branches of industry would propor-
tionably suffer ; our public debt, instead of a gradual diminution,
would sustain a great augmentation, and draw with it a large in-
crease of taxes and burthens on the people.

But these evils, however great, were, perhaps, not the worst
to be apprehended. It was to be feared, that the war would be
conducted in a spirit which would render it more than ordina-
rily calamitous. There are too many proofs, that a considerable
party among us is deeply infected with those horrid principles of
jacobinism, which, proceeding from one excess to another, have
made France a theatre of blood, and which, notwithstanding the
most vigorous efforts of the national representation to suppress
it, keeps the destinies of France, to this moment, suspended by a
thread. It was too probable, that the direction of the war, if

182 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 38.

commenced, would have fallen into the hands of men of this de-
scription. The consequence of this, even in imagination, are
such as to make any virtuous man shudder.

It was, therefore, in a peculiar manner, the duty of the gov-
ernment to take all possible chances for avoiding war. The plan
adopted was the only one which could claim this advantage.

To precipitate nothing, to gain time by negotiations, was to
leave the country in a situation to profit by any events which
might turn up, tending to restrain a spirit of hostility to Great
Britain, and to dispose her to reasonable accommodation.

The successes of France, which opportunely occurred, allow-
ing them to have had an influence upon the issue, so far from
disparaging the merit of the plan that was pursued, serve to
illustrate its wisdom. This was one of the chances which pro-
crastination gave, and one which it was natural to take into the
calculation.

Had the reverse been the case, the posture of negotiation was
still preferable to that of retaliation and reprisal; for in this
case, the triumphs of Great Britain, the gauntlet having been
thrown by us, would have stimulated her to take it up without
hesitation.

By taking the ground of negotiation in the attitude of prepa-
ration for war, we at the same time carried the appeal to the
prudence of the British cabinet, without wounding its pride, and
to the justice and interest of the British nation, without exciting
feelings of resentment.

This conduct was calculated to range the public opinion of
that country on our side, to oppose it to the indulgence of hos-
tile views in the cabinet, and, in case of war, to lay the founda-
tion of schism and dissatisfaction.

But one of the most important advantages to be expected
from the course pursued, was the securing of unanimity among
ourselves, if, after all the pains taken to avoid the war, it had
been forced upon us.

As on the one hand, it was certain that dissension and dis-
content would have embarrassed and enfeebled our exertions, in
a war produced by any circumstances of intemperance in our

jEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 183

public councils, or not endeavored to be prevented by all the
milder expedients usual in similar cases; so, on the other, it
was equally certain, that our having effectually exhausted those
expedients, would cement us in a firm mass, keep us steady and
persevering amidst whatever vicissitudes might happen, and
nerve our efforts to the utmost extent of our resources.

This union among ourselves, and disunion among our ene-
mies, were inestimable effects of the moderate plan, if it had pro-
mised no other advantage.

But to gain time was of vast moment to us in other senses.
Not a sea-port of the United States was fortified, so as to be pro-
tected against the insults of a single frigate. Our magazines
were, in every respect, too scantily supplied. It was highly de-
sirable to obviate these deficiencies before matters came to ex-
tremity.

Moreover, the longer we kept out of war, if obliged to go
into it at last, the shorter would be the duration of the calami-
ties incident to it.

The circumstances of the injury of which we more immedi-
ately complain, afforded an additional reason for preceding re-
prisals by negotiation. The order of the 6th of November, di"
rected neutral vessels to be brought in for adjudication. This was
an equivocal phrase ; and though there was too much cause to
suspect that it was intended to operate as it did, yet there was a
possibility of misconstruction ; and that possibility was a reason,
in the nature of the thing, for giving the English government an
opportunity of explaining before retaliations took place.

To all this it may be added, that one of the substitutes for the
plan pursued, the sequestration of debts, was a measure no less
dishonest than impolitic ; as will be shown in the remarks which
will be applied to the 10th article of the treaty.

But is it unimportant to the real friends of republican govern-
ment, tkat the plan pursued was congenial to the public charac-
ter which is ascribed to it? Would it have been more desirable
that the government of our nation, outstripping the war-maxima
of Europe, should, without a previous demand of reparation, have
rushed into reprisals, and consequently into a war ?

184 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 38.

However this may be, it is a well ascertained fact, that our
country never appeared so august and respectable as in the position
which it assumed upon this occasion. — Europe was struck with
the dignified moderation of our conduct ; and the character of our
government and nation acquired a new elevation.

It cannot escape an attentive observer, that the language,
which, in the first instance, condemned the mission of an envoy
extraordinary to Great Britain, and which now condemns the
treaty negotiated by him, seems to consider the United States as
among the first rate powers of the world in point of strength and
resources, and proposes to them a conduct predicated upon that
condition.

To underrate our just importance, would be a degrading error.
To overrate it, may lead to dangerous mistakes.

A very powerful state may frequently hazard a high and
haughty tone with good policy ; but a weak state can scarcely
ever do it without imprudence. The last is yet our character ;
though we are the embryo of a great empire. It is, therefore, bet-
ter suited to our situation to measure each step with the utmost
caution ; to hazard as little as possible, in the cases in which we
are injured ; to blend moderation with firmness ; and to brandish
the weapons of hostility only when it is apparent that the use of
them is unavoidable.

It is not to be inferred from this, that we are to crouch to any
power on earth, or tamely to suffer our rights to be violated. A
nation which is capable of this meanness, will quickly have no
rights to protect, or honor to defend.

But the true inference is, that we ought not lightly to seek or
provoke a resort to arms ; that, in the differences between us and
other nations, we ought carefully to avoid measures which tend
to widen the breach ; and that we should scrupulously abstain
from whatever may be construed into reprisals, till after the em-
ployment of all amicable means has reduced it to a certainty that
there is no alternative.

If we can avoid a war for ten or twelve years more, we shall
then have acquired a maturity, which will make it no more than
a common calamity, and will authorize us, in our national discus-
sions, to take a higher and more imposing tone.

Mt.38.] camillus. 185

This is a consideration of the greatest weight to determine us
to exert all our prudence and address to keep out of war as long
as it shall be possible ; to defer, to a state of manhood, a struggle
to which infancy is ill adapted. This is the most effectual way
to disappoint the enemies of our welfare ; to pursue a contrary
conduct may be to play into their hands, and to gratify their
wishes. If there be a foreign power which sees with envy or
ill-will our growing prosperity, that power must discern that
our infancy is the time for clipping our wings. We ought to
be wise enough to see, that this is not a time for trying our
strength.

Should we be able to escape the storm which at this juncture
agitates Europe, our disputes with Great Britain terminated, we
may hope to postpone war to a distant period. This, at least, will
greatly diminish the chances of it. For then there will remain
only one power with whom we have any embarrassing discus-
sions. I allude to Spain, and the question of the Mississippi ; and
there is reason to hope, that this question, by the natural progress
of things, and perseverance in an amicable course, will finally be
arranged to our satisfaction without the necessity of the dernier
resort.

The allusion to this case suggests one or two important reflec-
tions. How unwise would it have been to invite or facilitate a
quarrel with Great Britain, at a moment when she and Spain were
engaged in a common cause, both of them having, besides, con-
troverted points with the United States ! How wise will it be to
adjust our differences with the most formidable of these two pow-
ers, and to have only to contest with one of them !

This policy is so obvious, that it requires an extraordinary
degree of infatuation not to be sensible of it, and not to view with
favor any measure which tends to so important a result.

This cursory view of the motives which may be supposed to
have governed our public councils in the mission to Great Britain,
serves not only to vindicate the measures then pursued, but warns
us against a prejudiced judgment of the result, which may, in the
end, defeat the salutary purposes of those measures.

I proceed now to observe summarily, that the objects of the

186 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mi. 38.

mission, contrary to what has been asserted, have been substan-
tially obtained. What were these ? They were principally,

1. To adjust the matters of controversy concerning the inex-
ecution of the treaty of peace, and especially to obtain restitution
of our western posts.

2. To obtain reparation for the captures and spoliations of our
property in the course of the existing war.

Both these objects have been provided for ; and it will be
shown, when we come to comment upon the articles which make
the provisions in each case, that it is a reasonable one, as good a
one as ought to have been expected ; as good a one as there is
any prospect of obtaining hereafter ; one which it is consistent
with our honor to accept, and which our interest bids us to close
with.

The provisions with regard to commerce, were incidental and

auxiliary. The reasons which may be conceived to have led to

the including of the subject in the mission, will be discussed in

some proper place.

Camillus

no. III.

1795.
The opposers of the treaty seem to have put invention on the
rack, to accumulate charges against it, in a great number of cases,
without regard even to plausibility. If we suppose them sincere,
we must often pity their ignorance ; if insincere, we must abhor
the spirit of deception which it betrays. Of the preposterous na-
ture of some of their charges, specimens will be given, in the
coarse of these remarks; though, while nothing, which is col-
orable, will remain unattended to, it were endless to attempt a
distinct refutation of all the wild and absurd things which are
and will be said. It is vain to combat the vagaries of diseased
imaginations. The monsters they engender, are no sooner de-
stroyed, than new legions supply their places. Upon this, as upon

jEt. 38.] CA MILL US. 187

all former occasions, the good sense of the people must be relied
upon ; and it must be taken for granted, that it will be sufficient
for their conviction, to give solid answers to all such objections
as have the semblance of reason ; that now, as heretofore, they
will maintain their character abroad and at home, for deliberation
and reflection, and disappoint those who are in the habit of mak-
ing experiments upon their credulity, who, treating them as chil-
dren, fancy that sugar-plumbs and to}^s will suffice to gain their
confidence and attachment, and to lead them blindfold, whither-
soever it is desired.

In considering the treaty, it presents itself under two princi-
pal heads; the permanent articles, which are the first ten, and
which, with some supplementary provisions, adjust the contro-
verted points between the two countries ; and the temporary ar-
ticles, which are all the remaining ones, and which establish the
principles of mutual intercourse, as to general navigation and
commerce. The manner of the discussion will correspond with
this natural division of the subject.

An objection meets the treaty at the threshold. It is said
that our envoy abandoned the ground which our government had
uniformly held, and with it our rights and interests as a nation,
by acceding, in the preamble of the treaty, to the idea of termi-
nating the differences between the two countries, "in such a man-
ner, as, without reference to the merits of their respective complaints
and pretensions, may be best calculated to produce mutual satisfaction
and good understanding.'''1

It is observed, in support of this, that our government has
constantly charged the first breaches of the treaty upon Great
Britain, in the two particulars of carrying away the negroes, and
detaining the posts ; that while the evacuation of New-York was
going on, a demand of the surrender of the negroes waa made by
Congress, through our commander in chief, which not being com-
plied with, commissioners were sent, to ascertain the number car-
ried away, with a view to a claim of compensation ; that earl}©
and repeated applications were also, made for the surrender of the
Western Posts, which not only was not done, but it is proved by
the circumstances, that orders were not given for it, according to

188 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

the true intent of the treaty, and that there was, from the begin-
ning, a design to infract, and a virtual infraction of the article
with respect to this object. All this, it is alleged, has been the
uniform language of our government, and has been demonstrated
by Mr. Jefferson to be true, in his letter to Mr. Hammond, of the
29th of May, 1792 ; and it is asserted, that the ground ought not
to have been given up by Mr. Jay, because it was the standard of
the mutual rights and duties of the parties, as to the points un-
executed of the treaty of peace.

A proper examination of these matters is therefore called for,
not only by the specific objection which is made to the principle
which is contained in the preamble, but by the influence which
a right solution is calculated to have, in giving a favorable or
unfavorable complexion to the whole plan of the adjustment.

It is true, as suggested, that our government has constantly
charged as breaches of the treaty by Great Britain, the two par-
ticulars which have been stated ; but it is believed to be not
true, that it has uniformly charged them as first breaches of
the treaty. Individuals may have entertained this idea. The
State of Virginia seems to have proceeded upon it in some pub-
lic acts ; but as far as is recollected, that ground was never for-
mally or explicitly taken by the government of the United States
until the above mentioned letter from Mr. Jefferson to Mr. Ham-
mond, when, for the first time, an attempt was made to vindicate
or excuse the whole conduct of this country, in regard to the
treaty of peace, contrary, I will venture to say, to the general
sense of well-informed men.

The most solemn act of our government on this head, is an
address of Congress to the different States, of the 13th of April,
1787.

This address admits contraventions of the treaty on our part ;
and instead of deriving either justification or extenuation of them
from prior infractions by Great Britain, urges the different States
#to a repeal of all contravening laws.

But if the fact, in this respect, were admitted to be, as stated
by the adversaries of the treaty, it would not authorize their
conclusion.

JE.T. 38.]

CAMILLUS. 189

It would not follow, that, because the ground had been taken
by the government, it ought to have been pertinaciously kept,
if, upon fair examination, it had appeared to be not solid, or if
an adherence to it would have obstructed a reasonable adjust-
ment of differences.

Nations, no more than individuals, ought to persist in error,
especially at the sacrifice of their peace and prosperity ; besides,
nothing is more common, in disputes between nations, than each
side to charge the other with being the aggressor or delinquent.
This mutual crimination, either from the nature of circumstances,
or from the illusions of the passions, is sometimes sincere ; at
other times, it is dictated by pride or policy. But in all such
cases, where one party is not powerful enough to dictate to the
other, and where there is a mutual disposition to avoid war ; the
natural retreat for both is in compromise, which waves the ques-
tion of first aggression or delinquency. This is the salvo for
national pride; the escape for mutual error; the bridge by
which nations, arrayed against each other, are enabled to retire
with honor, and without bloodshed, from the field of contest.
In cases of mutual delinquency, the question of the first default
is frequently attended with real difficulty and doubt. One side
has an equal right with the other, to have and maintain its
opinion. What is to be done, when the pride of neither will
yield to the arguments of the other ? War, or a waver of the
point, is the alternative. What sensible man, what humane man,
will deny that a compromise, which secures substantially the
objects of interest, is almost always preferable to war on so
punctilious and unmanageable a point ?

Reject the principle of compromise, and the feuds of nations
must become much more deadly than they have hitherto been.
There would scarcely ever be room for the adjustment of dif-
ferences, without an appeal to the sword ; and, when drawn, it
would seldom be sheathed but with the destruction of one or the
other party. The earth, now too often stained, would then con-
tinually stream with human gore.

From the situation of the thing, and of the parties, there
never could be a rational doubt, that the compromising plan was

190 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

the only one on which the United States and Great Britain could
ever terminate their differences without war ; that the question,
who was the first delinquent, would have "been an eternal bar to
accommodation, and consequently, that a dismission of that ques-
tion was a prerequisite to agreement. Had our envoy permitted
the negotiation to be arrested by obstinacy on this head, he
would have shown himself to be the diplomatic pedant, rather
than the able negotiator, and would have been justly chargeable
with sacrificing to punctilio, the peace of his country. It was
enough for him, as he did, to ascertain by a preliminary dis-
cussion, the impossibility of bringing the other party to concede
the point.

An impartial survey of the real state of the question, will
satisfy candid and discerning men, that it was wise and politic to
dismiss it. This shall be attempted.

It has been observed, that two breaches of the treaty of peace
are charged upon Great Britain ; the carrying away of the
negroes, and the detention of the posts. It remains to investi-
gate the reality of these breaches, and to fix the periods when
they can be said to have happened.

As to the negroes, the true sense of the article in the treaty
of peace, which respects them, is disputed.

The words of the stipulation are (Art. 7) that " his Britannic
Majesty shall, with all convenient speed, and without causing any
destruction or carrying away any negroes or other property of the
American inhabitants, withdraw all his armies, garrisons, and
fleets, from the United States."

These terms admit of two constructions ; one, that no negroes,
or other articles which had been American property, should be
carried away ; the other, that the evacuations were to be made,
without depredation ; consequently, that no new destruction was
to be committed, and that negroes, or other articles, which, at the
time of the cessation of hostilities, continued to be the property of
American inhabitants, unexchanged by the operations of war,
should be forborne to be carried away.

The first was the construction which was adopted by this
country ; and the last is that insisted upon by Great Britain.

jEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 191

The arguments which support her construction, are these ;

I. The established laws of war give to an enemy the use and
enjoyment, during the war, of all real property, of which he ob-
tains possession, and the absolute ownership of all 'personal pro-
terty which falls into his hands. The latter is called booty ; and,
except ships, becomes vested in the captors the moment they
acquire a firm possession. With regard to ships, it seems to be
a general rule of the marine law, that condemnation is necessary
to complete investment of the property in the captor.

II. Negroes, by the laws of the States, in which slavery is
allowed, are personal property. They, therefore, on the prin-
ciple of those laws, like horses, cattle, and other movables, were
liable to become booty — and belonged to the enemy, as soon as
they came into his hands. Belonging to him, he was free either
to apply them to his own use, or set them at liberty. If
he did the latter, the grant was irrevocable, restitution was im-
possible. Nothing in the laws of nations or in those of Great
Britain, will authorize the resumption of liberty, once granted to
a human being.

III. The negroes in question were either taken in the course
of military operations, or they joined the British army upon
invitation by proclamation. However dishonorable to Great
Britain the latter may have been, as an illiberal species of war-
fare, there is no ground to say that the strict rules of war did not
warrant it ; or that the effect was not, in the one case, as well as
in the other, a change of property in the thing.

IV. The stipula#on relates to " negroes or other property of
the American inhabitants ;" putting negroes on the same footing
with any other article. The characteristic of the subject of the
stipulation being property of American inhabitants, whatever had
lost that character could not be the object of the stipulation.
But the negroes in question, by the laws of war, had lost that
character ; they were therefore not within the stipulation.

Why did not the United States demand the surrender of
captured vessels, and of all other movables, which had fallen
into the hands of the enemy ? The answer is, because common
sense would have revolted against such a construction. No one

192 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [IEt. 38.

could believe, that an indefinite surrender of all the spoils or
booty of a seven years' war was ever intended to be stipulated ;
and yet the demand for a horse, or an ox, or a piece of furniture,
would have been as completely within the terms " negroes and
other property," as a negro ; consequently, the reasoning which
proves that one is not included, excludes the other.

The silence of the United States as to every other article,
is therefore a virtual abandonment of that sense of the stipulation
which requires the surrender of negroes.

V. In the interpretation of treaties, things odious or immoral
are not to be presumed. The abandonment of negroes, who
had been induced to quit their masters on the faith of official
proclamation, promising them liberty, to fall again under the
yoke of their masters, and into slavery, is as odious and immoral
a thing as can be conceived. It is odious, not only as it imposes
an act of perfidy on one of the contracting parties ; but as it
tends to bring back to servitude, men once made free. The
general interests of humanity conspire with the obligation which
Great Britain had contracted towards the negroes, to repel this
construction of the treaty, if another can be found.

VI. But another, and a less exceptionable construction is
found in considering the clause as inserted, for greater caution,
to secure evacuations without depredation. It may be answered,
that this was superfluous, because hostilities having ceased, the
stipulation to surrender implied of itself, that it was to be done
without depredation. But, to this the reply is, that a part of the
clause manifestly contemplates the case of itew depreciations, and
provides a guard against it, in the promise, that the evacuations
shall be made without causing any destruction. To cause destruc-
tion is to do some new act of violence. This reflection destroys
the argument drawn from the superfluousness of the stipulation
in the sense here given to it, and by showing that it must have
such a sense in one part, authorizes the conclusion, that the re-
mainder of the clause has a similar sense. The connection of the
two things, in parts of one sentence, confirms this inference.

These arguments certainly have great weight, and do not ad-
mit of easy refutation. It is a fact, too, that the opinions of some

JEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 193

of the ablest lawyers of our own country, have, from the begin-
ning, corresponded with the construction they enforce.

It is not enough for us to be persuaded, that some of the ne-
gociators, who made the peace, intended the article in our sense.
It is necessary that it should be found in the instrument itself,
and, from the nature of it, ought to have been expressed with
clearness and without ambiguity. If there be real ambiguity in
such a case, the odiousness of the effect will incline the scale
against us.

It does not remove the difficulty, to say, that compensation
for the negroes might have been a substitute for the thing. When
one party promises a specific thing to another, nothing but the
thing itself will satisfy the promise. The party to whom it is
made cannot be required to accept in lieu of it an equivalent.
It follows, that compensation for the negroes would not have
been a performance of the stipulation to forbear to carry them
away ; and therefore, if there be any thing odious in the specific
thing itself, the objection to the interpretation which requires it,
is not done away by the idea of substituting compensation. For
the article does not admit such substitution, and its sense cannot
be defined by what it does admit.

Some color to our sense of the article results from these ex-
pressions in the same clause, "leaving in all fortifications, the
American artillery that may be therein." But this expression is
not of equivalent force to that of property of American inhabitants.
For example, suppose an American ship to have been captured
and condemned, it might still be said of her, in a certain sense,
this is an " American ship," alluding to the country of which
she had been the ship ; but it could not be said in any sense of
her, this ship is American property, or the property of American
inhabitants. The country of which a thing was, may often be
used with aptness as a term of description of that thing, though
it may have changed owners ; but the term property, which is
synonymous with ownership, can never be used in the present
tense as descriptive of an ownership, which has ceased. More-
over, if the expressions in the two cases had been (as they are
not) of equivalent force, it would not follow that they were to
a 13

194 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 38.

have the same meaning in both, cases, being applied to different
matters. For an odious consequence in one instance, would be
a reason for rejecting a particular sense of a word or phrase,
which would be proper in another, to which no such consequence
was attached.

Let me now ask this question of any candid man. Is our
construction of the article respecting the negroes, so much better
supported than that of Great Britain, as to justify our pronoun-
cing with positiveness, that the carrying them away was a breach
of the treaty ?

To me it appears clear, that this must be considered, speak-
ing favorably for us, as a very doubtful point, and that we can-
not with confidence, predicate a breach of the treaty by Great
Britain upon this event. If it was one, it happened in May,
1783.

The affair of the western posts is now to be examined ; that
the detention of them, after the proper point of time for deliver-
ing them up, was a breach of the treaty, will not bear a dispute.
But what that proper time was, is a serious question between the
two parties.

Our government .has contended, that the posts ought to have
been surrendered with all convenient speed, after the provisional
treaty took effect ; and Mr. Jefferson, who is much cited on the
present occasion, has shown, by an ingenious and elaborate de-
duction of circumstances, that this was not only not done, but
never intended.

But Mr. Jefferson has not even discussed the question, whether
the provisional or the definitive treaty was the act from which the
obligation to perform was to date. This is an important omis-
sion ; for Great Britain affirms the definite treaty to be the cri-
terion.

As an original question, much might be said on both sides.
The natural relation of the terms provisioned or preliminary and
definitive, seems to exhibit the former as inchoate and imperfect,
and to refer to the latter the conclusive obligatory force and legal
perfection. There is room, therefore, to say, that all but the mere
cessation of hostilities, or for the execution of which there is no

jEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 195

precise point of time fixed in the preliminary articles, is referred
to in the definitive treaty.

On the other hand, it may be argued, that a preliminary
treaty is as much a national treaty as a definitive one, both being
made by an equal and the competent authority ; and that there
is no good reason why those things which are sufficiently regu-
lated by the preliminary, should not go into immediate and com-
plete effect, equally as if regulated by the definitive treaty ; or
why the latter should be considered as any thing more than an
instrument for adjusting points which may have been left open
by the preliminary articles, and for giving more perfect form.
Accordingly, there are examples of preliminary treaties going
into mutual and full execution, though never followed by de-
finitive treaties.

But, however this question may have stood on principle, the
conduct of our government in the particular case has settled it
against us, and has completely sanctioned the doctrine of Great
Britain.

If performance was to date from the provisional articles, this
applies as well to us as to Great Britain. It was incumbent upon
Congress to have notified the treaty, with the proper solemnities,
to the different states and their citizens ; to have made the re-
commendations stipulated by the fifth article ; and to have en-
joined the observance of all those things which we promised on
our part. The nature of some of these stipulations rendered it
particularly urgent that no time should be lost. But all was de-
ferred till the ratification in this country of the definitive treaty.
The 15th of January, 1784, is the date of the act which attempts
to carry the treaty into effect on our part. This then is a practi-
cal settlement by ourselves of the principle, that performance
was to date from the definitive treaty.

It is no objection to the position, that our sea-ports were pre-
viously evacuated ; that was matter of mutual convenience ; and
though done, does not change the state of strict obligation between
the parties. Even in the view of liberal and conciliating proce-
dure, the prompt surrender of our sea-ports are, for obvious rea-
sons, very different things.

196 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [At. 38.

But our dilemma is this, if the delay of orders for evacuating
the western posts, previous to the ratification of the definitive
treaty, was, on the part of Great Britain, a breach of treaty, our
delay to act upon the points stipulated by us till after that ratifi-
cation, must have been equally a breach of treaty ; and it must
have been at least cotemporary with any breach that could have
been committed by Great Britain.

We are compelled then by our own example to agree with
Great Britain, that she was not obliged to surrender the western
posts till after the mutual ratification of the definitive treaty, and
to abandon the superstructure, however soothing to our wishes,
which has been reared upon a different foundation. If so, we
must look to the period of the exchange of the ratification in
Europe for the date of the orders for evacuating. I have not in
my possession materials for fixing with accuracy that period; but
considering the time of the ratification here, and the time of its
probable arrival in England, we are carried to the latter end of
April, or beginning of May, 1784 ; so that it is not till about
May, 1784, that we can charge upon Great Britain a delinquency
as to the surrender of the posts.

Having now examined the nature of the infractions of the
treaty of peace charged upon Great Britain with reference to
dates, I shall, in the next number of this defence, trace some in-
stances of infraction on our part with a like reference. The con-
clusions to be drawn from this comparison, if I mistake not, will
greatly disconcert some articles of the prevailing creed on this
head, and go far towards confirming what was preliminarily
offered to evince the prudence of our envoy in relinquishing the
favorite ground.

Cahillus.

no. IV.

1795.

An accurate enumeration of the breaches of the treaty of
peace on our part, would require a tedious research. It will suf-

At. 38.] CAMILLUS. 107

flee to select and quote a few of the most prominent and early in-
stances.

One of the earliest is to be found in an act of this state, for
granting a more effectual relief in cases of certain trespasses,
passed the 17th of March, 1783. This act takes away from any
person (subjects of Great Britain, of every description included)
who had, during the war, occupied, injured, destroyed or received
property, real or personal, of any inhabitant without the British
lines, the benefit of the plea of a military order; consequently
the justification which the laws and usages of war give, and the
immunity resulting from the reciprocal amnesty, which, ex-
pressly or virtually, is an essential part of every treaty of peace.
To this it may be added that it was considered by Great Britain as
a direct infraction of the 6th article of her treaty with us, which
exempts all persons from prosecution "by reason of the part
they might have taken in the war."

Mr. Jefferson, not controverting the point that the provisions
of this act were contrary to the treaty, endeavors to get rid of
the inference from it, by alleging three things. 1st. That it passed
antecedently to the treaty, and so could not be a violation of an
act of subsequent date. 2d. That the treaty was paramount to
the laws of the particular states, and operated a repeal of them.
3d. That the exceptionable principle of this act was never sanc-
tioned by the courts of justice, and in one instance (the case of
Rutgers and Waddington in the mayor's court) was overruled.

As to the first point, it is sufficient to answer, that the law
continued to operate, in fact, from the time of the treaty till the
4th of April, 1787, when there was a repeal of the exceptionable
clause, by an act of our legislature. During the period of four
years, many suits were brought and many recoveries had ; ex-
tending even to persons who had been in the military service of
Great Britain.

To the second point, these observations may be opposed.

The articles of the confederation did not, like our present con-
stitution, declare that treaties were supreme laws of the land. The
United States, under that system, had no courts of their own, to
expound and enforce their treaties as laws. All was to depend

19S HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 38.

upon the comparative authority of laws and treaties, in the judg-
ment of the state courts.

The question, whether treaties were paramount to, and a vir-
tual repeal of antecedent laws, was a question of theory, about
which there was room for, and in this country did exist much di-
versity of opinion. It is notorious, that it has been strenuously
maintained that however a national treaty ought, in good faith,
to be conclusive on a state, to induce a repeal of laws contrary
to it ; yet its actual laws could not be controverted by treaty,
without an actual repeal by its own authority. This doctrine has
been emphatically that of the party distinguished by its opposi-
tion to national principles.

And it is observable, that Congress, not relying entirely upon
the force of the treaty, to abrogate contravening laws, in their
address already cited, urge the states to a repeal of those laws. It
is likewise observable in respect to the very act under considera-
tion, that the legislature of the state, in April, 1787, thought a
positive repeal of the exceptionable clause necessary.

The complaints of a power, whose treaty with us was, in fact,
violated by the operation of a state law, could never be satisfac-
torily answered by referring to a theoretic abstract, disputed propo-
sition. Such a power might reply with irresistible force: "It is
not for us to concern ourselves about the structure and meaning
of your political constitutions, or the force of legal maxims de-
ducible from the forms and distributions of power which you
have adopted for your government. It is the act in which alone
we are interested — you have stipulated this and that to us — your
stipulation in practice is contravened. It is your duty to see that
there are no impediments from conflicting authorities within
yourselves, to an exact fulfilment of your promises. If you suf-
fer any such impediment to exist, you are answerable for the con-
sequences."

As to the third point, it is to be observed, that though there
may have been no express formal decision of our courts, enfor-
cing the exceptionable principle of the trespass act ; yet there
never was a decision of a supreme court against it ; and it may
not be amiss to remark incidentally, that the decision of the may-

Mt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 199

or's court, from which Mr. Jefferson is glad to derive an exculpa-
tion of our conduct, was the subject of a severe animadversion at
a popular meeting in this city, as a judiciary encroachment on the
legislative authority of the state. The truth on this point is, that
according to the opinion of our bar, a defence under a military
order was desperate, and it was believed that a majority of our
supreme court bench would overrule the plea. Hence, in nume-
rous cases where it might have been used, it was waived ; and the
endeavor on behalf of the defendants, was either to effect on col-
lateral grounds, a mitigation of damages, or to accomplish the
best compromises that could be obtained ; even the suit of Eutgers
and Waddington, after a partial success in the mayor's court, was
terminated by a compromise, according to the advice of the de-
fendant's council, owing to the apprehension of an unfavorable
issue in the supreme court ; and this, notwithstanding the defend-
ant was a British subject.

Under these circumstances, which are faithfully represented,
is it possible to doubt, that the act in question operated a breach
of our treaty with Great Britain ? and this from the commence-
ment of its existence? can we reasonably expect, that nations
with whom we have treaties, will allow us to substitute theoretic
problems to performances of our engagements, and will be willing
to accept them as apologies for actual violations ?

It is pertinent to remark, that the British commander in chief
very early remonstrated against this act ; but the remonstrance
produced no effect.

Another act of the state of New- York may be cited as a vio-
lation of the treaty on our part, which must have been nearly
cotemporary with that of the detention of the posts. Its date is
the 12th of May, 1781 ; this act confirms, in express terms, all
confiscations before made, notwithstanding errors in the proceed-
ings, and takes away the writ of error upon any judgment pre-
viously rendered.

This was, in substance, a new confiscation ; judgments which
from error were invalid, were nullities. To take away the writ
of error, by which their nullity might be established, was to give
them an efficacy which they did not before possess ; and, as to

200 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

the operation, cannot be distinguished from the rendering of new
judgments. To make voidable acts of confiscation valid and con-
clusive, is equivalent to new acts of confiscation. A fair execu-
tion of the treaty, required, that every thing in this respect
should be left where it was, and forbade the remedying of defects,
in former proceedings, as much as the restitution of new judg-
nier."-.

Another, and an unequivocal breach of the treaty, is found in
an act of South Carolina, of March 26, 1784. This act suspends
the recovery of British debts for nine months, and then aliows
them to be recovered only in four yearly installments, contrary
to the express stipulation of the IVth. article, "that creditors on
either side, sha.ll meet with no lawful impediments to the recovery of
the fall value in sterling money, of all bona fide debts theretofore con-
trac

It is idle to attempt to excuse infractions of this kind, by the
pleas of distress and inability. This is to make the convenience
of one party the measure of its obligation to perform its promises
to another. If there was really an impossibility of payment, as
has been pretended, there was no need of legislative obstruction ;
the thing would have regulated itself; and the very interest of
the creditor was a pledge, that no general evil could have resulted
from allowing a free course to the laws. If such impediments
could be justified, what impediments might not be justified?
"\Vhat would become of the article, the only one in the treaty, to
be performed by us, of real consequence to Great-Britain ?

This infraction by South Carolina, was prior to that of the de-
tention of the posts, by Great Britain.

But the case of Virginia is still stronger than that of South
Carolina. There is evidence which cannot be disputed, that her
courts, in defiance of the treaty, have constantly remained shut
to the recovery of British debts, in virtue of laws passed during
the war.

An act of her general assembly of the 22d June, 178-4, after
suggesting as breaches of the treaty by Great Britain, the carry-
ing off of the negroes, and the detention of theposts, after instruct-
ing her delegates in Congress to request a remonstrance to the

^x. 38.] CAMILLUS. 201

British court, complaining of those infractions, and desiring re-
paration, and after declaring that the national honor and interest
of the citizens of that commonwealth obliged the assembly to
withhold their co-operation in the complete fulfilment of the said treaty,
until the success of the aforementioned remonstrance is known,
or Congress shall signify their sentiments touching the premises,
concludes with the following resolution :

" That so soon as reparation is made for the foregoing infrac-
tion, or Congress shall judge it indisputably necessary, such acts
and parts of acts passed during the late war, as inhibit the
of British debts, ought to be repealed, and payment thereof made in
such time and manner as shall consist with the exh .ation of

the commonvsealth."'

The plain language of this resolution is, that there were acts
passed during the war, which then actually inhibited the recovery
of British debts ; and that for the removal of this inhibition, a
repealing act by the authority of Virginia was necessary.

However unfounded this position might have been in theory,
here is conclusive evidence that the fact in Virginia was conform-
able to it ; that her courts had been, ever since :he peace, then;
were, and until a repealing law was passed, were likely to con-
tinue to be shut against the recovery of British detts. When testi-
mony of this kind was urged by the British minister, was it pos-
sible for our envoy to make any solid reply? Who could be
supposed to know better than the legislature of Virginia, the real
state of the fact ? When that legislature declared it to be as has
been stated, who, or what could contradict it ? With what truth
has it been asserted, that "it was at all times perfectly understood11
that treaties controlled the laws of the states ?

Additional proof of the contrary is found in the subsequent
conduct of Virginia. On the 12th of December, 17S7, the state
passed an act repealing all such acts or parts of acts of the state,
as had prevented, or might prevent the recovery of debts due to
British subjects, according to the true intent of the treaty ; but
with this proviso, that there should be a suspension of the repeal,
'till the governor, by. advice of council had, by proclamation, no-
tified that Great Britain had delivered up the posts, and was tak-

202 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

ing measures for the further fulfilment of the treaty by delivering
up the negroes, or by making compensation for them. This de-
notes clearly, that in the opinion of the legislature of Virginia,
there were acts of that state which had prevented and might prevent
the recovery of debts according to the treaty.

It is observable, too, that the resolutions of June, 1784, do
not even give the expectation of a complete repeal of the imped-
ing laws, in the event of reparation of the breaches of treaty by
Great Britain. They only promise such a modification of them
as would permit the payment in such time and manner as shoidd
consist with the exhausted situation of the commonwealth ; that is, not
according to the true intent of the treaty, but according to the
opinion of the legislature of Virginia of the abilities of the com-
monwealth.

As the infraction which these proceedings of Virginia admit,
resulted from acts passed during the war, it of course was coeval
with the first existence of the treaty of peace, and seems to pre-
'dude the possibility of any prior breach by Great Britain. It
has been at least demonstrated, that the detention of the posts
was not such prior breach ; as there was no obligation to surren-
der 'till after the exchange of the ratifications of the definitive
4reaty in England.

I pass by the serious contraventions of the treaty in this im-
portant article of the debts, which are of a later date, because
they do not affect the question of the first breach, though they
are of great weight to demonstrate the obligation of the United
States to make compensation.

The argument then, upon the whole, as to the question of the
first breach, stands thus — It is a great doubt whether the carrying
away of the negroes was at all a breach. If it was one, the trespass
act of this state preceded it in date, and went into operation the
very moment it was possible to issue process. The detention of
the posts is subsequent to breaches of the article concerning their
recovery of debts on our part. This, in the case of South Caro-
lina, is determined by the date of her act (March 26, 1784) which
is before the exchange of the ratifications of the definitive treaty
could have taken place. In that of Virginia, it results from her

^T. 38.] CAMILLUS. 203

own testimony, that impediments to the recovery of British debts,
created by acts passed during the war, continued from the first
moment of the peace until after the year 1787. Or if, contrary
to our own interpretation, we are disposed to adhere to the pro-
visional treaty, as the act from which performance was to date, we
are guilty of a breach in not acting ourselves upon that treaty :
a breach, which being cotemporary with the existence of the
treaty, seems not to admit of any prior contravention. From all
which it follows, that take what ground we will, we must be per-
plexed to fix the charge of the first breach of the treaty upon
Great Britain.

Let the appeal be to the understandings and hearts of candid
men — men who have force of mind sufficient to rescue themselves
from the trammels of prejudice, and who dare to look even un-
palatable truths in the face. Let such men pronounce, whether
they are still satisfied that Great Britain is clearly chargeable with
the first breaches of the treaty ? Whether they are not, on the
contrary, convinced that the question is one so mixed and doubt-
ful, as to render a waiver of it, even on the score of intrinsic mer-
it, expedient on our part? and especially whether they can en-
tertain a particle. of doubt, that it was wiser to waive it than to
suffer it to prove a final obstacle to the adjustment of a contro-
versy on which the peace of their country was suspended ? This
was undoubtedly the alternative to our envoy. In the choice he
made, the ultimate opinion of our enlightened country cannot fail
to applaud his prudence.

Camillus.

1795.
The discussion in the two last numbers has shown, if I mis-
take not, that this country by no means stands upon such good
ground, with regard to the inexecution of the treaty of peace, as
some of our official proceedings have advanced, and as many

204 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 38.

among us have too lightly credited. The task of displaying this
truth has been an unwelcome one. As long as a contrary doc-
trine was either a mere essay of polemical skill, or a convenient
ingredient of negotiation, it was natural for those who thought
differently of it, to prefer silence to contradiction ; but when it
is made the engine of great errors, of national conduct, of exces-
sive pretensions, which forbid a reasonable accommodation, of na-
tional difference, and endangers rupture and war, on grounds
which reason disapproves and prudence condemns, it becomes an
indispensable duty to expose its hollowness and fallacy. — Eeserve
then would be a crime. The true patriot, who never fears to sac-
rifice popularity to what he believes to be the cause of public
good, cannot hesitate to endeavor to unmask the error, though
with the certainty of incurring the displeasure and censure of the
prejudiced and unthinking.

The disposition to infract the treaty, which, in several parti-
culars, discovered itself among us, almost as soon as it was
known to have been made, was, from its first appearance, a
source of humiliation, regret, and apprehension to those who
could dispassionately estimate the consequences, and who felt a
proper concern for the honor and character of the country.
They perceived that besides loss of reputation, it must sooner or
later lead to very serious embarrassments. They have been
hitherto mistaken in no part of their anticipations ; and if their
faithful warning voice, now raised to check the progress of error,
is as little listened to as when it was raised to prevent the com-
mencement of it, there is too much cause to fear, that the expe-
perience of extensive evils may extort regrets which the fore-
sight of an enlightened people ought to avert.

Citizens of United America ! as you value your present en-
viable lot, rally round your own good sense ! Expel from your
confidence, men who have never ceased to misadvise you !
Discard intemperate and illiberal passions ! Aspire to the glory
of the greatest triumph which a people can gain, a triumph over
prejudice! Be just, be prudent! Listen impartially to the una-
dulterated language of truth ! And, above all, guard your peace
with anxious vigilance against all the artful snares which are

Mr. 38.] CAMILLUS. 205

laid for it ! Accompany me with minds open to conviction, in a
discussion of unspeakable importance to your welfare !

Weigh, well, as preliminary to further investigation, this
momentous proposition. "Peace, in the particular situation
of this independent country, is an object of such great and
primary magnitude, that it ought not to be relinquished, unless
the relinquishment be clearly necessary to preserve our honor
in some unequivocal point, or to avoid the sacrifice of some
right or interest of material and permanent importance."
This is the touchstone of every question which can come before
us, respecting our foreign concerns.

As a general proposition, scarcely any will dispute it ; but
in the application of the rule, there is much confusion of ideas ;
much false feeling, and falser reasoning. The ravings of anger
and pride are mistaken for the suggestions of honor. Thus are
we told in a delirium of rage, by a gentleman of South Carolina,
that our envoy should have demanded an unconditional relinquish-
ment of the western posts as a right ; till which was granted, and
until Lord Grenville had given orders to Lord Dorchester to that
effect, open to be sent to our President, to be by him forwarded, he
should not have opened his lips about the treaty. It was prostrating
the dearest rights of freemen, and laying them prostrate at the feet of
royalty.

In a case of incontestible, mutual infractions of a treaty, one
of the parties is to demand, peremptorily of the other, an uncon-
ditional performance upon his part, by way of preliminary, and
without negotiation. An envoy sent to avert war, carrying with
him the clearest indications of a general solicitude of his country,
that peace might be preserved, was, at the very first step of his
progress, to render hostility inevitable, by exacting, not only
what could not have been complied with, but what must have
been rejected with indignation. The government of Great Bri-
tain must have been the most abject on earth, in a case so
situated, to have listened for a moment to such a demand. And
because our envoy did not pursue this frantic course ; did not
hold the language of an imperious Bashaw to his trembling
slave, he is absurdly stigmatised as having prostrated the rights

206 HAMILTON'S WORKS. (>Et. 38.

of freemen, at the foot of royalty. What are we to think of the
state of mind which could produce so extravagant a sally?
would a prudent people have been willing to have entrusted a
negotiation which involved their peace to the author of it ? Will
they be willing to take him as their guide in a critical emergency
of their affairs ?*

True honor is a rational thing. It is as distinguishable from
Quixotism, as true courage from the spirit of bravo. It is
possible for one nation to commit so undisguised and unqualified
an outrage upon another, as to render a negociation of the ques-
tion dishonorable. But this seldom, if ever happens. In most
cases, it is consistent with honor to precede rupture by negocia-
tion, and whenever it is, reason and humanity demand it.
Honor cannot be wounded by consulting moderation. As a
general rule, it is not till after it has become manifest, that rea-
sonable reparation for a clear premeditated wrong cannot be
obtained by an amicable adjustment, that honor demands a resort
to arms. In all the questions between us and Great Britain, honor
permitted the moderate course ; in those which regard the in-
execution of the treaty of peace, there had undoubtedly been
mutual faults. It was, therefore, a case for negotiation and
mutual reparation. True honor, which can never be separated
from justice, even requires reparation from us to Great Britain,
as well as from her to us. The injuries we complain of in the
present war, were also of a negotiable kind. The first was bot-
tomed on a controverted point in the laws of nations. The
second left open the question, whether the principal injury was
a designed act of the government or a misconstruction of its
courts. To have taken, therefore, the imperious ground which
is recommended, in place of that which was taken — would have
been not to follow the admonitions of honor, but to have sub-
mitted to the impulse of passion and phrensy.

So likewise, when it is asserted that war is preferable to the

* No man in the habit of thinking well either of Mr. Rutledge's head or heart,
but must have felt, at reading the passages of his speech which hare been pub-
lished, pain, surprise, and mortification. I regret the occasion, and the necessity
of animadversion.

Mt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 207

sacrifice of our rights and interests, this, to be true, to be rational
must be understood of such rights and interests as are certain
as are important, such as regard the honor, security, or prosperity
of our country. It is not a right disputable, or of small conse-
quence, it is not an interest temporary, partial and incon-
siderable, which will justify, in our situation, an appeal to arms.

Nations ought to calculate as well as individuals ; to com-
pare evils ; and to prefer the lesser to the greater ; to act other-
wise, is to act unreasonably ; those who counsel it, are impostors
or madmen.

These reflections are of a nature to lead to a right judgment
of the conduct of our envoy in the plan of adjustment to which
he has given his assent.

Three objects, as has appeared, were to be aimed at, on be-
half of the United States. 1st. Compensation for negroes carried
away. 2d. Surrender of the Western Posts. 3d. Compensation
for spoliation during the existing war.

Two of these objects, and these in every view the most im-
portant, have been provided for ; how fully will be examined
hereafter. One of them has been given up (to wit) compensation
for the negroes.

It has been shown, as I trust, to the conviction of dispassion-
ate men, that the claim of compensation for the negroes, is, in
point of right, a very doubtful one ; in point of interest, it cer-
tainly falls under the description of partial and inconsiderable ;
affecting in no respect, the honor or security of the nation, and
incapable of having a sensible influence upon its prosperity. The
pecuniary value of the object is, in a national scale, trifling.

Not having before me the proper documents, I can only
speak from memory. But I do not fear to be materially mis-
taken in stating that the whole number carried away, so ascer-
tained as to have afforded evidence for a claim of compensation,
was short of 3,000 persons, of whom about 1,300 were of sixteen
years and upwards, men, women, and children. Computing
these at an average of 150 dollars per head, which is a competent
price, the amount would be 450,000 dollars, and not two or three
millions, as has been pretended.

208 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JKi. 38.

It is a fact, which I assert on the best authority, that our en-
voy made every effort in his power to establish our construction
of the article relating to this subject, and to obtain compensation ;
and that he did not relinquish it, till he became convinced, that
to insist upon it would defeat the purpose of his mission, and
leave the controversy between the two countries unsettled.

Finding, at the same time, that the two other points in dis-
pute could be reasonably adjusted, is there any one who will be
rash enough to affirm, that he ought to have broken off the nego-
ciation on account of the difficulty about the negroes ? Yes !
there are men, who are thus inconsiderate and intemperate ! But
will a sober, reflecting people ratify their sentence ?

What would such a people have said to our envoy, had he
returned with this absurd tale in his mouth: "Countrymen! I
could have obtained the surrender of your posts, and an adequate
provision for the reparation of your losses by unjust captures — I
could have terminated your controversy with Great Britain, and
secured the continuance of your peace, but for one obstacle, a re-
fusal to compensate for the negroes carried away ; on this point
the British government maintained a construction of the treaty
different from ours, and adhered to it with innexibilit}^. I con-
fess, that there appeared to be much doubt concerning the true
construction ; I confess, also, that the object was of inconsider-
able value. Yet it made a part of our claims, and I thought the
hazards of war preferable to a renunciation of it."

What would his adversaries have replied to hirn on such an
occasion? No ridicule would have been too strong, no reproach
too bitter. Their triumph would have been complete : for he
would have been deservedly left without advocate, without
apologist.

It cannot admit of a serious doubt, that the affair of the ne-
groes, was too questionable in point of right, too insignificant in
point of interest, to have been suffered to be an impediment to
the immense objects which were to be promoted by an accommo-
dation of differences acceptable in other respects. There was no
general principle of national right or policy to be renounced. No
consideration of honor forbid the renunciation, every calculation

Mt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 209

of interest invited to it. The evils of war for one month would
outweigh the advantage, if at the end of it there was a certainty
of attainment.

But was war the alternative ? Yes, war or disgrace.

The United States and Great Britain had been brought to
issue. The recent spoliations on our commerce, superadded to
the evils of a protracted Indian war, connected with the deten-
tion of the western posts, and accompanied with indications of a
design to contract our boundaries, obstructing the course of our
settlements and the enjoyment of private rights, and producing
serious and growing discontent in our western country, rendered
it indispensable, that there should be a settlement of old differ-
ences, and a reparation of new wrongs ; or, that the sword should
vindicate our rights.

This was certainly, and with reason, the general sense of our
country, when our envoy left it. There are many indications
that it was the opinion of our government ; and it is to be in-
ferred, that our envoy understood the alternative to be as has
been stated.

Indeed what else could be contemplated ? After the depre-
dations which had been committed upon our commerce, after the
strong sensibility which had been discovered upon the occasion
in and out of our public councils, after an envoy extraordinary
had been sent to terminate differences and obtain reparation ; if
nothing had resulted, was there any choice but reprisals ? Should
we not have rendered ourselves ridiculous and contemptible in
the eyes of the whole world, by forbearing them ?

It is curious to observe the inconsistency of certain men.
They reprobate the treaty as incompatible with our honor, and
yet they affect to believe an abortion of the negotiation would
not have led to war. If they are sincere, they must think that
national honor consists in perpetually railing, complaining, blus-
tering, and submitting. For my part, much as I deprecate war,
I entertain no doubt that it would have been our duty to meet it
with decision, had negotiation failed ; that a due regard to our
honor, our rights and our interests would have enjoined it upon
us. Nor would a pusillanimous passiveness have saved us from

G 14

210 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEr. 38.

it. So unsettled a state of things would have led to fresh inju-
ries and aggravations ; and circumstances, too powerful to be re-
sisted, would have dragged us into war. We should have lost
our honor without preserving our peace. Nations in similar
situations have no option but to accommodate differences, or to
fight. Those which have strong motives to avoid war, should,
by their moderation, facilitate the accommodation of differences.
This is a rule of good sense, a maxim of sound policy.

But the misfortune is, that men will oppose imagination to
fact. Though we see Great Britain predominant on the ocean ;
though we observe her pertinaciously resisting the idea of paci-
fication with France, amidst the greatest discouragements; though
we have employed a man whose sagacity and integrity have been
hitherto undisputed, and of a character far from flexible, to as-
certain what was practicable ; though circumstances favored his
exertions ; though much time and pains were bestowed upon the
subject ; though there is not only his testimony, but the testimony
of other men who were immediately on the scene, and in whom
there is every reason to confide, that all was attained which was
attainable : yet we still permit ourselves to imagine, that more
and better could have been done, and that by taking even now a
high and menacing tone, Great Britain may be brought to our
feet.

Even a style of politeness in our envoy has been construed to
his disadvantage. Because he did not mistake strut for dignity,
and rudeness for spirit ; because he did not, by petulance and
asperity, enlist the pride of the British court against the success
of his mission, he is represented as having humiliated himself
and his nation. It is forgotten that mildness in the manner, and
firmness in the thing, are most compatible with true dignity, and
almost always go further than harshness and stateliness.

Suppositions that more could be done by displaying, what is
called, greater spirit, are not warranted by facts. It would be
extremely imprudent on that basis, to trust ourselves to a further
experiment — to the immense vicissitudes in the affairs of Europe,
which from moment to moment may essentially vary the relative
situations of the contending parties. If there ever was a state

Mt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 211

of things which demanded extraordinary circumspection, and
forbade a spirit of adventure, it is that of the United States
at the existing juncture, viewed in connection with the present
very singular and incalculable posture of Europe.

But it is asked, to avoid Scylla, may we not run upon Cha-
rybdis ? — If the treaty should preserve our peace with Britain,
may it not interrupt it with France ? — I answer, that to me there
appears no room for apprehension. It will be shown in the
course of the discussion, that the treaty interferes in no particular
with our engagements to France, and will make no alteration whatever
in the state of things between us and her, except as to the selling
prizes in our ports, which, not being required by treaty, was ori-
ginally permitted merely because there was no law to forbid it,
and which being confined to France, was of very questionable
propriety on the principles of neutrality, and has been a source
of dissatisfaction to the other belligerent powers. This being the
case, no cause of umbrage is given to France by the treaty, and
it is as contrary to her interest as to inclination, wantonly to seek a
quarrel with us. Prostrate indeed were our situation, if we
could not, without offending France, make a treaty with another
power, which merely tended to extinguish controversy, and to
regulate the rules of commercial intercourse, and this not only
without violating any duty to France, but without giving any
preference to another. It is astonishing that those who affect so
much nicety about national honor, do not feel the extreme humi-
liation of such an idea. As to the denomination of alliance with
Great Britain which has been given to the treaty, it is an insult
to the understandings of the people, to call it by such a name.
There is not a tittle of it which warrants the appellation.

Camillus.

212 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 38.

NO. VI.

1795.

There is one more objection to the treaty for what it does not
do, which requires to be noticed. This is an omission to provide
against the impressment of our seamen.

It is certain that our trade has suffered embarrassments in this
respect, and that there have been abuses which have operated
very oppressively upon our seamen ; and all will join in the wish
that they could have been guarded against in future by the treaty.

But it is easier to desire this, than to see how it could have
been done. A general stipulation against the impressment of
our seamen would have been nugatory, if not derogatory. Our
right to an exemption is perfect by the laws of nations, and a
contrary right is not even pretended by Great Britain. The
difficulty has been, and is, to fix a rule of evidence, by which to
discriminate our seamen from theirs, and by the discrimination
to give ours protection, without covering theirs in our service.
It happens that the two nations speak the same language, and in
every exterior circumstance closely resemble each other ; that
many of the natives of Great Britain and Ireland are among our
citizens, and that others, without being properly our citizens, are
employed in our vessels.

Every body knows that the safety of Great Britain depends
upon her marine. This was never more emphatically the case,
than in the war in which she is now engaged. Her very exist-
ence as an independent power, seems to rest on a maritime supe-
riority.

In this situation, can we be surprised that there are difficul-
ties in bringing her to consent to any arrangement which would
enable us, by receiving her seamen into our employment, to
detain them from her service? Unfortunately, there can be
devised no method of protecting our seamen which does not
involve that danger to her. Language and appearance, instead
of being a guide, as between other nations, are between us and
Great Britain, sources of mistake and deception. The most fa-

Mt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 213

miliar experience in the ordinary affairs of society, proves, that
the oaths of parties interested cannot be fully relied upon. Cer-
tificates of citizenship, by officers of one party, would be too
open to the possibility of collusion and imposition, to expect that
the other would admit them to be conclusive. If inconclusive,
there must be a discretion to the other party which would de-
stroy their efficacy.

In whatever light they may be viewed, there will be found
an intrinsic difficulty in devising a rule of evidence, safe for both
parties, and consequently, in establishing one by treaty. No
nation would readily admit a rule which would make it depend
on the good faith of another, and the integrity of its agents,
whether her seamen, in time of war, might be drawn from her
service, and transferred to that of a neutral power. Such a rule
between Great Britain and us, would be peculiarly dangerous,
on account of circumstances, and would facilitate a transfer of
seamen from one party to another. Great Britain has accordingly
perseveringly declined any definite arrangement on the subject;
notwithstanding earnest and reiterated efforts of our government.

When we consider candidly the peculiar difficulties which
various circumstances of similitude, between the people of the
two countries, oppose to a satisfactory arrangement, and that to
the belligerent party, it is a question of national safety, to the
neutral party a question of commercial convenience and indivi-
dual security, we shall be the less disposed to think the want of
such a provision as our wishes would dictate, a blemish in the
treaty.

The truth seems to be, that from the nature of the thing, it
is matter of necessity to leave it to occasional and temporary
expedients — to the effects of special interpositions from time to
time, to procure the correction of abuses ; and if the abuse be-
comes intolerable, to the ultima ratio; the good faith of the
parties, and the motives which they have to respect the rights of
each other, and to avoid causes of offence, and vigilance in noting
and remonstrating against the irregularities which are committed,
are probably the only peaceable sureties of which the case is sus-
ceptible.

214 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

Our minister plenipotentiary, Mr. Pinckney, it is well known,
has long had this matter in charge, and has strenuously exerted
himself to have it placed upon some acceptable footing ; but his
endeavors have been unsuccessful, further than to mitigate the
evil by some additional checks, and by drawing the attention of
the British government to the observance of more caution. A
more sensible effect of our representations has been lately expe-
rienced ; and with attention and vigilance, that effect may be
continued, and perhaps increased. But there is reason to fear
that it would constantly be found impracticable to establish an
efficacious conventional guard.

I proceed now to the examination of the several articles in
the treaty, in the order in which they stand.

The first contains merely a general declaration that there
shall be peace and friendship between the contracting parties,
the countries and people of each, without exceptions of persons
or places.

One would have imagined that this article, at least, would
have escaped a formal objection ; however it might have been
secretly viewed as the most sinful of all, by those who pant after
war and enmity between the two countries. Nothing but the
fact could have led to a surmise that it was possible for it to have
been deemed exceptionable ; and nothing can better display the
rage for objection, which actuates the adversaries of the treaty,
than their having invented one against so innocent a provision.

But the committee appointed by a meeting at Charleston,
(South Carolina) have sagaciously discovered, that this article
permits " the unconditional return to our country of all persons-
who were proscribed during the late war."

With all but men determined to be dissatisfied, it would be
a sufficient answer to such an objection to say, that this article
is a formula in almost every treaty on record, and that the con-
sequence attributed to it was never before dreamt of, though
other nations besides ourselves have had their proscriptions and
their banishments.

But this is not all — our treaty of peace with Great Britain
in 1783, has an equivalent stipulation in these words (article 6) ;

Mx. 38.] CAMILLUS. 215

" there shall be a firm and perpetual peace between his Britan-
nic Majesty and the said States, and between the subjects of the
one, and the citizens of the other." In calling this an equiva-
lent stipulation, I speak with reference to the objection which
is made. The argument to support that objection would be to
this effect : " Exiles and criminals are regarded as within the
peace of a country ; but the people of each are, by this article,
placed within the peace of the other ; therefore proscribed per-
sons are restored to the peace of the United States, and so lose
the character of exiles and criminals." Hence the argument will
turn upon the word " peace" — the word " friendship" will have
no influence upon the question. In other respects there is no
difference, in substance, between the two articles. For the terms
"people," " subjects," " citizens," as used in the two treaties, are
synonymous. If, therefore, the last treaty stipulates that there
shall be peace between the governments, countries, and people
of the two nations, the first stipulates what is equivalent, that
there shall be peace between the two governments, and the sub-
jects and citizens of each. The additional words, without excep-
tion of persons and places, can make no difference, being merely
surplusage. If A says to B, "I will give you all the money in
this purse," the gift is as complete as if he had said, " I give you
all the money in this purse, without exception of a single dol-
lar."

But the object of the stipulation, and the subject of the ob-
jection, have no relation to each other. National stipulations are
to be considered in the sense of the laws of nations. Peace, in
the sense of those laws, defines a state which is opposite to war.
Peace, in the sense of the municipal laws, defines a state Avhich
is opposite to that of criminality. They are, consequently, differ-
ent things ; and a subject of Great Britain, by committing a crime,
may put himself out of the peace of our government, in the sense
of our municipal laws, while there might be a perfect peace with
him, in the sense of the laws of nations, and vice versa, there
might be war with him, in the sense of the laws of nations, and
peace in that of the municipal laws.

The punishment of a subject of Great Britain as a felon,

216 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [iET. 38.

would certainly not constitute a state of war between the parties,
nor interfere with the peace which is stipulated by this article ;
though it is declared that it shall be inviolable, and might as well
be affirmed to prevent the punishment of future, as of former
criminals.

But who, in the contemplation of the laws of the respective
states, are the proscribed persons ? They must have been under-
stood to have been subjects or citizens of the states which pro-
scribed them — consequently cannot be presumed to be compre-
hended in an article which stipulates peace between the nations
and their respective citizens.

This is not a stipulation of peace between a nation and its
own citizens; nor can the idea of expatriation be admitted to go
so far as to destroy the relation of citizen, as regards amenability
for a crime. To this purpose, at least, the offender must remain a
citizen.

There can hardly have been a time when a treaty was formed
between two nations, when one or the other had not exiled crim-
inals or fugitives from justice, which it would have been unwil-
ling to reinstate. Yet this was never deemed an obstacle to the
article, nor has an immunity from punishment ever been claimed
tinder it, nor is there the least ground to assert that it might be
claimed under it.

It follows that the objection which has been taken to this ar-
ticle is wholly without foundation. It is humiliating to the human
understanding, or disreputable to the human heart, that similar
objections should come from sensible men ; it is disgustful to
have to refute them. The regard I feel for some of those who
have brought it forward, makes it a painful task. How great is
the triumph of passion over the judgment, on this occasion.

Camillus.

Mi. 38.] CAMILLUS. 217

NO. VII.

1795.

The second article of the treaty stipulates, that his Britannic
majesty will withdraw all his troops and garrisons from all posts
and places within the boundary lines assigned by the treaty of
peace to the United States ; and that this evacuation shall take
place on or before the first day of June, 1796 ; the United States
in the mean time, at their discretion, extending their settlements
to any part within the said boundary lines, except within the pre-
cincts or jurisdictions of any of the said posts — that all settlers
and traders within the precincts or jurisdiction of the said posts,
shall continue to enjoy, unmolested, all their property of every
kind, and shall be protected therein ; that they shall be at liberty
to remain there, or to remove with all or any part of their effects ;
also to sell their lands, houses, or effects, or to retain the pro-
perty thereof at their discretion ; that such of them as shall con-
tinue to reside within the said boundary lines shall not be com-
pelled to become citizens of the United States, but shall be at
liberty to do so, if they think proper, making and declaring their
election within a year after the evacuation ; and that those who
should continue after the expiration of a year, without having
declared their intention of remaining subjects of his Britannic
majesty, shall be considered as having elected to become citizens
of the United States.

This article, which accomplishes a primary object of our
envoy's mission, and one of primary importance to the United
States, has been as much clamored against as if it had made a
formal cession of the posts to Great Britain. On this point an
uncommon degree of art has been exerted, and with no small
success. The value of the principal thing obtained has been put
out of sight by a misrepresentation of incidental circumstances.

But the fact is, nevertheless, that an object has been accom-
plished, of vast consequence to our country. The most impor-
tant desiderata in our concerns with foreign powers are, the pos-
session of the western posts, and a participation in the naviga-
tion of the river Mississippi. More or fewer of commercial

218 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

privileges are of vastly inferior moment. The force of circum-
stances will do all we can reasonably wish in this respect ; and,
in a short time, without any steps that may convulse our trade
or endanger our tranquillity, will carry us to our goal.

The recovery of the western posts will have many important
consequences. It will extinguish a source of controversy with
Great Britain, which, at a period not distant, must have inevita-
bly involved the two countries in a war, and the thing was
becoming every day, more and more urgent. It will enable us
effectually to control the hostilities of the northern and western
Indians, and in so doing will have a material influence on the
southern tribes. It will therefore tend to rescue the country
from what is at present its greatest scourge, Indian wars. When
we consider that these wars have, four years past, taken an extra
million annually from our revenue, we cannot be insensible of
the importance of terminating that source of expense. This
million turned to the redemption of our debt, would contribute
to complete its extinguishment in about twenty years.* The
benefits of tranquillity to our frontier, exempting its inhabitants
from the complicated horrors of savage warfare, speak too loudly
to our humanity, as well as to our policy, to need a commentary.

The advantages of the recovery of the posts do not stop
here ; an extension of trade is to be added to the catalogue.
This, however, need only be mentioned at this time, as it will
come again into view in considering the third article.

But two consequences, not commonly adverted to, require
particular notice in this place.

There is just ground of suspicion, corroborated by various
concurring circumstances, that Great Britain has entertained the
project of contracting our boundaries to the Ohio. This has ap-
peared in Canada — at the British garrisons — at the Indian towns
— at Philadelphia, and at London. The surrender of the posts
for ever cuts up by the roots, this pernicious project. The whole
of our western interests are immediately and deeply concerned
in the question.

* This is a rough calculation, but it cannot materially err.

Ml. 38.]

CAMILLUS. 219

The harmonious and permanent connection of our western
with our Atlantic country, materially depends on our possession
of the western posts. Already has great discontent been engen-
dered in that country by their detention. That discontent was
increasing and rankling daily. It was actually one of the ali-
ments of the insurrection in the western parts of Pennsylvania.
While the posts remained in the hands of Great Britain, danger-
ous tamperings with the inhabitants of that country were to be
apprehended — a community of views between Great Britain and
Spain might have taken place, and by force and sedition, events
formidable to our general union might have been hazarded.
The disposition or prevention of that community of views, is a
point of the greatest moment in our system of national policy.
It presses us to terminate differences, and extinguish misunder-
standings with Great Britain ; — it urges us to improve the favora-
ble moment, and stamps with the charge of madness, the efforts
to let go the hold which the treaty, if mutually ratified, would
give us.

Whoever will cast his eye upon the map of the United States,
will survey the position of the western posts, their relations to
our western waters, and their general bearings upon our western
country ; and is at the same time capable of making the reflec-
tions, which an accurate view of the subject suggests, will dis-
cover multiplied confirmations of the position, that the possession
of those posts by us, has an intimate connection with the preser-
vation of union between our western and Atlantic territories ;
and whoever can appreciate the immense mischiefs of a disunion,
will feel the prodigious value of the acquisition. To such a
man, the question may be confidently put : Is there any thing in
the treaty conceded by us to Great Britain, to be placed in com-
petition with this single acquisition? The answer could not fail
to be in the negative.

But it is said by way of objection, that admitting the posts
will be surrendered at the time stipulated, it is no acquisition by
this treaty : it is only the enjoyment of a right which was secured
by the treaty of peace.

With as much good sense might it be said, that the stipula-

220 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 38.

tion of reparation for the spoliation of our property, or even im-
mediate actual reparation, if it had been obtained, was nothing
gained ; because the laws of nations gave us a right to such re-
paration ; and it might in this way be proved to have been im-
possible for our envoy to have effected any thing useful or meri-
torious.

Let us see what is the real state of the case. Great Britain
had engaged by the treaty of peace, to surrender the western
posts loith all convenient speed; but without fixing a precise time.
For the cause, or on the pretext of our not having complied
with the treaty on our part, especially in not removing the im-
pediments which the antecedent laws of particular States opposed
to the recovery of British debts, she delayed, and afterwards
refused to make the surrender ; and when our envoy left this
country, there was too much appearance of an intention on her
part, to detain them indefinitely, and this after having actually
kept them ten years. The treaty of peace was consequently in
this particular suspended, if not superseded. It was either to be
reinstated by a new agreement, or enforced by arms. The first
our envoy has effected ; he has brought Great Britain to aban-
don the dispute, and to fix a precise, determinate time when, at
furthest, the posts are to be delivered up. It is therefore to this
new agreement, that we shall owe the enjoyment of them, and it
is, of course, entitled to the merit of having obtained them ; it is
a positive ingredient in its value, which cannot be taken from it ;
and it may be added, that this is the first time that the merit of
procuring, by negotiation, restitution of a right withheld, was ever
denied to the instrument which procured it.

But the picture given of the situation of Great Britain, to
warrant the inferences which are drawn, is exaggerated and
false. It cannot be denied that she is triumphant on the ocean ;
that the acquisitions which she has made upon France, are
hitherto greater than those which France has made upon her.
If, on the one hand, she owes an immense debt, on the other
she possesses an immense credit, which there is no symptom of
being impaired. British credit has become, in a British mind,
an article of faith, and is no longer an article of reason. How

jEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 221

long it may last, how far it may go, is incalculable. But it is
evident, that it still affords prodigious resources, and that it is
likely, for some time to come, to continue to afford them. In
addition to this, it is a well ascertained fact, that her government
possesses internally, as much vigor, and has as much national
support, as it perhaps ever had at any former period of her
history. Alarmed by the unfortunate excesses in France, most
men of property cling to the government, and carry with them
the great bulk of the nation, almost the whole of the farming
interest, and much the greatest proportion of other industrious
classes. Her manufactures, though probably wounded by the
war, are still in a comparatively flourishing condition. They
suffice not only for her own supply, but for the full extent of
foreign demand, and the markets for them have not been mate-
rially contracted by the war. Her foreign commerce continues
to be immense; as a specimen of it, it may be mentioned, that
the ships from India this year, announced to have been seen
upon or near the British coast, amounted to 35 in number, com-
puted to be worth between four and five millions sterling. It is
no light circumstance in the estimate of her resources, that a
vast preponderancy in that quarter of the globe continues to
nourish her wealth and power.

If from a view of Great Britain, singly, we pass to a view of
her in her foreign connections, we shall find no cause to con-
sider her as a prostrate nation. Among her allies, are the two
greatest powers of Europe (France excepted), namely, Russia and
Austria, or the emperor : Spain and Sardinia continue to make
a common cause with her. There is no power of Europe which
has displayed a more uniform character of perseverance than
Austria ; for which she has very strong motives on the present
occasion. Russia, too, is remarkable for her steadiness to her
purpose, whatever it may be. It is true, that heretofore she has
not discovered much zeal in the coalition, but there are symptoms
of her becoming more closely and cordially engaged. If she
does, she is a great weight in the scale.

Against this will be set the astonishing victories, heroic ex-
ploits, and vast armies of France, her rapid conquests to the

222 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

Rhine, tlie total reduction of Holland, the progress of her arms
in Spain and Italy, the detaching of the king of Prussia from
the coalition, and the prospect of detaching some others of the
German princes ; and it will be added, that the continental ene-
mies of France appear exhausted, despairing, and unable to con-
tinue the war.

This, if offered only to show that there is no probability that
the enemies of France can succeed in the original object of the
war against her, or can divest her of her acquisitions on the con-
tinent, has all the force that may be desired to be given to it ;
but when it is used to prove that the situation of Great Britain
is so desperate and humbled as to oblige her to receive from
France, or the United States, any conditions which either of them
may think fit to impose, the argument is carried infinitely too
far. It is one thing for a country to be in a posture not to receive
the law from others, and a very different thing for her to be in a
situation which obliges others to receive the law from her, and
what is still stronger, from all her friends. France evidently
cannot annoy Russia — she cannot, without great difficulty, from
their geographical position, make any further acquisitions upon
the territories of Austria. Britain and her possessions are essen-
tially safe, while she maintains a decided maritime superiority.
As long as this is the case, even supposing her abandoned by all
her allies, she never can be in the situation which is pretended
by the opposers of the treaty.

But in describing the. situation of France, only one side of the
medal is presented. There is another side far less flattering, and
which, in order to come to a just conclusion, must be impartially
viewed.

If the allies of Great Britain are fatigued and exhausted,
France cannot be in a better condition. The efforts of the latter,
in proportion to intrinsic resources, have, no doubt, been much
greater than those of the former. It is a consequence from this,
physically certain, that France must be still more fatigued and
exhausted, even than her adversaries. Her acquisitions cannot
materially vary this conclusion: the low countries, long the
theatre of the war, must have been pretty well emptied before

jEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 223

they fell into her hands. Holland is an artificial power ; her life
and strength were in her credit ; this perished with her reduction.
Accordingly the succors extracted from her, compared with the
scale of the war, have been insignificant.

But it is conjectured, that as much has not been done as
might have been done ; that restitution of the posts has not been
procured, but only a promise to restore them at a remote period,
in exchange for a former promise, which had been violated.
That there is no good ground of reliance upon the fulfilment of
this new promise, for the performance of which there ought to
have been some surety or guarantee. That the restitution of the
posts ought to have been accompanied with indemnification for
the detention, and for the expenses of the Indian wars which
have been occasioned by that detention, and by the instigation of
British intrigue. That it was better to go to war than relinquish
our claim to such indemnification ; or if our present circum-
stances did not recommend this, it was better to wait till it was
more convenient to us to enforce our claims, than to give them
up. These are the declamations by which this part of the treaty
is arraigned. Let us see if they are the random effusions of en-
thusiasm, or the rational dictates of sound policy.

As to the suggestion, that more might have been done than
was done, it must of necessity be mere conjecture and imagina"
tion. If the picture given of the situation of Great Britain, was
better justified by facts than it is, it would not follow that the
suggestion is true ; for the thing would depend not on the real
situation of the country, but on the opinion entertained of it by
its own administration, on the personal character of the prince
and of his council ; on the degree in which they were influenced
by pride and passion, or by reason. The hypothesis, that the
dispositions of a government are conformable with its situation,
is as fallacious a one as can be entertained. It is to suppose, con-
trary to every day's experience, that cabinets are always wise.
It is, on the part of those who draw the inference, to suppose,
that a cabinet, the most violent, rash, and foolish, of Europe, is
at the same time moderate and prudent enough to act according
to the true situation of the country. Who of our enthusiasts,

224 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

reasoning from his view of the abased condition of Great Britain,
has not long since imagined that she ought to be on her knees to
France, suing for mercy and forgiveness? Yet how different
hitherto is the fact ! If we carefully peruse the speeches of the
leading members of the convention, we shall observe the menaces
against Britain frequently interspersed with invitations to peace ;
while the British government maintains a proud and distant
reserve, repels every idea of peace, and inflexibly pursues the
path of war. If the situation of Europe in general, and of Great
Britain in particular, as is pretended, authorized us to expect
whatever we chose, how happens it that France, with all her vic-
tories, has not yet been able to extort peace ?

As to the true position of France, we are not left to mere in-
ference. All the official reports, all the private accounts from
thence acknowledge a state of extreme embarrassment and dis-
tress ; an alarming derangement of the finances, and a scarcity
not distant from famine. To this are to be added, a continuance
of violent and destructive conflicts of parties, and the unextin-
guishable embers of insurrection.

This fair comparison of the relative situation of the contending
parties, will, I know, be stigmatized as blazoning the strength
and resources of Great Britain, and depreciating the advantages
of France. But the cant phrases of party cannot alter the nature
of truth — nor will they prevent the people of the United States
from listening impartially to it, or from discerning that it is a
mark of fidelity to their interests, to counteract misrepresentation,
by placing facts fairly before them, and a duty which they owe
to themselves, and which they cannot omit to perform without
betraying their own interests, to receive them candidly, and weigh
them maturely.

The conclusion is, that all those highly-charged declamations
which describe Great Britain to us as vanquished and humbled ;
as ready to pass under the yoke at command, and to submit to
any conditions which we may think fit to prescribe, are either
the chimeras of over-heated imaginations, or the fabrications of
impostors ; and if listened to, can have no other effect than to
inspire a delusive presumption, and a dangerous temerity.

jEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 225

But to judge the better of the extravagance of these decla-
mations, it will be useful to go back to the periods when the
negotiation began and ended. Our envoy arrived in England,
and entered upon the business of his mission, at the moment
when there was a general elation on account of the naval victory
gained by Lord Howe, and previous to those important successes
which have terminated in the conquest of Holland ; and the
treaty was concluded by the 19th of November last, prior to the
last mentioned event, and the defection of the king of Prussia.
The posture of things at the time it was in negotiation, and not
at this time, is the standard by which to try its merits ; and it
may be observed, that it is probable the negotiation received its
first impression, and even its general outline, anterior to the
principal part of the disasters sustained by the coalesced powers
in the course of the last campaign.

It may not be improper to add, that if we credit the repre-
sentations of our envoy, Great Britain manifested similar dispo-
sitions with regard to the treaty at the commencement as at the
close of the negotiation : whence it will follow, that too much
has been attributed in this country to the victories of France.

The subject of the second article will be resumed and con-
cluded in the next number.

Camillus.

NO. VIII.

1795.

One of the particulars, in which our envoy is alleged to
have fallen short of what might or ought to have been done,
respects the time for the surrender of the western posts. It is
alleged, that there ought either to have been an immediate sur-
render, or some guarantee or surety for the performance of the
i^ew promise. Both parts of the alternative presuppose that
Great Britain was to have no will upon the subject ; that no
circumstances of security or convenience to her were to be con-
g 15

226 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 38.

suited ; that our envoy was not to negotiate, but to command.
How unsubstantial the foundation on which this course of pro-
ceeding is recommended, has been already developed.

The fact was, that our envoy pressed an early evacuation of
the posts ; but there was an inflexible adherence, on the other
side, to the term limited in the treaty. The reasons understood
to have been assigned for it, were to this effect, viz. That
according to the course of the Indian trade, it was customary to
spread through the nations, goods to a large amount, the returns
for which could not be drawn into Canada, in a shorter period
than was proposed to be fixed for the evacuation ; that the im-
pression which the surrender of all the posts to American gar-
risons might make on the minds of the Indians, could not be
foreseen ; that there was the greatest reason for caution, as, on a
former occasion, it had been intimated to them by public agents
of the United States, that they had been forsaken and given up by
the British government ; that the protection promised on our
part, however sincere, and however competent in other respects,
might not be sufficient in the first instance to prevent the em-
barrassment which might ensue ; that for these reasons the
traders ought to have time to conclude their adventures, which
were predicated upon the existing state of things ; that they
would in future calculate upon the new state of things; but
that, in the mean time, the care of government ought not to be
withdrawn from them.

There is ground to believe, that there were representations
on behalf of the Canada traders, alleging a longer term than
that which was adopted in the treaty, to be necessary to wind
up and adapt their arrangements to the new state of things ;
and that the term suggested by them was abridged several months.
And it may not be useless to observe, as explanatory to the
reasons given, that in fact it is the course of the trade to give
long credits to the Indians, and that the returns for goods fur-
nished in one year, only come in the next year.

What was to be done in this case ? Was the negotiation to
break off, or was the delay to be admitted ? The last was pre-
ferred by our envoy ; and the preference was rightly judged.

jEt. 38.] CAM ILL US. 227

The consequence of breaking off the negotiation has been
stated. No reasonable man will doubt, that delay was pre-
ferable to war, if there be good ground of reliance, that the sti-
pulation will be fulfilled at the appointed time. Let us calmly
examine this point.

The argument against it, is drawn from the breach of the
former promise. To be authorized to press this argument, we
ought to be sure that all was right on our part. After what has
been offered on this subject, are we still convinced that this was
the case ? Are we able to say, that there was nothing in our
conduct which furnished a ground for that of Great Britain ?
Has it not been shown to be a fact, that, from the arrival of the
provisional articles in this country, till after the ratification
thereof, by the definitive treaty, acts of States interdicting the
recovery of British debts, and other acts militating against the
treaty, continued in operation ? Can we doubt, that subjects of
Great Britain, affected by these acts, carried complaints to the
ears of their government ? Can we wonder, if they made serious
impressions there, if they produced dissatisfaction and distrust?
Is it very extraordinary, if they excited the idea of detaining the
posts as a pledge, till there were better indications on our part?
Is it surprising, if the continuance of these acts, and the addition
of others, which were new and positive breaches of the treaty,
prolonged the detention of the posts ?

In fine, was the delay in surrendering so entirely destitute of
cause, so unequivocal a proof of a perfidious character, as to
justify the conclusion, that no future dependence can be made on
the promises of the British government ? Discerning men will
not hastily subscribe to this conclusion.

Mutual charges of breach of faith are not uncommon between
nations : yet this does not prevent their making new stipulations
with each other, and relying upon their performance. The argu-
ment from the breach of one promise, if real, to the breach of
every other, is not supported by experience ; and if adopted as a
general rule, would multiply, infinitely, the impediments to
accord and agreement among nations.

The truth is, that though nations will too often evade their

228 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

promises on colorable pretexts, yet few are so profligate as to do
it without such pretexts. In clear cases, self-interest dictates a
regard to the obligations of good faith : nor is there any thing
in the history of Great Britain which warrants the opinion, that
she is more unmindful than other nations, of her character for
good faith.

Yet she must be so, and in an extreme degree, if she be
capable of breaking, without real cause, a second promise on the
same point, after the termination, by a new treaty, of an old dis-
pute concerning it, and this too on the basis of mutual reparation.
It would indicate a destitution of principle, a contempt of cha-
racter, much beyond the usual measure, and to an extent which
it may be affirmed is entirely improbable.

It is a circumstance of some moment in the question, that
the second promise is free from the vagueness of the first, as
to the time of execution. It is not to be performed ivith all
convenient speed, but by a day certain, which cannot be exceeded.
This would give point to violation, and render it unequivocal.

Another argument, against the probability of performance,
has been deduced from the supposed deficiency of good reasons
for the delay, which is represented as evidence of want of sin-
cerity in the promise.

Besides the reasons, which were assigned for that delay, there
are others that may be conjectured to have operated, which it
would not have been equally convenient to avow ; but which
serve to explain the delay different from the supposition of its
having been calculated for ultimate evasion. If, as we have with
too much cause suspected, Great Britain, or her representatives
in Canada, whether with or without orders, had really counte-
nanced the hostilities of the western Indians, it was to be ex-
pected, that she should think it incumbent upon her, to give
them sufficient time to make peace, before an evacuation of the
posts should put them entirely in our power. She might, other-
wise, have provoked them to hostilities against her own settle-
ments, and have kindled in their minds inextinguishable resent-
ments. It was not certain how soon a peace should be brought
about ; and it might be supposed, that the disposition to it on

JEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 229

our part might be weakened or strengthened by the proximity
or remoteness of the period of the surrender. Moreover, some
considerable time might be requisite to prepare those establish-
ments for the security of Canada, which the relinquishment of
the posts on our side would be deemed to render necessary.

The latter motive is one not justly objectionable : the former
implies an embarrassment, resulting from a culpable policy,
which was entitled to no indulgence from us, but which, never-
theless, must have had a pretty imperious influence on the con-
duct of the other party, and must have created an obstacle to a
speedy surrender, not easy to be surmounted. Taken together,
we find in the reasons assigned, and in those which may be pre-
sumed to have operated, a solution of the pertinacity of Great
Britain on the subject of time, without impeaching, on that
account, the sincerity of the promise to surrender.

But we have very strong holds, for the performance of this
promise, upon the interest of Great Britain : 1st. The interest
which every nation has, in not entirely forfeiting its reputation
for honor and fidelity. 2d. The interest which results from the
correlative stipulation with regard to the indemnification for the
British debts, a point upon which there will be no inconsiderable
mercantile sensibility. 3d. The interest of preserving peace with
this country, the interruption of which, after all that has passed,
could not fail to attend the non-surrender of the posts at the stip-
ulated time.

It is morally certain, that circumstances will every day add
strength to this last motive. Time has already done much for us,
and will do more. Every hour's continuance of the war in Eu-
rope, must necessarily add to the inconveniences of a rupture with
this country, and to the motives which Great Britain must feel,
to avoid an increase of the number of her enemies, to desire peace,
and, if obtained, to preserve it.

The enemies of the treaty, upon their own calculations, can
hardly dispute, that if the war continues another year after the
present, the probable situation of Great Britain will be a com-
plete security for her compliance with her promise to surrender
the posts. But let us suppose that a general peace takes place

230 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

in Europe this winter, what may then be the disposition of Great
Britain in June next, as to war or peace with this country ?

I answer, that the situation will be, of all others, that which
is most likely to indispose her to a war with us. There is no
juncture, at which war is more unwelcome to a nation, than im-
mediately after the experience of another war, which has required
great exertions, and has been expensive, bloody, and calamitous.
The minds of all men then dread the renewal of so great an evil,
and are disposed rather to make sacrifices to peace than to plunge
afresh into hostilities. The situation of Great Britain, at the end
of the war in which she is now engaged, is likely to be the most
discouraging that can be imagined to the provocation of new wars.
Here we may discover a powerful security for the performance of
her stipulations.

As to the idea of a guarantee or surety for the fulfilment of
the promise, it cannot be seriously believed that it was obtainable.
It would have been an admission of the party, that there was a
well-founded distrust of its faith. To consent to it, therefore,
would have been to subscribe to its own humiliation and disgrace,
the expectation of which has been shown to be ridiculous.

But why was there not equally good reason that we should
have given a guarantee or surety for the performance of our new
promise, with regard to the debts? And if there was to have
been reciprocity, where should we have conveniently found that
guarantee or surety? Should we have thought it very reputable
to ourselves, to have been obliged to furnish it?

The arguments of the opposers of the treaty are extremely
at variance with each other. On the one hand, they represent it
as fraught with advantages to Great Britain, without equivalents
to the United States — as a premeditated scheme to sacrifice our
trade and navigation to hers — as a plan dictated by her, for draw-
ing the two countries into close connection and alliance, and for
making our interests subservient to hers ; on the other hand, they
tell us, that there is no security for the surrender of the posts, ac-
cording to stipulation. How is the one thing to be reconciled
with the other ? If the treaty is such an immense boon to Great
Britain, if it be such a master-piece of political craft on her side,

JEt. 38.]

CAMILLUS. 231

can there be any danger that she will destroy her favorite work,
by not performing the conditions on which its efficacy and dura-
tion must depend ? There is no position better settled, than that
the breach of any article of a treaty by one party, gives the other
an option to consider the whole treaty as annulled. Would Great
Britain give us this option, in a case in which she had so much
to lose by doing it ?

This glaring collision of arguments, proves how superficially
the adversaries of the treaty have considered the subject, and how
little reliance can be placed on the views they give of it.

In estimating the plan which the treaty adopts, for the settle-
ment of the old controversy, it is an important reflection, that,
from the course of things, there will be nothing to be performed,
by us before the period for the restitution of the posts will have
elapsed ; and that, if this restitution should be evaded, we shall
be free to put an end to the whole treaty, about which there could
not be a moment's hesitation. We should then be where we
were before the treaty, with the advantage of having strengthened
the justice of our cause, by removing every occasion of reproach,
which the infractions of the treaty of peace may have furnished
against us.

Two other particulars, in which this part of the treaty is sup-
posed to be defective, regard the want of indemnification for the
detention of the posts, and for the expenses of Indian wars.

Those who make the objection, may be safely challenged to
produce precedents of similar indemnifications, unless imposed
by conquering powers on the vanquished, or by powers of over-
bearing strength upon those which were too weak to dispute the
logic of superior force. If this were the real situation of the
United States and Great Britain, then is the treaty inexcusably
faulty ; but if the parties were to treat and agree as equal powers,
then is the pretension extravagant and impracticable. The resti-
tution of the specific thing detained, is all that was to be expected,
and, it may be added, it is all that was ever really expected on
the part of this country, so far as we may reason either from offi-
cial acts or informal expressions in the public opinion.

In cases where clear injuries are done, affecting objects of

232 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [iEx. 38.

known or easily ascertained values, pecuniary compensation may
be expected to be obtained by negotiation ; but it is believed that
it will be impossible to cite an example of compensation so ob-
tained, in a case in which territory has been withheld on a dis-
pute of title, or as a hostage for some other claim (as, in the pres-
ent instance, for securing the performance of the 4th article of
the treaty of peace). The recovery of the territory withheld is
the usual satisfaction.

The want of a rule to adjust consequential damages, is, in such
cases, a very great difficulty. In the instance under discussion,
this difficulty would be peculiarly great. The posts are, for the
most part, in a wilderness. There are but two of them which
have any adjacent settlements; Point-au-Fer, or Dutchman's Point,
to which a part of a tract of land, called Caldwell's Manor, with
a few inhabitants, has been claimed as appurtenant ; and Detroit,
which has a settlement in the town and neighborhood of between
two and three thousand souls. In the vicinity of the other posts,
on our side, there is scarcely an inhabitant. It follows, that very
little damage could be predicated either upon the loss of revenue
from, or of the profits of trade with, the settlements in the vicin-
ity of the posts. The trade of the Indians within our limits
would consequently be the basis of the claim of compensation.
But here the ignorance or spirit of exaggeration of the opponents
of the treaty has been particularly exemplified. The annual loss
from this source has been stated by a very zealous writer against
the treaty, who signs himself Cato, at 800,000 dollars.

Now it is a fact well ascertained, that the mean value of the
whole exports from Canada in peltries (which constitute the re-
turns of Indian trade) in the years 1786 and 1787, was some-
thing short of 800,000 dollars. It is also a fact, in which all men,
informed on the subject, agree, that the trade with the Indians,
within our limits,"* is not more than about one-eighth of that

* An account of peltries exported from Canada in 178G and 1787.

1786. 1787.

Beaver skins, 116;509 139,509

Martin do 58,132 68,132

Otter do 26,330 26,330

Mr. 38.]

CAMILLUS,
which furnishes the peltry exported from Canada. Hence the
total product of our Indian trade could not be computed at more
than 100,000 dollars. What proportion of this may be profit, is
not easy to be determined ; but it is certain, that the profits of
that trade, from the decrease of wild animals, and the inferiority
of their kinds, are not considerable. — Many assert, that it is scarce-
ly any longer worth following. Twenty per cent., therefore,
would, probably, be a large allowance, which would bring the
loss on our Indian trade, by the detention of the posts, to about
20,000, instead of 800,000 dollars per annum, as has been asserted.

But might not a claim, even of this sum, by way of indemni-
fication, be encountered with some force, by the observation, that
there is the highest probability that the capital and labor which
would have been employed to produce 20,000 dollars profit on
the trade with the Indians, have been quite as productively em-
ployed in other channels, and consequently, that there may have
been no loss at all ?

Thus we see how erroneous are the data which serve to mag-
nify claims, in themselves insignificant, and which, from the great
uncertainty of their quantum, are exposed to serious objections.
Are claims like these, proper subjects on which to stake the peace
of the United States?

The reasonableness of indemnification for the expenses of

1786. 1787.

Mink do 9,951 17,051

Fisher do 5,813 5813

Fox # do 6,213 8,913

Bear do 22,108 17,108

Deer do 126,000 102,656

Racoon do . 108,346 140,346

Cut do. cased, 3,026 4 526

Do. do. open, 2,925 1 825

Elk do 7,515 9,815

Wolf do 12.287 9,687

Carcajoux do 503 653

Tiger do 77 27

Seal do 157 125

Muskrat do 202,456 240,456

Deer do. dressed, 5,488 lbs. 1,778 lbs.

Castors 1,454 lbs. 1,434 lbs.

234 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mi. 28.

Indian wars, independent of the unusual nature of the claim,
might have been matter of endless debate. We might have
been told, that the Indians ascribe those wars to pretensions upon
their lands, by virtue of treaties with the former government of
the United States, imposed by violence, or contracted with par-
tial and inadequate representations of their nation — that our own
public records witness, that the proceedings of our agents, at
some of those treaties, were far from unexceptionable — that the
wars complained of are to be attributed to errors in our former
policy, or mismanagement of our public agents, not to the deten-
tion of the posts — that it must be problematical how much of the
duration or expenses of those wars are chargeable upon that
detention — and, that the posts having been detained by way of
security for the performance of the article respecting debts, there
was no responsibility for collateral and casual damages. Had we
resorted to the charge of their having instigated or prompted
those wars, they would have denied the charge, as they have
repeatedly done before ; and, though we might have been able
to adduce circumstances of suspicion against them, they would
have contested their validity and force ; and, whether guilty or
not, would have thought their honor concerned in avoiding the
most distant concession of having participated in so improper a
business.

In every view, therefore, the claim for indemnification was a
hopeless one ; and to insist upon it would have answered no
other purpose than to render an amicable adjustment impossible.
No British minister would have dared to go to a British parlia-
ment to ask provision for such an expenditure. What, then, was
to be done ? Were we now or hereafter to go to war to enforce
the claim? Suppose this done, and fifty or a hundred millions of
dollars expended in the contest, what certainty is there that we
should at last accomplish the object ?

Moreover, the principle of such a war would require, that
we should seek indemnification for the expenses of the war
itself, in addition to our former claim. What prospect is there,
that this also would be effected? yet if not effected, it is evident
that we should have made a most wretched bargain.

JEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 235

Why did we not insist on indemnification for the expenses of
our revolution war ? Surely, not because it was less reasonable,
but because it was evident that it could not have been obtained,
and because peace was necessary to us as well as to our enemy.
This likewise would be the end of a war undertaken to enforce
the claim of indemnification for the detention of the posts. We
should at length be glad to make peace, either without the in-
demnification sought, or at best at an expense to carry on the
war, without a chance of reimbursement, with which the thing
gained would bear no comparison.

The idea which has been thrown out, of leaving the posts in
the hands of the British, till we might be better able than at
present to go to war for indemnification, is a notable political
expedient. This would be to postpone, of choice, the possession
of an object which has been shown to be demanded by very
urgent and important general considerations ; to submit to cer-
tain and great inconveniences from that privation, including
probably the continuance or renewal of Indian hostilities ; and
to run the risk, from the growth of the British settlements in
the neighborhood of the posts, and various unforeseen casual-
ties, of their ultimate acquisition becoming difficult and preca-
rious. For what ? why, to take at last the chances of war, the
issue of which is ever doubtful, to obtain an object, which, if ob-
tained, will certainly cost more than it is worth. The expenses
of war apart, pecuniary indemnification upon any possible scale,
would ill compensate for the evils of the future detention, till the
more convenient time for going to war should arrive. What
should we think of this policy, if it should turn out that the
posts and the indemnification too were to be finally abandoned?

Camillus.

no. IX.

1795.
It was my intention to have comprised in two numbers, the
examination of the 2d article ; but on experiment, it was found

236 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

expedient to add a third. I resume, for a moment, the subject
of indemnification for the detention of the posts.

As an inducement to persist in this claim, we are assured, that
the magnanimity of France would have procured for us its
establishment. In the first place, this supposes that we were to
have become a party in the war ; for otherwise it would be silly
to imagine, that France would, on our account, embarrass herself
with a difficulty of this sort. In this case, and supposing the
object accomplished, still the injuries, losses, and expenses of war
would have greatly overbalanced the advantage gained. But
what certainty have we, that France will be able to dictate terms,
even for herself? Could we expect or rely, after the terrible
and wasting war, in which she has been engaged, that she would
be willing to encumber the making of peace with additional
obstacles, to secure so trifling a point with us? Would it be
even humane, or friendly in us, to ask her to risk the prolonging
of her calamities, for so trivial an object? A conduct like this,
with reference either to France, or to ourselves, would resemble
that of the gamester, who should play millions against farthings.
It is so preposterous in every sense, that the recommendation of
it, if sincere, admits of but one construction, namely, that those
who recommend it, wish our envoy to have acted not as if he
had been sent to make peace, but as if he had been sent to make
war, to blow and spread the desolating flames of discord and
contention.

There is a marked disingenuousness running through the
observations which are made to the prejudice of the treaty : they
endeavor constantly to have it understood, that our envoy aban-
doned, without effort, the claims which have not been establish-
ed. Whence is this inferred? Is it from the silence of the
treaty ? Surely we can only expect to find there what was
agreed upon, not what was discussed and rejected. The truth is,
that as well on this point of indemnification for the detention
of the posts, as on that of compensation for the negroes carried
away, our envoy urged our pretensions as far and as long as
he could do it, without making them final obstacles to the pro-
gress of the negotiation.

jEt. 38.]

CAMILLUS. 237

I shall now enumerate and answer the remaining objections,
which have appeared against this article. They are these : 1.
That the posts to be surrendered, instead of being described in
general terms, should, for greater certainty, have been specially
enumerated; that now the uncertainty of a part of the boundary
line, may furnish a pretext for detaining some of them. 2. That
the expressions "precincts and jurisdictions," which are except-
ed from our right of settlement, previous to the surrender, are
so vague and indeterminate, as to be capable of being made to
countenance encroachments. 3. That it was improper to have
stipulated, for the inhabitants, the option of residing and con-
tinuing British subjects, or of becoming American citizens : that
the first was established, by treaty, a British colony, within our
limits ; the last to admit, without the power of exception, bitter
enemies of the country to the privileges of citizens. 4. That
the securing to those inhabitants the enjoyment of their property
is exceptionable, as being a " cession without equivalent of an
indefinite extent of territory.'11 This is the character given to it by
the meeting at Philadelphia.

The answer to the first objection, is, that the enumeration
proposed might have included the very danger which is objected
to the provision as it stands, and which is completely avoided by
it. The principal posts occupied by the British, are known and
might easily have been enumerated ; but there is a possibility of
there being others not known, which might have escaped. Last
year there started up a post, which had not been before heard
of, on the pretence of an old trading establishment. Who knows
with absolute certainty, how many similar cases may exist in the
vast extent of wilderness, as far as the Lake of the Woods, which,
for several years past, has been inaccessible to us ? If our en-
voy's information could have been perfect, at the time of his last
advices from America, between that period and the signing of
the treaty changes might have taken place, that is, trading
houses might have grown into military posts, as they did in the
case referred to ; a case, which, in fact, happened after the de-
parture of our envoy from the United States. Was it not far
better than to hazard an imperfect specification, to use terms so

238 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [M-r. 38.

general and comprehensive, as could not fail, in any circum-
stances, to embrace every case? Certainly it was; and the terms
" all ports and places" which are those used in the treaty, are
thus comprehensive. Nothing can escape them.

Neither is there the least danger that the uncertainty* of a
part of the boundary line, can be made a pretext for detaining
the posts which it was impossible to enumerate. This will ap-
pear from an inspection of the map. The only uncertain part
of the boundary line (except that depending on the river St.
Croix, which is on a side unconnected with the position of the
posts) is that which is run from the Lake of the Woods to the
Mississippi. The most western of our known posts is at Mi-
chilimackinac, at or near the junction of the Lakes Huron and
Michigan, eastward near eleven degrees of longitude of the Lake
of the Woods, and about ten degrees of longitude of that point,
on the Mississippi, below the falls of St. Anthony, where a sur-
vey, in order to a settlement of the line, is to begin. Moreover,
our line, by the treaty of peace, is to pass through the Lake Hu-
ron, and the water communication between that lake and Lake
Superior, and through the middle of Lake Superior, and thence
westward through other waters, to the Lake of the Woods ; that
is, about half a degree of latitude more northward, and about
eight degrees of longitude more westward, than any part of
the Lake Michigan. Whence it is manifest, that any closing
line, to be drawn from the Lake of the Woods to the Mississippi,
must pass at a distance of several hundred miles from Michili-
mackinac. If the British, therefore, should be disposed to evade
the surrender, they will seek for it some pretext more plausible
than one which involves a palpable geographical absurdity. Nor
can we desire a better proof of the ignorance or disingenuous-
ness of the objectors to the treaty, than their having contrived
one of this nature.

The general terms used, were to be preferred, for the very

* This uncertainty, it is to be observed, results not from the late treaty, but
from the treaty of peace. It is occasioned by its being unknown, whether any
part of the Mississippi extends far enough north, to be intersected by a due west
line from the Lake of the Woods.

JEr. 38.] C A MILL US. 239

reason, that there was a doubt about the course of a part of the
boundary line; for, if there should chance to exist any post now
unknown, so near the line as to render it questionable, in the
first instance, on which side it may fall ; the moment the line is
settled, the obligation to surrender will be settled with it.

The second objection loses all force, when it is considered,
that the exception can only operate till the first of June next,
the period for the surrender of the posts ; and that, in the mean
time, there is ample space for settlement, without coming to dis-
putable ground. There was, besides, real difficulty in an accurate
definition. What the precincts and jurisdictions of the posts are,
is a question of fact. In some instances, where, from there being
no settlements over which an actual jurisdiction had been exer-
cised, a good rule might have been, the distance of gun-shot
from the fortifications, which might have been settled at a certain
extent in miles, say three or four. But in some cases an actual
jurisdiction has been exercised, under circumstances which cre-
ated obstacles to a precise definition. The case of Caldwell's
Manor, in the vicinity of Dutchman's Point, is an example. There,
a mixed jurisdiction has been sometimes exercised by the
British, and by the State of Vermont, connected with a disputed
title to that manor; one party claiming under an ancient French
grant, and the other under the State of Vermont. Detroit and
its vicinity would also have occasioned embarrassment. From
the situation of the settlements, and of a number of dispersed
trading establishments, a latitude was likely to have been requir-
ed, to which it might have been expedient to give a sanction. In
such situations, where a thing is to last but a short time, it is
commonly the most eligible course, to avoid definition. It is ob-
vious, that no ill can result from the want of one, if the posts
are surrendered at the time agreed ; if not, it is equally plain,
that it can be of no consequence, because the whole article will
be void.

The third objection becomes insignificant, the moment the
real state of things is adverted to. This has been described in a
former number for another purpose, but will now be recapitulat-
ed, with one or two additional facts. The first posts, beginning

240 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

eastward, are, Point-au-Fer and Dutchman's Point, on Lake Cham-
plain. The whole number of persons in this vicinity, over whom
jurisdiction has been claimed by the British, may amount to an
hundred families. But the claim of jurisdiction here, has been
only occasionally and feebly urged ; and it is asserted in addi-
tion, by well-informed persons, that the above-mentioned families
have been, for some time, regularly represented in the legislature
of Vermont, the ordinary civil jurisdiction of which State has,
with little interruption, been extended over them. At neither
of the other posts, to wit, Oswego, Niagara, the Miami, Detroit,
Michilimackinac, is there any settlement, except at Detroit,
where, and in the vicinity of which, there may be between two
and three thousand persons, chiefly French Canadians, and their
descendants. It will be understood, that I do not consider as a
settlement, two or three log houses for traders.

It follows, that the number of persons who can be embraced
by the privileges stipulated, is too inconsiderable to admit of at-
taching any political consequences whatever to the stipulation.
Of what importance can it possibly be, to the United States,
whether two or three thousand persons, men, women, and chil-
dren, are permitted to reside within their limits, either as British
or American subjects, at their option? If the thing was an ob-
ject of desire to Great Britain, for the accommodation of the in-
dividuals concerned, could it have merited a moment's hesitation
on our part? As to residence, it is at the courtesy of nations at
peace to permit the residence of the citizens of each other within
their respective territories. British subjects are now free by our
laws, to reside in all parts of the United States. As to the per-
mission to become citizens, it has been the general policy and
practice of our country to facilitate the naturalization of foreign-
ers. And we may safely count on the interest of individuals,
and on that desire to enjoy equal rights which is so deeply plant-
ed in the human breast, that all who resolve to make their per-
manent residence with us, will become citizens.

It is true, that there may be a few obnoxious characters
(though I do not recollect to have heard of more than two or
three) among the number of those who have acquired by the

Mr. 38.] CAMILLUS. 241

stipulation, a right to become citizens of the United States. But
would it ever have been worthy of the dignity of the national
wrath, to have launched its thunders against the heads of two, or
three, or half a dozen despicable individuals? Can we suppose
that, without a stipulation, it would have been thought worth the
while to make a special exception of their cases out of the oper-
ation of our general laws of naturalization? And if this had
not been done, would they not have found means, if they desired
it, after the lapse of a short period, to acquire the rights of citi-
zens? It is to be observed, that citizens of our own, who may
have committed crimes against our laws, not remitted by the
treaty of peace, would find no protection under this article.

Suppose the stipulation had not been made, what would have
been the probable policy of the United States ? Would it not
have been to leave the handful of settlers undisturbed, in quiet
enjoyment of their property, and at liberty, if British subjects,
to continue such, or become American citizens, on the usual
conditions ? A system of depopulation, or of coercion to one
allegiance or another, would have been little congenial with our
modes of thinking, and would not, I am persuaded, have been
attempted.

If, then, the treaty only stipulates in this respect, what would
have been the course of things without it, what cause for serious
objection can there be on this account ?

The matter of the fourth objection can only derive a mo-
ment's importance from misapprehension. It seems, to have
been imagined, that there are large tracts of land, held under
British grants, made since the peace, which are confirmed by the
part of the article that gives the inhabitants the right of removing
with, selling, or retaining their property.

In the first place it is to be observed, that if such grants had
been made, the stipulation could not be deemed to confirm them ;
because our laws must determine the question, what is the pro-
perty of the inhabitants; and they would rightfully decide, that
the British government, since the treaty of peace, could make
no valid grants of land, within our limits. Upon the ground
even of its own pretensions, it could not have made such grants.
G 16

242 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 38.

Nothing more was claimed, than the right to detain the posts as
a hostage. The right to grant lands presupposes much more, a
fall right to sovereignty and territory.

But in the second place, it has always been understood, and
upon recent and careful inquiry is confirmed, that the British
government has never, since the peace, made a grant of lands within
our limits. It appears, indeed, to have been its policy, to pre-
vent settlements in the vicinity of the posts.

Hence the stipulation, as it affects lands, does nothing more
than confirm the property of those which were holden at the
treaty of peace ; neither is the quantity considerable ; and it
chiefly, if not altogether, depends on titles acquired under the
French government, while Canada was a province of France.

In giving this confirmation, the treaty only pursues what is
a constant rule among civilized nations. When territory is
ceded or yielded up by one nation to another, it is a common
practice, if not a special condition, to leave the inhabitants in the
enjoyment of their property. A contrary conduct would be
disgraceful to a nation ; nor is it very reputable to the objectors
to the treaty, that they have levelled their battery against this
part of it. It is a reflection upon them too, that they employ for
the purpose, terms which import more than is true, even on their
own supposition, and are, therefore, calculated to deceive ; for
the confirmation of property to individuals, could be at most a
cession only of the right of soil, and not of territory, which term
has a technical sense, including jurisdiction.

Let it be added, that the treaty of peace, in the article which
provides "that there should be no future confiscations nor pro-
secutions against any person or persons, by reason of the part
which he or they might have taken in the war ; and that no
person should, on that account, suffer any future loss or damage,
either in his person, liberty or property," did substantially what
is made an objection to the treaty under consideration. It will
not, I believe, be disputed, that it gave protection to all property
antecedently owned, and not confiscated. Indeed, it is a ques-
tion whether the stipulations cited, would not have affected, with
regard to other rights than those of property, a great part of

JEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 243

what is regulated by the last treaty. Its provisions, in this par-
ticular, were, perhaps, in the main, unnecessary, further than to
obviate a doubt which might have arisen from the suspension of
the treaty, by the withholding of the posts.

Thus have I gone through every objection to the second
article, which is in any degree colorable; and I flatter myself
have shown, not only that the acquisition made by it is of great
and real value, but that it stands as well as circumstances per-
mitted, and is defensible in its details. I have been the more
particular in the examination, because the assailants of the treaty
have exerted all their ingenuity to discredit this article, from a
consciousness, no doubt, that it is a very valuable item of the
treaty; and that it was important to their cause, to envelope it
in as thick a cloud of objection as they were able to contrive.
As an expedient of party, there is some merit in the artifice ; but
a sensible people will see that it is merely artifice. It is a false
calculation, that the people of this country can ever be ultimately
deceived.

Camillus.

no. x.

1795.
The object of the third article is connected with that of the
second. The surrender of the posts naturally drew with it an
arrangement, with regard to inland trade and navigation. Such
an arrangement, convenient in several respects, appears to be in
some respects necessary. To restrain the Indians on either side
of the line, from trading with the one party or the other, at dis-
cretion, besides the questionableness of the right, could not be
attempted without rendering them disgusted and hostile. The
truth of this seems to have influenced the conduct of Great Bri-
tain and France, while the latter was in possession of Canada.
The 15th article of the treaty of peace of Utrecht, in the year
1713, allows free liberty to the Indians on each side, to resort for

244 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

trade to the British, and French colonies. It is to be observed,
too, that the Indians not only insist on a right of going to trade
with whom they please, but of permitting whom they please to
come to trade with them, and also to reside among them for that
purpose. Thus, the southern and south-western Indians within
our limits, maintain a constant intercourse with Spain, established
on the basis of treaty — nor has their right to do it, been hitherto
contested by the United States. Indeed, on what clear principle
of justice could this natural right of trade, of a people not sub-
ject to our ordinary jurisdiction, be disputed? This claim, on
their part, gives a corresponding claim to neighboring nations, to
trade with them. Spain would think the pretension to exclude
her inadmissible ; and Great Britain would have thought the
same, if she had found it her interest to assert the right of inter-
course ; views which would always be seconded by the Indians
from regard to their own interest and independence. It was a
point, therefore, which it much concerned the preservation of
good understanding between the parties and with the Indians, to
regulate on some equitable plan ; and the more liberal the plan,
the more agreeable to a natural course of things, and to the free
participation of mutual advantages, the more likely was it- to pro-
mote and prolong that important benefit.

In the second place, the expediency of some arrangement was
indicated by the circumstance of the boundary line between the
parties, running for an extent of sixteen hundred miles through
the middle of the same rivers, lakes, and waters. It may be
deemed impossible, from the varying course of winds and currents,
for the ships of one party to keep themselves constantly within
their own limits, without passing or transgressing those of the
other. How, indeed, was the precise middle line of those great
lakes to be always known ?

It appears evident, that to render the navigation of these wa-
ters useful to, and safe for, both parties, it was requisite that they
should become common. Without this, frequent forfeitures to
enforce interdictions of intercourse might be incurred — and there
would be constant danger of interference and controversy. It is
probable, too, that when those waters are better explored in their

JEt. 38.]

CAMILLUS. 245

whole extent, it will be found that the best navigation of those
lakes is sometimes on the one side, sometimes on the other, and
that common convenience will, in this respect, also be promoted
by community of right.

Again— It is almost always mutually beneficial for bordering
territories to have free and friendly intercourse with each other.
This relates not only to the advantages of an interchange of com-
modities for the supply of mutual wants, and to those of the re-
ciprocal creation of industry connected with that interchange,
but also to those of avoiding jealousy, collision, and contest, o£
preserving friendship and harmony. Proximity of territory in-
vites to trade— the bordering inhabitants, in spite of every pro-
hibition, will endeavor to carry it on;— if not allowed, illicit ad-
ventures take place of the regular operations of legalised com-
merce— individual interest leads to collusions to evade restraining
regulations — habits of infracting the laws are produced — morals
are perverted— securities, necessarily great, in proportion as they
counteract the natural course of things, lay the foundation of dis-
contents and quarrels. Perhaps it may be safely affirmed, that
freedom of intercourse, or violent hatred and enmity, are the al-
ternative in every case of contiguity of territory.

The maxims of the United States have hitherto favored a free
intercourse with all the world. They have conceived, that they
had nothing to fear from the unrestrained competition of com-
mercial enterprise, and have only desired to be admitted to it on
equal terms. Hence, not only the communication by sea has
been open with the adjacent territories on our continent as well
as with more distant quarters of the globe ; but two ports have
been erected on Lake Champlain for the convenience of interior
commerce with Canada; and there is no restriction upon any na-
tion, to come by the Mississippi to the only port which has been
established for that side of the Union. These arrangements have
excited neither blame nor criticism.

Our envoy, therefore, in agreeing to a liberal plan of inter-
course with the British territories in our neighborhood, has con-
formed to the general spirit of our country, and to the general
policy of our laws. Great Britain, in acceding to such a plan,

246 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

departed from her system of colonial monopoly, a departure which
ought to be one recommendation of the plan to us; for every re-
laxation of that system paves the way for other and further re-
laxations. It might have been expected, also, that a spirit of
jealousy might have proved an obstacle on the part of Great Bri-
tain ; since, especially if we consider the composition of those who
inhabit, and are likely to inhabit Canada, it is morally certain,
that there must be, as the result of a free intercourse, a far greater
momentum of influence of the United States upon Canada, than
tof Canada upon the United States. It would not have been sur-
prising, if this jealousy had sought to keep us at a distance, and
had counteracted the wiser policy of limiting our desires by giv-
ing us possession of what is alone to us truly desirable, the ad-
vantages of commerce, rather than of suffering our wishes to be
stimulated and extended by privation and restraint.

New ideas seem of late to have made their way among us.
The extremes of commercial jealousy are inculcated. Regula-
tion, restriction, exclusion, are now with many the favorite
topics — instead of feeling pleasure, that new avenues of trade are
opened, a thousand dangers and mischiefs are pourtrayed when
the occasion occurs. Free trade with all the world seems to
have dwindled into trade with France and her dominions. The
love-sick partisans of that country appear to regard her as the
epitome of the universe, to have adopted for their motto, " All
for love, and the world well lost."

These new propensities towards commercial jealousy, have
been remarkably exemplified with respect to the article immedi-
ately under consideration. Truly estimated, it is a valuable in-
gredient in the treaty ; and yet there is, perhaps, no part of it
which has been more severety reprobated. It will be easy to
show that it has been extremely misrepresented, and that what
have been deemed very exceptionable features, do not exist at
all.

We will first examine what the article really does contain,
and afterwards what are the comparative advantages likely to
result to the two countries.

The main stipulation is, that "it shall at all times be free

jEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 247

to his majesty's subjects, and to the citizens of the United States
— and also to the Indians dwelling on either side of the boundary
line, freely to pass and repass, by land and inland navigation, into
the respective territories and countries of the two parties on the
continent of America (the country within the limits of the Hud-
son's Bay company only excepted), and to navigate all the lakes,
rivers, and waters thereof, and freely to carry on trade and com
merce with each other."

The subject matter of this stipulation is plainly inland trade
and commerce, to be carried on by land passage, and inland navig a- .
tion. This appears, 1st, from the terms of the article. The sub-
jects and citizens of the two parties, and also the Indians dwell-
ing on each side of the boundary line, are freely to pass and re-
pass. In what manner? by land and inland navigation : to what
places? into the respective territories and countries of the two
parties, on the continent of America (the country of the Hud-
son's Bay company only excepted). They are also to navigate
all the lakes, rivers, and v:aters thereof, and freely to carry on
trade and commerce with each other. This right to navigate
lakes, rivers, and waters, must be understood with reference to
inland navigation ; because this gives it a sense conformable
with the antecedent clause, with which it is immediately con-
nected, as part of a sentence ; because the right to pass and re-
pass, being expressly restricted to land and inland navigation,
it would not be natural to extend it by implication, on the
strength of an ambiguous term, to passage by sea, or by any
thing more than inland navigation ; because the lakes and rivers
have direct reference to inland navigation, showing that to be the
object in view; and the word "waters," from the order in which
it stands, will, most consistently with propriety of composition,
be understood as something less than lakes and rivers, as ponds,
canals, and those amphibious waters, to which it is scarcely pos-
sible to give a name; and because the waters mentioned are
" waters thereof," that is, waters of the territories and coun-
tries of the two parties on the continent of America ; a de-
scription which cannot very aptly be applied to the sea, or be
supposed to include navigation by sea to the United States, or

248 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

from them to the British territories. It is true, that nations, for
various purposes, claim and exercise jurisdiction over the seas
immediately adjacent to their coasts ; yet this is subject to the
common riarht. of nations to the innocent use of those seas for

O

navigation ; and it is not, prima facie, presumable, that two na-
tions, speaking of the waters of each other, would mean to give
this appropriate denomination to waters, in which both claimed
some common right. — The usual description of such waters in
treaties is, " the seas near the countries," &c. — But were it other-
wise, still the navigating from the open sea into those waters,
could not be within the permission to navigate those waters, and
might be prohibited.

The above construction is confirmed by the general com-
plexion of the treaty. It is the manifest province of the eighteen
articles, which succeed the first ten, to regulate external com-
merce and navigation. The regulations they contain, are intro-
duced thus, by the 11th article: "It is agreed between his
Majesty and the United States of America, that there shall be a
reciprocal and entirely perfect liberty of navigation and com-
merce, between their respective people, in the manner, under the
limitations, and on the conditions specified in the following
articles." Then follow articles, which provide fully and dis-
tinctly for trade and navigation between the United States and
the British West Indies, between the Asiatic dominions of Great
Britain and the United States ; and lastly, between the European
dominions of Great Britain and the United States. These
eighteen articles properly constitute the treaty of commerce and
navigation between the two countries. Their general scope, and
some special provisions which they contain, prove that the object
of the third article is local and partial ; that it contemplates,
exclusively, an interior commerce by land and inland navigation
(except as to the Mississippi,) and particularly that it does not
reach at all our Atlantic ports. An instance of one of the spe-
cial provisions alluded to, will be cited in the further examina-
tion of this article.

In opposition to this construction, much stress is laid upon
the provisions which immediately succeed the clauses that have

Mt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 249

been quoted. They are in these words ; " But it is understood,
that this article does not extend to the admission of vessels of
the United States into the seaports, harbors, bays, or creeks of
his Majesty's said territories, nor into such parts of the rivers in
his said territories as are between the mouth thereof and the
highest port of entry from the sea, except in small vessels trading
bona fide between Montreal and Quebec : nor to the admission
of British vessels from the sea into the rivers of the United
States, beyond the highest ports of entry for foreign vessels from
the sea !" The last, it is said, contains an implication, that under
this article, British vessels have a right to come to our highest
ports of entry for foreign vessels from the sea, while we are
excluded from the seaports of the British territories on this con-
tinent.

But this is altogether an erroneous inference. The clauses
last cited are inserted for greater caution, to guard expressly
against any construction of the article by implications more or
less remote ; contrary to the actual regulations of the parties,
with regard to external commerce and navigation. Great Britain
does not now permit a trade by sea to Nova Scotia and Canada.
She therefore declares that the article shall not be deemed to
contravene this regulation. The United States now permit
foreign vessels to come to certain ports of entry from the sea,
but exclude them from other more interior ports of entry, to
which our own vessels may come." It is therefore declared on
their part, that the article shall not be construed to contravene
this regulation. This was the more proper, as the right of inland
navigation might have given some color to the claim of going
from an outer to an inner port of entry. But this negative of
an implication, which might have found some color in the prin-
cipal provision, can never be construed into an affirmative grant
of a very important privilege, foreign to that principal provision.
The main object of the article, it has been seen, is trade by land
and inland navigation. Trade and navigation by sea, with our

* An example of this is found in the State of New- York. Foreign vessels can
only enter and unlade at the city of New-York ; vessels of the United States may
enter at the city of Hudson, and unlade there and at Albany.

250 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mi. 38.

seaports, is an entirely different tiling. To infer a positive
grant of this privilege, from a clause which, says, that the right
of inland navigation shall not be construed to permit vessels
coming from the sea, to go from the ports of entry, to which our
laws now restrict them, to more interior ports, would be contrary
to reason, and to every rule of sound construction. Such a pri-
vilege could never be permitted to be founded upon any thing
less than a positive and explicit grant. It could never be sup-
ported by an implication drawn from an article relative to a
local and partial object, much less by an implication drawn from
the negative of another implication. The pretension, that all
our ports were laid open to Great Britain by a covert and side-
wind provision, and this without reciprocity, without a right of
access to a single seaport of the other party in any part of the
world, would be too monstrous to be tolerated for an instant.
The principles of equity between nations, and the established
rules of interpretation, would unite to condemn so great an ine-
quality, if another sense could possibly be found for the terms
from which it might be pretended to be deduced. It would be
in the present case the more inadmissible, because the object is
embraced and regulated by other parts of the treaty on terms of
reciprocity.

The different mode of expression, in the clause last cited,
when speaking of the British territories, and when speaking of
the United States, has furnished an argument for the inference
which has been stated. But this difference is accounted for by
the difference in the actual regulations of the parties, as described
above. The object was on each side to oust an implication
interfering with those regulations. The expressions to effect it
were commensurate with the state of the fact on each side ; and
consequently do not warrant any collateral or special inference.

The only positive effect of these clauses is to establish, that
the navigation from Montreal to Quebec shall be carried on in
what are called " small vessels, trading bona fide between Mon-
treal and Quebec." In determining their sense, it merits some
observation, that they do not profess to except from the operation
of the general provisions of the article the seaports, &c, of the

jEt. 38.] CAM ILL US. 251

British territories ; but declare, that it is understood that those
provisions do not extend to them. This is more a declaration that
the antecedent provisions were not so broad as to comprehend
the cases, than an exception of the cases from the operation
of those provisions.

Those who are not familiar with laws and treaties, may feel
some difficulty about the position, that particular clauses are in-
troduced only for greater caution, without producing any new ef-
fect; but those who are familiar with such subjects, know, that
there is scarcely a law or a treaty which does not offer examples
of the use of similar clauses; and it not unfrequently happens,
that a clear meaning of the principal provision is rendered ob-
scure by the excess of explanatory precaution.

The next clause of this article is an exception to the general
design of it, confirming the construction I have given. " The
river Mississippi shall, however, according to the treaty of peace,
be entirely open to both parties ; and it is further agreed, that all
the porta and places on its eastern side, to which soever of the
parties belonging, may freely be resorted to and used by both
parties, in as ample a manner as any of the Atlantic ports or places
of the United States, or any of the ports or places of hisjnajesty
in Great Britain."

If the general provision gives access to all our ports, which
must be the doctrine, if it gives access to our Atlantic ports, then
it would equally have this effect with regard to the Mississippi.
But this clause clearly implies the contrary, not only by intro-
ducing a special provision for the ports of the Mississippi, but by
introducing it expressly, as a further or additional agreement;
the words are, "it is further agreed, &c, and these ports are to be
enjoyed by each party, in as ample a manner as any of the Atlantic
ports or places of the United States, or any of the ports or places of
his majesty in Great Britain, This reference to our Atlantic ports,
coupling them with the ports of Great Britain, shows that the
Mississippi ports are to be regulated by a rule or standard differ-
ent from the ports for that inland navigation, which is the gene-
ral object of the article; else, why that special reference? why
not have stopped at the words " used by both parties ?" If it be

252 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 38.

said, that the reference to our Atlantic ports implies, that they
are within the purview of the article, let it be observed, that the
same argument would prove that the ports of Great Britain are
also within its purview, which is plainly erroneous; for the main
provisions are expressly confined to the territories of the parties
on this continent. The conclusion is, that the reference is to a
standard, out of the article, and depending on other parts of the
treaty.

It may be useful to observe here, that the Mississippi ports
being to be used only in as ample, and not in a more ample man-
ner, than our Atlantic ports, and the ports of Great Britain, will
be liable at all times to all the regulations, privileges, and re-
strictions of the ports with which they are assorted.

The next clause is a still further refutation of the construction
which I oppose.

"All goods and merchandise, whose importation into his ma-
jesty's said territories in America shall not be entirely prohibited, may
freely, for the purposes of commerce, be carried into the same, in
the manner aforesaid, by the citizens of the United States; and
such goods and merchandise shall be subject to no higher or
other duties than would he payable by his majesty's subjects on the im-
portation of the same from Europe, into the said territories : and in
like manner, all goods and merchandise, whose importation into
the United States shall not be wholly prohibited, may freely, for the
purposes of commerce, be carried into the same, in the manner afore-
said, subject to no higher or other duties than luould be payable by the
citizens of the United States, on the importation of the same in
American vessels into the Atlantic ^>orts of the said States: and all
goods not prohibited to be exported from the said territories re-
spectively, may, in like manner, be carried out of the same by
the two parties respectively, paying duty as aforesaid."

The words, " in the manner aforesaid," occur twice in these
clauses, and their equivalent, " in like manner,'11 once. What is
the meaning of this so often repeated phrase ? it cannot be pre-
sumed, that it would have been inserted so frequently without
having to perform some office of consequence. I answer, that it
is evidently the substitute for these other words of the main pro-

Mr. 38.] CAMILLUS. 253

vision, "by land and inland navigation.1'1 This is " the manner
aforesaid." This is the channel, through which goods and mer-
chandises passing,' would be subject to no other or higher duties
than would be payable in the British territories by British sub-
jects, if imported from Europe ; or in the territories of the United
States, by citizens of the United States, if brought by American
vessels into our Atlantic ports. No other reasonable use can be
found for the terms. If they are denied this sense, they had much
better been omitted, as being not only useless, but as giving cause
to suppose a restriction of what, it is pretended, was designed to
be genera] — a right of importing in every way, and into all parts
of the United States, goods and merchandise, if not entirely pro-
hibited, on the same duties as are payable by our own citizens
when brought in our own vessels.

These words, " whose importation into the United States shall
not be entirely prohibited," is a further key to the true sense of
the article. They are equivalent to these other words, " whose
importation into all parts of the United States shall not be prohib-
ited."— The design of this clause is to prevent importation,
through the particular channels contemplated by the article, be-
ing obstructed by a partial or by any other than a general prohi-
bition. As long as certain goods may be introduced into the
United States through the Atlantic ports, they may also be brought
into them through the channels designated by this article, that is,
by land and inland navigation. The making a prohibition in the
given case to depend on a general prohibition, is conclusive to
prove, that the article contemplates only particular channels. On
any other supposition, the clause is nonsense. The true reading,
then, of this part of the article, must be as follows: "Goods and
merchandise, whose importation into all parts of the United States
shall not be prohibited, may freely, for the purposes of commerce,
be carried into the same, in manner aforesaid, that is, by land and
inland navigation, from the territories of his majesty on the conti-
nent of America."

There are still other expressions in the article, which are like-
wise an index to its meaning. They are these, " would be payable
by the citizens of the United States, on the importation of the same

254 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

in American vessels into the Atlantic ports of the said states." This
reference to a rate of duties, which would be payable on impor-
tation into the Atlantic ports, as a rule or guide for the rate of
duties, which is to prevail in the case meant to be comprehended
in the article, is full evidence that importation in the Atlantic
ports is not included in that case. The mention of importation
in American vessels, confirms this conclusion, as it shows that the
article itself contemplates, that the discrimination made by our
existing laws may continue.

But the matter is put out of all doubt by those parts of the
fifteenth article which reserve to the British government the right
of imposing such duty as may be adequate to countervail the dif-
ference of duty, now payable on the importation of European and
Asiatic goods, when imported into the United States in British
and American vessels; and which stipulate, that "the United
States will not increase the now subsisting difference between the
duties payable on the importation of any articles in British or
American vessels."

This is a demonstration that the treaty contemplates, as con-
sistent with it, a continuance of the present difference of duties
on importations in American and British vessels ; and consequent-
ly, that the third article, which stipulates equal duties, as to the
cases within it, does not extend to importations into our Atlantic
ports, but is confined to importations by land and inland naviga-
tion. Though this article be of temporary duration, yet as an
evidence of the sense of the parties, it will always serve as a rule
of construction for every part of the instrument.

These different views of the article establish, beyond the pos-
sibility of doubt, that, except with regard to the Mississippi, in-
land trade and navigation are its sole objects — that it grants no
right or privilege whatever in our Atlantic ports — and that with
regard to the ports of the Mississippi, it only establishes this prin-
ciple, that Great Britain shall always enjoy there the same privi-
leges which by treaty or law she is allowed to have in our Atlan-
tic ports.

I remark incidentally, for a purpose which will appear here-
after, that as far as this article is concerned, we are free to pro-

jEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 255

hibit the importation into the United States at large, of any Brit-
ish article whatever, though we cannot prohibit its importation
partially, that is, merely from her territories in our neighborhood,
by land or inland navigation ; but we may prohibit the importa-
tion by sea from those territories; nor is there any other part of the
treaty by which this is prevented.

The remaining clauses of this article establish the following
points: "That no duty of entry shall be levied by either party
on peltries brought by land or inland navigation, into the respec-
tive territories;" that Indians, passing and repassing with their
own goods, shall pay no impost or duty upon them ; but goods
in bales, or other large packages, unusual among Indians, shall
not be considered as their goods; that tolls and rates of ferriage
shall be the same on both sides as are paid by natives — that no
duties shall be paid by either party on the mere transit of goods
across portages and carrying places from one part to another of
the territory of the same party ; that the respective governments
will promote friendship, good neighborhood, and amicable inter-
course, by causing speedy and impartial justice to be done, and
necessary protection to be extended to all who may be concerned
therein.

I shall conclude this paper with an observation or two on the
meaning of the terms, inland navigation. These terms have no
technical meaning defined in the laws of either country, nor
have they any precise meaning assigned by the law of nations.
They, however, ex vi termini, exclude navigation from the sea ;
and as a general rule, I should say, that inland navigation begins
there, where sea navigation ends. Where is this ? I answer, at
the ports of entry from the sea. By the laws of Great Britain
and of the United States, all rivers are arms of the sea as far as
the tides flow. It would be a consequence of this principle, that
sea navigation would reach to the head of tide water. But some
more obvious and notorious rule ought to govern the interpreta-
tion of national compacts. The ports of entry from the sea are
conceived to be the proper rule.

In the case under consideration, the general spirit of the
article may require, that all the waters which divide the territo-

256 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 38.

ries of the parties should be in their whole extent common to
both. As to other communicating waters, accessible under the
article, the reciprocal limit of the right will be the ports of entry
from the sea. This is to be understood with the exception of the
Mississippi, to the ports of which, access from the sea is granted
under the qualification which has been pointed out.

Camillus.

NO. XI.

1795.
The foregoing analysis of the third article, by fixing its true
meaning, enables us to detect some gross errors, which have been
principal sources of prejudice against it. One of these is, that
the article gives to the other party a right of access to all
our ports, while it excludes us from the ports of the British terri-
tories in our neighborhood. It has been clearly shown, that it
gives no right of access to any one of our Atlantic ports, and
that it gives only a qualified and conditional access to the ports
which we may have on the Mississippi, to be regulated by the
privileges at any time allowed by law or compact in our Atlantic
ports, and liable to cease with the cessation of those privileges.
The charge, therefore, of want of reciprocity in this particular,
vanishes, and with it all the exceptionable consequences which
have been the fruit of the error. Such is the assertion of Decius,
that a British trader may set out from Canada, traverse our
lakes, rivers and waters to New-York, and thence to Philadel-
phia, while we are precluded from the navigation of the St.
Lawrence, and other British rivers lower than the highest ports
of entry from the sea. It would be an indulgent construction of
the article, not to stop the British trader at Hudson, as the high-
est port of entry from the sea, and the boundary of inland navi-
gation ; but he could certainly have no claim of right under it,
to go from New-York to Philadelphia, because he must necessa-
rily go by sea to arrive at the first place, and no such permission

Mr. 38.] CAMILLUS. 257

is stipulated by the article. Such, also, is the assertion of Cato,
that Great Britain is admitted to all the advantages of which our
Atlantic rivers are susceptible. The rivers, upon which no part
of their territory borders, and which their vessels can only ap-
proach by sea, are certainly excepted.

Another of the errors referred to, is this, that goods and mer-
chandise may, under this article, be imported into any part
of the United States, upon the same duties which are now paya-
ble when imported by citizens of the United States, and in ves-
sels of the United States. It has been clearly proved, that there
is no pretence for this position, and that equality of duties only
applies to importations from the British territories, in our neigh-
borhood, by land and inland navigation.

Cato, Decius, and other writers against the treaty, have
fallen into this strange error, and have founded upon it much
angry declamation. The first, however, embarrassed in his con-
struction, by the provision which reserves to Great Britain the
right of laying countervailing duties, endeavors to escape from it
by distinguishing goods imported for the Indian trade, and those
imported for other uses. Whatever may be the case with regard
to the latter, the former, he is convinced, are certainly entitled to
admission into our Atlantic ports, on the privileged rights of
duty ; though he is very naturally perplexed to see how the dis-
crimination could be maintained in practice. But where does he
find room for this distinction ? Not in the provision respecting
countervailing duties, for that is general — not in the clause of the
third article, to which he gives the interpretation, for that is
directly against his distinction. The goods and merchandise, for
the privileged importation of which it provides, are restricted to
no particular object — have no special reference to Indian more
than to other trade : on the, contrary, they are expressly to be
imported for "the purposes of commerce " at large; so that in
the cases in which they are privileged, they are equally so, whe-
ther it be for a trade with our citizens or with Indians. The
distinction, therefore, only proves the embarrassment of its in-
ventor, without solving the difficulty. A curious assertion has
been made on this article of duties. It has been said, that while
G 17

258 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 38.

we are obliged to admit British goods on the same duties with
those paid by our own citizens, or importation in our own vessels,
Great Britain, under the right to lay countervailing duties, may
incumber us with an additional ten per cent. Can any thing be
more absurd than the position, that the right to lay countervailing
duties exists in a case, where there is no difference of duty to
countervail? The term is manifestly a relative one, and can
only operate where there is something on our side to be counter-
vailed or counterbalanced, and in an exact ratio to it. If it be
true, that a very high law character is the writer of Cato, we
cannot but be surprised at such extreme inaccuracy.

Other errors, no less considerable, will appear in the pro-
gress of the examination ; but it will facilitate the detection of
these, and tend to a more thorough understanding of the article,
to state in this place some general facts, which are material in a
comparison of the advantages and disadvantages of the article, to
the respective parties.

1st. The fur trade within our limits is, to the fur trade within
the British limits, as one to seven, nearly ; that is, the trade with
the Indians, on the British side of the boundary line, is about
seven times greater than the same trade on our side of that line.
This fact is stated as the result of repeated inquiry from well in-
formed persons for several years past. It will not appear extra-
ordinary to those who recollect how much the Indians on our
side are circumscribed in their hunting-grounds, and to what a
degree they are reduced in numbers by the frequent wars, in
which they have been engaged with us ; while the tribes on the
British side of the line are not only far more numerous, but
enjoy an immense undisturbed range of wilderness. The more
rapid progress of settlement on our side than on the other, will
fast increase the existing disparity.

2d. Our communication with the sea is more easy, safe, and
expeditious, than that of Canada, by the St. Lawrence. Accord-
ingly, while our vessels ordinarily make two voyages in a year,
to and from Europe, the British vessels, in the Canada trade,
are, from the course of the seasons, and the nature of the navi-
gation, confined to one voyage in a year. Though hitherto,

JEt. 38.] CAMILLUa. 259

from temporary circumstances, this difference has not made any
sensible difference in the price of transportation ; yet in its per-
manent operation, it is hardly possible that it should not give us
a material advantage in the competition for the supply of Eu-
ropean goods to a large part of Canada, especially that which is
denominated Upper Canada. The city of Hudson, distant 124
miles from the city of New- York, is as near to the junction of
the river Cataraquy and Lake Ontario, as Montreal, which last
is near four hundred miles distant from the mouth of the St.
Lawrence. When the canals, now in rapid execution, are com-
pleted, there will be a water communication the whole way from
the city of Hudson to Ontario.

3d. The supply of East India goods to Canada, is likely to
be always easier and cheaper through us, than in any other way.
According to the present British system, Canada is supplied
through Britain. It is obvious how much the charges of this
double voyage must enhance the prices of the articles, when de-
livered in Canada. A direct trade between the East Indies and
Canada, would suppose a change in the British system, to which
there are great obstacles ; and even then, there are circumstances
which would secure to us an advantageous competition. It is a
fact, which serves to illustrate our advantages, that East India
articles, including teas, are, upon an average, cheaper in the
United States than in England.

The facts demonstrate that a trade between us and the Bri-
tish territories in our neighborhood, upon equal terms as to pri-
vilege, must afford a balance of advantages on our side. As to
the fur trade, for a participation in one eighth of the whole,
which we concede, we gain a participation in seven eighths which
is conceded to us. As to the European and East India trade, we
acquire the right of competition upon equal terms of privilege,
with real and considerable advantages of situation.

The stipulation with regard to equal duties, was essential to
the preservation of our superiority of advantages in this trade,
while it would not interfere with the general policy of our regu-
lation, concerning the difference of duties on goods imported in
our own and in foreign bottoms ; because the supplies which can

260 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38

come to us through Canada, for the reasons already given, mast
be inconsiderable ; because, also, distance would soon countervail,
in expenses of transportation, the effect of the difference of du-
ties in our market; and because, in the last place, this difference
is not very sensible, owing to the large proportion of goods
which are imported in the names of our own citizens. I say
nothing here of the practicability, on general grounds, of long
maintaining with effect this regulation.

Is it not wonderful, considering the real state of the trade, as
depending on locality, that the treaty should be charged with
sacrificing the fur trade to the British? If there be any sacri-
fice, is it not on their side ; when the fact is, that the quantity of
trade in which they admit us to equal privileges is seven times
greater than that in which we admit them to equal privileges?

The arguments against the treaty on this point, are not only
full of falsity, but they are in contradiction with each other.

On the one hand, it is argued that our communication from
the sea, with the Indian country, being much easier than by the
St. Lawrence, we could furnish English goods cheaper, and of
course could have continued the Indian trade in its usual channel,
even from the British side of the lakes ; nor could they have
prevented it, without giving such disgust to the Indians, as would
have made them dangerous neighbors. On the other hand, it is
argued, that from superiority of capital, better knowledge of the
trade, a better established connection of customers, the British
will be able to supplant us, even in our own territories, and to
acquire a monopoly of the whole fur trade.

Propositions so opposite cannot all be true. Either the sup-
posed faculty of supplying English goods cheaper, which, it is
said, would give us a command of the Indian trade, even on the
British side of the lakes, not in the power of the British to pre-
vent, overbalances the advantages which are specified on the
other side, or it does not. If it does not, then it is not true, that it
could draw to us the trade from the British side of the lakes. If
it does, then it is not true, that the British can supplant us in
the trade on either side the lakes ; much less that they can ob-
tain a monopoly of it on both sides.

JEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 261

Besides, if it be true that the British could not prevent our
trading with the Indians on their side, without giving them such
disgust as to make them dangerous to their neighbors; why is it
not equally true, that we could not prevent their trading with
the Indians on our side, without producing a similar effect ? And
if they have really a superiority of advantages, why would they
not, on the principle of this argument, attract and divert the trade
from us, though a mutual right to trade with the Indians in each
other's territories had not been stipulated?

The difficulty of restraining the Indians from trading at plea-
sure, is an idea well founded, as has been admitted in another
place. But there result from it strong arguments in favor of re-
ciprocation of privileges in the Indian trade, by treaty. One of
them, its tendency to preserve peace and good understanding,
has been already noticed ; another arises from the consideration,
that it will probably be the policy of the British to maintain
larger military establishments on their frontier than we shall
think eligible on ours, which will render it proportionably more
easy to them to restrain their Indians, than it will be to us to re-
strain ours. This greater difficulty of executing restraints on our
side, is a powerful reason for us to agree, mutually, to throw
open the door.

It will not be surprising if, upon some other occasion, the
adversaries of the treaty should abandon their own ground, and
instead of saying the treaty is faulty, for what it stipulates on
this point, should affirm merely that it has no merit on this ac-
count, since it only does what the disposition of the Indians
would have brought about without it. But it is always a merit
to divest an advantageous thing of cause of dispute, and to fix,
by amicable agreement, a benefit which otherwise would be lia-
ble to litigation, opposition, and interruption.

As to relative advantages for carrying on trade, the com-
parison ought to be made with caution. That which has been
stated on our side, namely, greater facility in conveying the ma-
terials of the trade from Europe to the scene where it is to be
carried on, is a real one, and in process of time may be expected
to make itself to be felt ; yet hitherto, as before observed, it has
had no sensible effect.

262 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

Of the advantages which have been stated as belonging; to
the other side, there is but one which has substance, and this is
previous possession of the ground. But even this, from the very
nature of it, is temporary. With our usual enterprise and indus-
try, it will be astonishing if we do not speedily share the ground
to the full extent of our relative advantages.

As to superiority of capital, it amounts to nothing. It has
been seen, that the capital requisite for the whole trade is small.
From a hundred to a hundred and fifty thousand pounds sterling
would be a high statement. The whole of this, if we were to
monopolize the entire trade, could not create a moment's embar-
rassment to find it, in the opinion of any man who attends to
the great pecuniary operations which are daily going on in our
country. But that very capital which is represented as our rival,
could be brought into action for our benefit in this very trade.
The solution is simple. Our credit will command it in obtaining
the foreign articles necessary for the trade, upon as good terms
as the British merchants who now carry it on. The same objec-
tion of superiority of capital may with as much reason be applied
to any other branch of trade between us and Great Britain.
Why does it not give her a monopoly of the direct trade be-
tween her European dominions and the United States? The argu-
ment, if valid, would prove that we ought to have no commerce,
not only with Great Britain, but with any nation which has
more commercial capital than ourselves.

As to superior knowledge of the particular branch of business,
there is still less force in that argument. It is not a case of
abstruse science or complicated combination. And we are in no
want of persons among us, who are experimentally acquainted
with the subject.

As to customers for the proceeds of the trade, we should
stand upon as good a footing as the British merchants. What
we did not want for our own consumption, might be sent upon
equal terms to the very markets to which they send theirs ; and
to others which might be found preferable, because less well sup-
plied with the kind of articles.

As to whatever may depend on enterprise, we need not fear

JEr. 38.] CAMILLUS. 263

to be outdone by any people on earth. It may almost be said,
that enterprise is our element.

It has been alleged, that our trade with the Indians would
be interrupted by bad seasons and occasional wars, while that of
Great Britain would be steady and uniform. As to the casual-
ties of seasons, it is evident they must fall upon Great Britain as
much as upon us, unless we suppose the elements in conspiracy
against us ; and as to wars, the possession of the posts would
essentially change our situation, and render it peculiarly advan-
tageous for preventing or repressing hostilities; so that with
equally good management, our territories would not be more
exposed than the British.

But the intrigues of the British traders residing among our
Indians, would excite them to hostility. It could not be the
private interest of the traders to do this ; because, besides being
amenable to punishment, if discovered — besides, that both the
traders and the Indians within our limits, by the possession of
the posts, would be under our control — wars interrupt of course
the hunting of the Indians, and so destroy their means of trading.

As to Great Britain, she never could have had but one in-
terest to prompt Indian hostilities, that was, to induce the United
States to relinquish a part of their boundary. The restitution of
the posts will put an end to this project. In regard to trade,
she and her traders will have a common interest with us, and
our traders, to keep all the Indians at peace, for the reason
assigned above. This interest will be the stronger, because the
best communication even with her own Indians, will be partly
through our territory ; and it would be impossible that it should
not be impeded and interrupted by the operations of war between
us and the Indians. In fact, under the circumstance of common
privileges, there is every possible link of common interest be-
tween us and Great Britain in the preservation of peace with the
Indians.

In this question of danger to our peace by the British parti-
cipation in the trade with our Indians, the difficulty of restraining
the Indians from trading with whom they please (which is ad-
mitted by the argument of both sides) is a very material con-

264 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

sideration. Would there not be greater hazard to our peace
from the attempts of the British to participate in a trade from
which we endeavored to exclude them, seconded by the discon-
tents of the Indians, than from any dispositions to supplant us,
when allowed a free competition, when no cause of dissatisfac-
tion was given to the Indians, and when it was certain, that war
must interfere with their means of carrying on the trade ? The
security for our peace appears to be much greater in the latter,
than in the former state of things.

A suspicion is also suggested, that Great Britain, without
exciting war, will indirectly trammel and obstruct our trade.
To objections which suppose a want of fair dealing in the other
party, it is very difficult to answer. All that a treaty can do, is
to establish principles which are likely to operate well, if well
executed. It is no objection to its merits, that the benefits aimed
at may be frustrated by ill faith. The utility of any compact
between nations must presume a sincere execution. The reverse
mav disappoint the best conceived plan : and the security
against it must be the mutual interest to perform, and the power
of retaliation. If Great Britain acts with infidelity or chicanery
towards us, we must retract the privileges granted on our side.

Another objection which is made, is, that while the British
would have a right to reside among us, to hire houses and ware-
houses, and to enjoy every convenience for prosecuting the trade
systematically, we should not be entitled to similar privileges
with them, having only a right to pass " like pedlars with our
shops upon our backs." These are the expressions of Cato.

The position is founded on that clause of the British act of
navigation, which forbids any but a natural born or naturalized
subject to exercise the occupation of a merchant or factor, in any
of the British dominions in Asia, Africa, and America.

In the first place, it is to be observed, that as far as the ar-
ticle under discussion is singly concerned, there is no pretence to
say, that one party has greater rights as to residence than the
other. If, therefore, Great Britain can prevent our citizens
residing in their territories in our neighborhood, we are free by
this article to apply to them a similar exclusion. And any right

JEt. 38.] CAM ILL US. 205

of residence which may be claimed under any other part of the
treaty, will be temporary.

In the second place, the prohibition of residence in the act of
navigation, proceeds on the ground of excluding foreigners from
carrying on trade in the territories to which it extends. But the
third article expressly gives us a right freely to carry on trade
and commeice with the British territories on this continent, a
right which necessarily includes the privilege of residing as mer-
chants and factors. For wherever an end is granted, the usual
&nd proper means of enjoying it, are implied in the grant. Resi-
dence is a usual and necessary mean of freely carrying on trade.
Without it, the right to trade becomes essentially nugatory.
This reasoning has peculiar force in relation to inland trade.
And it agrees with decisions at common law, and with the
opinion of Lord Coke, who tells us that " of a house for habita-
tion an alien merchant may take a lease for years, as incident to
commerce ' for without habitation he cannot merchandise or trade."
This, among other things, he informs us, was resolved by all the
judges assembled for that purpose, in the case of Sir James Croft,
in the reign of queen Elizabeth ; and we learn from it, that the
right to hire houses and warehouses is derived from the right to
trade, as its incident. The same principle, in toto, has been
recognized in other cases.

The whole of the article is an innovation upon the British
act of navigation. Being abrogated as to the principal thing,
there is no difficulty in supposing it so as to incidents; on the
other hand, to pretend to exclude us from the right of residence,
could not be deemed a fair execution of the article. Hence we
find, that the want of reciprocity in this particular, also foils,
and with it the supposed disadvantage on our side in the sup.
posed competition for the trade.

Camillus.

266 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38

NO. XII.

1795.
The remaining allegations, in disparagement of the third ar-
ticle, are to this effect: — 1. That the exception of the country of
the Hudson's Bay company, owing to its undefined limits, ren-
ders the stipulations in our favor, in a great measure, nugatory.
2. That the privileges granted to Great Britain in our Mississippi
ports, are impolitic, because without reciprocity. 3. That the
agreement to forbear to lay duties of entry on peltries, is the
surrender, without equivalent, of a valuable item of revenue,
and will give the British the facility of carrying on their fur
trade through us, with the use of our advantages. 4. That the
articles, which will be brought from Europe into Canada, coming
duty free, can be afforded cheaper than the same articles going
thither from us, charged with a heavy duty on their impor-
tation into the United States, and with the expense of a long
transportation by land, and inland navigation. 5. That the po-
pulation of Canada, which, by a census in 1784, amounted only
to 123,082 souls, is too small to render the supply of European
and Asiatic commodities, through us, of so much importance as
to bear any comparison with the loss by the sacrifice of the fur
trade. 6. That the intercourse to be permitted with the British
territories, will facilitate smuggling, to the injury of our revenue.
7. That the much greater extent of the United States than of
the British territories, destroys real reciprocity in the privileges
granted by this article, giving, in fact, far greater advantages
than, are received. These suggestions will be discussed in the
order in which they are here stated: —

1. It is true, that the country of the Hudson's Bay company
is not well defined. Their charter, granted in 1670, gives them
"the sole trade and commerce of and to all the seas, bays,
streights, creeks, lakes, rivers and sounds, in whatsoever latitude
they shall be, that lie within the entrance of the streights com-
monly called Hudson's Streights, together with all the lands,
countries, and territories, upon the coasts and confines of the said

jEt. 38.]

CAMILLUS. ^67

seas, streigtits, bays, &c, which are now actually possessed by any of
our subjects, or by the subjects of any other Christian prince or state."
To ascertain their territorial limits, according to charter, it
would be necessary to know what portion of country, at the time
of the grant, was actually possessed by the subjects of Great
Britain, or of some other Christian prince or state ; but though
this be not known, the general history of the country, as to set-
tlement, will demonstrate, that it could not have extended far
westward, certainly not to that region which is the scene of trade
in furs, commonly called the north-west trade, carried on by the
Canada company from Canada ; the possession of which, as far
as possession exists, is recent. We learn from a traveller who
has lately visited that region, that one of this company's establish-
ments is in lat. 56, 9, N. long. 117, 43, W., that is, about 20 de-
grees of longitude westward of the Lake of the Woods ; and it
is generally understood, that the entire scene of the trade of this
company is westward of the limits of the Hudson's Bay com-
pany.

Canada, on the north, is bounded by the territories of the Hud-
son's Bay company. This is admitted by the treaty of Utrecht,
and established by the act of parliament in 1774, commonly
called the Quebec act. The treaty of Utrecht provides for the
settlement of the boundaries by commissioners. I have not been
able to trace whether the line was ever actually so settled ; but
several maps lay down a line as the one settled by the treaty
of Utrecht, which runs north of the Lake of the Woods.

In a case thus situated, the United States will justly claim,
under the article, access to all that country, the trade of which
is now carried on through Canada. This will result both from
the certainty that there were no actual possessions, at the date
of the charter, so far interior, and from the fact of the trade being
carried on through a different channel, by a different company,
under the superintendence and protection of a different govern-
ment, that of Canada. It may be asked, why was the article
embarrassed by the exception of the country of the Hudson's
Bay company ? The answer is this, that the charter of this com-
pany gives to it a monopoly within its limits, and, therefore, a

268 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

right to trade there could not have been granted, with propriety,
to a foreign power, by treaty. It is true that it has been ques-
tioned, whether this monopoly was valid against British subjects,
seeing that the charter had not been confirmed by act of parlia-
ment. But besides that this doubt has been confined to British
subjects, it would appear, that, in fact, the company has enjoyed
the monojH.lv granted by its charter, even against them, and with
at least the implied approbation of parliament. In the year 1749,
petitions were preferred to the House of Commons, by different
trading towns in England, for rescinding the monopoly, and
opening the trade. An inquiry was instituted by the house. The
report of its committee was favorable to the conduct ane} preten-
sions of the company, and against the expediency of opening the
trade; and the business terminated there.

This circumstance of there being a monopoly, confirms the
argument drawn from the fact, that the north-west trade is car-
ried on through Canada by the Canada company; a decisive pre-
sumption, thai the scene of that trade is not within the country
of the Hudson's Bay company, and is, consequently, within the
operation of the privilege granted to us.

Though it will be partly a digression, I cannot forbear, in this
place, to notice some observations of Cato, in his 10th number.
After stating, that in 1784 the peltry from Canada sold in Lon-
don for .£230,000 sterling, he proceeds to observe, that, excluding
the territories of the Hudson's Bay company, nine-tenths of this
trade is within the limits of the United States; and though, with
studied ambiguity of expression, he endeavors to have it under-
stood, that nine-tenths of the trade which yielded the peltry, that
sold for £280,000 sterling in 1784-, was within our territories. It
is natural to ask, how he has ascertained the limits of the Hud-
son's Bay company (which, at other times, is asserted, by way of
objection to the article, to be altogether indefinite) with so much
exactness as to be able to pronounce what proportion, if any, of
the trade carried on through Canada may have come from that
country, towards the calculation which has led to the conclusion,
that nine-tenths of the whole lies within our limits? The truth
is indubitably and notoriously, that whether any or whatever

JEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 269

part of the peltry exported from Canada may come from the
country of the Hudson's Bay company, seven-eighths* of the
whole trade which furnishes that peltry, has its source on the
British side of the boundary line. It follows, that if it were even
true, that only one-tenth of the whole lay in that part of the
British territory, which is not of the Hudson's Bay company, in-
asmuch as only one-seventh of it lies within our limits, the result
would be, that the trade, in which we granted an equal privilege,
was to that in which a like privilege is granted to us, as one-
seventh to one-tenth, and not, according to Cato, as nine to one.
This legerdemain, in argument and calculation, is really too frivo-
lous for so serious a subject. Or, to speak more properly, it is
too shocking, by the spirit of deception which it betrays. Cato
has a further observation, with regard to the trade with the
Indians, in the vicinity of the Mississippi, and from that river
into the Spanish territories. The product of all this trade, he
says, must go down the Mississippi, and, but for the stipulation
of the third article, would have been exclusively ours; because,
" by the treaty of Paris, though the British might navigate the
Mississippi, yet they did not own a foot of land upon either of
its banks ; whereas the United States possessing all the Indian
country, in the vicinity of that river and the east bank for many
hundred miles, could, when they pleased, establish factories and
monopolize that commerce." This assertion, with regard to the
treaty of Paris, is in every sense incorrect ; for the seventh article
of that treaty, establishes as a boundary between the dominions
of France and his Britannic majesty, "a line drawn along the
middle of the river Mississippi, from its source to the river Iber-
ville, and from thence by a line drawn along the middle of this
river and the Lakes Maurepas and Pont Chartrain to the sea,"
and cedes to his Britannic majesty all the country on the east
side of the Mississippi. By the treaty of Paris then, his Britannic
majesty owned all, except the town and island of New Orleans,
the territory on the east side of the Mississippi, instead of not
having a foot of land there.

* Some statements rate it between six-eighths and seven-eightb.3.

270 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

What part of this territory does not still belong to him, is a
point not yet settled. The treaty of peace between the United
States and Great Britain, supposes that part will remain to Great
Britain; for one line of boundary between us and her, designated
by that treaty, is a line due west from the Lake of the Woods to
the Mississippi. If, in fact, this river runs far enough, north to be
intersected by such a line, according to the supposition of the last
mentioned treaty, so much of that river, and the land upon it?
as shall be north of the line of intersection, will continue to be
of the dominion of Great Britain. The lately-made treaty, not
abandoning the possibility of this being the case, provides for a
survey to ascertain the fact; and in every event, the intent of
the treaty of peace will require, that some closing line, more or
less direct, shall be drawn from the Lake of the Woods to the
Mississippi. The position, therefore, that Great Britain had no
land or ports on the Mississippi, takes for granted, what is not
ascertained, and of which the contrary is presumed by the treaty
of peace.

The trade with the Indian country on our side of the Missis-
sippi, from the Ohio to the Lake of the Woods (if that river ex-
tends so far north), some fragments excepted, has its present di-
rection through Detroit and Michilimackinac, and is included in
many calculations, heretofore stated, of the proportion which the
Indian trade within our limits, bears to that within the British
limits. Its estimated amount is even understood to embrace the
proceeds of a clandestine trade with the Spanish territories; so
that the new scene suddenly explored by Cato, is old and trodden
ground, the special reference to which cannot vary the results
that have been presented. It is still unquestionably and notori-
ously true, that the fur trade within our limits, bears no propor-
tion to that within the British limits. As to a contingent traffic
with the territories of Spain, each party will be free to pursue it
according to right and opportunity ; each would have, indepen-
dent of the treaty, the facility of bordering territories. The
geography of the best regions of the fur trade, in the Spanish
territories, is too little known, to be much reasoned upon ; and
if the Spaniards, according to their usual policy, incline to ex-

JEr. 38.] CAMILLUS. 271

elude their neighbors, their precautions along the Mississippi will
render the access to it circuitous; a circumstance which makes it
problematical, whether the possession of the opposite bank is, as
to that object, an advantage or not, and whether we may not find
it convenient to be able, under the treaty, to take a circuit
through the British territories.

2. It is upon the suggestion of Great Britain having no ports
on the Mississippi, that the charge of want of reciprocity in the
privileges granted, with regard to the use of that river, is founded.
The suggestion has been shown to be more peremptory than is jus.
tified by facts. Yet it is still true that the ports on our side bear no
proportion to any that can exist on the part of the British, accord-
ing to the present state of territory. It will be examined, in a
subsequent place, how far this disproportion is a proper rule in
the estimate of reciprocity. But let it be observed, in the mean
time, that in judging of the reciprocity of an article, it is to be
taken collectively. If, upon the whole, the privileges obtained
are as valuable as those granted, there is a substantial reciprocity ;
and to this test, upon full and fair examination of the article. I
freely refer the decision. Besides, if the situation of Great Bri-
tain did not permit, in this particular, a precise equivalent, it will
not follow that the grant on our part was improper, unless it can
be shown that it was attended with some inconvenience, injury,
or loss to lis ; a thing which has not been, and I believe cannot be
shown. Perhaps there is a very importantly beneficial side to
this question. The treaty of peace established between us and
Great Britain, a common interest in the Mississippi ; the present
treaty strengthens that common interest. Every body knows that
the use of the river is denied so by Spain, and that it is an indis-
pensable outlet to our western country. Is it an inconvenient
thing to us that the interest of Great Britain has, in this particu-
lar, been more completely separated from that of Spain and more
closely connected with ours?

3. The agreement to forbear to lay duties of entry on peltries,
is completely defensible on the following grounds, viz. : It is the
general policy of commercial nations to exempt raw materials
from duty. This has likewise been the uniform policy of the

272 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

United States ; and it has particularly embraced the article of
peltries, which, by our existing laws, may be imported into any
part of the United States free from duty. The object of this reg-
ulation is the encouragement of manufactures, by facilitating a
cheap supply of raw materials. A duty of entry, therefore, as
to such part of the article as might be worked up at home, would
be prejudicial to our manufacturing interest; as to such part as
might be exported, if the duty was not drawn back, would injure
our commercial interest. But it is the general policy of our laws,
in conformit}' with the practice of other commercial countries, to
draw back and return the duties which are charged upon the im-
portation of foreign commodities. This has reference to the ad-
vancement of the export trade of the country ; so that, with re-
gard to such peltries as should be re-exported, there would be no
advantage to our revenue from having laid a duty of entry. Such
a duty, then, being contrary to our established system and to true
principles, there can be no objection to a stipulation against it.
As to its having the effect of making our country the channel of
the British trade in peltries, this, if true, and it is indeed proba-
ble, could not but promote our interest. A large proportion of
the profits would then necessarily remain with us, to compensate
for transportation and agencies. It is likely, too, that to secure
the fidelity of agents, as is usual, copartnerships would be formed,
of which British capital would be the principal instrument, and
which would throw a still greater proportion of the profits into
our hands. The more we can make our country the entrepot, the
emporium of the trade of foreigners, the more we shall profit.
There is no commercial principle more obvious than this, more
universally agreed, or more generally practised upon, in countries
where commerce is well understood.

4. The fourth of the above enumerated suggestions is an-
swered, in its principal point, by the practice just stated, of draw-
ing back the duties on importation, when articles are re-exported.
This would place the articles, which we should send into the
British territories, exactly upon the same footing, as to duties, with
the same articles imported there from Europe. With regard to
the additional expense of transportation, this is another instance

JEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 273

of the contradiction of an argument, which has been relied upon
by both sides, which is, that taking the voyage from Europe in
conjunction with the interior transportation, the advantage, upon
the whole, is likely to be in our favor. And it is upon this ag-
gregate transportation that the calculation ought to be made.
With respect to India or Asiatic articles, there is the circumstance
of a double voyage.

5. As to the small population of Canada, which is urged to
depreciate the advantages of the trade with the white inhabitants
of those countries, it is to be observed that this population is not
stationary. If the date of the census be rightly quoted, it was
taken eleven years ago, when there were already 123,082 souls.
It is presumable that this number will soon be doubled ; for it is
notorious that settlement has proceeded for some years with con-
siderable rapidity in Upper Canada ; and there is no reason to
believe that the future progress will be slow. In time to come,
the trade may grow into real magnitude ; but be it more or less
beneficial, it is so much gained by the article ; and so much clear
gain, since it has been shown not to be true that it is counterbal-
anced by a sacrifice in the fur trade.

6. With regard to the supposed danger of smuggling, in the
intercourse permitted by this article, it is very probable it will be
found less than if it were prohibited. Entirely to prevent trade
between bordering territories is a very arduous, perhaps an im-
practicable task. If not authorized, so much as is carried on
must be illicit ; and it may be reasonably presumed that the ex-
tent of illicit trade will be much greater in that case, than where
an intercourse is permitted, under the usual regulations and
guards. In the last case, the inducement to it is less, and such as
will only influence persons of little character or principle, while
every fair trader is, from private interest, a sentinel to the laws ;
in the other case, all are interested to break through the barriers
of a rigorous and apparently unkind prohibition. This consid-
eration has probably had its weight with our government in
opening a communication through Lake Champlain with Canada;
of the principle of which regulation, the treaty is only an exten-
sion.

G 18

274 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

7. The pretended inequality of the article, as arising from the
greater extent of the United States than of the British territories,
is one of those fanciful positions which are so apt to haunt the
brains of visionary politicians. Traced through all its conse-
quences, it would terminate in this, that a great empire could
never form a treaty of commerce with a small one ; for, to equal-
ize advantages according to the scale of territory, the small state
must compensate for its deficiency in extent, by a greater quan-
tum of positive privilege, in proportion to the difference of extent,
which would give the larger state the monopoly of its trade. Ac-
cording to this principle, what wretched treaties have we made
with France, Sweden, Prussia, and Holland ! For our territories
exceed in extent those of either of these powers. How immense
the sacrifice in the case of Holland ! for the United States are
one hundred times larger than the United Provinces.

But how are we sure that the extent of the United States is
greater than the territories of Great Britain on our continent?
We know that she has pretensions to extend to the Pacific Ocean,
and to embrace a vast wilderness, incomparably larger than the
United States, and we are told, as already mentioned, that her
trading establishments now actually extend beyond the 56th de-
gree of north latitude, and 117th degree of west longitude.

Shall we be told (shifting the original ground) that not extent
of territory, but extent of population is the measure ? Then how
great is the advantage which we gain in this particular, by the
treaty at large ? The population of Great Britain is to that of the
United States, about two and a half to one : and the comparative
concession by her in the trade between her European dominions
and the United States, must be in the same ratio. When we add
to this the great population of her East India possessions, in which
privileges are granted to us, without any return, how prodigiously
will the value of the treaty be enhanced, according to this new
and extraordinary rule?

But the rule is, in fact, an absurd one, and only merits the
notice which has been taken of it, to exhibit the weak grounds Of
the opposition to the treaty. The great standard of reciprocity
is equal privilege. The adventitious circumstances, which may

JEt.38.] camillus. 275

render it more beneficial to one party than the other, can seldom
be taken into the account, because they can seldom be estimated
with certainty ; the relative extent of country or population, is,
of all others, a most fallacious guide.

The comparative resources and facilities for mutual supply,
regulate the relative utility of a commercial privilege ; and as far
as population is concerned, it may be laid down, as a general rule,
that the smallest population graduates the scale of the trade on
both sides, since it is at once the principal measure of what the
smaller state can furnish to the greater, and of what it can take
from the greater ; or, in other words, of what the greater state
can find a demand for in the smaller state. But this rule, too,
like most general ones, admits of numerous exceptions.

In case of a trade by land and inland navigation, the sphere
of the operation of any privilege can only extend a certain dis-
tance. When the distance to a given point, through a particular
channel, is such that the expense of transportation would render
an article dearer than it could be brought through another chan
nel to the same point, the privilege to carry the article through
that particular channel to such point, becomes of no avail. Thus
the privilege of trading by land or inland navigation from the
British territories on this continent, can procure to that country
no advantage of trade with Princeton in New Jersey, because
supplies can come to it on better terms from other quarters.
Whence we perceive, that the absolute extent of territory or
population of the United States, is no measure of the relative
value of the privileges reciprocally granted by the article under
consideration, and, consequently, no criterion of the real recipro-
city of the article.

The objectors to the treaty have marshalled against this arti-
cle a quaint figure, of which from the use of it in different quar-
ters, it is presumable they are not a little enamoured ; it is this,
that the article enables Great Britain to draw a line of circumval-
lation round the United States. They hope to excite prejudice, by
presenting to the mind the image of a siege, or investment of
the country. If trade be war, they have chosen a most apt
figure ; and we cannot but wonder, how the unfortunate island

276 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

of Great Britain has been able so long to maintain her indepen-
dence amidst the beleaguering efforts of the number of nations
with whom she has been imprudent enough to form treaties of
commerce; and who, from her insular situation, have it in their
power to beset and hem her in on all sides. How lucky it is for
the United States, that at least one side is covered by Spain, and
that this formidable line of circumvallation cannot be completely
perfected ! or rather how hard driven must those be, who are
obliged to call to their aid auxiliaries so preposterous !

Can any good reason be given, why one side of a country
should not be accessible to foreigners, for purposes of trade,
equally with another? Might not the cultivators on the side
from which they were excluded, have cause to complain, that the
carriage of their productions was subject to an increased charge,
by a monopoly of the national navigation ; while the cultivators
in other quarters enjoyed the benefit of a competition between
that and foreign navigation ? and might not all the inhabitants
have a right to demand a reason, why their commerce should be
less open and free, than that of other parts of the country ? Will
privileges of trade extend the line of territorial circumvallation ?
Will not the extent of contiguous British territory remain the
same, whether the communications of trade are open or shut ?
By opening them, may we not rather be said to make so many
breaches in the wall, or intrenchment of this newly-invented
circumvallation? if indeed it be not enchanted!

The argument upon this article has hitherto turned, as to the
trade with the white inhabitants of the British territories, on Euro-
pean and East India goods. But there can be no doubt that a
mutually-beneficial commerce in native commodities ought to be
included in the catalogue of advantages. Already there is a
useful interchange of certain commodities, which time and the
progress of settlement and resources cannot fail to extend. It is
most probable, too, that a considerable part of the productions
of the British territories will find the most convenient channel to
foreign markets through us ; which, as far as it regards the inter-
est of external commerce, will yield little less advantage, than if
they proceeded from our own soil or industry. It is evident, in

Mr. 38.] CAMILLUS. 277

particular, that as far as this shall be the case, it will prevent a
great part of the competition with our commodities which would
exist, if those productions took other routes to foreign markets.

In considering the subject, on the side of a trade in home
commodities, it is an important reflection, that the United States
are much more advanced in industrious improvement, than the
British territories. This will give us a material and growing
advantage. While their articles of exchange with us will essen-
tially consist in the products of agriculture and of mines, we
shall add to these manufactures of various and multiplying kinds,
serving to increase the balance in our favor.

In proportion as the article is viewed on an enlarged plan and
permanent scale, its importance to us magnifies. Who can say
how far British colonization may spread southward and down the
west side of the Mississippi, northward and westward into the
vast interior regions towards the Pacific Ocean? Can we view
it as a matter of indifference, that this new world is eventually
laid open to our enterprise, to an enterprise seconded by the im-
mense advantage already mentioned, of a more improved state
of industry ? Can we be insensible, that the precedent furnishes
us with a cogent and persuasive argument to bring Spain to a
similar arrangement? And can we be blind to the great interest
we have, in obtaining a free communication with all the territo-
ries that environ our country, from the St. Mary's to the St. Croix ?

In this large view of the subject, the fur trade which has
made a very prominent figure in the discussion, becomes a point
scarcely visible. Objects of great variety and magnitude, start
up in perspective, eclipsing the little atoms of the day, and pro-
mising to grow and mature with time.

The result of the whole is, that the United States make, by
the third article of the treaty, a good bargain — that with regard
to the fur trade, with equality of privileges and superior advan-
tages of situation, we stake one against seven, or at most one against
six — that as to the trade in European and East Indian goods and in
home productions, we make an equal stake with some advantages
of situation — that we open an immense field of future enterprise,
— that we avoid embarrassments and dangers ever attendant on

278 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 38.

an artificial and prohibitory policy, which, in reference to the
Indian nations, was particularly difficult and hazardous — and that
we secure those of a natural and liberal policy, and give the fair-
est chances for good neighborhood between the United States and
the bordering British territories, and consequently of good under-
standing with Great Britain, conducing to the security of our peace.
Experience, no doubt, will demonstrate that the horrid spectres
which have been conjured up, are fictions ; and if it should even
be slow to realize the predicted benefits (for time will be requisite
to give permanent causes their due effect in controlling temporary
circumstances), it will at last prove that the predicted evils are
chimeras and cheats.

Camillus.

NO. XIII.

1795.
The fourth and fifth articles of the treaty, from similarity of
object, will naturally be considered together. The fourth, recit-
ing a doubt, " whether the river Mississippi extends so far north-
westward, as to be intersected by a line drawn due west from the
Lake of the Woods, in the manner mentioned by the treaty of
peace," agrees, that measures shall be taken in concert between
the two governments, to make a joint survey of that river, from
a degree of latitude below the falls of St. Anthony, to the princi-
pal source or sources thereof, and of the parts adjacent thereto ;
and that if in the result it should appear that the said river
would not be intersected by such a line as above mentioned, the
two parties will proceed by amicable negotiation, to regulate the
boundary line in that quarter, as well as all other points to be
adjusted between them, according to justice and mutual conve-
nience, and the intent of the treaty of peace. The fifth, reciting
that doubts have arisen, what river was truly intended under the
name of the river St. Croix, mentioned in the treaty of peace,
and forming a part of the boundary therein described, provides
that the ascertainment of the point shall be referred to three

JEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 279

commissioners, to be appointed thus : one to be named by his
Britannic majesty, another by the President of the United States,
with the advice and consent of the Senate, the third by these
two, if they can agree in the choice ; but if they cannot agree,
then each of them to name a person, and out of the persons
named, one drawn by lot in their presence to be the third com-
missioner. These commissioners are to meet at Halifax, with
power to adjourn to any place or places they may think proper
— are to be sworn to examine and decide the question according
to the evidence Avhich shall be laid before them by both parties —
and are to pronounce their decision, which is to be conclusive^
by a written declaration under their hands and seals, containing a
description of the river, and particularly the latitude and longi-
tude of its mouth and of its source.

These articles, though they have been adjusted with critical
propriety, have not escaped censure. They have even in one
instance been severely reprobated, as bringing into question,
things about which there was no room for any — and which a
bare inspection of the map was sufficient to settle.

With regard to the Mississippi, there is no satisfactory evi-
dence that it has ever been explored to its source. It is even
asserted, that it has never been ascended beyond the 45th degree
of north latitude, about a degree above the falls of St. Anthony.
Fadeus's map in 1793, will serve as a specimen of the great un-
certainty which attends this matter. It notes that the river had
not been ascended beyond the degree of latitude just mentioned,
and exhibits three streams, one connected with the Marshy Lake
in that latitude, another with the White Bear Lake near the 46th
degree, and the third with the Red Lake in the 47th degree ; de-
nominating each of the two first, " the Mississippi by conjecture,''
and the last, " Eed Lake River, or Laboutan's Mississippi," — all
of them falling considerably short in their northern extent, of
the Lake of the Woods, which is placed as high as the fiftieth de-
gree of north latitude. Thus stands this very clear and certain
point, which, we are told, it was disgraceful on the part of our
envoy to have suffered to be brought into question.

There is, however, a specific topic of blame of the article

280 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

which has greater plausibility. It is this, that it does not finally
settle the question, but refers the adjustment of the closing line
to future negotiation, in case it should turn out that the river
does not stretch far enough north to be intersected by an east
and west line from the Lake of the Woods. I answer, that the
arrangement is precisely such as it ought to have been. It would
have been premature to provide a substitute till it was ascertain-
ed that it was necessary. This could only be done by an actual
survey. A survey is therefore provided for and will be made at
the joint expense of the two countries.

That survey will not only determine whether a substitute be
requisite or not; but it will furnish data for judging what sub-
stitute is proper, and most conformable to the true intent of the
treaty. Without the data which it will afford, any thing that
could have been done, would have been too much a leap in the
dark. National acts, especially on the important subject of
boundary, ought to be bottomed on a competent knowledge of
circumstances. It ought to be clearly understood how much is
retained, how much is relinquished. Had our envoy proceeded
on a different principle, if what he had agreed to had turned
out well, it would have been regarded as the lucky result of an
act of supererogation. If it had proved disadvantageous, it
would have been stigmatized as an act of improvidence and
imprudence.

The strong argument for having settled an alternative is the
avoiding of future dispute. But what alternative could have been
agreed upon, which might not have bred controversy? The
closing line must go directly or indirectly to the Mississippi —
which of the streams reputed or conjectured to be such, above
the falls of St. Anthony, is best entitled to be so considered ? To
what known point was the line to be directed? How was that
point to be identified with adequate certainty? The difficulty of
answering these questions, will evince that the danger of contro-
versy might have been increased by an impatience to avoid it,
and by anticipating, without the necessary lights, an adjustment
which they ought to direct.

The facts with regard to the river St. Croix, are these : the

JEt. 38.

CAMILLUS. 281

question is, which of two rivers is the true St. Croix ? The
dispute concerning it is as old as the French possession of Nova
Scotia. France set up one river ; Great Britain another. The
point was undecided when the surrender of Nova Scotia by the
former to the latter, put an end to the question as between those
parties. It was afterwards renewed between the colonies of
Nova Scotia and Massachusetts Bay, which last, in the year 1762,
appointed commissioners to ascertain, in conjunction with com-
missioners which might be appointed by the province of Nova
Scotia, the true river, but no final settlement of the matter ensued.

The treaty of peace gives us for one boundary, the river St.
Croix, but without designating it. Hence it has happened, that
not long after the peace was concluded, the question, which had
been before agitated between France and Great Britain, and be-
tween the provinces of Massachusetts and Nova Scotia, was re-
vived between the State of Massachusetts and that province, and
it has ever since continued a subject of debate.

A mode of settling the dispute was under the consideration
of Congress in the year 1785; and powers were given to our
then minister at the court of London, to adjust the affair, but
nothing was concluded. And we learn from a letter of Mr. Jef-
ferson to Mr. Hammond, dated the 15th December, 1791, that
it then also engaged the attention of our government ; that
the ascertaining of the point in dispute was deemed a matter
of " present urgency," and that it had before been the subject of
application from the United States to the government of Great
Britain.

It is natural to suppose, that a dispute of such antiquity be-
tween such different parties, is not without colorable foundation
on either side : at any rate, it was essential to the preservation of
peace that it should be adjusted.

If one party could not convince the other by argument, of the
superior solidity of its pretensions, I know of no alternative but
arbitration or war. Will any one pretend that honor required
us in such a case to go to war, or that the object was of a nature
to make it our interest to refer it to that solemn, calamitous, and
precarious issue ? No rational man will answer this question in

282 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

the affirmative. It follows, that an arbitration was the proper
course, and that our envoy acted rightly in acceding to this ex-
pedient. It is one, too, not without precedents among nations,
though it were to be wished, for the credit of human modera-
tion, that they were more frequent.

Is there any good objection to the mode of the arbitration ?
It seems impossible that any one more fair or convenient could
have been devised, and it is recommended by its analogy to what
is common among individuals.

What the mode is, has been already detailed, and need not
be repeated here. It is objected, that too much has been left to
chance ; but no substitute has been offered which would have
been attended with less casualty. The fact is, that none such
can be offered. Conscious of this, those who make the objec-
tion have not thought fit to give an opportunity of comparison
by proposing a substitute. What is left to chance ? Not that
there shall be a final decision ; for this is most effectually pro-
vided for. It is not only positively stipulated that commission-
ers, with full and definitive power, shall be appointed, but an ul-
timate choice is secured, by referring, in the last resort, to a de-
cision ly lot, what it might not be practicable to decide by agree-
ment. This is the ne plus ultra of precaution. Is it that this
reference to lot leaves it too uncertain of what character or dis-
position the third commissioner may be ? If this be not rather
a recommendation of the fairness of the plan, how was it to be re-
medied ? Could it have been expected of either of the parties, to
leave the nomination to the other? Certainly not. Would it
have been advisable to have referred the ultimate choice to some
other state or government? Where would one have been found,
in the opinion of both parties, sufficiently impartial? On which
side would there have been the greatest clanger of a successful
employment of undue influence ? Is it not evident that this ex-
pedient would have added to equal uncertainty, as to character
and disposition, other casualties and more delay? Should it
have been left to the two commissioners, appointed by the par-
ties to agree at all events ? It might have been impossible for
them to come to an agreement, and then the whole plan of set-

jEt. 38.]

CAMILLUS. 283

tlement would have been frustrated. Would the sword have
been a more certain arbiter? Of all uncertain things, the issues
of war are the most uncertain. What do objections of this
kind prove, but that there are persons resolved to object at all
events ?

The submission of this question to arbitration has been repre-
sented as an eventual dismemberment of empire, which, it has
been said, cannot rightly be agreed to, but in a case of extreme
necessity. This rule of extreme necessity is manifestly only ap-
plicable to a cession or relinquishment of a part of a country,
held by a clear and acknowledged title ; not to a case of disputed
boundary.

It would be a horrid and destructive principle, that nations
could not terminate a dispute about the title to a particular par-
cel of territory, by amicable agreement, or by submission to
arbitration as its substitute ; but would be under an indispensable
obligation to prosecute the dispute by arms, till real danger to
the existence of one of the parties should justify, by the plea of
extreme necessity, a surrender of its pretensions.

Besides, the terms in which writers lay down the rule, and
the reason of it, will instruct us that where it does apply, it re-
lates not to territory as such, but to those who inhabit it, on the
principle that the social compact entitles all the members of the
society to be protected and maintained by the common strength
in their rights and relations as members. It is understood, that
the territory between the two rivers in dispute, is either unin-
habited, or inhabited only by settlers under the British. If this
be so, it obviates all shadow of difficulty on our side. But be it
as it may, it would be an abuse of the rule, to oppose it to the
amicable adjustment of an ancient controversy, about the title to
a particular tract of country, depending on a question of fact,
whether this or that river be the one truly intended by former
treaties between the parties. The question is not, in this case,
Shall we cede a part of our country to another power? It is
this — To whom does this tract of country truly belong? Should
the weight of evidence be on the British side, our faith, pledged
by the treaty, would demand from us an acquiescence in their

284 HAMILTON'S WORKS. |>Et. 38.

claim. Not being able to agree in opinion on this point, it was
most equitable and most agreeable to good faith to submit it to
an impartial arbitration.

It has been asked, among other things, whether the United
States were competent to the adjustment of the matters without
the special consent of the State of Massachusetts. Eeserving a
more particular solution of this question to a separate discussion
of the constitutionality of the treaty, I shall content myself with
remarking here, that our treaty of peace with Great Britain, by
settling the boundaries of the United States without the specific
consent or authority of any State, assumes the principle, that the
government of the United States was of itself competent to the
regulation of boundary with foreign powers — that the actual
government of the Union has even more plenary authority with
regard to treaties, than was possessed under the confederation,
and that acts, both of the former and of the present government,
presuppose the competency of the national authority to decide
the question in the very instance under consideration. I am in-
formed, also, that the State of Massachusetts has, by repeated
acts, manifested a corresponding sense on the subject.

A reflection not unimportant occurs here. It was, perhaps,
in another sense than has been hitherto noticed, a point of pru-
dence in both governments to refer the matter in dispute to ar-
bitration. If one had yielded to the pretensions of the other, it
could hardly have failed to draw upon itself complaints, and cen-
sures, more or less extensive, from quarters immediately inter-
ested or affected.

Camillus.

NO. XIV.

1795.
The sixth article stipulates compensation to British creditors
for losses and damages which may have been sustained by them,
in consequence of certain legal impediments, which, since the

jEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 285

treaty of peace with Great Britain, are alleged to have obstructed
the recovery of debts bona fide contracted with them before the
peace.

To a man who has a due sense of the sacred obligation of a
just debt, a proper conception of the pernicious influence of laws
which infringe the rights of creditors, upon morals, upon the
general security of property,, upon public as well as private cre-
dit, upon the spirit and principles of good government ; who has
an adequate idea of the sanctity of the national faith, explicitly
pledged — of the ignominy attendant upon a violation of it in so
delicate a particular as that of private pecuniary contracts — of
the evil tendency of a precedent of this kind to the political and
commercial interests of the nation generally — every law which
has existed in this country, interfering with the recovery of the
debts in question, must have afforded matter of serious regret
and real affliction. To such a man, it must be among the most
welcome features of the present treaty, that it stipulates repara-
tion for the injuries which laws of that description may have
occasioned to individuals, and that, as far as is now practicable,
it wipes away from the national reputation the stain which they
have cast upon it. He will regard it as a precious tribute to jus-
tice, and as a valuable pledge for the more strict future obser-
vance of our public engagements ; and he would deplore as an
ill-omened symptom of the depravation of public opinion, the
success of the attempts which are making to render the article
unacceptable to the people of the United States. But of this
there can be no danger. The spontaneous sentiments of equity,
of a moral and intelligent people, will not fail to sanction, with
their approbation, a measure which could not have been resisted
without inflicting a new wound upon the honor and character of
the country.

Let those men who have manifested by their actions, a willing
disregard of their own obligations as debtors — those who secretly
hoard, or openly and unblushingly riot on the spoils of plundered
creditors, let such men enjoy the exclusive and undivided satis-
faction of arraigning and condemning an act of national justice,
in which they may read the severest reproach of their ini-

286 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

quitous principles and guilty acquisitions. But let not the peo-
ple of America tarnisli their honor by participating in that con-
demnation, or by shielding with their favorable opinion, the
meretricious apologies which are offered for the measures that
produced the necessity of reparation.

The recapitulation of some facts will contribute to a right
judgment of this part of the treaty. .

It is an established principle of the laws of nations, that, on
the return of peace between nations which have been at war, a
free and undisturbed course shall be given to the recovery of
private debts on both sides* In conformity to this principle,
the 4th article of the treaty of peace between the United States
and Great Britain, expressly stipulates, " that creditors on either
side shall meet with no lawful impediment to the recovery of the
full value in sterling money of all bona fide debts theretofore
contracted."

Two instances of the violation of this article have been
already noticed, with a view to another point ; one relating to
certain laws of the State of Virginia, passed prior to the peace,
which, for several years after it, appears to have operated to
prevent the legal pursuit of their claims by British creditors.
Another, relating to a law of the State of South Carolina, which
suspended the recovery of the debts for nine months, and after
that period permitted the recovery only in four years' instal-
ments.

But these were not all the instances ; there were other laws
of South Carolina prolonging the instalments, and obliging the
creditors to receive in payment the property of debtors at
appraised values ; and there were laws of Khode Island, New
Jersey, North Carolina, and Georgia, making paper money a
legal tender for the debts of those creditors; which, it is known,
sustained a very great depreciation in every one of those States.
These very serious and compulsory interferences with the rights
of the creditors, have received from Decius, the soft appellation
of a modification of the recovery of British debts. Does he

* Grotius, b. iii. c. xx. s. xvi.

Mi. 38.] CAMILLUS. 287

expect to make us believe, by this smooth phrase, that the right
to recover the full value of a debt in sterling money, is satisfied
by the obligation to take as a substitute, one half, one third, or
one fourth of the real value in paper ?

It must necessarily have happened, that British creditors
have sustained, from the operation of the different acts alluded
to, losses more or less extensive, which the mere removal of the
legal impediments which occasioned them could not repair.
In many instances, the losses must have actually accrued and
taken their full effect : in others, where no proceedings may
have been had, the lapse of so many years must have created
inabilities to pay, in debtors who were originally competent, who
might have been made to pay, had th^re been a free course of
justice.

The removal of the impediments, therefore, by opening of
the courts of justice, was not an adequate satisfaction. It could
not supersede the obligation of compensation for losses which
had irretrievably accrued by the operation of the legal impe-
diments, while they continued in force. The claim for this was
still open on the part of Great Britain, and still to be adjusted
between the two nations.

The excuse, that these laws were retaliations for prior in-
fractions of treaty by Great Britain, was in no view an answer
to the claim.*

In the first place, as has already been proved, the fact of such
prior infractions was too doubtful to be finally insisted upon,
and was, after a fruitless effort to obtain the acquiescence of the
other party, properly and necessarily waved ; so that it could
not serve as a plea against reparation.

* It may not be improper to observe, that this excuse implies a palpable viola-
tion of the then Constitution of the United States. The confederation vested the
powers of war and of treaty in the Union. It therefore lay exclusively with Con-
gress to pronounce, whether the treaty was or was not violated by Great Britain,
and what should be the satisfaction. No State, individually, had the least right to
meddle with the question, and the having done it was an usurpation on the con-
stitutional authority of the United States.

It might be shown, on a similar principle, that all confiscations or sequestrations
of British debts, by particular States, during the war, were also unconstitutional.

288 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

In the second place, if that fact had been indubitable, the
species of retaliation was unwarrantable. It will be shown, when
we come to discuss the 10th article, that the debts of private
individuals are in no case a proper object of reprisals ; that in-
dependent of the treaty, the meddling with them was a violation
of the public faith and integrity ; and that, consequently, it was
due as much to our own public faith and integrity, as to the in-
dividual who had suffered, to make reparation. It was an act
demanded by the justice, probity, and magnanimity of the
nation.

In the third place, it was essential to reciprocity in the ad-
justment of the disputes which had existed concerning the treaty
of peace. When we claimed the reinstatement and execution of
the article with regard to the posts, it was just that we should
consent to the reinstatement and execution of the article with
regard to debts. If the obstruction of the recovery of debts was
the equivalent by way of retaliation for the detention of the
posts, we could not expect to have restitution of the thing with-
held, and to retain the equivalent for it likewise. The dilemma
was, to be content with the equivalent, and abandon the thing ;
or to recover the thing, and abandon the equivalent : to have
both was more than we could rightly pretend. The reinstate-
ment of the article, with regard to the debts, necessarily included
two things, the removal of legal impediments as to the future
recovery ; compensation for past losses by reason of those im-
pediments. The first had been effected by the new Constitution
of the United States ; the last is promised by the treaty.

Did our envoy reply, that the reinstatement of the article
with regard to the posts included likewise compensation for their
detention ? Was it an answer to this, destitute of reason, that
our loss, by the detention of the posts, which resolved itself
essentially into the uncertain profits of a trade that might have
been carried on, admitted of no satisfactory rule of computation ;
while the principal and interest of private debts afforded a familiar
standard for the computation of losses upon them : that, never-
theless, while this was the usual, and must be the admitted
standard, it is an adequate one in cases where payment is pro-

jEt. 38.] CAM ILL US. 289

tracted beyond the allowed term of credit ; since the mere in-
terest of money does not countervail among- merchants, the
profits of its employment in trade, and still less the derangements
of credit and fortune, which frequently result to creditors, from
procrastinations of payment; and that the final damage to Greal
Britain, in these two particulars, for which no provision could be
made, might well exceed any losses to us by the detention of the
posts ?

In the last place, the compensation stipulated was a sine qua
non with Great Britain, of the surrender of the posts, and the
adjustment of the controversy which had subsisted between the
two countries. The making it such may be conceived to have
been dictated more by the importance of the precedent, than by
the quantum of the sum in question. We shall easily under-
stand this, if we consider how much the commercial capital of
Great Britain is spread over the world. The vast credits she
is in the habit of extending to foreign countries, renders it to
her an essential point to protect those credits by all the sanctions
in her power. She cannot forbear to contend at every hazard
against precedents of the invasion of the rights of her merchants
and for retribution where any happen. Hence, it is always to be
expected, that she will be peculiarly inflexible on this point :
and that nothing short of extreme necessity can bring her to
relax in an article of policy, which perhaps not less than any
other, is a necessary prop of the whole system of her political
economy.

It was, therefore, to have been foreseen that whenever our
controversy with Great Britain was adjusted, compensation for
obstructions to the recovery of debts would make a part of the ad-
justment. The option lay between compensation, relinquishment
of the posts, or war. Our envoy is entitled to the applause of all
good men, for preferring the first. The extent of the compensa-
tion can, on no possible scale, compare with the immense perma-
nent value of the posts, or with the expenses of war. The sphere
of the interferences has been too partial to make the sum of til,'
compensation, in any event, a \ery serious object; and as to a
war, a conscientious or virtuous mind could never endure the
G 19

2l,)0 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

thoughts of seeing the country involved in its calamities, to get
rid of an act of justice to individuals, whose rights, in contempt
of public faith, had been violated.

Having reviewed the general considerations which justify the
stipulation of compensation, it will be proper to examine if the
plan upon which it is to be made, is unexceptionable.

This plan contains the following features: 1. The cases pro-
vided for are those "where losses and damages occasioned by the
operation of lawful impediments (which since the peace have de-
layed the full recovery of British debts, bona fide contracted before
the peace, and still owing to the creditors, and have impaired and les-
sened the value and security thereof) cannot ?ioio, for whatever rea-
son, be actually obtained in the ordinary course of justice. 2. There
is an express exception out of this provision, of all the cases in
which losses and damages have been occasioned by such insolvency
of the debtors, or other causes, as ivould equally have operated to pro-
duce them, if no legal impediment had existed, or by the manifest de-
lay, or negligence, or toilful omission, of the claimants. 3. The
amount of the losses and damages, for which compensation is to
be made, is to be ascertained by five commissioners to be appointed
as follows: two by his Britannic majesty, two by the President
with the advice and consent of the Senate, the fifth by the unan-
imous voice of these four, if they can agree ; if they cannot agree,
then to be taken by lot out of two persons, one of whom to be
named by the two British commissioners, the other by the two
American commissioners. 4. These five commissioners, thus ap-
pointed, are, before they proceed to the execution of their trust,
to take an oath for its faithful discharge. Three of them to con-
stitute a board ; but there must be present one of the two com-
missioners named on each side, and the fifth commissioner. De-
cisions to be made by majority of voices of those present. They
are first to meet at Philadelphia, but may adjourn from place to
place as they see cause. 5. Eighteen months after the commis-
sioners make a board, are assigned for receiving applications ; but
the commissioners, in particular cases, may extend the term for
any further term, not exceeding six months. 6. The commission-
ers are empowered to take into consideration all claims, whether

JEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 291

of principal or interest, or balances of principal or interest, and
to determine them according to the merits and circumstances
thereof, and as justice and equity shall appear to them to require —
to examine persons on oath or affirmation, and to receive in evi-
dence, depositions, books, papers, or copies, or extracts thereof,
either according to the legal forms existing in the two countries,
or according to a mode to be devised by them. 7. Their award
is to be conclusive; and the United States are to cause the sum
awarded in each case to be paid in specie to the creditor without
deduction, and at such time and place as shall have been awarded;
but no payment to be required sooner than twelve months from
the day of the exchange of the ratifications of the treaty.

This provision fur ascertaining the compensation to be made,
while it is ample, is also well guarded.

It is confined to debts contracted before the peace, and still
owing to the creditors. It embraces only the cases of loss or
damage in consequence of legal impediments to the recovery of
those debts which will exclude all cases of voluntary compromise,
and can include none, where the laws have allotted a free course
to justice. It can operate in no instance where, at present, the
ordinary course of justice is competent to full relief, and the debtor
is solvent ; nor in any, where insolvency or other cause would
have operated to produce the loss or damage, if no legal impedi-
ment had existed, or where it had been occasioned by the wilful
delay, negligence, or omission of the creditor.

If it be said that the commissioners have nevertheless much
latitude of discretion, and that in the exercise of it they may
transgress the limits intended, the answer is, that the United
States, though bound to perform what they have stipulated with
good faith, would not be bound to submit to a manifest abuse of
authority by the commissioners. Should they palpably exceed
their commission, or abuse their trust, the United States may jus-
tifiably, though at their peril, refuse compliance. For example,
if they should undertake to award upon a debt contracted since
the peace, there could be no doubt that their award would be a
nullity. So likewise there may be other plain cases of miscon-
duct, which, in honor and conscience, would exonerate the United

292 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 38.

States from performance. It is only incumbent upon them to act,
bona fide, and as they act at their peril, to examine well the sound-
ness of the ground on which they proceed.

With regard to the reference to commissioners to settle the
quantum of the compensation to be made, this course was dic-
tated by the nature of the case. The tribunals of neither country
were competent to retrospective adjustment of losses and dam-
ages, in many cases which might require it. It is for this very
reason of the incompetency of the ordinary tribunals to do com-
plete justice, that a special stipulation of compensation, and a spe-
cial mode of obtaining it, became necessary. In constituting a
tribunal to liquidate the quantum of reparation, in the case of a
breach of treaty, it was natural and just to devise one likely to be
more certainly impartial than the established courts of either
party. Without impeaching the integrity of those courts, it was
morally impossible that they should not feel a bias towards the
nation to which they belonged, and for that very reason they were
unfit arbitrators. In the case of the spoliations of our property,
we should undoubtedly have been unwilling to leave the adjust-
ment in the last resort to the British courts ; and by parity of rea-
son, they could not be expected to refer the liquidation of com-
pensation in the case of the debts to. our courts. To have pressed
this would have been to weaken our argument for a different
course in regard to the spoliations. We should have been puz-
zled to find a substantial principle of discrimination.

If a special and extraordinary tribunal was to be constituted,
it was impracticable to contrive a more fair and equitable plan for
it than that which has been adopted. The remarks on the mode
of determining the question respecting the river St. Croix, apply
in full force here, and would render a particular comment super-
fluous.

To the objection of the Charleston committee, that the article
erects a tribunal unknown to our constitution, and transfers to
commissioners the cognizance of matters appertaining to Ameri-
can courts and juries, the answer is simple and conclusive. The
tribunals established by the Constitution do not contemplate a
case between nation and nation arising upon a breach of treaty,

Mt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 293

and are inadequate to the cognizance of it. Could either of them
hold plea of a suit of Great Britain plaintiff, against the United
States, defendant? The case, therefore, required the erection or
constitution of a new tribunal ; and it was most likely to promote
equity to pass by the courts of both the parties.

The same principle contradicts the position that there has been
any transfer of jurisdiction from American courts and juries to
commissioners. It is a question not between individual and indi-
vidual, or between our government and individuals, but between
our government and the British government; of course, one in
which our courts and juries have no jurisdiction. There was a
necessity for an extraordinary tribunal to supply the defect of or-
dinary jurisdiction ; and so far is the article from making the
transfer imputed to it, that it expressly excepts the cases in which
effectual relief can be obtained in the ordinary course of justice.

Nations acknowledging no common judge on earth, when they
are willing to submit the question between them to a judicial de-
cision, must of necessity constitute a special tribunal for the pur-
pose. The mode by commissioners, as being the most unexcep-
tionable, has been repeatedly adopted.

I proceed to reply to some other objections which have been
made against the provision contained in this article.

It is charged with affixing a stigma on the national character,
by providing reparation for an infraction, which, if it ever did
exist, has been done away, there being now a free course to the
recovery of British debts in the courts of the United States.

An answer to this objection has been anticipated by some ob-
servations heretofore made. The giving a free course to justice
in favor of British creditors, which has been effected by the new
Constitution of the United States, though it obviates the future
operation of legal impediment, does not retrospectively repair the
losses and damages which may have resulted from their past op-
eration. In this respect, the effects continued, and reparation was
due. To promise it, could fix no stigma on our national charac-
ter. That was done by the acts which created the cause for re-
paration. To make it, was as far as possible to remove tin' Bl igma.

It has been said that the promise of compensation produces

294 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

injustice to those states which interposed no legal impediments to
the recovery of debts, by saddling them with a part of the bur-
den arising from the delinquencies of the transgressing states.
But the burden was before assumed by the treaty of peace. The
article of that treaty, which engaged that there should be no law-
ful impediments to the recovery of debts, was a guarantee by the
United States of justice to the British creditors. It charged them
with the duty of taking care that there was no legal obstacle to
the recovery of the debts of those creditors, and consequently
with a responsibility for any such obstacle which should happen,
and with the obligation of making reparation for it. We must,
therefore, refer to the treaty of peace, not to the last treaty, the
common charge which has been incurred by interference in the
recovery of British debts. The latter only carries into execution
the promise made by the former. It may be added that it is a
condition of the social compact that the nation at large shall make
retribution to foreign nations for injuries done to them by its
members.

It has been observed, that Mr. Jefferson has clearly shown,
that interest in cases like that of British debts, is liable, during
the period of the war, to equitable abatements and deductions;
and that, therefore, the discretion given to the commissioners on
this head ought not to have been as large as it appears in the
article.

Mr. Jefferson has, no doubt, offered arguments of real weight
to establish the position that judges and juries have, and exercise,
a degree of discretion in any article of interest ; and that the
circumstances of our war with Great Britain, afford strong
reasons for abatements of interest. But it was foreign to his pur-
pose, and accordingly he has not attempted, to particularize the
rules which ought to govern in the application of this principle
to the variety of cases in which the question may arise : and he
has himself noted that the practice in different states and in dif-
ferent courts, has been attended with great diversity. Indeed,
admitting the right to abate interest under special circumstances,
in cases in which it is the general rule to allow it, the circum-
stances of each case, are, perhaps, the only true criterion of the

JEr. 38.] CAMILLUS. 295

propriety of an exception. The ])articular nature of the contract,
the circumstances under which it was entered into, the relative
situation of parties, the possibility or not of mutual access ; these
and other things would guide and vary the exercise of the dis<
tion to abate. It was, therefore right to leave the commissioners,
as they are left, in the same situation with judges and juries : —
to act according to the true equity of the several cases or of the
several classes of cases.

Let it be remembered, that the government of Great Britain
has to consult the interests and opinions of its citizens, as well
as the government of the United States those of their citizens.
The only satisfactory course which the former could pursue, in
reference to its merchants, was to turn over the whole question
of interest as well as principal to the commissioners. And as
this was truly equitable, the government of the United States
could make no well-founded opposition to it.

Camillus.

NO. XV.

1795.

It is the business of the seventh article of the treaty, to pro-
vide for two objects : one, compensation to our citizens for inju-
ries to their property, by irregular, or illegal captures, or con-
demnations ; the other, compensation, to British citizens for cap-
tures of their property within the limits and jurisdiction of the
United States, or elsewhere, by vessels originally armed in our
ports, in the cases in which the captured property having come within
our posts and power, there was a neglect to make restitution.

The first object is thus provided for; 1. It is agreed, that in
all cases of irregular and illegal captures or condemnations of the
vessels and other property of citizens of the United States, under
color of authority or commissions from his Britannic majesty, in
which adequate compensation for the losses and damages sus-
tained, cannot, for whatever reason, be actually obtained in the

296 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 38.

ordinary course of justice, full and complete compensation for the
same will be made by the British government to the claimants ; ex-
cept where the loss or damage may have been occasioned by the
manifest delay or negligence, or wilful omission of those claim-
ants. 2. The amount of the losses and damages to be compen-
sated, is to be ascertained by five commissioners, who are to be
appointed in exactly the same manner as those for liquidating
the compensation to British creditors. 3. These commissioners
are to take a similar oath, and to exercise similar powers for the
investigation of claims with those other commissioners : and they
are to decide according to the merits of the several cases, and to
justice, equity, and the laws of nations. 4. The same term of
eighteen months is allowed for the reception of claims, with a
like discretion to extend the term, as in the case of British debts.
5. The award of these commissioners, or of three of them, under
the like guards as in that case, is to be final and conclusive, both
as to the justice of the claims, and to the amount of the compen-
sation. And, lastly, his Britannic majesty is to cause the com-
pensation awarded, to be paid to the claimants in specie, without
deduction, at such times and places, and upon the condition of
such releases or assignments, as the commissioners shall prescribe.

Mutually and dispassionately examined, it is impossible not
to be convinced, that this provision is ample, and ought to be
satisfactory. The course of the discussion will exhibit various
proofs of the disingenousness of the clamors against it; but it
will be pertinent to introduce here one or two samples of it.

It has been alleged, that while the article preceding, and this
article, provide effectually for every demand of Great Britain
against the United States, the provision for this important and
urgent claim of ours is neither explicit nor efficient, nor co-ex-
tensive with the object, nor bears any proportion to the sum-
mary method, adopted for the satisfying of British claims.

This suggestion is every way unfortunate. The plan for satis-
fying our claim, except as to the description of the subject which
varies with it, is an exact copy of that for making compensation
to British creditors. Whoever will take the pains to compare,
will find, that in the leading points, literal conformity is studied;

jEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 2(.»7

and that in others, the provisions are assimilated by direct refer-
ences; and will discover also this important distinction in favor
of the efficiency and summariness of the provision for our claim
— that while the commissioners are expressly restricted from
awarding payment to British creditors, to be made sooner than
one year after the exchange of ratifications of the treaty, they
are free to award it to be made the very day of their decision,
for the spoliations of our property. As to compensation for
British property, captured Avithin our limits, or by vessels origi-
nally armed within our ports and not restored, which is the only
other British claim that has been provided for, it happens that
this, forming a part of the very article we are considering, is sub-
mitted to the identical mode of relief which is instituted for
making satisfaction to us.

So far, then, is it from being true, that a comparison of the
modes of redress provided by the treaty, for the complaints of
the respective parties, turns to our disadvantage, that the real
state of the case exhibits a substantial similitude, with only one
material difference, and that in our favor ; and, that a strong ar-
gument for the equity of the provisions on each side, is to be
drawn from their close resemblance of each other.

The other suggestion alluded to, and which has been shame-
lessly reiterated, is, that Denmark and Sweden, by pursuing a
more spirited conduct had obtained better terms than the United
States. It is even pretended, that one or both of them had ac-
tually received from Great Britain a gross sum on account — in
anticipation of an ultimate liquidation. In my second number,
the erroneousness of the supposition, that those powers had ob-
tained more than the United States, was intimated ; but the sub-
sequent repetition of the idea, more covertly in print, and very
openly and confidently in conversation, renders expedient an ex-
plicit and peremptory denial of the fact. There never has ap-
peared a particle of evidence to support it; and after challenging
the asserters of it to produce their proof, I aver, that careful in-
quiry, at sources of information, at least as direct and authentic
as theirs, has satisfied me, that the suggestion is wholly unfound-
ed, and that at the time of the conclusion of our treaty with

298 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

Great Britain, both Denmark and Sweden were behind us in the
effect of their measures for obtaining reparation.

What are we to think of attempts like these, to dupe and ir-
ritate the public mind? Will any prudent citizen still consent
to follow such blind or such treacherous guides ?

Let us now, under the influence of a calm and candid temper,
without which truth eludes our researches, by a close scrutiny of
the provision, satisfy ourselves, whether it be not really a reason-
able and proper one. But previous to this it is requisite to ad-
vert to a collateral measure, which was also a fruit of the mission
to Great Britain, and which ought to be taken in conjunction
with the stipulations of this article. I refer to the order of the
British king in council, of the 6th of August, 1794, by which
order the door, before shut by lapse of time, is opened to appeals
from the British West India courts of admiralty, to be brought
at any time which shall be judged reasonable by the lords com-
missioners of appeals in prize causes. This, of itself, was no in-
considerable step towards the redress of our grievances ; and it
may be hoped, that with the aid which the government of the
United States has given to facilitate appeals, much relief may
ensue from this measure. It will not be wonderful, if it should
comport with the pride and policy of the British government, by
promoting justice in their courts, to leave as little as possible to
be done by the commissioners.

I proceed now to examine the characteristics of the supple-
mentary provision made by the article, in connection with the
objections to it.

It admits fully and explicitly the principle, that compensation
is to be made for the losses and damages sustained by our citizens,
by irregular or illegal captures, or condemnations of their vessels
and other property, under color of authority (which includes
governmental orders and instructions) or of commissions of his
Britanuic majesty. It is to be observed, that the causes of the
losses and damages are mentioned in the disjunctive, "captors or
condemnations ;" so that damages by captures, which were not
followed by condemnations, are provided for as well as those
where condemnations did follow.

jEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 299

A cavil has been raised on the meaning of the word color,
which, it is pretended, would not reach the cases designed to be
embraced ; because the spoliations complained of, were made, not
merely by color, but actually by virtue of instructions from the
British government.

For the very reason that this subtil and artificial meaning
ascribed to the term, would tend to defeat the manifest general
intent of the main provision of the article, which is plainly to give
reparation for irregular or illegal captures or condemnations of
American property, contrary to the laws of nations — that mean-
ing must be deemed inadmissible.

But in fact, the expression is the most accurate that could
have been used, to signify the real intent of the article. When
we say, a thing was done by color of an authority or commission,
we mean one of three things ; that it was done on the pretence
of a sufficient authority or commission not validly imparted, or on
the pretence of such an authority or commission validly imparted
but abused or misapplied, or on the pretence of an insufficient
authority or commission, regularly, as to form, imparted and ex-
ercised. It denotes a defect of rightful and just authority, whether
emanating from a wrong source, or improperly from a right
source ; whereas the phrase " by virtue of," is most properly ap-
plicable to the valid exercise of a valid authority. But the two
phrases are not unfrequently used as synonymous. Thus, in a
proclamation of the British king, of the 25th of May, 1792, he,
among other things, forbids all his subjects, by virtue or under
color of any foreign commission or letters of reprisals, to disturb,
infest, or damage, the subjects of France.

In whose mouths does the article put the expression ? In
those of citizens of the United States? What must they be
presumed to have meant? Clearly this; that by color of instruc-
tions or commissions of his Britannic majesty, either exercised
erroneously, or issued erroneously, as being contrary to the laws
of nations ; the citizens of the United States had suffered loss and
damage by irregular or illegal captures or condemnations of their
property. What is the standard appealed to, to decide the irreg*
ularity or illegality to be redressed? Expressly the laws of na-

300 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

tions. The commissioners are to decide "according to the merits
of the several cases, to justice, equity, and the laws of nations."
Wherever these laws, as received and practised among nations,
pronounce a capture or condemnation of neutral property to have
been irregular or illegal, though by color of an authority or com-
mission of his Britannic majesty, it would be the duty of the
commissioners to award compensation.

The criticism, however, fails on its own principle, when tested
by the fact. The great source of grievance, intended to be re-
dressed by the article, proceeded from the instruction of the 6th
of November, 1793. That instruction directs the commanders
of ships of war and privateers, to stop and detain all ships laden
with goods, the produce of any colony belonging to France, or
carrying provisions and other supplies for the use of such colony,
and to bring the same, with their cargoes, to legal adjudication in
the British courts of admiralty. These terms, " legal adjudication ,"
were certainly not equivalent, upon any rational construction, to
condemnation. Adjudication means simply, a judical decision,
which might be either to acquit or condemn. Yet the British
West India courts of admiralty appear to have generally acted
upon the term as synonymous with condemnation. In doing this,
they may be truly said, even in the sense of the objection, to
have acted by color, only, of the instruction.

The British cabinet have disavowed this construction of the
West India courts ; and have, as we have seen, by a special act
of interference, opened a door which was before shut to a reversal
of their sentences, by appeal to the courts in England. We find,
also, that the term adjudication is used in the XVIIth article of
our late treaty as synonymous only with judicial decision, accord-
ing to its true import. This, if any thing were wanting, would
render it impossible for the commissioners to refuse redress on
the ground of the condemnations, if otherwise illegal, being
warranted by the pretended sense of the words legal adjudication.
But in reality, as before observed, their commission will be to
award compensation in all cases, in which they are of opinion,
that, according to the established laws of nations, captures or con-
demnations were irregular or illegal, however otherwise author-

.-Et. 38. j CAM ILL US. 30 J

ized ; and this in contempt of the quibbling criticism which has
been so cunningly devised.

2d. The provision under consideration, obliges the British
government, in all cases of illegal captures or condemnations in
which adequate compensation cannot, for whatever reason, be
actually had in the ordinary course of justice, to make full and
complete compensation to the claimants, which is to be paid in
specie to themselves, without deduction, at such times and places
as shall be awarded.

They are not sent for redress to the captors, or obliged to
take any circuitous course for their payment, but are to receive
it immediately from the treasury of Great Britain.

3d. The amount of the compensation in each case is to be
fixed by five commissioners, two appointed by the United States,
two by Great Britain : the fifth by these four, or in case of dis-
agreement, by lot. These commissioners to meet and act in
London.

It seems impossible, as has been observed and shown in the
analogous cases, to imagine a plan for organizing a tribunal
more completely equitable and impartial than this ; while it is
the exact counterpart of the one which is to decide on the claims
of British creditors. Could it have been believed, that so palpa-
ble an error could have been imposed on a town meeting, in the
face of so plain a provision, as to induce it to charge against this
article, that, in a national concern of the United States, redress
was left to British courts of admiralty ? Yet, strange as it may
appear, this did happen even in the truly enlightened town of
Boston. The just pride of that town will not quickly forget,
that it has been so compromitted.

The truth is, that, according to the common usage of nations,
the courts of admiralty of the belligerent parties are the channels
through which the redress of injuries to neutrals is sought. But
Great Britain has been brought to agree to refer all the cases, in
which justice cannot be obtained through those channels, to an
extraordinary tribunal ; in other words, to arbitrators mutually
appointed.

It is here that we find the reparation of the national wrong

302 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

which we had suffered. In admitting the principle of compensa-
tion by the government itself, in agreeing to an extraordinary
tribunal, in the constitution of which the parties have an equal
voice, to liquidate that compensation, Great Britain has virtually
and effectually acknowledged the injury which had been done to
our neutral rights, and has consented to make satisfaction for it.
This was an apology in fact, however it may be in form.

As it regards our honor, this is an adequate, and the only
species usual in similar cases between nations ; pecuniary com-
pensation is the true reparation in such cases — governments are
not apt to go upon their knees to ask pardon of other govern-
ments— Great Britain, in the recent instance of the dispute with
Spain about Nootka Sound, was glad to accept of a like repara-
tion. It merits remark, incidentally, that the instrument, which
settles this dispute, expressly waves, like our treaty, reference to
the merits of the complaints and pretensions of the respective
parties. Is our situation such as to authorize us to pretend to
impose humiliating conditions on other nations !

It is necessary to distinguish between injuries and insults,
which we are too apt to confound. The seizures and spoliations
of our property fall most truly under the former head. The
acts which produced them, embraced all the neutral powers,
were not particularly levelled at us, bore no mark of an intention
to humble us by any peculiar indignity or outrage.

These acts were of June 8th. and of November 6th, 1793.
The seizure of our vessels going with provisions to the dominions
of France, under the first, was put on the double ground of a
war extraordinary in its principle,* and of a construction of the
laws of nations, which, it was said, permitted that seizure ; a con-
struction not destitute of color, and apparently supported by
the authority of Vatel, though, in my opinion, ill founded. It
was accompanied also by compensation for what was taken, and
other circumstances, that evinced a desire to smooth the act.
The indiscriminate confiscation of our property, upon the order

* Though this country has viewed the principle of the war favorably, it is cer-
tain that Europe generally, the neutral powers n >t wholly excepted, has viewed it
in a different light, so that this was not a mere pretence.

jEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 303

of the 6th of November, which was the truly flagrant injury, was
certainly unwarranted by that order (and no secret one has ap-
peared)— and the matter has been so explained by the British
government. It is clear that evils suffered under acts so circum-
stanced, are injuries rather than insults — and are so much the
more manageable as to the species and measure of redress. It
would be Quixotism to assert that we might not honorably accept
in such a case, the pecuniary reparation which has been stipu-
lated.

But it is alleged, in point of interest, it is unsatisfactory —

tedious in the process — uncertain in the event ; that there ought
to have been actual and immediate indemnifications, or at least,
a payment upon account.

A little calm reflection will convince us, that neither of the
two last things was to be expected. There was absolutely no
criterion, either for a full indemnification, or for an advance upon
account. The value of the property seized and condemned (lay
out of the case damages upon captures where condemnation had
not ensued) was not ascertained, even to our own government,
with any tolerable accuracy. Every well-informed man will
think it probable, that of this, a proportion was covered French
property. There were, therefore, no adequate data, upon which
our government could demand, or the British government pay, a
determined sum. Both governments must have acted essentially
by guess. Ours could not in honor or conscience have made
even an estimate but upon evidence. It might have happened,
that a sum which appeared upon the evidence that had been col-
lected, sufficient, might have proved on further evidence insuffi-
cient. Too little, as well as too much, might have been demanded
and paid. But it will perhaps be said, that some gross estimate
might have been formed ; and that of this, such a part might have
been advanced upon account, as was within the narrowest pro-
bable limit, liable to eventual adjustment. Let us for a moment
suppose this done — what good end would it have answered?
How could the United States have distributed this money among
the sufferers, till it was ascertained which of them was truly en-
titled, and to how much ? Is it not evident, that if they had

304 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

made any distribution, before the final and perfect investigation
of the right of each claimant, it would be at the risk of making
mispayments, and of being obliged to replace the sums mispaid,
perhaps at a loss to the United States, for the benefit of those
who should be found to be better entitled ? AVould it have been
expedient for our government to have incurred this risk to its
constituents ? And if the money was to be held undistributed
till an investigation of claims was completed, to what purpose the
haste about an advance?

On the other hand — Is it in this loose, gross way, that nations
transact affairs with each other? Do even individuals make in-
demnifications to one another, in so lumping a manner ? Could
it be expected of Great Britain, that she would pay, till it was
fairly ascertained what was to be paid ; especially when she had
too much cause to suspect, that a material proportion of the pro-
perty claimed, might turn out to be French ? Would it have
been justifiable on our part, to make her compliance with
such a demand, the sine qua non of accommodation and peace ?
Whoever will believe that she would have complied with so hu-
miliating a requisition, must be persuaded that we were in a con-
dition to dictate, and she in a condition to be obliged to receive
any terms that we might think fit to prescribe ! The person
who can believe this, must be, in my opinion, under the influence
of a delirium, for which there is no cure in the resources of rea-
son and argument.

It must be admitted, that it was matter of necessity, that in-
vestigation should precede payment ; then I see not what more
summary mode could have been devised. Who more capable of
proceeding with dispatch, than arbitrators untrammelled with
legal forms ; vested with powers to examine parties and others,
on oath, and to command and receive all evidence in their own
way ? Here are all the means of expedition divested of every
clog.

Eighteen months are allowed for preferring claims, but the
commissioners are at liberty to adjust them as fast as they are
preferred. In every case in which it appears to them bona Jide,
that the ordinary course of justice is inadequate to relief, they

JEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 305

may forthwith, proceed to examine and decide. There is no
impediment, no cause of delay whatever, more than the nature
of a due investigation always requires.

The. meeting of the commissioners at London, was recom-
mended by the circumstance that the admiralty courts were
likely to concentre there a considerable part of the evidence,
on which they were to proceed ; which, upon the whole, might
favor dispatch, as well as more complete justice. In many cases,
the decisions of those courts may come under their review.

As to the uncertainty of the event, this, as far as it may be
true, was inseparable from any plan, bottomed on the idea of a
previous investigation of claims : and it has been shown, that
some such plan was reasonable and inevitable.

It may also be added, that the plan affords a moral certainty
of substantial justice, which is all that can rationally be expected
in similar affairs ; compensation, where due, is explicitly stipu-
lated. A fair and adequate mode of deciding and liquidating it
has been settled. All the arguments which were adduced to
prove the probability of good faith, in regard to the posts, apply
equally to this subject. The interest which every nation has in
the preservation of character, and which the most profligate dare
not entirely disregard — the consideration of defeating the ful-
filment of the stipulations on our part — the size of the object,
certainly not of great magnitude — the very discouraging situation
for replunging suddenly into a new war, in which the present
war will in every event leave Great Britain. These are reasons
which afford solid ground of assurances that there will be no
evasion of performance.

As to the commissioners, two of the five will be of our choice,
a third may be so likewise ; but should it prove otherwise, it will
be surprising if one of the other three, all acting under oath, and
having character at stake, shall not be disposed to do us reason-
able justice.

3d. While their power is coextensive with all losses and

damages from irregular or illegal captures or condemnations,

their sentence in each case is to be conclusive, and the rules

which are to govern it, as prescribed by the article, are the merits

G 20

306 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

of each case, justice, equity, and the law of nations. What
greater latitude could have been desired to be given? What
greater latitude could have been given ? What else in the case
was there to have been provided for ? What is meant . by the
assertion, that the provision is not commensurate with the object ?

The general and unqualified reference to the laws of nations,
dismisses all pretence to substitute the arbitrary regulations of
Great Britain as rules of decision. Her instructions or orders, if
incompatible with those laws, are nullities.

Thus the treaty unfetters the question between us and her,
from the commencement of the war, and with her own consent,
commits them at large to a tribunal to be constituted by mutual
choice.

Will any man of candor and equity say, that a better pro-
vision ought to have been expected than has been accomplished ?

The alternative was immediate indemnification, by actual
payment in whole or in part, without examination of the extent
or justice of claims; or future indemnification, after a due in-
vestigation of both in some equitable and effectual mode. The
first was attended with difficulties on our side, and with solid
objections on the other side. The last was therefore the truly
reasonable course, and it has been pursued on a very proper
plan. The causes of loss and damage are fully embraced. They
are referred to the decision of an unexceptionable tribunal, to be
guided by unexceptionable rules, and the indemnification which
may be awarded, is to be paid fully, immediately, and without
detour by the British government itself. Say, ye impartial and
enlightened, if all this be not as it ought to have been !

Camillus.

no. xvi.

1795.
The second object of the seventh article, as stated in my
last number, is "compensation to British citizens, for captures of

Avr. 38.] C A M I L L U S . 307

their property within the limits and jurisdiction of the United
States, or elsewhere, by vessels originally armed in our ports, in
the cases in which the captured property having come within our pow-
er, there ivas a, neglect to make restitution"

This precise view of the thing stipulated, is calculated to
place the whole subject at once before the mind, in its true shape ;
to evince the reasonableness of it, and to dismiss the objections
which have been made, as being foreign to the real state of the
case. These objections are, in substance, that the compensation
promised is of great extent and amount ; that an enormous
expense is likely to be incurred; and that it is difficult to prove,
that a neutral nation is under an obligation to go the lengths of
the stipulation.

These remarks obviously turn upon the supposition, errone-
ously entertained or disingenuously affected, — that compensation
is to be made for all captures within our limits or jurisdiction, or
elsewhere, by vessels originally armed in our ports, where resti-
tution has not, in fact, been made. Did the stipulation stand
on this broad basis, it would be justly liable to the criticism
which has been applied to it. But the truth is, that its basis is
far more narrow— that instead of extending to all those captures,
it is confined to the particular cases of them only, in which the
captured property came, or was, after the capture, within our
power, so as to have admitted of restitution by us, but restitu-
tion was not made, through the omission or neglect of our gov-
ernment. It does not extend to a single case, where the pro-
perty, if taken within our jurisdiction, was immediately carried
out of our reach — or where, if taken within our jurisdiction, it
was never brought within our reach, or where, if at any time
within our reach, due means were employed without success to
effect restitution.

It will follow from this, that the cases within the purview of
the article, must be very few — for, except with regard to three
prizes, made in the first instance, where special considerations
restrained the government from interposing, there has been a
regular and constant effort of the executive, in which our courts
have efficaciously co-operated, to restore prizes made within our

808 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

jurisdiction, or by vessels armed in our ports. The extent or
amount, therefore, of the compensation to be made, can by no
possible means be considerable.

Let us, however, examine if the construction I give to the
clause be the true one.

It is in these words : — "It is agreed that in all such cases
where restitution shall not have been made agreeably to the tenor
of the letter from Mr. Jefferson to Mr. Hammond, dated Sep-
tember 5th, 1793, a copy of which is annexed to this treaty, the
complaints of the parties shall be and hereby are referred to the
commissioners to be appointed by virtue of this article, who
are hereby authorized and required to proceed in the like man-
ner relative to these as to the other cases committed to them ;
and the United States undertake to pay to the complainants in
specie, without deduction, the amount of such sums as shall be
awarded to them respectively," &c.

The letter of Mr. Jefferson, by this reference to it, and its
annexation to the treaty, is made virtually a part of the treaty.
The cases in which compensation is promised, are expressly
those in which restitution has not been made, agreeably to the
tenor of that letter.

An analysis of the letter will of course unfold the cases in-
tended.

1. It recapitulates an assurance before given by a letter of
the 7th August, to the British minister, that measures were
taken for excluding from further asylum in our ports, vessels
armed in them to cruise on nations with which we were at peace,
and for the restoration of the prizes the Lovely Lass, Prince
William Henry, and the Jane of Dublin; and that, should the
measures of restitution fail in their effect, the President considered
it as incumbent on the United /States, to make compensation for the
vessels. These vessels had been captured by French privateers,
originally armed in our ports, and had been afterwards brought
within our ports.

2. It states that we are bound by our treaties with three of
the belligerent nations,* by all the means in our power, to pro-

* France, Holland, and Prussia, and our treaty with Sweden includes a like
proviso.

JEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 3<>9

tect and defend their vessels and effects in our ports or waters,
or on the seas near our shore, and to recover and restore the
same to the right owners, when taken from them; adding, that
if all the means in our power are used, and fail in their effect, we
are not bound by our treaties to make compensation. It further
states, that though we have no similar treaty with Great Britain,
it was the opinion of the President, that we should use town ids
that nation the same rule which was to govern us with those
other nations, and even to extend it to captures made on the high
seas and brought into our ports, if done by vessels which had
been armed within them.

3. It then draws this conclusion, that having, for particular
reasons, forbore to use all means in our power for the restitution of
the three vessels mentioned in the letter of the 7th of August,
the President thought it incumbent upon the United States to
make compensation for them: and though nothing was said in
that letter, of other vessels, taken under like circumstances and
brought in after the 5th of June, and before the date of that let-
ter, yet when the same forbearance had taken place, it was his
opinion that compensation would be equally due. The cases, then,
here described, are those in which illegal prizes are made, and
brought into our ports, prior to the 7th of August, 1793, and in
which we had forborne to use all the means in our power for restitu-
tion. Two characters are made essential to the cases in which
the compensation is to be made ; one, that the prizes were brought
within our ports — the other, that vie forbore to use all the means in
our power to restore them.

4. The letter proceeds to observe, that, as to prizes made
under the same circumstances, and brought in after the date of
that letter, the President had determined, that all means in our
power should be used for their restitution ; that if ihesefailed, as we
should not be bound to make compensation to the other powers,
in the analogous case, he did not mean to give an opinion, thai it
ought to be done to Great Britain. But still, if any case shall arise,
subsequent to that date, the circumstances of whirl* shall place them
on a similar ground with those before it, the President would think
compensation incumbent on the United States. The additional

310 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

cases of which an expectation of compensation is given in this
part of the letter, must stand on smiliar ground with those before
described — that is, they must be characterized by the two circum-
stances of a bringing within our ports, and a neglect to use all the
means in our power for their restitution. Every where the idea
of compensation is negatived, where the prizes have not come
within our power, or where we have not forborne to use the
proper means to restore them.

The residue of the letter merely contains suggestions for
giving effect to the foregoing assurances.

This analysis leaves no doubt that the true construction is
such as I have stated. Can there be any greater doubt that the
expectations given by the President, in the first instance, and
which have been only ratified by the treaty, were in themselves
proper, and have been properly ratified ?

The laws of nations, as dictated by reason, as received and
practised upon among nations, as recognized by writers, esta-
blish these principles for regulating the conduct of neutral
powers.

A neutral nation (except as to points to which it is clearly
obliged by antecedent treaties) whatever may be its opinion of
the justice or injustice of the war on either side, cannot, without
departing from its neutrality, favor one of two belligerent parties
more than the other — benefit one, to the prejudice of the other —
furnish or permit the furnishing to either, the instruments of acts
of hostility, or any warlike succor or aid whatever, especially
without extending the same advantage to the other — cannot suf-
fer any force to be exerted, or warlike enterprise to be carried on
from its territory, by one party against the other, or the prepara-
tion or organization there, of the means of annoyance ; has a
right and is bound to prevent acts of hostility within its jurisdic-
tion ; and, if they happen against its will, to restore any property
which may have been taken in exercising them. These positions
will all be found supported in the letter or spirit of the following
authorities ; Barbeyrac's note on Puffendorff, b. viii. c. vi. f. 7.
Grotius, b. iii. c. xvii. f. o. Bynkershoeck, b. i. c. viii. p. 61 — 65.
c. xi. p. 69, 70. Vattel, b. iii. c. vii. Bynkershoeck cites exam-
ples of restitution in the case mentioned.

.Et. 38.] CAMILLUS. 311

Every treaty we have made with foreign powers, promises
protection within our jurisdiction, and the restoration of property
taken there. A similar stipulation is, indeed, a general formula
in treaties, giving an express sanction to the rule of the laws of
nations in this particular.

An act of Congress, of the 5th June, 1794, which is expressly
a declaratory act, recognizes at large the foregoing principles of
the laws of nations, providing, among other things, for the pun-
ishment of any person, who, within the United States, fits out
and arms, or attempts to fit out and arm, or procures to be fitted
out and armed, or is knowingly concerned in furnishing, fitting
out, or arming, of any ship or vessel, with intent to be employed
in the service of a foreign state, to cruise or commit hostilities
upon the subjects or citizens of another foreign state, with which
the United States are at peace ; or issues or delivers a commis-
sion for any such ship or vessel, or increases or augments, or
procures to be increased or augmented, oris knowingly concerned
in increasing or augmenting the force of any ship of war, cruiser,
or other armed vessel, in the service of a foreign state at war with
another foreign state, with which the United States are at peace ;
or within the territory of the United States, begins or sets on foot,
or provides or prepares the means of any military expedition
or enterprise, to be carried on from thence against the dominions
of any foreign state, with which the United States are at peace.

And our courts have adopted, in its fullest latitude, as con-
formable, in their opinion, with those laws, the principle of resti*
tution of property, when either captured within our jurisdiction,
or elsewhere, by vessels armed in our ports. The Supreme Court
of the United States has given to this doctrine, by solemn deci-
sions, the most complete and comprehensive sanction.

It is therefore, undoubtedly, the law of the land, determined
by the proper constitutional tribunal, in the last resort, that resti-
tution is due in the above-mentioned cases.

And it is a direct and necessary consequence from this, that
where it is not made by reason of the neglect of the government,
to use the means in its power for the purpose, there results an
obligation to make reparation. For, between nations, as between

312 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEr. 38.

individuals, wherever there exists a perfect obligation to do a
thing, there is a concomitant obligation to make reparation for
omissions and neglects.

The President was therefore most strictly justifiable, upon
principle, in the opinion which he communicated, that, in the
cases of such omissions or neglects, compensation ought to be
made. And in point of policy, nothing could be wiser : for had
he not done it, there is the highest probability, that war would
have ensued.

Our treaty with France forbids us expressly to permit the
privateers of the enemy to arm in our ports, or to bring or sell
there the prizes which they have made upon her. We could
not, for that reason, have made the privilege of arming in our
ports, if it had been allowed to France, reciprocal. The allow-
ance of it to her would, consequently, have been a clear violation
of neutrality, in the double sense of permitting a military aid, and
of permitting it to the one, and refusing it to the other. Had we
suffered France to equip privateers in our ports, to cruise thence
upon her enemies, and to bring back and vend there the spoils or
prizes taken, we should have become by this the most mischievous
foe they could have. For, while all our naval resources might
have augmented the force of France, our neutrality, if tolerated,
would, in a great degree, have sheltered and protected her cruis-
ers. Such a state of things no nation at war could have ac-
quiesced in. And as well to the efficacy of our endeavors to
prevent equipments in our ports, as to the proof of the sincerity
of those endeavors, it was essential that we should restore the
prizes which came within our reach, made by vessels armed in
our ports. It is known, that notwithstanding the utmost efforts
of the government to prevent it, French privateers have been
clandestinely equipped in some of our ports, subsequent to the
assurances which were given, that the practice would be dis-
countenanced. If prizes made by such vessels were suffered to
be brought into our ports, and sold there, this would be not
only a very great encouragement to the practice, but it would
be impossible that it should be regarded in any other light than
as a connivance.

jEt. 38.] CAM ILL US. 313

In such circumstances, can we blame our chief magistrate ?
Can we even deny him praise, for having diverted ;m imminent
danger to our peace, by incurring the responsibility of giving an
expectation of compensation? The conjuncture we may remem-
ber was critical and urgent. Congress were at the time in recess.
A due notice to convene them in so extensive a country, can
hardly be rated at less than three months.

In this situation our envoy found the business. It is not true,
in the sense in which it has been advanced, that he was to be
governed by the fitness of the thing, unmindful of the opinion
of the President. An opinion of the chief magistrate of the
Union, was to a diplomatic agent an authority and a guide,
which he could not justifiably have disregarded. The claim of
compensation, on the other side, was greatly fortified by this
opinion. Nor was it a matter of indifference to our national de-
licacy and dignity, that the expectation given by it should be
fulfilled. It would have been indecent in our envoy to have
resisted it. It was proper in him, by acceding to it, to refer the
matter to the ultimate decision of that authority, which, by our
Constitution, is charged with the power of making treaties. It
was the more proper, because the thing was intrinsically right.
Every candid man, every good citizen, will rejoice that the Pre-
sident acted as he did in the first instance — that our envoy acted
as he did in the second — and that the conduct of both has re-
ceived the final constitutional sanction.

The opinions of Mr. Jefferson, when they can be turned to
the discredit of the treaty, are with its adversaries oracular
truths. When they are to support it, they lose all their weight.
The presumption, that the letter referred to had the concurrence
of the judgment of that officer, results from a fact, generally un-
derstood and believed, namely, that the proceedings of the Pre-
sident, at the period when it was written, in relation to the war,
were conformable with the unanimous advice of the heads of the
executive departments.

This ease of British property captured by privateers origi-
nally armed in our ports, falsifies the assertion of the adversa-
ries of the treaty, that the pretensions of Great Britain have

314 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

been fully provided for. She had a colorable ground to claim
compensation for all captures made by vessels armed in our ports,
whithersoever carried in, or howsoever disposed of, especially
where their equipment had been tolerated by our government.
This toleration was to be referred, as well from a forbearance to
suppress those vessels when they came within power, as from an
original permission. Had compensation been stipulated on this
scale, it is not certain that it would not have amounted to as
much more than that which has been promised, as would counter-
balance our claims, for negroes carried away, and for the deten-
tion of the posts. But instead of this, it is narrowed down by
the treaty to such prizes of those vessels as were brought within
our ports, and in respect to which we forbore to nse all the
means in our power for restitution. Here, then, is a set-off
against doubtful and questionable claims relinquished on our
side. Here, also, is another proof how much the antagonists of
the treaty are in the habit of making random assertions. But
can we wonder at it, when we reflect that they have undertaken
to become the instructors of their fellow-citizens on a subject, in
the examination of which they unite a very superficial know-
ledge with the most perverse dispositions ?

Camillus.

no. XVII.

1795.
The eighth article provides merely, that the commissioners to
be appointed in the three preceding articles, shall be paid in such
manner as shall be agreed between the parties, at the time of the
exchange of the ratification of the treaty ; and that all other ex-
penses attending the commissions, shall be defrayed jointly by
the two parties, the same being previously ascertained and al-
lowed by a majority of the commissioners ; and that in case of
death, sickness, or necessary absence of a commissioner, his place
shall be supplied in the same manner as he was first appointed

JEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 315

— the new commissioner to take the same oath or affirmation,
and to perform the same duties as his predecessor.

Could it have been imagined, that even this simple and equi-
table provision was destined not to escape uncensured? As if it
was predetermined, that not a single line of the treaty should
pass without the imputation of guilt; nothing less than an in-
fraction of the Constitution of the United States has been charged
upon this article. It attempts, we are told, a disposition of the
public money, unwarranted by and contrary to the Constitution.
The examination of this wonderful, sagacious objection, with
others of a similar complexion, must be reserved for the sepa-
rate discussion which has been promised of the constitutionality
of the treaty.

Let us proceed, for the present, to the ninth article.

This article agrees, that British subjects, who now hold lands
in the territories of the United States, and American citizens
who now hold lands in the dominions of his Britannic majesty,
shall continue to hold them, according to the nature and tenure of
their respective estates and titles therein ; and may grant, sell, or de-
vise the same. to whom they please, in like manner as if they
were natives; and that neither they, nor their heirs or assigns.
so far as may respect the said lands, and the legal remedies inci-
dental thereto, shall be regarded as aliens.

The misapprehension of this article, which was first ushered
into public view, in a very incorrect and insidious shape, and
was conceived to amount in the grant of an indefinite and per-
manent right to British subjects to hold lands in the United
States, did more, it is believed, to excite prejudices against the
treaty, than any thing that is really contained in it. And yet
when truly understood, it is found to be nothing more than a
confirmation of those rights to lands, which, prior to the treaty,
the laws of the several States allowed British subjects to hold:
with this inconsiderable addition, perhaps, that the heirs and as-
signs of -those persons, though aliens, may hold tin1 same lands:
but no right whatever is given to lauds of which our laws did
not permit and legalize the acquisition.

These propositions will now be elucidated.

316 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

The terra, hold, in the legal code of Great Britain and of these
States, has the same and that a precise technical sense. It im-
ports a capacity legally and rightfully to have and enjoy real estate,
and is contradistinguished from the mere capacity of taking or
purchasing, which, is sometimes applicable to the acquisition
of a thing, that is forfeited by the very act of acquisition.
Thus an alien may take real estate by purchase, but he cannot
hold it. Holding is synonymous with tenure, which, in the feu-
dal system, implies fealty, of which an alien is incapable. Land,
therefore, is forfeited to the government, the instant it passes
to an alien. The Roman law nullifies the contract entirely ; so
that nothing passes by the grant of land to an alien : but our
law, derived from that of England, permits the land to pass for
the purpose of forfeiture to the State. This is not the case with
regard to descent, because the succession or transmission there,
being an act of law, and the alien being disqualified to hold, the
law, consistent with itself, casts no estate upon him.

The following legal authorities, selected from an infinite
number of similar ones, establish the above positions, viz., Coke
on Littleton, pages 2, 3. " Some men have capacity to pur-
chase, but not ability to hold. Some, capacity to purchase and
ability to hold or not to hold, at the election of themselves and
others. Some, capacity to take and to hold. Some, neither ca-
pacity to take nor to hold. And, some are specially disabled to
take some particular thing. If an alien, Christian or Infidel, pur-
chase houses, lands, tenements, or hereditaments to him or his
heirs, albeit he can have no heirs, yet he is of capacity to take a
fee simple, but not to hold.1'' The same, page 8. " If a man
seized of land in fee, hath issue an alien, he cannot be heir, prop-
ter defectum subjectionis." Blackstone's Commentaries, book ii.,
chap, xviii., § 2. "Alienation to an alien is a cause of forfeiture
to the crown of the lands so alienated, not only on account of
his incapacity to hold them, but likewise on account of his pre-
sumption in attempting, by an act of his own, to acquire real
property." Idem, chap, xix., § i., "the case of an alien born, is
also peculiar ; for he may purchase a thing ; but, after purchase,
he can hold nothing, except a lease for years of a house, for the
convenience of merchandise."

JEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 317

Thus it is evident, that by the laws of England, which it will
not be denied, agree in principle with ours, an alien may take
but cannot hold lands.

It is equally clear, the laws of both countries agreeing in this
particular, that the word hold, used in the article under considera-
tion, must be understood according to those laws, and therefore
can only apply to those cases in which there was a legal capacity
to hold — in other words, those in which our laws permitted the
subjects and citizens of the two parties to hold lands in the terri-
tories of each other. Some of these cases existed prior to the
treaty of peace ; and where confiscations had not taken place,
there has never been a doubt, that the property was effectually
protected by that treaty. Others have arisen since that treaty,
under special statutes of particular States. Whether there are
any others depending on the principles of the common law, need
not be inquired into here, since the late treaty will neither
strengthen nor impair the operation of those principles.

Whatever lands, therefore, may have been purchased by any
British subject, since the treaty of peace, which the laws of the
State wherein they were purchased did not permit him to ac-
quire and hold, are entirely out of the protection of the ar-
ticle under consideration ; the purchase will not avail him ; the
forfeiture, which was incurred by it, is still in full force. As
to those lands which the laws of a State allowed him to purchase
and hold, he ows his title to them, not to the treaty.

Let us recur to the words of the article: "British subjects,
who now hold lands, shall continue to hold' them according to the
nature and tenure of their respective estates and titles therein." But
it has been seen, that to hold lands is to own them in a legal
and competent capacity, and that an alien has no such capacity.
The lands, therefore, which, by reason of the alienage of a
British subject, he could not, prior to the treaty, legally pur-
chase and hold— he cannot, under the treaty, continue to hold.
As if it was designed to render this conclusion palpable, the
provision goes on to say, " According to the nature and tenure
of their respective estates and titles therein." This is equivalent
to saying, they shall continue to hold as they before held. If

318 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEr. 38.

they had no valid estate or title before, they will of course con-
tinue to have none — the expressions neither give any new, nor
enlarge any old estate.

The succeeding clauses relate only to descents or alienations
of the land originally legally holden. Here the disability of ali-
enage is taken away from the heirs and assigns of the primitive
proprietors. While this will conduce to private justice, by en-
abling the families and friends of the individuals to enjoy their
property by descent or devise, which it is presumable was the
main object of the provision, there is no consideration of na-
tional policy that weighs against it. If we admit the whole
force of the argument, which opposes the expediency of per-
mitting aliens to hold lands (and concerning which I shall barely
remark here, that it is contrary to the practice of several of the
States, and to a practice from which some of them have hitherto
derived material advantages) the extent to which the principle
is affected by the present treaty is too limited to be felt, and in
the rapid mutations of property, it will every day diminish.
Every alienation of a parcel of the privileged land to a citizen
of the United States, will, as to that land, by interrupting the
chain, put an end to the future operations of the privilege ; and
the lapse of no great number of years may be expected to make
an entire revolution in the property, so as to divest the whole
of the privilege.

To manifest the unreasonableness of the loud and virulent
clamor, which was excited against this article, it has been
observed by the friends of the instrument, that our treaty with
France not only grants a much larger privilege to the citizens
of France, but goes the full length of removing universally and
perpetually from them the disability of alienism, as to the own-
ership of lands. This position has been flatly denied by some
of the writers on the other side. Deems in particular, after
taking pains to show that it is erroneous — that the terms " goods
movable and immovable," in the article of our treaty with
France, mean only chattels real and personal in the sense of
our law, and exclude a right to the freehold and inheritance
of lands, triumphantly plumes himself on the detection of a fal-

jEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 319

lacy of the writer of certain "candid remarks od the treaty,"
who gives the interpretation above stated to that article.

The error of Decius's interpretation, proceeds from a misun-
derstanding of the term goods, in the English translation of the
article, to which he annexes the meaning assigned to that term in
our law, instead of resorting, as he ought to have done, to the
French laws for the true meaning of the correspondent term
biens, which is that used in the French original. Goods, in our
law, no doubt, mean chattel interests: but goods or "biens" in
the French law, mean all kinds of property, real as well as per-
sonal. It is equivalent to, and derived from, the term bona,
in the Eoman law, answering most nearly to " estates" in our law,
and embracing inheritances in land, corporeal and incorporeal
hereditaments, as well as property in movable things.

When it is necessary to distinguish one species from another,
it is done by an adjective — "biens meubles et immeubles," answer-
ing to bona or res mobilia, or immobilia, things movable and im-
movable, estates real and personal. — the authorities at foot* will
show the analogy of these different terms in the three different
languages; but for fixing the precise sense of those used in the
treaty, I have selected and shall quote two authorities from
French books, which, are clear and conclusive on the point. —
One will be found in the work of a French lawyer, entitled,
Collection de Decisions Nouvelles, et de Notions relatives
a la Jurisprudence actuelle, under the article BiENsf, and
is in these words, viz. : "The word Men has a general significa-
tion, and comprehends all sorts of possessions as movables, im-

* Justinian's Institutes, Lib. iii. Tit. 10, 11, 12, 13. Lil>. iv. Tit. 2.
Domat'8 Civil and Public Law. Pro]. Book, Tit. 3, Sect. 1, 2. Book iv.
Sect. 1.

f Biens. Le mot, bien, a une signification generate, & comprend toutessortea
de possessions, comiue meubles, immeubles, acquets. conquSts, propres, &c.

On distingue dans les biens des particuliers, les meubles & Irs immeubles, lea
acquets & les propres; &, entre les propres, les paternels vS. lea maternels, les
anciens & les naissans. Les biens meubles sont ceux qui peuveni Be mouvoir &
se transporter d'un lieu en un autre, comme des denrees, des marchandises, de
deniers comptans, de la vaisselle d'agent, des bestiaux, des utensilea d'hotel. !.• •
biens immeubles sont ceux qui De peurent se mouvoir ou se transporter dun lieu
dans un autre, comme des bcritages, des maisons, &c.

•

320 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

movables, purchases, acquisitions by marriage, inheritances, &c.
It is distinguished into these particulars — movables, immovables,
purchases and inheritances; subdividing inheritances into paternal
and maternal, old and new. Movable biens are those which
may be moved and transported from one place to another, as
wares, merchandises, and current money, plate, beasts, house-
hold utensils, &c. Immovable biens are those which cannot be
moved from one place to another, as inheritances, houses, &c.
Biens are distinguished again into corporeal and incorporeal."
Another* is drawn from the celebrated institutes of the French
law, by Mr. Argou, and is in these words : '' Biens — This is in
general whatever composes our riches. There are two sorts of
biens, movable and immovable. Movable, all that may be
transported from one place to another. Immovable, lands or
what is presumed to have the nature of land. They are dis-
tinguished into two kinds, real and fictitious. Eeal are not only
the substance of the earth, which is called fonds ; but all that ad-
heres to its surface, whether from nature, as trees, or from the
hand of man, as houses and other buildings. The others are
called fictitious, because they are only real by fiction, as offices
which are vendible, and subject to fiscal reversion, rent-charges,"
&c. The signification of bona in the Eoman law, corresponds, as
was observed above, with that of biens in the French. " Bono-
rum appellatio universitatem quandem, et non singulas res de-
monstrat ;" which may be rendered, " The appellation of Bona
designates the totality of property or estate, and not particular
things." — and hence it is, that the cessio bonorum of a debtor is
the surrender of his whole fortune.

Both these terms, " bona" and "biens," are indiscriminately

* Biens. — C'est en generate tout ce qui compose nos richesses ; il y a deux sortes
de biens, les meubles & les immeubles ; meubles, tout ce qui peut etre transports
d'un lieu a un autre : immeubles— biens en fonds, ou qui sont presume avoir la
nature de fonds— On distingue deux sorts d'immeubles, les reels, & les fictifs ; les
immeubles reels sont non seulement la substance meme de la terre qui est ce qu'on
appelle le fond, mais tout ce qui est adherent a. sa surface, soit par la nature,
comme les arbres, soit par la main des liommes, comme les maisons & autre bati-
ments_On a appelle l'autre espece d'immeubles, immeubles fictifs; parce qu'ils
ne sont tells que par fiction ; de ce nombre sont les offices venaux, casuels, & les
rentes constitutues.

JEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 321

translated goods, estates, effects, property/' — In our treaty with
France they are translated "goods;" but it is evidently a great
mistake to understand the expression in the limited sense of our
law. Being a mere word of translation, it must be understood
according to the meaning of the French text; for it is declared
in the conclusion of the treat}r, that it was originally composed
and concluded in the French tongue. Moreover, the term goods,
when used in our language, as the equivalent of the term bona, or
biens, is always understood in the large sense of the original term;
in other words, as comprehending real and personal estate, inheri-
tances as well as chattel interests.

Having now established the true meaning of the terms " goods
movable and immovable," let us proceed with this guide to a
review of the article.

Its first and principal feature is, " that the subjects and inha-
bitants of the United States, or any of them, shall not be reputed
Aubains in France. This is the same as if it had been said,
:< they shall not be reputed Aliens." For the definition of
Aubains, as given in the work before first cited, is this — " Au-
bains are persons not born under the dominion of the king," the
exact equivalent of the definition of Alien in the English law.
If our citizens are not to be reputed aliens in France, it follows,
that they must be exempted from alien disabilities, and must have
the same rights with natives, as to acquiring, conveying, and
succeeding to real and other estate. Accordingly the article,
having pronounced that our citizens shall not be reputed aliens
in France, proceeds to draw certain consequences. The first is, that
they shall not be subject to the droit d'aubaine. The droit d'aubaine
was, under the monarchy, one of the regalia; it was the right of
the prince to succeed to all estates or property situate in the
kingdom, belonging to foreigners, who died without legitimate
children, born in the kingdom.

It is to be observed, that the laws of France permitted foreign-
ers to acquire and hold even real estates, subject to the right of
the sovereign, in case of demise without issue born under his

* See authorities before cited: See also Puffendorff, book viii. ch. 5, sect. 8.
Grotius, book iii. eh. 5, sect. 11, 12. Vattel, book i. ch. 20, sect. 245, 246, 247.
G 21

322 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

allegiance. But this right of the sovereign, as to American citi-
zens, is abrogated by the treaty ; so that their legal representatives,
wherever born, may succeed to all the property, real or personal,
which they may have acquired in France.

And, in conformity to this, it is further declared, that they
may, by testament, donation, or otherwise, dispose of their
goods, movable and immovable (that is, as we have seen, their
estates, real and personal) in favor of such persons as to them shall
appear good ; so that their heirs, subjects of the United States,
whether residing in France or elsewhere, may succeed to them,
ab intestate, without being obliged to obtain letters of naturaliza-
tion.

These are the stipulations on the part of France ; and they
amount to a removal from the citizens of the United States, of
alien disabilities in that country, as to property. I say as to
property, because, as to civil and ecclesiastical employments, it
seems to have been a principle of the French law, that the in-
capacity of foreigners could only be removed by special dispensa-
tions, directed to the particular object.

What are the correlative stipulations on the part of the United
States? They are in these terms : "The subjects of the most
Christian king shall enjoy, on their part, in all the dominions of
the said States, an entire and perfect reciprocity, relative to the
stipulations contained in this article. But it is at the same time
agreed, that its contents shall not affect the laws made, or that
may be made hereafter in France, against emigrations, which shall
remain in all their force and vigor; and the United States on
their part, or any of them, shall be at liberty to enact such laws
relative to that matter, as to them shall appear proper."

Since, then, the article removes from our citizens the disabili-
ties of aliens as to property in France, and stipulates for her
citizens, an entire and perfect reciprocity in the United States, it
follows, that Frenchmen are equally exempt in the United States
from the like disabilities. They may, therefore, hold, succeed to,
and dispose of, real estates.

It appears that the sense both of the French and of the Ame-
rican governments has corresponded with this construction.

Mt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 3*23

In the year 1786, the Marquis Bellegarcle and the Chevalier
Meziere, sons of the two sisters of General Oglethorpe, represented
to the Count de Vergennes, the French minister for foreign affairs,
that they met with impediments to their claims from the laws of
Georgia, prohibiting aliens to hold lands. Mr. de Vergennes
communicated their complaint to Mr. Jefferson, our then minister
in France, observing, that the alien disabilities of the complain-
ants having, in common with those of all Frenchmen, been
removed by the treaty between the two countries, they ought to
experience no impediments on that account, in the succession to
the estate of their uncle, and that the interfering laws of Georgia
ought to be repealed so as to agree with the treaty.

Mr. Jefferson, in reply, states the case of the complainants,
proving that they were precluded from the succession for other
reasons than that of alienism : and then adds, that as the treaty
with France having placed the subjects of France in the United
States on a footing with natives, as to conveyances and descents of
property, there is no necessity for the assemblies to pass laws on
the subject, the treaty being a law, as he conceives, superior to
those of particular assemblies, and repealing them when they stand
in the way of its operation.

Where now, Decius, is thy mighty triumph ? Where the
trophies of thy fancied victory ? Learn that in political, as well
as other science,

" Shallow draughts intoxicate the brain,
And drinking largely sobers us again."

The fixing the true sense of the article in the treat) with
Great Britain, is alone a refutation of most of the objections which
have been made to it, by showing, that they apply not to what
really exists, but to a quite different thing. It may be useful,
however, to pass them briefly in review with some cursory re-
marks.

The article, it is said, infringes the rights of the States, an. I
impairs the obligation of private contracts, permits aliens to hold
real estates against the fundamental policy of our laws, and at tin

324 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

hazard of introducing a dangerous foreign influence ; is unequal,
because no American has been hard}' enough, since the peace, to
purchase lands in England, while millions of acres have been
purchased by British subjects in our country, with knowledge of
the risk— is not warranted by the example of any other treaty
we have made; for if even that of France should contain a simi-
lar provision (which is denied) still the difference of circumstances
would make it an inapposite precedent ; since this was a treaty
made, flagrante hello, in a situation which justified sacrifices.

These objections have been formally and explicitly urged.
One writer, afraid of risking a direct assertion, but insidiously
endeavoring to insinuate misconception, contents himself with
putting a question. What (says he) will be the effect of this
article as to the revival of the claims of British subjects, traitors
or exiles ?

As to the infraction of the rights of the States, this, it is pre-
sumed, must relate to the depriving them of forfeitures of alien
property. But as the article gives no right to a British subject
to hold any lands which the laws of a State did not previously
authorize him to hold — it prevents no forfeiture to which he was
subject by them, and, consequently, deprives no State of the
benefit of any such forfeiture. With regard to escheats for want
of qualified heirs, it depended on every proprietor to avoid them
by alienations to citizens.

As to impairing the obligation of private contracts, it is
difficult to understand what is meant. Since land, purchased by
an alien, passes from the former proprietor, and becomes for-
feited to the State, can it be afterwards the subject of a valid
private contract ? If the effect of the article was to confirm a
defective title derived from the alien, how could this impair the
obligation of any other private contract concerning it? But
whatever may be intended, it is enough to say, that the article
does not confirm the title to any land which was not before good.
So that the ground of the objection fails.

As to permitting aliens to hold land, contrary to the policy
of our laws,.it has been shown, that on a true construction, it
only applies to the very limited case of the alien heirs and assigns

Mr. 38.] CAMILLUS.

of persons who before rightfully held lands, and is confined to
the identical lands so previously holden ; that its greatesl effect
must be insignificant; and that this effect will continually de-
crease.

As to the millions of acres, said to have been purchased 1 ly
British subjects since the peace, it has been shown, that if by the
laws of the States in which the purchases were made, they were
illegally acquired, they still remain in the situation in which they
were before the treaty.

As to there being no precedent of a similar stipulation with
any other country, it has been proved, that, with France, we
have one much broader. The idea that this was a sacrifice to
the necessity of our situation, flagrante hello, is new. Are we
then to understand, that we in this instance gave to France, as
thep-fcce of her assistance, a privilege in our country, which leads
to the introduction of a foreign influence, dangerous to our inde-
pendence and prosperity ? For to this result tends the argument
concerning the policy of the exclusion of aliens. Or is it, that no
privilege, granted to France, can be dangerous ?

Those who are not orthodox enough to adopt this last posi-
tion, may, nevertheless, tranquillize themselves about the con-
sequences. This is not the channel through which a dangerous
foreign influence can assail us. Notwithstanding all that lias
been said, it may, perhaps, bear a serious argument, whether the
permission to foreigners to hold lands in our country, might not,
by the operation of private interest, give us more influence upon
foreign countries, than they will ever acquire upon us, from- the
holding of those lands. Be this as it may, could we not appeal
to some good patriots, as they style themselves, by way of emi-
nence, for the truth of the observation, that foreign governments
have more direct and powerful means of influence than can ever
result from the right in question?

Moreover, there was a peculiar reason for the provision which
has been made in our last treaty, not applicable to any treaty
with another country. The former relative situation of the
United States and Great Britain, led to the possession of lands
by the citizens of each in the respective territories. It was

326 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 38.

natural and just to secure by treaty their free transmission to the
heirs and assigns of the parties.

As to the revival of the claims of traitors or exiles ; if pro-
perty, confiscated and taken away, is property holden by those who
have been deprived of it, then there may be ground for alarm on
this score. How painful is it to behold such gross attempts to
deceive a whole people on so momentous a question ! How
afflicting, that imposture and fraud should be so often able to
assume with success the garb of patriotism ? And that this sub-
lime virtue should be so frequently discredited by the usurpation
and abuse of its name !

Camillus.

no. XVIII.

1795.

It is provided by the tenth article of the treaty, that " neither
debts due from individuals of one nation to individuals of the
other, nor shares, nor moneys, which they may have in the pub-
lic funds, or in the public or private banks, shall ever, in any
event of war, or national difference, be sequestered or confiscated ;
it being unjust and impolitic, that debts and engagements, con-
tracted and made by individuals, having confidence in each
other, and in their respective governments, should ever be
destroyed or impaired by national authority on account of
national differences and discontents."

The virulence with which this article has been attacked, can-
not fail to excite very painful sensations in every mind duly im-
pressed with the sanctity of public faith, and with the importance
of national credit and character ; at the same time that it fur-
nishes the most cogent reasons to desire, that the preservation of
peace may obviate the pretext and the temptation to sully the
honor, and wound the interests of the country, by a measure
which the truly enlightened of every nation would condemn.

I acknowledge, without reserve, that in proportion to the

Mt. 38.] CAM ILL US. 327

vehemence of the opposition against this part of the treat v, is the
satisfaction I derive from its existence, as an obstacle the more
to the perpetration of a thing, which, in my opinion, besides
deeply injuring our real and permanent interest, would cover us
with ignominy. No powers of language, at my command, can
express the abhorrence I feel at the idea of violating the pro-
perty of individuals, which, in an authorized intercourse, in time
of peace, has been confided to the faith of our government and
laws, on account of controversies between nation and nation.
In my view, every moral and every political sentiment unite to
consign it to execration.

Neither will I dissemble, that the dread of the effects of the
spirit which patronizes that idea, has ever been with me one of
the most persuasive arguments for a pacific policy on the part of
the United States. Serious as the evil of war has appeared, at
the present stage of our affairs, the manner in which it was to be
apprehended it might be carried on, was still more formidable,
in my eyes, than the thing itself. It was to be feared, that in
the fermentation of certain wild opinions, those wise, just, and
temperate maxims, which will for ever constitute the true security
and felicity of a state, would be overruled ; and that a war upon
credit, eventually upon property, and upon the general principles
of public order, might aggravate and embitter the ordinary ca-
lamities of foreign war. The confiscation of debts due to the
enemy, might have been the first step of this destructive process.
From one violation of justice to another, the passage is easy.
Invasions of right, still more fatal to credit, might have followed j
and this, by extinguishing the resources which that could have
afforded, might have paved the way to more comprehensive and
more enormous depredations for a substitute. Terrible examples
were before us ; and there were too many not sufficiently remote
from a disposition to admire and imitate them.

The earnest and extensive clamors against the part of the
treaty under consideration, confirm that anticipation ; and while
they enhance the merit of the provision, they also inspire a wish,
that some more effectual barrier had been erected against the
possibility of a contrary practice being ever, at any ill-fated

328 HAMILTON'S WORKS' [Mi. 38.

moment, obtruded upon our public councils. It would have
been an inestimable gem in our national constitution, had it con-
tained a positive prohibition against such a practice, except, per-
haps, by way of reprisal for the identical injury on the part of
another nation.

Analogous to this is that liberal and excellent provision, in the
British Magna Charta, which declares, that " if the merchants of
a country at war with England, are found there in the beginning
of the war, they shall be attached without harm of body or
effects, until it is known in what manner English merchants are
treated in the enemy's country ; and if they are safe, that the
foreign merchants shall also be safe."* The learned Lord Coke
pronounces this to be jus belli or law of war: — And the elegant
and the enlightened Montesquieu, speaking of the same provision,
breaks out into this exclamation — "It is noble that the English
nation have made this one of the articles of its liberty."f How
much it is to be regretted, that our magna charta is not unequi-
vocally decorated with a like feature ; and that, in this instance,
we, who have given so many splendid examples to mankind, are
excelled in constitutional precaution for the maintenance of
justice !

There is, indeed, ground to assert, that the contrary principle
would be repugnant to that article of our Constitution, which
provides, that " no State shall pass any law impairing the obliga-
tion of contracts." The spirit of this clause, though the letter of
it be restricted to the States individually, must, on fair construc-
tion, be considered as a rule for the United States; and if so,
could not easily be reconciled with the confiscation or sequestra-
tion of private debts in time of war. But it is a pity, that so
important a principle should have been left to inference and im-
plication, and should not have received an express and direct
sanction.

* Si Mereatores sint de terra contra nos guerrira, et tales inveniantur in terra
nostra in principio guerrae, attachientur sine damno corporum suorum vel re rum,
donee sciatur a nobis vel a capitali justiciario nostro quo mode- mereatores terras
nostra? tractantur qui tunc inveniantur in terra ilia contra nos guerirra ; et si
nostri salvi sint ibi, alii salvi sint in terra nostra. Magna Charta, cap. xxx.

f Spirit of Laws, book xx., chap. 13.

,Et. 38] CAMILLUS. 329

This position must appear a frightful heresy in the eyes of
those who represent the confiscation or sequestration of debts, as
our best means of retaliation and coercion, as our most powerful,
sometimes as our only means of defence.

But so degrading an idea will be rejected with disdain, by
every man who feels a true and well-informed national pride;
by every man who recollects and glories, that in a state of still
greater immaturity, we achieved independence without the aid of
this dishonorable expedient;* that even in a revolutionatw war,
a war of liberty against usurpation, our national councils were
too magnanimous to be provoked or tempted to depart so widely
from the path of rectitude; by every man, in fine, who, though
careful not to exaggerate, for rash and extravagant projects, can
nevertheless fairly estimate the real resources of the country, for
meeting dangers which prudence cannot avert.

Such a man will never endure the base doctrine, that our
security is to depend on the tricks of a swindler. He will look
for it in the courage and constancy of a free, brave and virtuous
people — in the riches of a fertile soil — an extended and progres-
sive industry — in the wisdom and energy of a well-constituted
and well-administered government — in the resources of a solid, if
well-supported, national credit — in the armies, which, if requisite,
could be raised — in the means of maritime annoyance, which, if
necessary, could be organized, and with which we could inflict
deep wounds on the commerce of a hostile nation. He will
indulge an animating consciousness, that while our situation is
not such as to justify our courting imprudent enterprises, neither
is it such as to oblige us, in any event, to stoop to dishonorable
means of security, or to substitute a crooked and piratical policy,
for the manly energies of fair and open war.

* The federal government never resulted to it; and a few only of the state gov-
ernments stained themselves with it. It may, perhaps, lie said, that the federal
goverment had no power on the subject; hut the reverse of this is truly the case.
The federal government alone had power. The state governments had nonei
though some of them undertook to exercise it. This position is founded on the
solid ground that the confiscation or sequestration of the debts of an enemy is a
high act of reprisal and war, necessarily and exclusively incident to the power ol
making war, which was always in the federal government.

330 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

That is the consequence of the favorite doctrine that the con-
fiscation or sequestration of private debts is our most powerful,
if not our only, weapon of defence ! Great Britain is the sole
power against whom we could wield it, since it is to her citizens
alone, that we are largely indebted. What are we to do, then,
against any other nation which might think fit to menace us ?
Are we, for want of adequate means of defence, to crouch be-
neath the uplifted rod, and, with abject despondency, sue for
mercy ? Or has Providence guaranteed us specially against the
malice or ambition of every power on earth, except Great
Britain ?

It is at once curious and instructive to mark the inconsisten-
cies of the disorganizing sect. Is the question, to discard a spirit
of accommodation, and rush into war with Great Britain ? Col-
umns are filled with the most absurd exaggerations, to prove
that we are able to meet her, not only on equal, but superior
terms. Is the question, whether a stipulation against the confis-
cation or sequestration of private debts ought to have been
admitted into the treaty? Then are we a people destitute of the
means of war, with neither arms, nor fleets, nor magazines —
then is our best, if not our only weapons of defence, the power
of confiscating or sequestrating the debts which are due to the
subjects of Great Britain ; in other words, the power of commit-
ting fraud, of violating the public faith, of sacrificing the princi-
ples of commerce, of prostrating credit. Is the question, whether
free ships shall make free goods, whether naval stores shall or
shall not be deemed contraband ? Then is the appeal to what is
called the modern law of nations ; then is the cry, that recent
usage has changed and mitigated the rigor of ancient maxims.
But is the question, whether private debts can be rightfully con-
fiscated or sequestered ? Then ought the utmost rigor of the
ancient doctrine to govern, and modern usage and opinion to be
discarded. The old rule or the new is to be adopted or rejected,
just as may suit their convenience.

An inconsistency of another kind, but not less curious, is
observable in positions, repeatedly heard from the same quarter,
namely, that the sequestration of debts is the only peaceable

Mi. 38.] CAMILLUS. 331

mean of doing ourselves justice and avoiding war. If we trace
the origin of the pretended right to confiscate or sequester debts,
we find it, in the very authority, principally relied on to prove
it, to be this (Bynkershoeck, qusestiones juris publici, I. s. 2):
" Since it is the condition of war, that ENEMIES may be deprived
of all their rights, it is reasonable, that every thing of an enemy's,
found among his enemies, should change its owner, and go to the
treasury." Hence it is manifest, that the right itself, if it exist,
presupposes, as the condition of its exercise, an actual state of
war, the relation of enemy to enemy. Yet we are fastidiously and
hypocritically told, that this high and explicit act of war, is a
peaceable mean of doing ourselves justice and avoiding war.
Why are we thus told ? Why is this strange paradox attempted
to be imposed upon us? Why, but that it is the policy of the
conspirators against our peace, to endeavor to disguise the hos-
tilities, into which they wish to plunge us, with a specious out-
side, and to precipitate us down the precipice of war, while we
imagine we are quietly and securely walking along its summit.

Away with these absurd and incongruous sophisms ! Blush,
ye apostles of temerity, of meanness, and of deception ! Cease
to beckon us to war, and at the same time to freeze our courage
by the cowardly declaration, that we have no resource but in
fraud ! Cease to attempt to persuade us, that peace may be ob-
tained by menus which are unequivocal acts of war. Cease to
tell us, that war is preferable to dishonor, and yet, as our first
step, to urge us into irretrievable dishonor. A magnanimous, a
sensible people, cannot listen to your crude conceptions. Why
will ye persevere in accumulating ridicule and contempt upon
your own heads ?

In the further observations which I shall offer on this article,
I hope to satisfy, not the determined leaders or instruments of
faction, but all discerning men, all good citizens, that, instead of
being a blemish, it, is an ornament to the instrument in which it
is contained; that it is as consistent with true policy as with sub-
stantial justice ; that it is, in substance, not without precedent in
our other treaties, and that the objections to it are (utile.

( 'amillus.

332 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 38.

NO. XIX.

1795.

The objects protected by the 10th article, are classed under
four heads: — 1. Debts of individuals to individuals; 2, property
of individuals in the public funds; 3, property of individuals
in public banks ; 4, property of individuals in private banks.
These, if analyzed, resolve themselves, in principle, into two dis-
criminations, viz., private debts, and private property in public
funds. The character of private property prevails throughout.
No property of either government is protected from confiscation
or sequestration by the other. This last circumstance merits at-
tention, because it marks the true boundary.

The propriety of the stipulation will be examined under these
several aspects : the right to confiscate or sequestrate private
debts or private property in public funds, on the ground of rea-
son and principle — the right as depending on the opinions of
jurists and on usage — the policy and expediency of the practice
— the analogy of the stipulation with stipulations in our other
treaties, and in treaties between other nations.

First, as to the right on the ground of reason and principle.

The general proposition on which it is supported, is this,
"That every individual of a nation, with whom we are at war,
wheresoever he may be, is our enemy, and his property of every
kind, in ever}r place, liable to capture by right of war."

The only exception admitted to this rule, respects property
within the jurisdiction of a neutral state; but the exemption is
referred to the right of the neutral nation, not to any privilege
which the situation gives to the enemy proprietor.

Reason, if consulted, will suggest another exception. This
regards all such property as the laws of a country permit for.
eigners to acquire within it or to bring into it. The right of
holding or having propert}^ in a country, always implies a duty
on the part of its government to protect that property, and secure
to the owner the full enjoyment of it. Whenever, therefore,
a government grants permission to foreigners to acquire property

JEt. 38.] UAMILLUS. ■'<■'>■'<

within its teritories, or to bring and deposit it there, it tacitly
promises protection and security. It must be understood to
engage, that the foreign proprietor, as to what he shall have
acquired or deposited, shall enjoy the rights, privileges and
immunities of a native proprietor, without any other exceptions
than those which the established laws may have previously de-
clared. How can any thing else be understood ? Every state,
when it has entered into no contrary engagement, is free to per-
mit or not to permit foreigners to acquire or bring property
within its jurisdiction; but if it grant the right, what is there
to make the tenure of the foreigner different from that of the
native, if antecedent laws have not pronounced a difference?
Property, as it exists in civilized society, if not a creature of,
is, at least, regulated and defined by, the laws. They prescribe
the manner in which it shall be used, alienated, or transmitted;
the conditions on which it may he held, perserved, or forfeited.
It is to them we are to look for its rights, limitations, and con-
ditions. No condition of enjoyment, no cause of forfeiture,
which they have not specified, can be presumed to exist. An
extraordinary discretion to resume or take away the thing, with-
out any personal fault of the proprietor, is inconsistent with the
notion of property. This seems always to imply a contract
between the society and the individual ; that he shall retain and
be protected in the possession and use of his property, so long
as he shall observe and perform the conditions which the laws
have annexed to the tenure. It is neither natural nor equitable
to consider him as subject to be deprived of it, for a cause fo-
reign to himself: still less for one which may depend on the
volition or pleasure, even of the very government to whose pro-
tection it has been confided: for the proposition, which affirms
the right to confiscate or sequester, does not distinguish between
offensive or defensive war ; between a war of ambition on the
part of the power which exercises the right, or a war of self-pre-
servation against the assaults of another.

The property of a foreigner placed in another country, by-
permission of its laws, may justly be regarded as a deposit, of
which the society is the trustee. How can it it be reconciled with

334 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

the idea of a trust, to take the property from its owner, when
he has personally given no cause for the deprivation?

Suppose two families in a state of nature, and that a mem-
ber of one of them had by permission of the head of the other,
placed in his custody some article belonging to himself — and
suppose a quarrel to ensue between the two heads of families,
in which the member had not participated by his immediate
counsel or consent — would not natural equity declare the seizure
and confiscation of the deposited property to be an act of per-
fidious rapacity?

Again — suppose two neighboring nations, which had not had
intercourse with each other, and one of them opens its ports and
territories for the purpose of commerce, to the citizens of the
other, proclaiming free and safe ingress and egress — suppose
afterwards a war to break out between the two nations, and the
one which had granted that permission, to seize and convert to
its own use, the goods and credits of the merchants of the other,
within its dominion. What sentence would natural reason, un-
warped by particular dogmas, pronounce on such conduct? If
we abstract ourselves from extraneous impressions, and consult
a moral feeling, we shall not doubt that the sentence would in]
flict all the opprobrium and infamy of violated faith.

Nor can we distinguish either case, in principle, from that
which constantly takes place between nations, that permit a
commercial intercourse with each other, whether with or without
national compact. They equally grant a right to bring into and
carry out of their territories the property which is the subject of
the intercourse, a right of free and secure ingress and egress ;
and in doing this, they make their territories a sanctuary or asy-
lum, which ought to be inviolable, and which the spirit of plunder
only could have ever violated.

There is no parity between the case of the persons and goods
of enemies found in our own country, and that of the persons
and goods of enemies found elsewhere. In the former there is
a reliance upon our hospitality and justice ; there is an express
or implied safe conduct ; the individuals and their property are

jEt. 38.]

CAMILLUS. 835

in the custody of our faith: they have no power to resist our
will; they can lawfully make no defence against our violence;
they are deemed to owe a temporary allegiance ; and for endea-
voring resistance, would be punished as criminals ; a chara<
inconsistent with that of an enemy. To make them a prey, is,
therefore, to infringe every rule of generosity and equity; it is
to add cowardice to treachery. In the latter case, there is no
confidence whatever reposed in us ; no claim upon our hospitality,
justice or good faith; there is the simple character of enemy,
with entire liberty to oppose force to force. The right of war
consequently to attack and seize, whether to obtain indemnifica-
tion for any injury received — to disable our enemy from doing
us further harm — to force him to reasonable terms of accom-
modation— or to repress an overbearing ambition, exists in full
vigor, unrestrained and unqualified by any trust or duty on our
part. In pursuing it, though we may inflict hardship, we do not
commit injustice.

Moreover, the property of the foreigner within our country
may be regarded as having paid a valuable consideration for its
protection and exemption from forfeiture ; that which is brought
in, commonly enriches the revenue by a duty of entry. All
that is within our territory, whether acquired there or brought
there, is liable to contributions to the treasury, in common with
other similar property. Does there not result an obligation to
protect that which contributes to the expense of its protection ?
Will justice sanction, upon the breaking out of a war, the con-
fiscation of a property, which, during peace, serves to augment
the resources and nourish the prosperity of a state ?

The principle of the proposition gives an equal right to sub-
ject the person as the property of the foreigner to the rigors
of war. But what would be thought of a government which
should seize all the subjects of its enemy found within its ter-
ritory, and commit them to durance, as prisoners of war ? A\ ould
not all agree that it had violated an asylum which ought to have
been sacred? That it had trampled upon tin- laws of hospitality
and civilization ? That it had disgraced itself by an act of cruelty

336 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mi. 38.

aud barbarism ?* Why would it not be equally reprehensible
to violate the asylum which had been given to the property of
those foreigners ?

Eeason, left to its own lights, would answer all these ques-
tions in one way, and severely condemn the molestation, on
account of a national contest, as well of the property as person of
a foreigner found in our country, under the license and guarantee
of the laws of previous amity.

The case of property in the public funds is still stronger than
that of private debts. To all the sanctions which apply to the
latter, it adds that of an express pledge of the public faith to the
foreign holder of stock.

The constituting of a public debt or fund, transferable with-
out limitation or distinction, amounts to a promise to all the
world, that whoever, foreigner or citizen, may acquire a title to
it, shall enjoy the benefit of what is stipulated. Every trans-
feree becomes, by the act of transfer, the immediate proprietor
of the promise. It inures directly to his use, and the foreign
promisee no more than the native, can be deprived of that
benefit, except in consequence of some act of his own, without
the infraction of a positive engagement.

Public debt has been truly defined, " A property subsisting in
the faith of government" Its essence is promise. To confiscate
or sequester it is emphatically to rescind the promise given, to
revoke the faith plighted — It is impossible to separate the two
ideas of a breach of faith, and the confiscation or sequestration of
a property subsisting only in the faith of the government by
which it is made.

When it is considered, that the promise made to the foreigner
is not made to him in the capacity of member of another society,
but in that of citizen of the world, or of an individual in the
state of nature — the infraction of it towards him, on account of
the fault, real or pretended, of the society to which he belongs,
is the more obviously destitute of color. There is no real affinity
between the motive and the consequence. There is a confound-

* All that can rightfully be done, is to oblige the foreigners, who are subjects of
our enemy, to quit our country.

JEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 337

ing of relations. The obligation of a contract can only be avoided
by the breach of a condition express or implied, which appeal's
or can be presumed to have been within the contemplation of
both parties, or by the personal fault or crime of him to whom it
is to be performed. Can it be supposed that a citizen of one
country would lend his money to the government of another, in
the expectation that a war between the two countries, which,
without or against their will, might break out the next day,
could be deemed a sufficient cause of forfeiture ?

The principle may be tested in another way — Suppose one
government indebted to another in a certain sum of money, and
suppose the creditor government to borrow of the citizen of the
other an equal sum of money. When he came to demand pay-
ment, would justice, would good faith, permit the opposing to
his claim, by way of set-off, the debt due from his government?
Who would not revolt at such an attempt ? Could not the indi-
vidual creditor answer with conclusive force, that in a matter of
contract he was not responsible for the society of which he was a
member, and that the debts of the society were not a proper set-
off against his private claim?

With what greater reason could his claim be refused on
account of an injury which was a cause of war, received from
his sovereign, and which had created on the part of the sove-
reign a debt of reparation ? It were certainly more natural and
just to set off a debt due by contract to the citizen of a foreign
country against a debt due by contract from the sovereign of
that country, than to set it off against a vague claim of indem-
nification for an injury or aggression of which we complain, and
of which the reality or justice is seldom undisputed on the other
side.

The true rule which results from what has been said, and
which reason sanctions with regard to the right of capture, i-
this — "It may be exercised every where except within a neutral
jurisdiction* or where the property is under the protection of our mvn

* There are exceptions to this exception ; but they depend on special circum-
stances, which admit the principal exception, and need not be particularized.

G 22

338 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

laws ;" and it may perhaps be added that it always supposes the
possibility of rightful combat, of attack, and defence.

These exceptions involve no refinement — they depend on
obvious considerations, and are agreeable to common sense and
to nature — the spontaneous feelings of equity accord with them.
It is, indeed, astonishing that a contrary rule should ever have
been countenanced by the opinion of any jurist, or by the prac-
tice of any civilized nation.

We shall see in the next number how far either has been the
case, and what influence it ought to have upon the question.

Camillus.

no. xx.

1795.

The point next to be examined is the right of confiscation or
sequestration, as depending on the ©pinions of jurists and on
usage.

To understand how far these ought to weigh, it is requisite to
consider what are the elements or ingredients, which compose
what is called the law of nations.

The constituent parts of this system are, 1. The necessary or
internal law, which is the law of nature applied to nations ; or
that system of rules for regulating the conduct of nation to
nation, which reason deduces from the principles of natural right,
as relative to political societies or states. 2. The voluntary law,
which is a system of rules resulting from the equality and inde-
pendence of nations, and which, in the administration of their
affairs, and the pursuit of their pretensions, proceeding on the
principle of their having no common judge upon earth, attributes
equal validity, as to external effects, to the measures or conduct
of one as of another, without regard to the intrinsic justice of
those measures or that conduct. Thus captures, in war, are as
valid, when made by the party in the wrong, as by the party in
the right. 3. The factitious or conventional law, or that law

JEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 339

which results from a treaty between two or more nations. This
is evidently a particular, not a general law, since a treaty or pact
can only bind the contracting parties : yet, when we find a pro-
vision universally pervading the treaties between nations, for a
length of time, as a kind of formula, it is high evidence of the
general law of nations. 4. The customary law, which consists of
those rules of conduct, that, in practice, are respected and ob-
served among nations. Its authority depends on usage, implying
a tacit consent and agreement. This also is a particular, not a
general law, obligatory only on those nations whose acquiescence
has appeared, or, from circumstances, may fairly be presumed.
Thus, the customary law of Europe may not be that of a different
quarter of the globe. The three last branches are sometimes
ao-orre^atelv denominated the positive law of nations.

The two first are discoverable by reason; the two last depend
on proof, as matters of fact. Hence the opinion of jurists, though
weighing, as the sentiments of judicious or learned men, who have
made the subject a particular study, are not conclusive, as authori-
ties.— ln regard to the necessary and voluntary law, especially, they
may be freely disregarded, unless they are found to be adopted
and sanctioned by the practice of nations : For where reason is
the guide, it cannot properly be renounced for mere opinion,
however respectable. As witnesses of the customary laws, their
testimony, the result of careful researches, is more particularly
entitled to attention.

If, then, it has been satisfactorily proved, as the dictate of
sound reason, that private debts, and private property in public
funds, are not justly liable to confiscation or sequestration, an op-
posite opinion of one or more jurists could not control the con-
clusion in point of principle. So far as it may attest a practice of
nations, which may have introduced a positive law on the subject,
the consideration may be different. It will then remain to ex-
amine, upon their own and other testimony, whether that practice
be so general as to be capable of varying a rule of reason, by the
force of usage ; and whether it still continues to bear the same
character, or has been weakened or done away by some recent or
more modern usage.

340 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

I will not avail myself of a position, advanced by some wri-
ters, that usage, if derogating from the principles of natural justice,
is null, further than to draw this inference, that a rule of right,
deducible from them, cannot be deemed to be altered by usage,
partially contradicted, fluctuating.

With these guides, our further inquiries will serve to confirm
us in the negative of the pretended right to confiscate or seques-
ter in the cases supposed.

The notion of this right is evidently derived from the Roman
law. It is seen there, in this peculiar form : " Those things of
an enemy which are among us, belong not to the state, but to
the first occupant,"* which seems to mean, that the things of an
enemy, at the commencement of the war, found in our country,
may be seized by any citizen, and will belong to him who first
gets possession. It is known, that the maxims of the Roman
law are extensively incorporated into the different codes of Eu-
rope ; and particularly, that the writers on the law of nations have
borrowed liberally from them. This source of the notion does not
stamp it with much authority. The history of Rome proves, that
war and conquest were the great business of that people, and that,
for the most part, commerce was little cultivated. Hence it was
natural, that the rights of war should be carried to an extreme,
unmitigated by the softening and humanizing influence of com-
merce. Indeed the world was yet too young — moral science too
much in its cradle — to render the Roman jurisprudence a proper
model for implicit imitation : accordingly, in this very particular
of the rights of war, it seems to have been equally a rule of the
Roman law, " That those who go into a foreign country, in time
of peace, if war is suddenly kindled, are made the slaves of those
among whom> now become enemies by ill fortune, they are ap-
prehended, "f This right of capturing the property and of mak-
ing slaves of the persons of enemies is referred, as we learn from
Cicero, to the right of killing them ; which was regarded as abso-

* Digest. XLI. tit. I. "Et quae res hostiles apud nos," &c.

f • In pace qui pervenerunt ad alteros, si bellum subito exarcisset, eorum servi
efficiuntur, apud quos jam hostes suo facto deprehenduntur." Digest, lib. XLIX.
tit. XV, 1. xii.

Mt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 341

lute and unqualified, extending even to women and children.
Thus it would seem, that, on the principle of the Roman law, we
might rightfully kill a foreigner, who had come into our country
during peace, and was there at the breaking out of a war with his
country — Can there be a position more horrible, more detesta-
ble ?

The improvement of moral science in modern times, restrains
the right of killing an enemy to the time of battle or resistance,
except by way of punishment for some enormous breach of the
law of nations, or for self-preservation, in case of immediate and
urgent danger ; and rejects altogether the right of imposing
slavery on captives.

Why should there have been a hesitation to reject other odi-
ous consequences of so exceptionable a principle ? What respect
is due to maxims which have so inhuman a foundation ?

And yet a deference for those maxims has misled writers who
have professedly undertaken to teach the principles of national
ethics ; and the spirit of rapine has continued, to a late period, to
consecrate the relics of ancient barbarism with too many prece-
dents of imitation — Else it would not now be a question with
any, " Whether the person or property of a foreigner, being in
our country with permission of the laws of peace, could be liable
to molestation or injury by the laws of war — merely on ac-
count of the war ?"

Turning from the ancients to the moderns, we find, that
the learned Grotius quotes and adopts, as the basis of his o] un-
ions, the rules of the Roman law ; though he, in several par-
ticulars, qualifies them, by the humane innovations of later
times.

On the very question of the right to confiscate or sequester
private debts, his opinion, as far as it appears, seems to be at
variance with his premises, steering a kind of middle course.
His expressions (L. III. C. XX. Sec. XVI.) are these. "Those
debts which are due to private persons, at the beginning of the
war, are not to be accounted forgiven (that is, when peace is
made); for these are not acquired by the right of war, but only
forbidden to be demanded in time of war ; therefore, the impediment

342 HAMILTON'S WORKS. L^t. 38.

being removed, that is, the war ended, they retain their full
force." His idea appears from this passage to be, that the right
of war is limited to the arresting of the payment of private
debts during its continuance, and not to the confiscation or an-
nihilation of the debt. Nor is it clear, whether he means, that
this arrestation is to be produced by a special act of prohibition,
or by the operation of some rule of law, which denies to an
alien enemy a right of action. This feeble and heterogeneous
opinion may be conceived to have proceeded from a conflict be-
tween a respect for ancient maxims, and the impression of more
enlightened views, inculcated by the principles of commerce and
civilization.

Bynkershoeck is more consistent : Adopting, with Grotius,
the rule of the Koman law in its full vigor, he is not frightened
at the consequences, but follows them throughout. Hence he
bestows a chapter upon the defence of the proposition, quoted
in a former number (to wit), that * "Since it is the condition of
war, that enemies may, with full right, be despoiled and proscrib-
ed, it is reasonable that whatsoever things of an enemy are found
among his enemies, should change their owner and go to the
treasury ;" and in several places he expressly applies the rule to
things in action, or debts and credits, as well as to things in pos-
session.

In confirmation of his doctrine, he adduces a variety of ex-
amples, which embrace a period of something more than a cen-
tury, beginning in the year 1556, and ending in the year 1657,
and which comprehends, as actors on the principle which he
espouses, France, Spain, the States General, Denmark, the bish-
ops of Cologne and Munster. But he acknowledges that the
right has been questioned ; and notes particularly, that when
the king of France and the bishops of Munster and Cologne, in
the year 1563, confiscated the debts which their subjects owed
to the confederate Belgians, the states general, by an edict of the
6th of July, of that year, censured the proceeding, and decreed

* Qujestionum Juris Public, liber I. caput VII. l: Cum ea sit belli conditio
ut hostes sint omni jure spoliati proscriptique, rationis est quascumque res hostiura
apud hostes inveutas, dominum mutate et fisco cedere."

jEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 348

that those debts could not be paid but to the true creditors, and
that the exaction of them, whether by force or with consent,
was not to be esteemed valid.

If from the great pains which appear to have been taken by
this learned writer, to collect examples in proof of his doctrine,
we are to conclude that the collection is tolerably complete, we
are warranted in drawing this inference, that he has not cared
any defect, which reason may discern in his principle, by any
thing like the evidence of such a general, uniform, and continu-
ed usage, as is requisite to introduce a rule of the positive law of
nations, in derogation from the natural.

A minority only of the powers of Europe are shown to have
been implicated in the practice ; and among the majority, not
included, are several of the most considerable and respectable.
One of these, Great Britain, is represented as having acquiesced
in it, in the treaties of peace, between her and some of the pow-
ers who went into the practice, to her detriment, by relinquish-
ing the claim of restitution — But war must, at length, end in
peace ; and the sacrifice a nation makes to the latter, is a slight
argument of her consent to the principle of the injuries which
she may have sustained. I have not been able to trace a single
instance in which Great Britain has, herself, set the example of
such a practice ; nor could she do it, as has elsewhere appeared,
without contravening an article of magna charta, unless by way
of reprisal for the same thing done towards her. The suggestion
of an instance in the present war with France, will, hereafter, be
examined. In such a question, the practice of a nation, which
has, for ages, figured pre-eminently in the commercial world, is
entitled to particular notice.

It is not unworthy of remark, that the common law of Eng-
land, from its earliest dawnings, contradicted the rule of the
Roman law. It exempted from seizure, by a subject of England,
the property of a foreigner brought there before a war ; but gave
to the first seizor, or occupant, the property which came there
after the breaking out of a war. The noble principles of the
common law cannot cease to engage our respect, while we have
before our eyes so many monuments of their excellence in our
own jurisdiction.

344 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

It also merits to be dwelt upon, that the United Netherlands,
for some time the first, and long only the second in commercial
consequence, formally disputed the right, and condemned the
practice of confiscating private debts, though themselves, in some
instances, guilty of it.

And it is likewise a material circumstance, that Bynkershoeck,
who seems to have written in the year 1737, does not adduce
any precedent later than the year 1667, seventy years before his
publication.

The subsequent period will, it is believed, be found upon
strict inquiry, equally barren of similar precedents. The ex-
ceptions are so few,* that we may fairly assert, that there is the
negative usage of near a century and a half, against the pretended
right. This negative usage, of a period, the most enlightened as
well as the most commercial in the annals of the world, is of the
highest authority. The former usage, as being partial and with
numerous exceptions, was insufficient to establish a rule. The
contrary usage, or the renunciation of the former usage, as being
general, as attended with few or no exceptions, is sufficient even
to work a change in the rigor of an ancient rule, if it could be
supposed to have been established. Much more is it sufficient to
confirm and enforce the lesson of reason, and to dissipate the
clouds which error, and some scattered instances of violence and
rapine, may have produced.

Of the theoretical writers, whom I had an opportunity of
consulting, Vattel is the only remaining one, who directly treats
the point. His opinion has been said to favor the right to con-
fiscate and sequester. But when carefully analyzed, it will add
to the proofs of the levity with which the opposers of the treaty
make assertions.

After stating, among other things, that " war gives the same
right over any sum of money due by a neutral nation to our
enemy, as it can give over his other goods," he proceeds thus —
" When Alexander, by conquest, became absolute master of
Thebes, he remitted to the Thessalians, a hundred talents, which

* The case of Prussia and the Silesia loan, is the only one I have found.

Mt. 38.] CAMILLUS. .".IT,

they owed to the Thebans. The sovereign has naturally the
same right over what his subjects may be indebted to bis ene-
mies ; therefore he may confiscate debts of this nature, if the
term of payment happen in the time of war ; or, a1 least, he may
prohibit his subjects from paying, while the war lasts. But at
present, in regard to the advantage and safety of commerce, all
the sovereigns of Europe have departed from this rigor. And as
this custom has been generally received, he who should act con-
trary to it, would injure the public faith; for strangers trusted
his subjects only from a firm persuasion, that the general custom
would be observed. The state does not so much as touch the
sums which it owes to the enemy. Every where, in case of a
war, funds credited to the public, are exempt from confiscation
and seizure."*

The first proposition of the above passage, amounts to this,
that "a sovereign naturally, that is, according to the law of
nature, may confiscate debts, which his subjects owe to his ene-
mies, if the term of payment happen in the time of war ; or, at
least, he may prohibit his subjects from paying while the war
lasts.' '

So far as this goes, it agrees with the principle which I com-
bat, that there is a natural right to confiscate or sequester pri-
vate debts in time of war ; so far Vattel accords with the Roman
law and with Bynkershoeck.

But he annexes a whimsical limitation, "If the term of pay-
ment happen in the time of war" — and there is a marked uncer-
tainty and hesitation — the sovereign "may confiscate, or, at
least, lie may prohibit his subjects from paying while the war
lasts." It is evident, that the circumstance of the time of pay-
ment can have no influence upon the right. If it reaches to
confiscation, which takes away the substance of the thing, the
mere incident of the happening of payment must be immaterial.
If it is confined to the arresting of payment during the war, the
reason of the rule, the object being to prevent supplies going to
the enemy, will apply it as well to debts which had become pay-

* Book III. Chap. 5, sec. 77.

346 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 38.

able before the war, as to those which became payable in the
war. Whence this inaccuracy in so accurate a thinker ? Whence
the hesitation about so important a point, as whether the pre-
tended right extends to confiscation or simply to sequestration ?
They must be accounted for, as in another case, by the conflict
between respect for ancient maxims and the impressions of
juster views, seconded by the more enlightened policy of modern
times.

But while Vattel thus countenances, in the first part of the
passage, the opinion, that the natural law of nations authorizes
the confiscation or sequestration of private debts, in what imme-
diately follows, he most explicitly and unequivocally informs us,
that the rule of that law in this respect has been abrogated by
modern usage or custom ; in other words, that the modern cus-
tomary law has changed in this particular the ancient natural
law. Let his own words be consulted — " At present," says he,
" in regard to the advantage and safety of commerce, all the sove-
reigns of Europe have departed from this rigor : and as this cus-
tom has been generally received, he who would act contrary to
it, would injure the public faith ; for strangers trusted his sub-
jects onty from the firm persuasion that the general custom would
be observed."

This testimony is full, that there is a general custom received
and adopted by all the sovereigns of Europe, which obviates the
rigor of the ancient rule ; the non-observance of which custom
would violate the public faith of a nation ; as being a breach of
an implied contract, by virtue of the custom, upon the strength
of which foreigners trust his subjects.

Language cannot describe more clearly a rule of the custo-
mary law of nations, the essence of which, we have seen, is gene-
ral usage, implying a tacit agreement to conform to the rule.
The one alleged is denominated a custom generally received, a
general custom ; all the sovereigns of Europe are stated to be
parties to it, and it is represented as obligatory on the public
faith, since this would be injured by a departure from it.

The consequence is, that if the right pretended did exist by
the natural law, it has given way to the customary law ; for it

iET. 38.] CAMILLUS. 347

is a contradiction, to call that a right, which cannot be exercised
without breach of faith. The result is, that by the present custo-
mary law of nations, within the sphere of its action, there is no
right to confiscate or sequester private debts in time of war.
The reason or motive of which law is the advantage and safety
of commerce.

As to private property in public funds, the right to meddle
with them is still more emphatically negatived. " The state does
not so much as touch the sums it owes to the enemy. Every
where, in case of a war, funds credited to the public are exempt
from confiscation and seizure." These terms manifestly exclude
sequestration as well as confiscation.

In another place, the author gives the reason of this position,
Book II. Chap. XVIII. " In reprisals, the goods of a subject are
seized in the same manner as those of the state or the sovereign.
Every thing that belongs to the nation is liable to reprisals as
soon as it can be seized, provided it be not a deposit trusted to the
public faith. This deposit is found in our hands, only in con-
sequence of that confidence, which the proprietor has put in our
good faith, and it ought to be respected, even in case of open
war. Thus it is usual to behave in France, England, and else-
where, with respect to the money which foreigners have placed
in the public funds." The same principle, if he had reflected
without bias, would have taught him, that reprisals could right-
fully extend to nothing that had been committed with their per-
mission, to the custody and guardianship of our laws, during a
state of peace ; and, consequently, that no property, of our enemy,
which was in our country before the breaking out of the war.
is justly liable to them. For is not all such property equally a
deposit, trusted to Ok •public faith ? What foreigner would acquire
property in our country, or bring and lodge it there, but in the
confidence, that in case of war, it would not become an object of
reprisals? Why then resort to custom for a denial of tin' right
to confiscate or sequester private debts? Why not trace it to
the natural injustice and perfidy of taking away in war, what a
foreigner is permitted to own and have among us in peace?
Why ever have considered that as a natural right which was

348 HAMILTON'S WORKS. |>Et. 38.

contrary to good faith tacitly pledged ? This is evidently the
effect of too much deference to ferocious maxims of antiquity, of
undue complaisance to some precedents of modern rapacity.

He had avoided the error, by weighing maturely the conse-
quences of his own principle in another case : " He who declares
war (says he) does not confiscate the immovable goods possessed
in his country by his enemy's subjects: in permitting them to pur-
chase arid possess those goods, he has, in this respect, admitted them
into the number of his subjects," (that is) he has admitted them
to a like privilege with his subjects, as to the real property they
were permitted to acquire and hold. But, why should a less
privilege attend the license to purchase, possess, or have other
kinds of property in his country ? The reason, which is, the
permission of the sovereign, must extend to the protection of one
kind of property as well as another, if the permission extends to
both.

Vattel advances in this and in the passage quoted immediately
before it, the true principles which ought to govern the question
— though he does not pursue them into their consequences ; else
he would not have deduced the exemption of private debts, from
confiscation or sequestration, from the customary law of nations,
but would have traced it to the natural or necessary law, as
founded upon the obligations of good faith ; upon the tacit pro-
mise of security connected with the permission to acquire pro-
perty within, or bring property into, our country ; upon the pro-
tection which every government owes to a property of which it
legalizes the acquisition, or the deposit within its jurisdiction;
and in case of immovable goods or real estate, of which he admits
a right to sequester the income, to prevent its being remitted to
the enemy, he would have perceived the necessity of leaving this
effect to be produced by the obstructions intrinsically incident to
a state of war ; since there is no reason why the income should
be less privileged than the substance of the thing.

It appears, then, that the doctrine of Vattel, collectively
taken, amounts to this, that there is a natural right of war in
certain cases to confiscate or sequester enemy's property found
within our country ; but that, on motives relative to commerce

At. 38.] CAM ILL US. 349

and public credit, the customary law of Europe has restrained
that right, as to private debts, and private property, in public funds.
His opinion, therefore, favors the principle of the article of the
treaty under examination, as consonant with the present Euro-
pean law of nations — and it is an opinion of greater weight than
any that can be cited ; as well on account of the capacity, dili-
gence, information, and the precision of ideas, which characterize
the work in which it is contained, as on account of the recency
of that work.*

A question may be raised — Does this customary law of na-
tions, as established in Europe, bind the United States? An
affirmative answer to this is warranted by conclusive reasons.

1. The United States, when a member of the British empire,
were, in this capacity, a party to that law, and not having dis-
sented from it, when they became independent, they are to be
considered as having continued a party to it. 2. The common
law of England, which was and is in force in each of these
States, adopts the law of nations, the positive equally with the
natural, as a part of itself. 3. Ever since we have been an inde-
pendent nation, we have appealed to, and acted upon, the modern
law of nations as understood in Europe — various resolutions of
Congress during our revolution — the correspondences of execu-
tive officers — the decisions of our courts of admiralty, all recog-
nized this standard, -i. Executive and legislative acts, and the
proceedings of our courts, under the present government, speak
a similar language. The President's proclamation of neutrality,
refers expressly to the modern law of nations, which must neces-
sarily be understood of that prevailing in Europe, and acceded
to by this country ; and the general voice of our nation, together
with the very arguments used against the treaty, accord in the
same point. It is indubitable, that the customary law of Euro-
pean nations is, as a part of the common law, and by adoption,
that of the United States.

But let it not be forgotten, that I derive the vindication of the
article from a higher source, from the natural or necessary law

* It appears to have been written about the year 1700.

350 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [/Et. 38.

of nature — from the eternal principles of morality and good
faith.

There is one more authority which I shall cite in reference to
a part of the question ; property in the public funds. It is a
report of the British king in the year 1753, from Sir George
Lee, judge of the prerogative court, Dr. Paul, advocate-general
in the courts of civil law, Sir Dudley Rider and Mr. Murray, at-
torney and solicitor-general * on the subject of the Silesia loan,
sequestered by the king of Prussia, by way of reprisal, for the
capture and condemnation of some Prussian vessels. This report
merits all the respect which can be derived from consummate
knowledge and ability in the reporters; but it would lose much
of its weight from the want of impartiality, which might fairly
be imputed to the officers of one of the governments interested
in the contest, had it not since received the confirming eulogies
of impartial and celebrated foreign writers. Among these, Vat-
tel calls it an excellent piece on the law of nations.

The following is an extract : — " The king of Prussia has
pledged his royal word to pay the Silesia debt to private men.
It is negotiable, and many parts of it have been assigned to the
subjects of other powers. It will not be easy to find an instance,
where a prince has thought fit to make reprisals upon a debt due
from himself to private men. There is a confidence that this will
not be done. A private man lends money to a prince upon an en-
gagement of honor ; because a prince cannot be compelled, like other
men, in an adversary way, by a court of justice. So scrupulously
did England and France adhere to this public faith, that even
during the war, they suffered no inquiry to be made, whether
any part of the public debt was due to the subjects of the enemy,
though it is certain many English had money in the French
funds, and many French had money in ours."

The universal obligation of good faith is here reinforced on a
special ground, by the point of honor ; to confirm the position
that money which a sovereign or state owes to private men, is
not a proper object of reprisals.

* Sir George Lee, was afterwards the very celebrated Chief Justice Lee, and
Mr. Murray was the late Lord Mansfield.

Mt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 351

This case of the Silesia debt is the only example, within the
present century, prior to the existing war, which I have been
able to trace, violating the immunity of private debts, or private
property, in public funds. It is a precedent that can have little
weight, not only from singularity, but from the character of its
author. Frederick was a consummate general, a profound states-
man ; but he was very far from being a severe moralist. This is
not the only instance in which he tarnished his faith ; and the
friends of his fame must regret, that he could not plead on the
occasion those mighty and dazzling reasons of state, which are
the specious apologies for his other aberrations.

It is asserted, that the present war of Europe affords examples
of the practice, which I reprobate, and that Great Britain herself
has given one. The present war of Europe is of so extraordinary
a complexion, and has been conducted, in all respects, upon such
extraordinary principles, that it may truly be regarded as an ex-
ception to all general rules, as a precedent for nothing. It is
rather a beacon, warning mankind to shun the pernicious ex-
amples, which it sets, than a model inviting to imitation. The
human passions, on all sides, appear to have been wrought up to
a pitch of frenzy, which has set reason, justice, and humanity, at
defiance.

Those who have nevertheless thought fit to appeal to the ex-
amples of this very anomalous war, have not detailed to us the
precise nature or course of the transactions to which they refer ;
nor do I know that sufficient documents have appeared in this
country to guide us in the inquiry.

The imperfect evidence which has fallen under my observation,
respects France and Great Britain, and seems to exhibit these
facts : —

France passed a decree sequestering the property of the sub-
jects of the powers at war with her ; and in the same or another
decree, obliged all those of her citizens, who had moneys owing to
them in foreign countries, to draw bills upon their debtors, and
to furnish those bills to the government, by way of loan, or upon
certain terms of payment.

The government of Great Britain, in consequence of this pro-

352 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

ceeding, passed ten different acts, the objects of which were to
prevent the payment of those bills, and to secure the sums due
for the benefit of the original creditors. These acts appoint certain
commissioners, to whom reports are to be made of all French
property in the hands of British subjects, and who are empowered
to receive and sell goods and other effects — to collect debts, and
to deposit the proceeds in the bank of London, or in other safe
keeping, if preferred or required by parties interested. The mo-
neys deposited are to be invested in the purchase of public stock,
together with the interest or dividends arising from time to time,
to be eventually accounted for to the proprietors. The commis-
sioners have, likewise, a discretion, upon demand, to deliver over
their effects and moneys to such of the proprietors as do not reside
within the French dominions.

I shall not enter into a discussion of the propriety of these
acts of Great Britain. — It is sufficient to observe, that they are
attended with circumstances which very essentially discriminate
them from the thing for which they were quoted. The act of the
French government was in substance a compulsory assumption
of all the property of its citizens in foreign countries. This ex-
traordinary measure presented two options to the governments of
those countries — One. to consider the tranfer as virtually effected,
and to confiscate the property as being no longer that of the
individuals, but that of the government of France — the other, to
defeat the effect of her plan by bujnng up the property for the
benefit of the original creditors, in exclusion of the drafts which
they were compelled to draw. Great Britain appears to have
elected the latter course. If we suppose her sincere in the motive,
and there is fairness and fidelity in the execution, the issue will
be favorable, rather than detrimental, to the rights of private
property.

I have said, that there was an option to confiscate. A govern-
ment may rightfully confiscate the property of an adversary
government. No principle of justice or policy occurs to forbid
reprisals upon the public or national property of an enemy. That
case is foreign, in every view, to the principles which protect
private property. The exemption stipulated by the 10th article
of the treaty is accordingly restricted to the latter.

JEt. 38] CAMILLUS. 353

It appears, that the government of France, convinced by the
effect of the experiment, that the sequestration of the property of
the subjects of her enemies was impolitic, thought fit to rescind
it. — Thence, on the 29th of December, 1794, the convention
decreed as follows :

" The decrees concerning sequestration of the property of the
subjects of the powers at war with the republic, are annulled.
Such sums as have been paid by French citizens into the treasury,
in consequence of those decrees, will be reimbursed/'

In the course of the debates upon this decree, it was declared,
that the decrees which it was to repeal, had prepared the ruin of
commerce, and had severed, against the rights of nations, the obliga-
tions of merchants in different states. This is a direct admission,
that the sequestration was contrary to the law of nations.

As far as respects France, then, the precedent, upon the whole,
is a strong condemnation of the pretended right to confiscate or
sequester. This formal renunciation of the ground which was at
first taken, is a very emphatical protest against the principle of
the measure — It ought to serve us too as an instructive warning
against the employment of so mischievous and disgraceful an ex-
pedient. And as to England, as has been shown, the precedent
is foreign to the question.

Thus we perceive, that opinion and usage, far from supporting
the right to confiscate or sequester private property, on account
of national wars, when referred to the modern standard, turn
against that right, and coincide with the principle of the article
of the treaty under examination.

What remains to be offered will farther illustrate its propriety,
and reconcile it to all reflecting men.

Camillus.

no. XXI.

1796.

Since the closing of my last number, I have accidentally turn-
ed to a passage of Vattd, which is so pertinent to the immediate
g 23

354 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38

subject of that paper, that I cannot refrain from interrupting the
progress of the discussion, to quote it ; it is in these words (b. 3,
ch. 4, sec. 63) : " The sovereign, declaring war, can neither de-
tain those subjects of the enemy, who are within his dominions at
the time of the declaration, nor their effects. They came into his
country on the public faith. By permitting them, to enter his territo-
ries, and continue there, he tacitly promised them liberty, and security
for their return.'1'' This passage contains, explicitly, the prin-
ciple which is the general basis of my argument, namely, that the
permission to a foreigner to come with his effects into, and ac-
quire others within our country, in time of peace, virtually
pledges the public faith for the security of his person and pro-
perty, in the event of war. How can this be reconciled with the
natural right (controlled only by the customary law of nations)
which this writer admits, to confiscate the debts due by the sub-
jects of a state to its enemies ? I ask once more, can there be a
natural right to do that which includes a violation of faith?

It is plain, to a demonstration, that the rule laid down in this
passage, which is so just and perspicuous as to speak conviction
to the heart and understanding, unites the natural with the cus-
tomary law of nations, in a condemnation of the pretension to
confiscate or sequester the private property of our enemy, found
in our country at the breaking out of a war.

Let us now proceed to examine the policy and expediency of
such a pretension.

In this investigation, I shall assume, as a basis of argument,
the following position, That it is advantageous to nations to have
commerce with each other.

Commerce, it is manifest, like any other object of enterprise
or industry, will prosper in proportion as it is secure. Its secu-
rity, consequently, promoting its prosperit}^ extends its advan-
tages. Security is indeed essential to its having a due and regu-
lar course.

The pretension of a right to confiscate or sequester the effects
of foreign merchants, in the case in question, is, in its principle,
fatal to that necessary security. Its free exercise would destroy
external commerce ; or, which is nearly the same thing, reduce

tEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 355

it within the contracted limits of a game of hazard, where the
chance of large profits, accompanied with the great risks, would
tempt alone the adventurous and the desperate. Those enter-
prises, which, from circuitous or long voyages, slowness of sales
incident to the nature of certain commodities, the necessity of
credit, or from other causes, demand considerable time for their
completion, must be renounced. Credit, indeed, must be ban-
ished from all the operations of foreign commerce; an engine,
the importance of which, to its vigorous and successful prosecu-
tion, will be doubted by none, who will be guided by experience
or observation.

It cannot need amplification, to elucidate the truth of these
positions. The storms of war occur so suddenly and so often,
as to forbid the supposition, that the merchants of one country
would trust their property, to any extent, or for any duration
in another country, which was in the practice of confiscating or
sequestering the effects of its enemies, found within its territo-
ries, at the commencemnt of a war. That practice, therefore
would necessarily paralyze and wither the commerce of the coun-
try in which it obtained. Accordingly, nations attentive to
the cultivation of commerce, which formerly were betrayed, by
temporary considerations, into particular instances of that atro-
cious practice, have been led, by the experience of its mischiefs
to abstain from it in later times. They saw that to have persis
ed in it would have been to abandon competition on equal terms,
in the lucrative and beneficial field of commerce.

It is no answer to this, to say that the exercise of the right
might be ordinarily suspended, though the right itself might be
maintained, for extraordinary and great emergencies.

In the first place, as the ordinary forbearance of its exercise
would be taken by foreigners for evidence of an intention never
to exercise it, by which they would be enticed into large depo-
sites, that would not otherwise have taken place ; a departure
from the general course would always involve an act of treachery
and cruelty.

In the second place, the 'possibility of the occasional exercise
of such a right, if conceived to exist, would be, at least, a slow

356 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

poison, conducing to a sickly habit of commerce ; and, in a
series of time, would be productive of much more evil than
could be counterbalanced by any good which it might be possi-
ble to obtain in the contemplated emergency, by the use of the
expedient.

Let experience decide. Examples of confiscation and seques-
tration have been given. When did the dread of them prevent
a war ? When did it cripple an enemy, so as to disable him from
exertion, or force him into a submission to the views of his ad-
versary ? When did it even sensibly conspire to either of these
ends? If it has ever had any such effect, the evidence of it has
not come within my knowledge.

It is true, that between Great Britain and the United States,
the expectation of such effects is better warranted than perhaps
in any other cases that have existed ; because we commonly owe
a larger debt to that county, than is usual between nations, and
there is a relative state of things, which tends to a continuation
of this situation.

But how has the matter operated hitherto ? In the late war
between the two countries, certain states confiscated the debts
due from their citizens to British creditors, and these creditors
actually suffered great losses. The British cabinet must have
known, that it was possible the same thing might happen in
another war, and on a more general scale ; yet the appearances
were extremely strong, at a particular juncture, that it was their
plan, either from ill-will, from the belief that popular opinion
would ultimately drag our government into the war, from the
union of these two, or from other causes, to force us into hostili-
ties with them. Hence it appears, that the apprehension of acts
of confiscation, or sequestration, was not sufficient to deter from
hostile views, or to insure pacific dispositions.

It may be pretended, that the menace of this measure, had a
restraining influence on the subsequent conduct of Great Britain.
But if we ascribe nothing to the measures which our government
actually pursued, under the pressure of the provocations re-
ceived, we at least find, in the course of European events, a bet-
ter solution of a change of policy in the cabinet of Great Britain,

JEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 'dbl

than from the dread of a legislative piracy on the debts due to
their merchants.

The truth unfortunately is, that the passions of men stifle cal-
culation ; that nations the most attentive to pecuniary consider-
ations, easily surrender them to ambition, to jealousy, to anger,
or to revenge.

For the same reason, the actual experiment of an exercise of
the pretended right, by way of reprisal for an injury complained
of, would commonly be as inefficacious, as the menace of it, to
arrest general hostilities. Pride is roused ; resentment kindled ;
and where there is even no previous disposition to those hostili-
ties, the probability is, that they follow. Nations, like indivi-
duals, ill brook the idea of receding from their pretensions un-
der the rod, or of admitting the justice of an act of retaliation
or reprisal, by submitting to it. Thus we learn, from the king
of Prussia himself, that the sequestration of the Silesia debt, in-
stead of procuring the restoration for which it was designed, was
on the point of occasioning an open rupture between him and
Great Britain, when the supervention of a quarrel with France
diverted the storm, by rendering him necessary as an ally.

Perhaps it may be imagined, that the practice of confiscation
or sequestration would be more efficacious to wound and disable
Great Britain, in case of a war, than to prevent it. But this also
is a vain chimera ! A nation, that can, at pleasure, raise by
loan twenty millions sterling, would be in little danger of being
disconcerted or enfeebled in her military enterprises, by the tak-
ing away or arresting of three or four millions due to her mer-
chants. Did it produce distress and disorder among those whom
it affected and their connections? If that disorder was suf-
ficient to threaten a general derangement of mercantile credit,
and, with it, of the public finances, the pending war affords an
example, that the public purse or credit could be brought suc-
cessfully into action fir the support of the sufferers. Three or
four millions of exchequer bills applied in loans, would be likely
to suffice, to prevent the partial evil from growing into a nation-
al calamity.

But we forget, that as far as the interruption of the pay-

358 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

ment of the debts due to her merchants could be supposed to
operate upon Great Britain, war itself would essentially answer
the purposes of confiscation or sequestration — by interrupting
trade and intercourse, it is in fact, in a great degree, a virtual
sequestration. Eemittances to any extent become impractica-
ble. There are few ways, in which, on account of the state
of war, it is lawful to make thern; and debtors are, for the
most part, enough disposed to embrace pretexts of procrastination.

The inconvenience of deferred payment would, therefore,
be felt by Great Britain, with little mitigation, from the
bare existence of war, without the necessity of our govern-
ment incurring the discredit and responsibility of a special
interference.

Indeed, as far as the dread of eventual loss can operate, it
ought, in a great measure to have its effect exclusive of the
idea of confiscation. Great Britain must want reflection, not to
be sensible, that in making war upon us, she makes war upon
her own merchants ; by the depredations upon our trade destroy-
ing those resources from which they are to be paid. If she be
indifferent to this consideration, it will be because she is govern-
ed by some motive or passion powerful enough to dispose her to
run the risk of the entire loss— in the reliance of obtaining
indemnification by the acquisitions of war, or in the terms of
peace.

Will it be said that the seizure of the debts would put in the
hands of our government a valuable resource for carrying on the
war? This, upon trial, would prove as fallacious as all the rest.
Various inducements would prevent debtors from paying into
the treasury. Some would decline it from conscientious scruples,
from a doubt of the rectitude of the thing— others, with intent to
make a merit with their creditors of the concealment, and to
favor their own future credit and advantage— others, from
a desire to retain the money in their own employment, and a great
number, from the apprehension that the treaty of peace might revive
their responsibility to the creditors, with the embarrassment to
themselves of getting back, as well as they could, the moneys
which they had paid into the treasury. Of this, our last

jEt. 38.] CAM1LLUS. 359

treaty of peace, in the opinion of able judges, gave an example-
— These causes and others, which do not as readily occur, would
oppose great obstacles to the execution of the measure.

But severe laws, inflicting heavy penalties, might compel it.
— Experience does not warrant a sanguine reliance upon this
expedient, in a case in which great opportunity of concealment
is united with strong motives of inclination or interest. — It would
require an inquisition, justly intolerable to a free people— penal-
ties, which would confound the due proportion between crime
and punishment, to detect or to deter from concealment and
evasion, and to execute the law. — Probably no means less effica-
cious than a revolutionary tribunal and a guillotine would go near to
answer the end. — There are but few, I trust, to whom these
would be welcome means.

"We may conclude, therefore, that the law would be evaded
to an extent, which would disappoint the expectations from it,
as a resource. Some moneys, no doubt, would be collected ; but
the probability is, that the amount would be insignificant, even
in the scale of a single campaign. — But, should the collection
prove as complete as it ordinarily is between debtor and
creditor, it would little, if at all, exceed the expense of one cam-
paign.

Hence we preceive, that, regarding the measure, either as a
mean of disabling our enemies, or as a resource to ourselves, its
consequence dwindles, upon a close survey; it cannot pretend
to a magnitude, which would apologize, either for a sacrifice of
national honor or candor, or for a deviation from the true prin-
ciples of commerce and credit.

But let us take a further view of its disadvantages.

A nation, in case of war, is under no responsibility for the
delinquencies or frauds of its citizens, who are debtors to those
of its enemy, if it does not specially interfere with the payment
of the debts which they owe. But, if it interposes its authority
to prevent the payment, it gives a claim of indemnification to
its adversary, for the intervening losses which those delinquen-
cies or frauds may occasion. — Whether, on the making of peace,
this would be insisted upon or waved, might depend much on

360 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

the good or ill success of the war; but every thing which adds
to the catalogue of our enemy's just pretensions, especially when
the fortune of war has been pretty equal, is an evil, either as an
additional obstacle to speedy peace, or as an ingredient to render
the terms of it less advantageous to ourselves. And it is, there-
fore, unwise in a government to increase the list of such pre-
tensions, by a measure, which, without utility to itself, adminis-
ters to the indolence of negligent, and to the avidity of fraudu-
lent, individuals.

Further — Every species of reprisal or annoyance, which a
power at war employs, contrary to liberality or justice, of doubtful
propriety, in the estimation of the law of nations, departing from
that moderation, which, in latter times, serves to mitigate the
severities of war, by furnishing a pretext or provocation to the
other side to resort to extremities, serves to embitter the spirit of
hostilities, and to extend its ravages. War is then apt to become
more sanguinary, more wasting, and every way more destructive.
This is a ground of serious reflection to every nation, both as it
regards humanity and policy; to this country it presents itself,
accompanied with considerations of peculiar force. A vastly-
extended sea-coast, overspread with defenceless towns, would offer
an abundant prey to an incensed and malignant enemy, having
the power to command the sea. The usages of modern war forbid
hostilities of this kind; and though they are not always respect-
ed, yet, as they are never violated, unless by way of retaliation
for a violation of them on the other side, without exciting the
reprobation of the impartial part of mankind, sullying the glory,
and blasting the reputation of the party which disregards them,
this consideration has, in general, force sufficient to induce an
observance of them. But the confiscation or sequestration of
private debts, or private property in public funds, now generally
regarded as an odious and unwarrantable measure, would, as be-
tween us and Great Britain, contain a poignant sting. Its effect
to exasperate, in an extreme degree, both the nation and govern-
ment of that country, cannot be doubted. A disposition to
retaliate, is a natural consequence ; and it would not be difficult
for us to be made to suffer beyond any possible degree of advan-

JEt. 38.1 CAMILLUS. 361

tage to be derived from the occasion of the retaliation. It were
much wiser to leave the property of British subjects, an untouched
pledge for the moderation of its government, in the mode of pro-
secuting the war.

Besides (as, if requisite, might be proved from the records of
history), in national controversies, it is of real importance to con-
ciliate the good opinion of mankind ; and it is even useful to pre-
serve or gain that of ourenemy. The latter facilitates accommo-
dation and peace; the former attracts good offices, friendly
interventions, sometimes direct support, from others. — The ex-
emplary conduct, in general, of our country, in our contest for
independence, was probably not a little serviceable to us in this
way; it secured, to the intrinsic goodness of our cause, every
collateral advantage, and gave it a popularity among nations,
unalloyed and unimpaired, which even stole into the cabinets of
princes. A contrary policy tends to contrary consequences.
Though nations, in the main, are governed by what they suppose
their interest, he must be imperfectly versed in human nature,
who thinks it indifferent, whether the maxims of a state tend to
excite kind or unkind dispositions in others, or who docs not
know, that these dispositions may insensibly mould or bias the
views of self-interest. — This were to suppose that rulers only rea-
son— do not feel ; in other words, are not men.

Moreover, the measures of war ought ever to look forward to
peace. The confiscation or sequestration of the private property
of an enemy must always be a point of serious discussion, when
interest or necessity leads to negotiations for peace. Unless when
absolutely prostrate by the war, restitution is likely to constitute
an ultimatum of the suffering party. It must be agreed to, or the
war protracted, and at last, it is probable, it must still be agreed
to. Should a refusal of restitution prolong the war for only one
year, the chance is, that more will be lost than was gained by the
confiscation. Should it be necessary finally to make it, alter
prolonging the war, the disadvantage will preponderate in a ratio
to the prolongation. Should it be, in the first instance, assented
to, what will have been gained? The temporary use of a fund
of inconsiderable moment, in the general issue of the war, at the

362 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

expense of justice, character, credit, and, perhaps, of having
sharpened the evils of war. How infinitely preferable to have
drawn an equal fund from our own resources, which, with good
management, is always practicable ! — If the restitution includes
damages, on account of the interference, for the failures of indi-
viduals, the loan will have been the most costly that could have
been made. It has been elsewhere observed, that our treaty of
peace with Great Britain gives an example of restitution. The
late one between France and Prussia gives another. This must
become every day more and more a matter of course, because the
immunity of mercantile debts becomes every day more and more
important to trade, better understood to be so. and more clearly
considered as enjoined by the principles of the law of nations.

Thus we see, that in reference to the simple question of war
and peace, the measure of confiscation or sequestration is marked
with every feature of impolicy.

"We have before seen, that the pretensions of a right to do
the one or the other, has a most inimical aspect towards com-
merce and credit.

Let us resume this view of the subject. The credit, which
our merchants have been able to obtain abroad, essentially in
Great Britain, has, from the first settlement of our country to
this day, been the animating principle of our foreign commerce.
This every merchant knows and feels ; — and every intelligent
merchant is sensible, that, for many years to come, the case must
continue the same. This, in our situation, is a peculiar reason,
of the utmost force, for renouncing the pretension in question.

The exercise of it, or the serious apprehension of its exercise,
would necessarily have one of two effects. It would deprive our
merchants of the credit, so important to them, or it would oblige
them to pa}' a premium for it, proportioned to the opinion of the
risk. Or, to speak more truly, it would combine the two effects ;
it would cramp credit, and subject what was given to a high pre-
mium. The most obvious and familiar principles of human
action establish, that the consideration for money or property,
lent or credited, is moderate or otherwise, according to the
opinion of security or hazard, and that the quantity of either to

jEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 3ti3

be obtained, on loan or credit, is in a great degree contracted or
enlarged by the same rule.

Thus should we, in the operations of our trade, pay exorbi-
tantly for a pretension, which is of little value, or rather, which
is pernicious, even in the relations to which its utility is referred.
What folly to cherish it ! How much greater the folly ever to
think of exercising it! It never can be exercised hereafter, in
our country, without great and lasting mischief.

Instead of cherishing so odious a pretension, as " our best,
our only weapon of defence," — wisdom admonishes us to be
eager to cast it from us, as a weapon most dangerous to the
wearer, proscribed by the laws of nations, by the laws of honor,
and by every principle of sound policy.

Every merchant ought to desire that the most perfect tran-
quillity on this point, in foreign countries, should facilitate to
him, on the best and cheapest terms, the credit for which he has
occasion. And every other citizen ought to desire, that he may
be thus freed from a continual contribution, in the enhanced
price of every imported commodity he consumes, towards defray-
ing the premium which the want of that tranquillity is calcu-
lated to generate.

Camillus.

no. XXII.

1795.

The analogy of the stipulation in the 10th article, with stipu-
lations in our other treaties, and in the treaties between other
nations, is the remaining topic of discussion. After this, atten-
tion will be paid to such observations, by way of objection to the
article, as may not have been before expressly or virtually an-
swered.

The 20th article of our treaty of amity and commerce with
France, is in these words:

" For the better promoting of commerce, on both sides, it is

364 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

agreed, that if a war shall break out between the said two na-
tions, six months, after the proclamation of war, shall be allowed
to the merchants in the cities and towns where they live, for
selling and transporting their goods and merchandises; and if
any thing be taken from them, or any injury be done them
within that term by either party, or the people or subjects of
either, full satisfaction shall be made for the same."

The 18th article of our treaty of amity and commerce with
the United Netherlands, is in these words :

" For the better promoting of commerce, on both sides, it is
agreed, that if a war should break out between their high mighti-
nesses, the States General of the United Netherlands, and the
United States of America, there shall always be granted to the
subjects on each side, the term of nine months, after the date of
the rupture or the proclamation of war, to the end that thej^ may
retire with their effects and transport them where they please,
which it shall be lawful for them to do, as well as to sell and
transport their effects and goods, with all freedom and without
any hindrance, and without being able to proceed, during the
said term of nine months, to any arrest of their effects, much less
of their persons ; on the contrary, there shall be given them, for
their vessels and effects which they would carry away, passports
and safe conducts for the nearest ports of their respective coun-
tries, and for the time necessary for the voyage."

The 22d article of our treaty of amity and commerce with
Sweden, is in these words :

" In order to favor commerce on both sides, as much as pos-
sible, it is agreed, that in case war should break out between the
two nations, the term of nine months after the declaration of
war shall be allowed to the merchants and subjects respectively,
on one side and on the other, in order that they may withdraw
with their effects and movables, which they shall be at liberty to
carry off or to sell where they please, without the least obstacle
— nor shall any seize their effects, and much less their persons,
during the said nine months; but on the contrary, passports,
which shall be valid for a time necessary for their return, shall
be given them for their vessels and the effects which they shall

Mt. 38.] CAM ILL US. 365

be willing to carry with them — and, if any thing is taken from
them, or any injury is done to them by one of the parties, their
people and subjects, during the term above prescribed, full ami
entire satisfaction shall be made to them on that account. ,:

The 23d article of our treaty of amity and commerce with
Prussia, contains this provision :

" If war should arise between the two contracting parties, the
merchants of either country, then residing in the other, shall be
allowed to remain nine months, to collect their debts and settle
their affairs, and may depart freely, carrying off all their eil'ects
without molestation or hindrance."

These articles of four, and the only commercial treaties we
had with foreign powers, prior to the pending treaty with Great
Britain, though differing in terms, agree in substance ; except as
to time, which varies from six to nine months. And they clearly
amount to this, that upon the breaking out of a war between the
contracting parties in each case, there shall be, for a term of six
or nine months, full protection and security to the persons and
property of the subjects of one, which are then in the territories
of the other, with liberty to collect their debts,* to sell their
goods and merchandises, and to remove, with their effects, where-
soever they please. For this term of six or nine months, there
is a complete suspension of the pretended right to confiscate or
sequester, giving, or being designed to give, an opportunity to
withdraw the whole property which the subjects or citizens of
one party have in the country of the other.

The differences between these stipulations and that in the
article under examination are chiefly these: the latter is confined
to debts, property in the public funds and in public and private
banks, without any limitation of the duration of the protection.
The former comprehends, in addition, goods and merchandises,
with a limitation of the protection to a term of six or nine
months; but with the intent and supposition that the term al-
lowed may and will be adequate to entire security. The princi-

* The term "debts," is only expressed in the Prussian treaty, bul there are in
the other treaties, terms which include debts, and this is the manifest spirit and
intent of all.

366 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 38.

pie, therefore, of all the stipulations is the same ; each aims at
putting the persons and property of the subjects of one enemy,
especially merchants, being within the country of the other
enemy at the commencement of a war, out of the reach of confis-
cation or sequestration.

The persons whose names are to our other treaties, on the
part of the United States, are Benjamin Franklin, Silas Deane,
Arthur Lee, John Adams, and Thomas Jefferson. The three first
are to the treaty with France — Mr. Adams is singly to that with
the United Netherlands — Dr. Franklin singly to that with Swe-
den, and these two, with Mr. Jefferson, are jointly to that with
Prussia. The treaty with Sweden was concluded in April, 1783 ;
that with Prussia, in August, 1785. These dates repel the idea,
that considerations of policy, relative to the war, might have
operated in the case.

We have, consequently, the sanction of all these characters
to the principle, which governed the stipulation ei.tered into by
Mr. Jay ; and not only from the ratification of the former treaties
at different periods, distant from each other, by different descrip-
tions of men in our public councils, but also from there never
having been heard, in the community, a lisp of murmur against
the stipulation, through a period of seventeen years, counting
from the date of the treaty with France, there is just ground to
infer a coincidence of the public opinion of the country.

I verily believe, that if, in the year 1783, a treaty had been
made with England, containing an article similar to the 10th in
the present treaty, it would have met with general acquies-
cence. The spirit of party had not then predisposed men's
minds to estimate the propriety of a measure according to the
agent, rather than according to its real fitness and quality.
What would then have been applauded as wise, liberal, equita-
ble, and expedient, is now, in more instances than one, under the
pestilential influence of that baneful spirit, condemned as impro-
vident, impolitic, and dangerous.

Our treaty with Prussia, the 23d article of which has been
cited, is indeed a model of liberality, which, for the principles
it contains, does honor to the parties, and has been in this

JEt. 38.] CAM I LI, US. 367

country a subject of deserved and unqualified admiration. It
contradicts, as if studiously, those principles of restriction and
exclusion, which are the foundations of the mercantile and navi-
gating system of Europe. It grants perfect freedom of conscience
and worship to the respective subjects and citizens, with no other
restraint than that they shall not insult the religion of others.
Adopting the rule, that free ships shall make free goods, it ex-
tends the protection to the persons as well as to the goods of
enemies. Enumerating, as contraband, only "arms, ammunition,
and military stores," it even provides that contraband articles
shall not be confiscated, but may be taken on the condition of
paying for them. It provides against embargoes of vessels and
effects. It expressly exempts women, children, scholars of every
faculty, cultivators of the earth, artisans, manufacturers, and fish-
ermen, unarmed and inhabitating unfortified towns, villages, and
places, and in general, all others whose occupations are for the
common subsistence and benefit of mankind, their houses, fields,
and goods, from molestation in their persons and employments,
and from burning, wasting, and destruction, in time of war ; and
stipulates payment at a reasonable price for what may be neces-
sarily taken from them for military use. It likewise protects
from seizure and confiscation, in time of war, vessels employed
in trade, and inhibits the granting commissions to private armed
vessels, empowering them to take or destroy such trading vessels,
or to interrupt their commerce ; and it makes a variety of ex-
cellent provisions to secure to prisoners of war, a humane treat-
ment.

These particulars are stated as evidence of the temper of the
day, and of a policy, which then prevailed, to bottom our system
with regard to foreign nations upon those grounds of moderation
and equity, by which reason, religion and philosophy had tem-
pered the harsh maxims of more early times. It is painful to
observe an effort to make the public opinion, in this respect,
retrograde, and to infect our councils with a spirit contrary to
these salutary advances towards improvement in true civilization
and humanity.

If we pass from our own treaties, to those between other

368 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 38.

nations, we find that the provisions, which have been extracted
from ours, have very nearly become formulas in the conventions
of Europe. As examples of this may be consulted the following
articles of treaties between Great Britain and other powers (to
wit), the XVIIIth article of a treaty of peace and commerce with
Portugal, in 1642 — the XXXVIth article of a treaty of peace,
commerce, and alliance with Spain, in 1667 — the XlXth article
of a treaty of peace, and the lid of a treaty of commerce with
France, both in 1713, and the Xllth article of a treaty of com-
merce and navigation with Russia, in 1766.

The article with Portugal provides, that if difficulties and
doubts shall arise between the two nations, which give reason to
apprehend the interruption of commerce, public notice of it shall
be given to the subjects on both sides, and after that notice, two
years shall be allowed to carry away the merchandises and goods,
and in the mean time, there shall be no injury or prejudice done
to any person or goods on either side.

The articles with France, in addition to the provisions com-
mon in other cases, particularly stipulate, that during the term of
the protection (six months) " the subjects on each side shall
enjoy good and speedy justice, so that during the said space of
six months, they may be able to recover their goods and effects,
intrusted as well to the public, as to private persons."

The article with Russia besides stipulating an exemption from
confiscation for one year, with the privilege to remove and carry
away in safety, provides additionally, that the subjects of each
party " shall be further permitted, either at or before their de-
parture, to consign the effects which they shall not as yet have
disposed of, as well as the debts that shall be due to them, to
such persons as they shall think proper, in order to dispose of
them according to their desire and for their benefit ; which debts,
the debtors shall be obliged to pay in the same manner as if no
such rupture had happened."

All these articles are, with those of our treaties, analogous in
principle, as heretofore particularly explained, to the 10th article
of the treaty under discussion. That of the British treaty with
France designates expressly debts due from the public as well as

JEt. 38.] CAMILLUS.

those duo from private persons. That with Russia goes the full
length of our tenth article ; empowering the creditors on i
side to assign the debts, which they are not able to collect within
the term of their residence, to whomsoever they think fit, for
their own benefit, and declaring that these debts shall be paid to
the assigns in the same manner as if no rupture had happem 1.

There is a document extant, which may fairly be supposed to
express the sense of the government of France, at the period
to which it relates, of the foundation ofthese stipulations. It is a
memorial of Mr. Bussy, minister from the court of France to that
of London, for negotiating- peace, dated in the year 1761, and
contains these passages : " As it is impracticable for two pri]
who make war with each other to agree between them which is the
aggressor ivith regard to the other* equity and humanity have
dictated these precautions, that where an unforeseen rupture
happens suddenly and without any previous declaration, foreign
vessels, which, navigating under the security of peace and of
treaties, happen, at the time of rupture, to be in either of the
respective ports, shall have time and full liberty to withdraw
themselves.

" This wise provision, so agreeable to the rules of good faith,
constitutes a part of the law of nations, and the article of the treaty
which sanctifies these precautions ought to be faithfully executed,
notwithstanding the breach of the other articles of the treaty
which is the natural consequence of the war.

" The courts of France and Great Britain used this salutary
precaution in the treaties of Utrecht and Aix-la*< Ihapelle."

These passages place the security stipulated in the treaties for
the persons and property of the subjects of one party found in
the country of another, at the beginning of a war, upon the
footing of its constituting a part of the law of nations, which may
be considered as a formal diplomatic recognition of the principle

* Thus we find it the sentiment of this minister, that it is impossible for two
princes who make war with each other, to agree which is tht aggrei ard I"

the other. And yet Mr. Jay was to extort from Great Britain an acknow ledgment,
that she was the aggressor with regard to lis, and was guilty of pusillanimity in w
the question.

g 24

370 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

for which we contend. As this position was not itself in dispute
between the two governments, but merely a collateral inference
from it, applicable to vessels taken at sea, prior to a declaration
of war, it may be regarded as a respectable testimony of the law
of nations on the principal point.

If the law of nations confers this exemption from seizure
upon vessels, which, at the time of the rupture, happen to be in
the respective ports of the belligerent parties, it is evident that it
must equally extend its protection to debts contracted in a course
of lawful trade. Vessels are particularly mentioned, because the
discussion turned ' upon vessels seized at sea. But the reference
to the treaties of Utrecht and Aix-la-Chapelle shows, that the
minister, in his observation, had in view the whole subject matter
of the articles of those treaties, which provide for the security of
merchants and their effects in the event of war.

This conformity in principle, of the article under examination,
with the provisions in so many treaties of our own and of other
nations, taken in connection with the comment of Mr. Bussy,
brings a very powerful support to the article. It is additional
and full evidence that our envoy, in agreeing to it, did not go
upon new and untrodden ground ; that, on the contrary, he was
in a beaten track ; that, in pursuing the dictates of reason, and
the better opinion of writers, as to the rule of the law of nations
respecting the point, he was, at the same time, pursuing the ex-
amples of all the other treaties which we had ourselves made, and
of many of those of other countries.

It is now incumbent upon me to perform my promise of
replying to such objections to the article as may remain unan-
swered by the preceding remarks. It is with pleasure I note
that the field is very narrow— that, indeed, there scarcely remains
any thing which is not so frivolous and impotent as almost to
forbid a serious replication. It will therefore be my aim to be
brief.

It is said, there is only an apparent reciprocity in the article,
millions being due on our side, and little or nothing on the
other.

The answer to this is, that no right being relinquished on

JEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 371

either side, no privilege granted, the stipulation amounting only
to a recognition of a rule of the law of nations, to a promise to
abstain from injustice and a breach of faith, there is no room for
an argument about reciprocity farther than to require that tin-
promise should be mutual, as is the case. This is the only equi-
valent which the nature of the subject demands or permits. It
would be dishonorable to accept a boon merely for an engage-
ment to fulfil a moral obligation. Indeed, as heretofore intimated,
the true rule of reciprocity in stipulations of treaties, is equal
right, not equal advantage from each several stipulation.

But it has been shown, that the stipulation will be beneficial
to us, by the confidence which it will give on the other side ,
obviating and avoiding the obstructions to trade, the injuries to,
and incumbrances upon, credit, naturally incident to the distrust
and apprehension, which, after the question had been once moved,
were to be expected. Here, if a compensation were required,
there is one. Let me add as a truth, which, perhaps, has no
exception, however uncongenial with the fashionable patriotic
creed — that, in the wise order of Providence, nations, in a tem-
poral sense, may safely trust the maxim, that the observance of
justice carries with it its own and a full reward.

It is also said, that having bound ourselves by treaty, we shall
hereafter lose the credit of moderation, which would attend a
forbearance to exercise the right. But it having been demon-
strated that no such right exists, we only renounce a claim to.
the negative merit of not committing injustice, and we acquire
the positive praise of exhibiting a willingness to renounce expli-
citly a pretension, which might be the instrument of oppression
and fraud. — It is always honorable to give proof of upright
intention.

It is further said, that under the protection of this stipulation
the king of Great Britain, who has already sjxcuhtcd in our f ami-
(the assertors would be puzzled to bring proof of the fact), may
engross the whole capital of the bank of the United States, and
thereby secure the uncontrolled direction of it — that he may hold
the stock in the name of his ambassador, or of some citizen of the

372 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

United States, perhaps a senator, who, if of the virtuous twenty,*
might be proud of the honor — that thus our citizens, in time of
peace, might experience the mortification of being beholden to
British directors for the accommodations they might want — that,
in time of war, our operations might be cramped at the pleasure
of his majesty, and according as he should see fit or not to ac-
commodate our government with loans — and that both in peace
and war we may be reduced to the abject condition of having the
whole capital of our national bank administered by his Britannic
majesty.

Shall I treat this rhapsody with seriousness or ridicule ?

The capital of the bank of the United States is ten millions
of dollars, little short, at the present market price, of three mil-
lions of pounds sterling; but, from the natural operation of such
a demand, in raising the price, it is not probable that much less
than four millions sterling would suffice to complete the monopoly.
I have never understood, that the private purse of his Britannic
majesty, if it be true, as asserted, that he has already witnessed a
relish for speculation in our funds (a fact, however, from which it
was natural to infer a more pacific disposition towards us), was so
very ample as conveniently to spare an item of such size for a
speculation across the Atlantic. But, perhaps, the national purse
will be brought to his aid. As this supposes a parliamentary
grant, new taxes and new loans, it does not seem to be a very
manageable thing, without disclosure of the object ; and, if dis-
closed, so very unexampled an attempt of a foreign government
would present a case completely out of the reach of all ordinary
rules, justifying, by the manifest danger to us, even war and the
confiscation of all that had been purchased. For let it be re-
membered, that the article does not protect the public property
of a foreign government, prince, or state, independent of the ob-
servation just made, that such a case would be without the reach
of ordinary rules. It may be added, that an attempt of this kind,
from the force of the pecuniary capital of Great Britain, would,
as a precedent, threaten and alarm all nations. Would conse-
quences like these be incurred?

* Those who advised to a ratification of the treaty.

jEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 373

But let it be supposed, that the inclination shall exist, and
that all difficulties about funds have been surmounted — still, to
effect the plan, there must be, in all the stockholders, a willing-
ness to sell to the British king or his agents, as well as the will
and means, on his part, to purchase. Here, too, some impedi-
ments might be experienced : there are persons who might choose
to keep their property in the shape of bank stock, and live upon
the income of it, whom price would not readily tempt to part
with it. Besides, there is an additional obstacle to complete suc-
cess : — The United States are themselves the proprietors of two
millions of the bank stock.

Of two things, one, either the monopoly of his Britannic
majesty would be known (and it would be a pretty arduous task
to keep it a secret, especially if the stock was to stand, as suggest-
ed, in the name of his ambassador), or it would be unknown and
concealed under unsuspected names : In the former supposition,
the observations already made recur. There would be no pro-
tection to it from the article; and the extraordinary nature
of the case would warrant any thing. Would his majesty or the
parliament choose to trust so large a property in so perilous a
situation ?

If, to avoid this, the plan should be to keep the operation
unknown, the most effectual method would be to place the stock
in the names of our own citizens. This, it seems, would be
attended with no difficulty, since even our senators would be
ambitious of the honor: and if they should have qualms and
fears, others more compliant could, no doubt, be found amo
the numerous sectaries or adherents of Great Britain in our
country : probably some of the patriots would not be inexorable,
if properly solicited. Or, in the last resort, persons might be
sent from Great Britain to acquire naturalization for the express
purpose.

In this supposition, too, the article would be at the least inno-
cent. For its provisions are entirely foreign to the case of
standing in the names of our own citizens. It neither enla
nor abridges the power of the government in this respect.

Further, how will the article work the miracle of placing the

374 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

bank under the management of British directors ? It gives no
new rights, no new qualifications.

The constitution of the bank (section the 5th, 7th of the act
of incorporation) has provided, with solicitude, these important
guards against foreign or other sinister influence. 1. That
none but a citizen of the United States shall be eligible as a di-
rector. 2. That none but a stockholder, actually resident within
the United States, shall vote in the elections by proxy. 3. That
one fourth of the directors, who are to be elected annually, must
every year go out of the direction. 4. That a director may, at
any time, be removed and replaced by the stockholders at a
general meeting. 5. That a single share shall give one vote for
directors, while any number of shares, in the same person, co-
partnership or body politic, will not give more than thirty
votes.

Hence it is impossible, that the bank can be in the manage-
ment of British directors — a British subject being incapable of
being a director. It is also next to impossible, that an undue
British influence could operate in the choice of directors, out of
the number of our own citizens. The British king, or British
subjects out of the United Sates, could not even have a vote by
attorney, in the choice. Schemes of secret monopoly could not
be executed, because they would be betrayed, unless the secret
was confined to a small number. A small number, no one of
whom could have more than thirty votes, would be easily over-
ruled by the more numerous proprietors of single or a small
number of shares, with the addition of the votes of the United
States.

But here again it is to be remembered, that as to combina-
tion with our own citizens, in which they were to be ostensible
for any pernicious foreign project, the article under considera-
tion is perfectly nugatory. It can do neither good nor harm,
since it merely relates, as to the exemption from confiscation
and seizure on our part, to the known property of British sub-
jects.

It follows, therefore, that the dangers portrayed to us from
the speculating enterprises of his Britannic majesty, are the

JEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 375

vagaries of an over-heated imagination, or the contrivances of a
spirit of deception; and that so far as they could be supposed to
have the least color, it turns upon circumstances upon which
the treaty can have no influence whatever. In taking pains to
expose their futility, I have been principally led by the desire
of making my fellow-citizens sensible, in this instance, as in
others, of the extravagancies of the opposers of the treaty.

One artifice to render the article unacceptable has been to
put cases of extreme misconduct, on the other side, of flagrant
violations of the law of nations, of war, of justice, and of huma-
nity ; and to ask, whether, under such circumstances, the confis-
cation or sequestration of debts would not be justifiable? To
this the answer is, that if circumstances so extraordinary should
arise, as, without the treaty, would warrant so extraordinary an
act, they will equally warrant it under the treaty. For cases of
this kind are exceptions to all general rules. They would ex-
cuse the violation of an express or positive, as well as of a tacit
or virtual, pledge of the public faith : which describes the whole
difference between the existence and non-existence of the article
in question. They resemble those cases of extreme necessity
(through excessive hunger, for instance) which, in the eye of
the law of nature, will excuse the taking of the property of
another, or those cases of extreme abuse of authority of rulers,
which, amounting unequivocally to tyranny, are admitted to
justify forcible resistance to the established authorities. Consti-
tutions of government, laws, treaties, all give way to extremi-
ties of such a description : the point of obligation is, to distin-
guish them with sincerity, and not to indulge our passions and
interests, in substituting pretended for real cases.

A writer, who disgraces by adopting the name of Cicero,
makes a curious remark by way of objection. lie affirms that
the article is nugatory, because a treaty is dissolved by a state of
war, in which state the provision is designed to operate. If this
be true, the article is at least harmless, and the trouble of paint-
ing it in such terrific colors might have been spared. But it is
not true. Reason, writers, the practice of all nations, accord in
this position, that those stipulations which contemplate the state

376 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

of war, in other words, which are designed to operate in case of
war, preserve their force and obligation when war takes place.*
To what end else all the stipulations which have been cited from
so many treaties ?f

Previous to a conclusion I shall observe, barely with a view
to accuracy, that the article leaves unprotected all vessels, goods,
and merchandises — every species of property, indeed, except
debts between individuals and the property of individuals in the
public funds and in public and private banks. With this excep-
tion, whatever before may have been liable to confiscation or
sequestration, still remains so, notwithstanding any thing con-
tained in this article.

To overrate the value and force of our own arguments is a
natural foible of self-love — to be convinced without convincing-
others, is no uncommon fate of a writer or speaker ; but I am
more than ordinarily mistaken if every mind open to conviction,
will not have been satisfied by what has been offered — that the
tenth article of the treaty lately negotiated with Great Britain,
does nothing but confirm, by a positive agreement, a rule of the
law of nations — indicated by reason, supported by the better
opinion of writers, ratified by modern usage, dictated by justice
and good faith, recognized by formal acts and declarations of
different nations, witnessed by diplomatic testimony, sanctioned
by our treaties with other countries, and by treaties between
other countries, and conformable with sound policy and the true
interests of the United States.

The discussion has been drawn out to so great a length, be-
cause the objections to this article are amongst those which have
been urged with the greatest warmth and emphasis against the

* Vattel, B. iii., ch. x.

t This writer is as profligate as he is absurd. Besides imputing to Camillas,
in general terms, a number of things of which he never dreamt, he has the ef-
frontery to forge, as a literal quotation from him (calling it his own language and
designating it by inverted commas), a passage respecting the impressing of seamen.
which certainly not in terms, nor even in substance, upon fair construction, is to be
found in any thing he has written. Not having all the numbers of Cicero at hand-
I may mistake, in attributing to him the principal sentiment, which is from me-
mory, but I have under my eye the number which witnesses his forgery.

JEt. 38.] C A MILL US. 377

treaty, and its vindication from them, if satisfactory, must go far
towards securing to it the public suffrage. Citizens of Ainer ca
it is for you to perform your part of the task, it is for you to
weigh with candor the arguments which have been submitted to
your judgments; to consult, without bias, the integrity of your
hearts ; to exile prejudice, and to immolate on the altar of truth
the artifices of cabal and falsehood ! There can then be no dan-
ger that patriotism will have to lament, or national honor to
blush at the sentence which you shall pronounce.

The articles which adjust the matters of controversy between
the two countries, all those which are permanent, have now been
reviewed. Let me appeal to the consciences of those who have
accompanied me in the review ; if these articles were all that
composed the treaty, would it be the better that they should
exist — or that all the sources of rupture and war with Great Bri-
tain should have survived the negociation to extinguish them,
and should still actually subsist in full vigor ? If every enlight-
ened and honest man must prefer the former — then let me make
another observation, and put another question. The remaining
articles of the treaty, which constitute its commercial part, ex-
pire by their own limitation at the end of twelve years. It is in
the power of either party, consistently with the instrument, to
terminate them at the end of the expiration of two years after
the present war between France and Great Britain.

Is it at all probable that they can contain any thing so inju-
rious, considering the short duration which may be given to
them, as to counterbalance the important consideration of pre-
serving peace to this }roung country ; as to warrant the excessive
clamors which have been raised ; as to authorize the horrid ca-
lumnies which are vented; and to justify the systematic efforts
which are in operation to convulse our country and to hazard
even civil war ?*

Camillus.

* In applying the character of dishonesty and turpitude to the principle >>f con-
fiscation or sequestration, I am far from intending to brand as dishonest menal]

those whoso opinions favor it. I know there are some ardent spirits chargeable
with the error, of whose integrity I think well.

378 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Ms. 38.

NO. XXIII *

1795.
The preceding articles having adjusted those controversies
which threatened an open rupture between the two countries, it
remained to form such dispositions relative to the intercourse,
commerce, and navigation, of the parties, as should appear most
likely to preserve peace, and promote their mutual advantage.

Those who have considered with attention the interests of
commerce, will agree in the opinion, that its utility, as well as
general prosperity, would be most effectually advanced by a total
abolition of the restraints and regulations with which the jea-
lousies and rival policy of nations have embarrassed it. But
though we are not chargeable with having contributed to the es-
tablishment of these errors, so discouraging to the industry and
perplexing in the intercourse of nations, we found them so deeply
rooted and so extensively prevalent, that our voice and opinions
would have been little regarded, had we expressed a desire of a
system more liberal and advantageous to all.

The rights of commerce among nations between whom exist
no treaties, are imperfect.

" The law of nature," says Vattel, (b. i. s. 89) " gives to no
person whatever the least kind of right to sell what belongs to
him to another who does not want to buy it ; nor has any na-
tion that of selling its commodities or merchandise to a people
who are unwilling to have them. Every man and every nation
being perfectly at liberty to buy a thing that is to be sold, or
not to buy it, and to buy it of one rather than of another." —
" Every state has constantly," continues the same author, " a right
to prohibit the entrance of foreign merchandise, and the people
who are interested in this prohibition have no right to complain

of it." States by convention may turn these imperfect into

perfect rights, and thus a nation, not having naturally a perfect
ri^ht to carry on commerce with another, may acquire it by

* This and the seven succeeding numbers are from the pen of Rufus King, ex-
cepting the parts within brackets, which are in Hamilton's hand.— Ed.

JEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 3*79

treaty. A simple permission to trade with a nation, gives no per-
fect right to that trade ; it may be carried on so long as permit-
ted ; but the nation granting such permission is under no obli-
gation to continue it. A perfect right in one nation to carry on
commerce and trade with another nation can alone be procured
by treaty.

From the precarious nature of trade between nations, as well
as from the desire of obtaining special advantages and prefer-
ences in carrying it on, originated the earliest conventions on
the subject of commerce. The first commercial treaty that
placed the parties on a more secure and better footing in their
dealings with each other than existed in their respective inter-
course with other nations, inspired others with a desire to estab-
lish, by similar treaties, an equally advantageous arrangement.
Thus one treaty was followed by another, until, as was the case
when the United States became an independent power, all na-
tions had entered into extensive and complicated stipulations,
concerning their navigation, manufactures and commerce.

This being the actual condition of the commercial world,
when we arrived at our station in it, the like inducements to ren-
der certain that, which by the law of nations, was precarious,
and to participate in the advantages secured by national agree-
ments, prompted our government to propose to all, and to con-
clude with several, of the European nations, treaties of com-
merce.

Immediately after the conclusion of the war, Congress ap-
pointed Mr. Adams, Doctor Franklin, and Mr. Jefferson, joint
commissioners, to propose and conclude commercial treaties with
the different nations of Europe. This commission was opened
at Paris, and overtures were made to the different powers (in-
cluding Great Britain) through their ministers residing at J'
The basis of these numerous treaties, which Congress were de-
sirous to form, was, that the parties should respectively enjoy
the rights of the most favored nations. Various answers were
given by the foreign ministers, in behalf of their several nations-
But the treaty with Prussia was the only one concluded, of the
very great number proposed by the American commissioners.

380 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [>Et. 38.

Mr. Adams, in 1785, was removed to London, Dr. Franklin soon
after returned to America, and Mr. Jefferson succeeded him as
minister at Paris. Thus failed the project of forming commer-
cial treaties with almost every power in Europe. Treaties with
Russia, Denmark, Great Britain, Spain and Portugal, would have
been of importance ; but the scheme of extending treaties of
commerce to all the minor powers of Europe, not omitting his
holiness the pope, was, it must be acknowledged, somewhat
chimerical, and could not fail to have cast an air of ridicule on
the commissions that with great solemnity were opened at
Paris.

The imbecility of our national government, under the arti-
cles of confederation, was understood abroad as well as at home ;
and the opinions of characters in England, most inclined to
favor an extensive commercial connection between the two coun-
tries, were understood to have been opposed to the formation of
a commercial treaty with us ; since, from the defects of our arti-
cles of union, we were supposed to be destitute of the power re-
quisite to enforce the execution of the stipulations that such a
treaty might contain.

We must all remember the various and ill-digested laws for
the regulation of commerce, which were adopted by the several
states as substitutes for those commercial treaties, in the conclu-
sion of which our commissioners had been disappointed — the
embarrassments which proceeded from this source, joined to those
felt from the derangement of the national treasury, were the im-
mediate cause which assembled the convention at Philadelphia
in 1787. The result of this convention was the adoption of the
present Federal Constitution, the legislative and executive de-
partments of which each possess a power to regulate foreign
commerce ; the former, by enacting laws for that purpose — the
latter, by forming commercial treaties with foreign nations.

The opinion heretofore entertained by our government, re-
specting the utility of commercial treaties, is not equivocal ; and
it is probable that they will, in future, deem it expedient to
adjust their foreign trade by treaty, in preference to legislative
provisions, as far as it shall be found practicable, on terms of rea-

Mt. 38.] CAM ILL US. 381

sonable advantage. In the formation of the regulations thai
are legislative, being ex parte, the interest of those who establish
them is seen in its strongest light, while that of the other side
is rarely allowed its just weight. Pride and passion too frequent-
ly add their influence to carry these regulations beyond the lim-
its of moderation : restraints and exclusions on one side, beget
restraints and exclusions on the other; and these retaliatory laws
lead to, and often terminate in, open war: While, on the other
hand, by adjusting the commercial intercourse of nations by
treaty, the pretensions of the parties are candidly examined,
and the result of the discussion, it is fair to p resume, as well
from the experience of individuals in private affairs, as from that
of nations in their more important and complicated relations,
establishes those regulations which are best suited to the interests
of the parties, and which alone afford that stability and confi-
dence so essential to the success of commercial enterprise.

That our present government have thought a commercial
treaty with Great Britain would be advantageous, is evident, not
alone from the special and distinct commission given to Mr. Jay
to form one ; but likewise from the letter of Mr. Jefferson to
Mr. Hammond, of the 29th of November, 1791, which was the
first letter to that minister after his arrival; in which the Execu-
tive says: "with respect to the commerce of the two countries,
we have supposed that we saw, in several instances, regulations
on the part of your government, which, if reciprocally adopted,
would materially injure the interests of both nations • on this sub-
ject, too, I must beg the favor of you to say, whether you are
authorized to conclude or to negotiate arrangements with us,
which may fix the commerce between the two countries on prin-
ciples of reciprocal advantage."

Further, from the first session of Congress, to that during
which Mr. Jay's appointment took place, efforts were made to
discriminate, in our revenue and commercial laws, between those
nations with whom we had, and those with whom we had not,
commercial treaties — the avowed object of which discrimination
was, to place the latter nations on a less advantageous commer-
cial footing than the former, in order to induce them likewise to

382 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

form commercial treaties with, us ; and it cannot be forgotten by
those who affect to suppose that it was not expected that a treaty
of commerce would be formed by Mr. Jay, that Mr. Madison's
commercial resolutions, which were under consideration at the
time of Mr. Jay's appointment, grew out of, and were built upon,
a clause of Mr. Jefferson's report of the 26th December, 1793,
which asserts that Great Britain discovered no disposition to en-
fer into a commercial treaty with us. The report alluded to is
explicit in declaring a preference of friendly arrangements, by
treaties of commerce, to regulations by the acts of our legislature,
and authorizes the inference, under which the commercial reso-
lutions were brought forward, that the latter should be resorted
to, only when the former cannot be effected.

The power of the executive to form commercial treaties, and
the objection against the commercial articles before us, as an un-
constitutional interference with the legislative powers of Con-
gress, will, in the sequel, be distinctly examined, together with
other objections on the point of constitutionality.

Against the policy of regulating commerce by treaty, rather
than by acts of the legislature, it is said, that the legislative acts
can, but that a treaty cannot, be repealed. This remark is true,
and of weight against the formation of commercial treaties which
are to be of long duration, or like our commercial treaty with
France, which is permanent. For, as we are yearly advancing
in agriculture, manufactories, commerce, navigation, and strength,
our treaties of commerce, especially such as, by particular stipu-
lations, shall give to the parties other rights than those of the
most favored nation, ought to be of short duration, that, like
temporary laws, they may, at an early day, expire by their own
limitation, leaving the interests of the parties to a new adjust-
ment, founded on equity and mutual convenience.

Of this description are the commercial articles of the treaty
with Great Britain; for none of them can continue in force
more than twelve years ; and they may all expire, if either party
shall choose it, at the end of two years after the peace between
France and Great Britain.

Did the limits assigned to this defence admit a review of the

Mi. 38.] CAMILLUS. 3S3

commercial and maritime codes of the principal European na-
tions, we should discover one prevailing feature to characterize
them all ; we should see the general or common interest of na-
tions, every where, placed in a subordinate rank, and their sepa-
rate advantage adopted, as the end to be attained by their respec-
tive laws — hence, one nation has enacted laws to protect their
manufactures, another to encourage and extend their naviga-
tion, a third to monopolize some important branch of trade, and
all have contributed to the creation of that complicated system
of regulations and restraints, which we see established through-
out the commercial world.

One branch, and a principal one of this system, that which
establishes the connection between the several European nations
and their colonies, merits our particular attention. An exact
knowledge of this connection would assist us in forming a just
estimate of the difficulties that stand in opposition to our claim
of free and full participation in the colony trade of Great
Britain.

Unlike the plan of colonization adopted by the ancient gov-
ernments, who, from the crowded population of their cities, sent
forth and established beneath their auspices new and indepen-
dent republics, the colonies of modern times have been planted
with entirely different views ; retained in a state of dependence
on the parent country, their connection has been made subser-
vient to that spirit of monopoly which has shown itself among
all the commercial powers. Every European nation has its colo-
nies, and for that reason prohibited all foreigners from trading to
them.

Important political events arise and pass in such quick suc-
cession, that we are liable to forget facts and opinions familiar to
us in periods within the ordinary powers of recollection. No
subject was more critically examined, or generally understood
before the American revolution, than that which respected the
connection between Great Britain and her colonies; all were
then agreed, that the colony trade "and navigation were subject
to the restraints and regulations of the parent state. It was not
against this dependence and -commercial monopoly that the colo-

384 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

nies complained ! They were willing to submit to them. It
was the unjust attempt to tax them, to raise a revenue from them,
without their consent, which combined that firm and spirited op-
position which effected a division of the empire — thus the Con-
gress of 1775, in their last address to the inhabitants of Great
Britain, say, " We cheerfully consent to such acts of the British
parliament as shall be restrained to the regulations of our exter-
nal commerce, for the purpose of securing the commercial advan-
tages of the whole empire to the mother country, and the commercial
benefit of its respective members; excluding every idea of taxa-
tion internal or external for the purpose of raising a revenue on
the subjects in America without their consent." The "colonial
codes of other nations are marked with the same spirit of mo-
nopoly—thus Portugal shuts out all foreigners from the Brazils
as well as from her Asiatic possessions, Spain from South Ame-
rica and her West India islands, France excludes all foreigners
from her Asiatic dominions, and limits within narrow bounds their
intercourse with her colonies in the West Indies. Holland
guards, with the miser's vigilance, the access to her spice islands,
and imitates, though with somewhat less rigor, the policy of the
other powers in her West India possessions. And England, by
her act of navigation, which has been in operation for more than
a century, asserted, and hitherto has uniformly adhered to, the
like system of exclusion and monopoly.

Notwithstanding the intimate alliance, the family compact,
between France and Spain, the former has not been able to pro-
cure admission into the Spanish colonial territories, where she
might have acquired immense wealth by the sale of her manu-
factures, her wines, and her Wandies. Holland, though a part
of the Spanish monarchy long after the discovery of America,
and the establishment of the Spanish power in that quarter of
the world, was unable after her separation from Spain, and the
• acknowledgment of her independence, even in the zenith of her
splendid power upon the oceau, to obtain by force or treaty a
share in the Spanish colony trade to South America. The rival
wars between the English and the Dutch towards the close of the
last century, which originated in commercial competition and

Mt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 385

jealousy, were successively terminated without England yielding
the smallest departure from the exclusive commercial system,
contained in her act of navigation.

Great Britain, though maintaining her exclusive laws against
other nations at different periods, has shown the strongest desire
to share in the rich trade of Spain with her colonies. The war
that commenced in 1739, was occasioned by the firm, but irregular,
opposition of Spain to the contraband efforts of British traders.

The impediments Great Britain has uniformly met in her
attempts to extend her settlement in the Bay of Honduras, to
form establishments at Falkland's Island, and more recently at
Nootka Sound, afford additional proofs of the fixed policy of
Spain on the subject of her colony trade.

Portugal, whose political safety more than once has appeared
to depend upon the efficacious aid of Great Britain, does not
yield to her ally any portion of her valuable colonial commerce.

So uniform and persevering has been the practice of nations
on this point, that in the latest treaties of commerce between
France and Spain, between each of these powers and Great
Britain, between Great Britain, Sweden, Denmark, Holland, and
Portugal, we do not discover that any one of these powers has
consented to admit the others to a participation in the trade and
navigation to their respective colonies — the Assiento contract
for the supply of negroes to the Spanish colonies, which has
been made by Spain with several powers, is an unimportant and
solitary exception to this rule.

Montesquieu calls this law appropriating the colony commerce
to the benefit of the parent state, " A fundamental law of Europe.''
"It has been established," says this enlightened Frenchman, —
" that the metropolis or mother country alone shall trade in the
colonies, and that for very good reasons ; because the design
of the settlement, was the extension of commerce, not the foun-
dation of a city or new empire. Thus it is still a fundamental
law of Europe, that all commerce with a foreign colony shall be
regarded as a mere monopoly, punishable by the laws oi
country ; and in this case we are not to be directed by the who
and precedents of the ancients, which are not at all applicaith an
G 25

386 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

" It is likewise acknowledged that a commerce established
between the mother countries, does not include a permission to
trade in the colonies ; for these always continue in a state of pro-
hibition." [Montesquieu, Liv. xxi. chap, xvii.]

This subject is of too great importance not to be pursued a
little further. Principles connected with it, and such as will
continue to operate whether we sanction or condemn them, re-
main to be disclosed. It is true that the principal end of the
dominion that the European powers have held over their colo-
nies, has been the monopoly of their commerce, " since in their
exclusive trade (as has been observed by a sensible writer on the
subject) consists the principal advantages of colonies, which afford
neither revenue nor force for the defence of the parent country;"
but this is not the sole object. Some nations, and among them
Great Britain, have viewed the exclusive navigation and trade to
their colonies, in the light in which they have seen their coasting
trade and fisheries ; as a nursery for that body of seamen, whom
they have considered not only as necessary to the prosperity and
protection of commerce, but as essential to the defence and safety
of the state.

The situation of Great Britain in this respect is peculiar : when
compared with several of the neighboring powers, her numbers
and military forces are manifestly inferior. The armies kept on
foot in peace, as well as those brought into the field in war, by
the great nations in Europe, are so decidedly superior to those of
Great Britain, that were she a continental power, her rivals would
easily be an overmatch for her. The ocean is her fortification,
and her seamen alone are the soldiers who can defend it. When
Great Britain shall become an inferior maritime power, when her
enemy shall acquire a decisive superiority on the sea, what will
prevent a repetition of those conquests the examples of which we
find in her early history ? No subject has been more profoundly
thought on than this has been in Great Britain. Her policy, from
the date of her navigation act, has been guided by these consid-
erations— that her national safety depends on her wooden walls,
is a maxim as sacred in Britain, as it once was in Athens. Her
statesmen, her merchants, her manufacturers, and her yeomanry,
comprehend and believe it.

JEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 387

Is it then surprising, that we see her so anxious to encourage
and extend her navigation, as to exclude as far as practicable,
foreigners from any share of her fisheries, her coasting, and her
colony trade ? Does not candor require us to admit, since her
national defence rests upon her navy, which again depends on
her seamen, which an extensive navigation can alone supply, that
Great Britain having more to risk, is among the last powers likely
to break in upon or materially to relinquish that system of exclu-
sive colony trade, that has so long and uniformly prevailed among
the great colonizing powers ?

America has her opinions, perhaps prejudices, on the subject
of commerce : she is, and, at least until she shall become a
naval power, will continue to be, without colonies. But her
laws manifest a similar spirit with those of other nations, in the
regulations which they prescribe for the government of her fishe-
ries and her coasting trade. The object of these laws is an exclu-
sion of foreign competition, in order to encourage and increase
her own navigation and seamen ; from which resources, not only
in wars between other nations, but likewise in those in which she
may be engaged, important commercial and national advantages
may be expected. These opinions deserve attention ; they have
already had and will continue to have a suitable influence with
her government. But we should remember, that other nations
have likewise their opinions and prejudices on these subjects;
opinions and prejudices not the less strong or deeply rooted for
having been transmitted to them through a series of past genera-
tions. Thus in England, not only the public opinion, but what
is more unconquerable, the private interests of many individuals
will oppose every change in the existing laws that may be sup-
posed likely to diminish their navigation, to limit their trade, or
in any measure to affect disadvantageously their established system
of national commerce.

It cannot have escaped notice, that we have among us cha-
racters who are unwilling to see stated the impediments that
stand in the way of the commercial arrangements, which they
contend, should be conceded to us by foreign nations, and who
are ready to charge those who faithfully expose them, with an

388 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

inclination to excuse or vindicate the unreasonable denials of our
commercial rivals, and with a desire to yield up the just preten-
sions of our country. The artifice seems too gross to be dangerous
with a sensible people, but the public should notwithstanding be
on their guard against it. — They should dispassionately examine
the real difficulties to be encountered in the formation of our com-
mercial treaties. They should inquire and ascertain how far
other nations, seeking the same advantages, have been able to
succeed. They should further compare the treaty in question
with those we have before made with other nations — the result
of such investigation so far from warranting the condemnation of
the commercial articles of the treaty before us, it is believed would
demonstrate that these articles make a wider breach in the British
commercial system than has ever before been made ; that on their
commercial dispositions they are preferable to any treaty we have
before concluded, and that there is rational ground to believe that
the treaty will have a tendency friendly to the agriculture, the
commerce, and the navigation of our country.

Camillus.

no. xxiv.

1795.

However uniform may have been the law of Europe in rela-
tion to the colonial establishments, no pains have been spared to
create an opinion that France has been guided by a more liberal
policy than the other colonizing powers, and that the regulations
of her colony trade were essentially dissimilar from theirs ; more-
over that her disinterestedness was so great, that she not long
since proposed to our government to establish by treaty, a trade
between us and her West India colonies equally free with that
which prevails in her own intercourse with them. The object of
these attempts is readily perceived.

As there was no probability, that Great Britain would consent
to our trading with her West India colonies on the same terms

Mt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 389

as she herself does, as it was foreseen that limitations and condi-
tions would accompany any agreement that should be made on
this subject ; to extol the liberty of France, and exclaim against
the monopolizing views of Great Britain, were deemed suitable
means to excite a prejudice against the expected adjustment of
the commercial intercourse between us and the British West In-
dia colonies.

A comparison of the footing by which our trade stood with
the French and British West India colonies, after the completion
of our revolution, and before the present war in Europe, with a
concise exposition of the real views of France on the subject of a
new commercial treaty, will best demonstrate the want of candor
and patriotism in those Americans, who have submitted to be-
come agents in propagating these errors.

France, like England, has endeavored to secure the greatest
possible portion of advantage to herself, by her colonial laws, and
the concessions yielded to foreigners have been only such devia-
tions from an entire monopoly, as her own interest has rendered
indispensable. — France, in imitation of the English navigation
law, as early as 1727, established an ordinance, confirming to the
mother country the monopoly of the trade to her colonies, and
excluding thereby all foreigners. — Experience proved the necessi-
ty of moderating the rigor of their ordinance, and relaxations in
favor of a limited foreign intercourse existed at the time when
our commercial treaty with France was concluded, by the thirtieth
article of which, it is agreed, that France will continue to the
citizens of the United States, the free, ports, which have been and
are open in her West India islands, to be enjoyed agreeable to
the regulations which relate to them. — A system of regulations
relative to the trade of foreigners with the French islands, was
promulgated in 1784. This ordinance established one free port
at St. Lucie, another at Martinique, another atGaudaloupe, another
at Tobago, and three others at St. Domingo, to which foreign ves-
sels of the burthen of sixty tons and upwards might carry for sale,
woods of all sorts, pit coal, live animals, fatted beef, salted fish,
rice, Indian corn, vegetables, green hides, peltry, turpentine, and
tar.— This was followed by the arrests of September, 1785, which

390 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 38.

by imposing heavy duties on foreign salted fish, and establishing
large bounties on those of the national or French fishery, materi-
ally affected the foreign commerce with the French islands in this
important article of supply and consumption.

Such were the duties on the foreign, and the premiums on
the national fish, that together they would have been equivalent
to a prohibition of the former, had the national fishery been able
to supply the consumption.

In return for these articles, which alone were permitted to be
imported by foreigners into the French islands, and which it will
be observed excluded some of our principal staples, especially
flour, they were allowed to purchase and bring away of the pro-
ductions of the islands, only molasses and rum.

All cotton, coffee, sugar, and other productions (rum and
molasses excepted) were prohibited ; and we could, except occa-
sionally by local relaxations of the general law, rightfully obtain
none of them from the French West India islands. This was
the footing of our trade under our treaty and the standing edict
which preceded the French revolution, and even this was liable
to still further limitations, whenever France should think proper
to impose them ; the treaty securing only a right to as free a
commerce as France should grant to other foreign nations.

Great Britain has permitted the importation into her West
India colonies of all the foreign articles, allowed by France to be
imported into her islands (salted fish and salted beef excepted),
and she moreover permitted the importation of foreign tobacco,
flour, meal, biscuit, wheat, and various other grains which France
prohibited. In return for these commodities, Great Britain per-
mitted the exportation from her islands to our country, of rum
and molasses, and moreover of sugar, coffee, cocoa, ginger, and-
pimento, together with such other articles as are allowed to be
carried from their islands to any other foreign country.

Great Britain prohibited the importation and exportation of
most of these articles to and from all foreign nations, except the
United States — France permitted the intercourse with her colo-
nies, under the same limitations to us in common with all other
foreign nations.

jEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 391

The articles received from us by Great Britain, for the supply
of her West India islands, exceeded in variety those received
from us by France for the supply of her islands ; the British West
Indies were, therefore, in the ordinary and established course,
more extensive customers to us than the French West Indies.
Again, the artiqjes which we received from the British West In-
dies, and which we were prohibited from receiving from the
French West Indies, were among the most valuable of their pro-
ductions, and, from the force of habit, some of them are included
in the catalogue of articles of the first necessity in our consump-
tion. In point of supply, therefore, the British were better fur-
nishers, their colonial laws being much less restrictive than those
of France.

Though the regulations of the British West India trade were
more favorable to our agriculture than those of France, and
though the articles with which we were supplied from the British
islands were more numerous and valuable than those obtained
from the islands of France, the colony system of the latter was
preferable to that of the former in relation to our navigation.
France permitted our vessels of and above sixty tons burthen, to
carry and bring away the articles, not prohibited in the foreign
trade with her islands, while Great Britain confined the trade
to her own vessels and excluded those of all foreign nations.

Difference of situation, and not of principle, produced this
variety or distinction in the colony system of the two nations.
France being able from her resources to supply most of the arti-
cles requisite for the consumption of her West Indies, and from
her great population, having a proportionate demand for the
productions of her islands, she has been carefully restrictive in
the trade between her colonies and foreign countries as to the
articles of import and export.

All the productions of her islands must go to the mother
country, except rum and molasses ; these articles were not con-
fined to France, because they would have directly interfered
with the valuable manufacture of her brandies. On the other
hand, Great Britain, being less able from her internal resources
to supply the articles necessary for the consumption of her West

392 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

Indies, and her population or home demand not requiring the
whole productions of her islands, she has been more liberal in
the trade allowed to be carried on between her colonies and
foreign countries as to the articles of import and export. But her
navigation being adequate to the whole trade of all her domin-
ions, while that of France required the addition of foreign bot-
toms, Great Britain has excluded entirely from her colony trade
the foreign vessels of all nations, while France has admitted
them to share in the foreign trade permitted to her "West India
islands.

Both France and Great Britain relax their colonial laws, in
times of occasional scarcity and when they are engaged in war ;
during which, the intercourse with their West India possessions
is laid more open to foreigners. The catalogue of supplies is
sometimes enlarged, and Great Britain, as well as France, during
these relaxations, permits American vessels to resort to, and en-
gage in the commerce of, their islands.

It is, notwithstanding, from the permanent laws alone of these
nations, that we are able to infer their views in relation to their
colony trade : the exceptions and deviations that become neces-
sary, by reason of accidental scarcity or the embarrassments of
war, serve only to explain more clearly the principles of the
permanent system.

The result of this comparison affords no support for the asser-
tion that France has been less exclusive, or more liberal in her
colony system, than Great Britain — both these nations have in
the establishment of their colonial laws alike disregarded the
interests of foreign nations, and have been equally under the
control of the principles of self-interest, which ever have, and
ever will govern the affairs of nations.*

Nothing can be more erroneous, than the opinion that any
nation is likely to yield up its own interest, in order, gratuitously,
to advance that of another. Yet we frequently hear declarations
of this kind, and too many honest citizens have surrendered them-

* The opinion heretofore cited of Montesquieu, a Frenchman, agreeing with
facts, is a positive testimony that the principle of the French system, like the
English, is monopoly.

iEr. 38.] CAMILLUS. 393

selves to this delusion — time and experience will cure us of this
folly.

Equal artifice has been practised, and no less credulity dis-
played, on the subject of a new treaty of commerce, which it is
boldly asserted, France from the most disinterested motives has
offered to us. It should be recollected that France already has a
treaty of commerce with us, a treaty that is not limited to two
years, nor twelve years, but one that is to endure for ever. This
treaty is as favorable to France as she can desire, or we in our
utmost fondness be disposed to make — it secures to her our ac-
quiescence in an exclusion from her Asiatic dominions, and in
fresh regulations as her interest shall dictate relative to our inter-
course with her West India possessions — it excludes us from her
fisheries on the banks of Newfoundland, which she was unwilling
to share with us, and it gives to her every commercial favor or
privilege which by treaty we may yield to any other nation,
freely when freely granted, and when otherwise on yielding the
same equivalent — her productions, her manufactures, her mer-
chandises, and her ships may come into all our ports to which
any other foreign productions, manufactures, merchandises, or
ships may come — they are severally to pay only the lowest duties
paid by any other nation, and no other nation in its intercourse
and trade with us, is, in any instance, to have a preference over
her. A variety of other regulations are inserted in this treaty
useful to France and not particularly disserviceable to us.

This treaty has been religiously observed and executed on
our part ; France has repeatedly violated it in the article which
makes enemy's goods free in neutral bottoms, while it is under
stood she has faithfully observed it in the article, that makes
neutral goods lawful prize when found in enemy bottoms.

If it be true, that nations in justice to themselves are bound
to decline the abandonment of their own interest, for the pur-
pose of promoting at their own expense and detriment, the in-
terest of others, ought we too readily to credit an opposite opin-
ion ? Ought we not to expect full proof of the sincerity of those
declarations, that are intended to produce a belief of this disin-
terested and self-denying course? Ought not the very proposal

394 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt, 38.

of such a measure, from its extraordinary nature, inspire circum-
spection, and put a prudent nation on its guard ? If, moreover,
the overture should occur at a moment when we are ascertained
that those who make it, desire, and are, in fact, pursuing objects
incompatible with the disinterestedness which it avows ? If
while it is said we wish that you should remain in peace with
those who hold this language, neglect no means to engage our
citizens to violate their neutral duties and thereby expose their
country to war; if when we are told " we rejoice in the freedom
of a sister republic," all the arts of intrigue, so much more dan-
gerous by our unsuspicious temper, and unlimited affection for
those who practise them, were employed to alienate our attach-
ment from our own government, and to throw us into a state of
anarchy ; if when the fascinating proposal of opening new chan-
nels of commerce, which were to give unbounded riches to our
merchants, was received with more caution than was desired, we
are told that in case of refusal, or evasion (mark the generosity),
France would repeal her existing laws which had been dictated
by an attachment to the Americans. What must have been our
infatuation, what the measure of our folly, had we given implicit
credit to words so much at variance with cotemporary actions ?
But it is asked, do not the letters of Mr. Genet to Mr. Jefferson,
which have been published, prove that France desired and offered
to enter into a new, disinterested, and liberal treaty of commerce
with us ? The question shall be fairly examined.

There are two letters from Mr. Genet on this subject. Imme-
diately after his arrival at Philadelphia, in a letter to Mr. Jeffer-
son of the 23d May, 1793, he says — "The French republic has
given it in charge to me to propose to your government to con-
secrate by a true family compact, by a national covenant, the
liberal and fraternal basis, on which it wishes to establish the
commercial and political system of two people, whose interests
are inseparably connected."

If the object of this proposal was a revision of our commer-
cial treaty, in order to render the intercourse between us more
free and advantageous, this minister was singularly unfortunate
in his expressions. He might have employed the fine phrase of

jEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 395

consecrating by a true family compact, by a national covenant,
the liberal and fraternal basis on which it was wished to establish
the commercial system of the two countries, and have been intel-
ligible ; but when he tells us, that he is instructed to open a
negotiation with our government, for the purpose of establishing
the commercial and political system of the two countries, what
are we to understand ? That trade and its regulations are alone
in view ? Or that a family compact establishing the political,
as well as the commercial system of the two nations, must in-
clude likewise the league or treaty of alliance, whereby the
strength and wealth of the two nations should be closely united
in the prosecution of a common object?

This ambiguous overture, if its meaning is not too plain to
allow the epithet, was received in the most friendly manner by
our government, and on the suggestion that the Senate are unit-
ed with the President in making treaties, it was understood be-
tween Mr. Jefferson and Mr. Genet, that the subject should be
deferred till the meeting of Congress.

Before that period, however, Mr. Genet, in a letter of the
30th of September, 1793, renews the proposal to open the ne-
gotiation relative to the proposed family compact between us
and France ; and proves to us that our benefit was its principal
exclusive object, by affectionately intimating in the conclusion
of his letter, that he is further instructed to tell us, in case of
refusal or evasion on our part to enter into this family agree-
ment, that France will repeal the laws dictated by the attach-
ment of the French for the Americans.

Had it before been doubted whether political engagements
relative to war, were intended to be connected with the pro-
posed treaty, these doubts must have disappeared on the receipt
of this second letter from Mr. Genet; the intimation that
the laws of France which operated favorably to our trade with
their dominions, would be repealed, in case we refused or
evaded the conclusion of a new treaty, cannot be reconciled
with the belief, that this treaty was sought for from motives
purely commercial, or solely to enlarge and add prosperity to
our trade.

396 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

Mr. Genet at this time had so outraged our government as
to have compelled them to request his recall; he must, therefore,
have been convinced, that no conference would he held with
him except on points of urgent importance, and such as would
not admit of delay. — He was, therefore, answered by Mr. Jeffer-
son on the 5th of November, that his letter had been laid before
the President, and would be considered with all the respect and
interest that its objects necessarily required ; and in Mr. Jefferson's
letter to Mr. Morris of the 23d of August, we are informed that
our government were desirous to go into a commercial negotia-
tion with France, and, therefore, requested that the powers given
to Mr. Genet on that subject should be renewed to his successor.
— It has not appeared that this was ever done. — His immediate
successor, Mr. Fauchet, it is believed, gave no evidence of his
having any powers relative to a commercial treaty ; and if re-
ports, which arrived with the present minister, having great
marks of authenticity, may be credited, he has power only to
digest the articles of such a treaty, not to conclude one.

Notwithstanding the internal evidence contained in the two
letters of Mr. Genet was sufficient to have satisfied a sensible
people, that something beyond a commercial treaty was connect-
ed with the proffered negotiation, and though this conjecture
acquired strength from the cautious prpcedure of our govern-
ment on the occasion : yet these letters, and that procedure, have
been pressed upon the public as conclusive evidence, that
France had offered, and our government refused, to enter into
a new treaty of commerce, that would have been highly bene-
ficial to our trade and navigation.

The refutation of this opinion so injurious to a reasonable
and salutary confidence in the integrity and patriotism of our
own executive government, and which the agents of its propa-
gation had spread far and wide, might have been more difficult,
had not the minister of France, for the purpose of justifying his
own conduct, published his hitherto secret instructions.

By these instructions it appears, that the essential object of
this proffered negotiation, was to engage the United States to
make common cause with France in the war then foreseen, and

JEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 3'.)7

which soon broke out with Spain and England — That the advan-
tages to be yielded by a new commercial treaty were to be pur-
chased by our uniting with France in extending the empire of lib-
erty, in breaking up the colonial and monopolizing systems of all na-
tions, and finally in the emancipation of the new world* — This was
laying out a large and difficult work, in the accomplishment
whereof arduous and numerous perils must be met, to encounter
which we were called by no obligation to others, to avoid which
we were admonished by all the duties which require us to cher-
ish and preserve our own unparalleled freedom, prosperity and
happiness.

However contradictory this extraordinary project may ap-
pear to the friendly communications that had been made by the
French government to ours, however repugnant to the soothing
declarations pronounced by Mr. Genet, of the fraternal and gene-
rous sentiments of his country towards ours, and of the republi-
can frankness and sincerity that should characterize his deport-
ment ; let the following extracts from his instructions published
by himself in December, 1793, be consulted in confirmation of
this statement, and as an authentic exposition of the genuine
views of the French executive council in the mission of Mr.
Genet — viz. :

" The executive council have examined the instructions given
to the predecessors of the citizen Genet in America, and they
have seen with indignation, that while the good people of Ame-
rica have expressed to us their gratitude in the most lively manner,
and given us every testimony of their friendship), both Vergennes
and Montmorin have thought that the interests of France re-
quired, that the United States shoidd not obtain that political order
and consistency of which they were capable, because they would
thereby quickly attain a strength, which they might probably
be inclined to abuse. These ministers, therefore, enjoined it
upon the representatives of Louis XYI. in America, to hold a
passive conduct, and speak only of the personal vows of the
king for the prosperity of the United States. The same ma-

* This mad scheme, the joining in which was to be the price of the proffered
advantages, has since been renounced by France herself as a political chimera.

39S HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

chiavelism directed tlie operatioDs of the war of independence,
the same duplicity presided in the negotiations of the peace.
The deputies of Congress had expressed a desire that the cabinet
of Versailles should favor the conquests of the Floridas, of Ca-
nada, of Nova Scotia ; but Louis and his ministers constantly
refused their countenance, regarding the possession of those
countries by Spain and England, as useful sources of disquietude
and anxiety to the Americans."

After declaring that the executive council proposes to itself a
different course, and that it approves of the overtures, which had
been made as well by General Washington, as by Mr. Jefferson,
to Mr. Ternant, relative to the means of renewing and consoli-
dating the commercial regulations between the two countries,
they proceed to declare further, "that they are inclined to ex-
tend the latitude of the proposed commercial treaty (observe, the
first proposal of a new commercial treaty came from us, and not
from France) by converting it into a national compact, whereby
the two people should combine their commercial with their political
interests, and should establish an intimate concert to befriend,
under all circumstances, the extension of the empire of liberty,
to guarantee the sovereignty of the people, and to punish the na-
tions who shall continue to adhere to a colonial system, and an
exclusive commerce, by declaring that the vessels of such na-
tions should not be received into the ports of the two contract-
ing parties. This agreement, which the French people will sup-
port with all the energy that distinguishes them, and of which
they have given so many proofs, will quickly contribute to the
emancipation of the new world. However vast this project may
appear, it will be easily accomplished, if the Americans will con-
cur in it, and in order to convince them of this, no pains must be
spared by the Citizen Genet. For independent of the benefits
that humanity will draw from the success of this negotiation,
France, at this moment, has a particular interest that requires us
to be prepared to act with efficacy against England and Spain,
if, as every circumstance announces, these, in hatred of our prin-
ciples, shall make war upon us." In this state of things, we ought
" to employ every means to reanimate the zeal of the Ameri-

iET. 38.] CAMILLUS. 3(J9

cans, who are also interested that we should disappoint the liber-
ticide designs of George the Third, of which they likewise may
possibly be an object." " The executive council has reason to
believe, that these reflections, joined to the great commercial advan-
tages which we are disposed to grant to the United States, will
decide their government to agree to all that the Citizen Genet
shall propose to them on our part — but as from the rumors re-
specting our interior, our finances, and our marine, the Ameri-
can administration may observe a wavering timid conduct ! The
executive council, in expectation that the American government
will finally decide to make common cause with us, charges the
Citizen Genet to take such steps as shall be most likely to serve
the cause of liberty and the freedom of the people."

In a supplemental instruction, the executive council say, " as
soon as the negotiation concerning a new treaty of commerce
shall be practicable, Citizen Genet must not omit to stipulate a
positive reciprocity of the exemption from the American tonnage
duty." The mutual naturalization of French and American citi-
zens, so far as respects commerce, that has been proposed by Mr.
Jefferson and approved by the executive council (this, it is pre-
sumed, in the eyes of certain characters, would be free from ob
jection, though the naturalization by treaty, of the subjects of
any nation but France, would be treason against the Constitution
and against liberty), "will render this exemption from the ton-
nage duties less offensive to the powers who have a right by
their treaties to claim the same exemption, for the casus faederis
by this mutual naturalization will be entirely changed in respect
to them. The reciprocal guarantee of the possessions of the two
nations, stipulated in the Xlth article of the treaty of 1778, must
form an essential clause in the new treaty to be concluded ! The
executive council, therefore, instructs Citizen Genet early to
sound the American government on this point, and to make it
an indispensable condition of a free trade to the French West
Indies, so interesting for the United States to obtain. It con-
cerns the peace and prosperity of the French nation, that a peo-
ple whose resources and strength increase in a ratio incalculable,
and who are placed so near to our rich colonies, should be held by

400 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 38.

explicit engagements to the preservation of these islands. There
will be the less difficulty in making these propositions relished
by the United States, as the great commerce which will be their
price, will indemnify them beforehand for the sacrifices they
must make in the sequel. Besides, the Americans cannot be
ignorant of the great disproportion between their means and
those of the French republic ; that for a long time the guarantee
will be merely nominal for them, while it will be real on the side
of France. And moreover, that we shall, without delay, take
measures to fulfil it on our part, by sending to the American ports,
a force sufficient to shelter them from all insults and dangers, and
to facilitate their intercourse with our islands and with France ''
— "and to the end that nothing may retard the conclusion of
the negotiations of Citizen Genet with the Americans, and that
he may have in his hands all the means which may be employed
in forwarding the success of his exertions to serve the cause of
liberty, the council, in addition to the full powers hereunto an-
nexed, has authorized the minister of marine to supply him with
a number of blank letters of marque, to be delivered to such
Frenchmen or Americans, as should equip privateers in Ame-
rica ; the minister of war will likewise supply him with commis-
sions in blank for the different grades of the army."*

These were extraordinary means to enable the French minis-
ter to conclude with our government a pacific treaty of com-
merce. The above extracts, though not an entire translation of
the whole of Mr. Genet's instructions, many parts of which are
foreign to the point in discussion, are a faithful abstract of such
parts of them, as relate to the principles and conduct of the
French monarchy towards us, and are as explanatory of the
views of the executive council on the subject of a new treaty of
commerce. — It will, I think, prove, if the assertions of that coun-
cil are to be credited, that the gratitude, of which we have heard
so much, ought not to be demanded on account of the principles

* This measure countenances a conclusion, that it was the intent of the instruc-
tions, he should take the measures he did with regard to privateering and military
expeditions from our territories, to force us into the war in spite of the " wavering
and timid conduct of our administration. "

JEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 401

that influenced the monarchy of France during our war, or sub-
sequent to the peace ; and furthermore, it will prove that the
real view of the French executive council in the mission of Mr.
Genet, was to engage us by advantages to be conceded in a new
commercial treaty, to make common cause with France, in the ex-
pected war with Great Britain and the coalesced powers. If,
then, the established footing of our trade with the British islands,
has been dictated by that colonial system of monopoly, which
forms a fundamental law in Europe ; and if, moreover, the opin-
ion that we could have procured a new and more liberal treaty
of commerce with France, without plunging our country in the
present war, is an error, that has been artfully imposed on the
public ; by exposing these truths, the examination of the treaty
with Great Britain is at once freed from the objections and as-
persions that have proceeded from these errors.

Camillus.

no. xxv.

1795.

It will be useful, as it will simplify the examination of the
commercial articles of the treaty, to bear in mind and preserve
the division, that we find established by the 12th, 13th, and the
14th and 15th articles ; each respects a particular branch or por-
tion of the trade between the two countries, the regulations
whereof differ from, and are severally independent of, each other.
Thus one is relative to the West Indies, another to the East In-
dies, and a third, distinct from both the former, respects our
trade with the British dominions in Europe.

That Great Britain will consent to place our trade with her
West India colonies upon an equally advantageous footing with
her own, is improbable ; this would be doing what none of the
great colonizing nations has done, or is likely to do ; it would
be to relinquish the principal ends of the establishment and
defence of her colonies ; it would be equivalent to making her
G 26

402 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEr. 38.

islands in the West Indies the common property of Great Bri-
tain and America, for all commercial and profitable purposes ;
and exclusively her own in the burden of support and defence.

The senate have, however, and, I think, wisely, considered
the terms and conditions, on which it is agreed by the 12th arti-
cle, that we should participate in the trade of the British West
Indies, as less liberal than we may, with reason, expect. The
exclusion of all vessels above the burden of seventy tons, would
diminish the benefits and value of this trade ; and though we
cannot calculate upon obtaining by future negotiation a total re-
moval of a limitation on this subject, it is not altogether improba-
ble that a tonnage something larger may be procured.

Those who are conversant with our present intercourse with
the West Indies can best determine whether many vessels under
seventy tons burden are not, at this time, profitably employed in
that trade : It is believed to be true, that previous to our inde-
pendence, vessels of this burden were much engaged in that
employ as well in the southern as in the eastern states.

This limitation, though disadvantageous, is not the strongest
objection to the 12th article : the restraining or regulating of a
portion of our trade, which does not proceed from, and is inde-
pendent of, the treaty, forms a more decisive reason against the
article than any thing else that it contains.

The cause of this restraint is found in the commercial jealousy
and spirit of monopoly, which have so long reigned over the
trade of the colonies. Under our treaty with France and the
French colonial laws, it has been shown that we could not procure
from the French islands sugar, coffee, cocoa, cotton, or any of the
other productions, molasses and rum excepted. Great Britain
has seen it to be compatible with her interest to admit us to share
more extensively in the productions of her islands ; but she has
desired to place limitations on this intercourse. To have left it
entirely open and free, would have been to have enabled us not
only to supply ourselves by means of our own navigation, but to
have made it an instrument of the supply of other nations with
her West India productions.

When we reflect upon the established maxims of the colony

JEt. 38. j CAM1LLUS. 408

system, and moreover when we consider, that an entire freedom
of trade with the British West Indies might, at times, materially
raise the price of "West India productions on the British con-
sumers, the supply of whom is essentially a monopoly in the
hands of the British planters, we shall be the less inclined to be-
lieve that Great Britain will yield an unrestrained commerce with
her West India possessions to any nation whatever.

But if this was the object of the restraint, it may be asked,
why it was not confined to such enumerated articles as were of
the growth or production of her own islands, instead of being so
extended as to comprehend all molasses, sugar, coffee, cocoa, and
cotton, including even the cotton of the growth of our own coun-
try ? It is very possible that the circumstances of our native
cotton's becoming an article of export to foreign markets might
not have occurred to our negotiator — this would be the less ex-
traordinary, as heretofore it has not been cultivated, except in a
very limited degree, and as an article of export rather in the
manner of experiment than otherwise ; and, as moreover, from
the expense and difficulty of separating the seeds from the cotton,
we have been hardly able hitherto to class cotton among our ex-
ports. Its cultivation is said latterly to have become an object of
attention, in Georgia and South Carolina — still however it cannot
yet be considered as a staple commodity. — But from the recent
ingenious and simple machine for spinning cotton, it is hoped
that the cultivation may be extended, so that not only our own
domestic manufactures may be relieved from a dependence on
foreign supply, but the catalogue of our valuable exports enrich-
ed by the addition of this inestimable production.

In answer to the question that has been stated, it may be
further observed, that these enumerated articles, though the pro-
ductions of different territories, being so much alike as not easily
to be distinguished, it is probable that the difficulty in discrimi-
nating the productions of the British islands from those of a
different growth, was supposed to be so great, that an appre-
hension was entertained that the prohibition to re-export the
former would be easily evaded and illusory, while the latter re-
mained free.

404 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

This apprehension, however, it is believed, was carried too
far ; as, on a minute examination of the subject it will be found,
that our laws relative to drawback, with a few analogous provi-
sions in addition, can be made sufficiently to discriminate and
identify, on re-exportation, all such articles of the growth of the
British islands, as may be within our country, and that they will
afford the same security for a faithful and exact execution of the
prohibition to re-export such articles as that on which our own
government relies against frauds upon the revenue. [The appli-
cation of these laws, with the requisite additions and sanctions,
may be secured by a precise stipulation for that purpose in the
'reaty, in such manner as would afford an adequate guard against
material evasions.]

[But though the conduct of the senate in withholding their
assent of this article, is conceived, upon the whole, to be well
judged and wise, yet there were not wanting reasons of real
weight to induce our negotiator to agree to it as it stands.

The inviolability of the principles of the navigation act had
become a kind of axiom, incorporated in the habits of thinking of
the British government and nation. Precedent, it is known, has
great influence, as well upon the councils as upon the popular
opinions of nations ! — and there is, perhaps, no country in which
it has greater force than that of Great Britain. The precedent
of a serious and unequivocal innovation upon the system of the
navigation act, dissolved as it were the spell by which the public
prejudices had been chained to it. It took away a mighty argu-
ment derived from the past inflexibility of the system, and laid
the foundation for greater inroads upon opinion, for further and
greater innovations in practice. It served to strip the question
of every thing that was artificial and to bring it to the simple
test of real national interest, to be decided by that best of all
arbiters, experience.

It may, upon this ground, be strongly argued that the pre-
cedent of the privilege gained was of more importance than its
immediate extent — an argument certainly of real weight, and
which is sufficient to incline candid men to view the motives
that governed our negotiator in this particular, with favor, and the

JEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 405

opinion to which he yielded with respect. It is perhaps not un-
important by way of precedent, that the article, though not
established, is found in the treaty.]

Though the 12th article, so far as respects the terms and con-
ditions of the trade to the British Islands, forms no part of the
treaty, having been excepted, and made the subject of further
negotiation, it may nevertheless be useful to take notice of some
of the many ill-founded objections that have been made against
it : of this character is that which asserts, that the catalogue of
articles, permitted to be carried by us to the British Islands, may
be abridged at the pleasure of Great Britain, and so the trade may
be annihilated.

The article stipulates that we may carry to any of his majes-
ty's islands and ports in the West Indies, from the United
States, in American vessels, not exceeding seventy tons, any
goods or merchandises " being of the growth, manufacture or
production of the said states, which it is or may be lawful to carry
to the said islands, from the said states, in British vessels;" not
all such articles as it is and may be lawful to carry, but in the
disjunctive, all such as it is or may be lawful to carry; in other
words, all such articles as it is now lawful to carry, together with
such others as hereafter it may be lawful to carry ; the catalogue
may be enlarged, but cannot be diminished. [It may also be re-
marked incidentally, that this objection sounds ill in the
mouths of those who maintain the essentiality of the supplies of
this country, under all possible circumstances, to the British
West Indies; for if this position be true, there never can be
reasonable ground of apprehension of too little latitude in the
exportation in British vessels, which is to be the standard for
the exportation in ours.]

This article has been further criticised on account of the ad-
justment of the import and tonnage duties payable in this trade,
and it has been attempted to be shown that the footing on which
we were to share in the same would, on this account, be disad-
vantageous, and the competition unequal. What is the adjust-
ment ? The article proposes that British vessels employed in
this trade shall pay, on entering our ports, the alien tonnage duty

406 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

payable by all foreign vessels, which is now fifty cents per ton ;
further, the cargoes imported in British bottoms from British
West Indies, shall pay in our ports the same impost or duties,
that shall be payable on the like articles imported in American
bottoms ; and on the other side, that cargoes imported into the
British Islands, in American bottoms, shall pay the same impost
or duties that shall be payable on the like articles imported in
British bottoms — that is to say, the cargoes of each shall pay in
the ports of the other only native duties, it being understood that
those imposed in the British West Indies, on our productions,
are small and unimportant, while those imposed in our ports, on
the productions of the West Indies, are high, and important to
our revenue. — The vessels of each shall pay in the ports of the
other an equal alien tonnage duty, and our standard is adopted
as the common rule.

Is not this equal ? Can we expect or ask British vessels should
pay an alien tonnage duty in our ports, and that American ves-
sels should enter their ports freely, or on payment only of native
tonnage duties ? Can we in equity require them to pay, on the
importation of their cargoes in British vessels, an addition of ten
per cent on the duties payable on the importation of the like
articles in American vessels, and at the same time demand to pay
no higher or other duties on the cargoes carried in our vessels to
the British Islands, than those payable by them on the like arti-
cles imported in British vessels ? The very stating of the question
suggests to a candid mind an answer, that demonstrates the in-
justice of the objection. [To expect more, were to expect that
in a trade in which the opinions and practice of Europe contem-
plate every privilege granted for a foreign nation as a favor, we
were by treaty to secure a greater advantage to ourselves than
would be enjoyed by the nation which granted the privilege.]

But it is added that our laws impose a tonnage duty of six
cents per ton on the entry of American vessels engaged in foreign
trade, and it is not known that British vessels pay any tonnage
duty on their entry in their ports in the West Indies — and so
uniting the two entries, that is, the entry in the West Indies, and
the entry on a return to our ports, an American vessel will pay

.-Et. 38.]

CAMILLUS. 4()7

fifty-six cents per ton, when the British vessels will pay only
fifty cents per ton. If the British government impose no ton-
nage duty on their own vessels, and we do impose a tonnage
duty on ours, this certainly cannot form an objection against
them. They are as free to refrain from the imposition of a ton-
nage duty on their own ships, as we are to impose one on ours.
If their policy is wiser than ours in this respect, we are at liberty
to adopt it, by repealing the tonnage duty levied on American
navigation, which, if we please, may be confined to the particular
case ; the effect of such a measure, as far as it should extend,
though the duty is small, would be to add a proportionable ad-
vantage to our shipping in foreign competition. But the object
of the articles in this particular is to equalize, not the duties that
each may choose to impose on their own vessels, but those that
they shall impose on the vessels of each other ; and in this re-
spect the article is perfectly equal. [It is perhaps the first time
that the objection of inequality was founded on a circumstance
depending on the laws of the party affected by it, and removable
at his own option.]

This view of the subject authorizes a belief, that, in the revi-
sion of the article, a modification of it may be agreed to that will
prove satisfactory. Indeed, from the short duration of the article,
taken in connection with the expressions made use of towards
the close of it, relative to the renewal of the negotiation, for the
purpose of such further arrangements as shall conduce to the
mutual advantage and extension of this branch of commerce, we
may infer that Great Britain contemplates a more enlarged and
equal adjustment on this point.

The relaxations which now exist in the colonial systems, in
consequence of the necessities of war, and which will change to
our disadvantage with the return of peace, have been considered
by some as the permanent state of things. And this error has
had its influence in misleading the public in respect to the terms
and conditions on which we may reasonably expect to participate
in trade to the West Indies. But let it be remembered, that the
restoration of peace will bring with it a restoration of the laws of
limitation and exclusion, which constitute the colonial system.

408 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

Our efforts therefore should be directed to such adjustment with
Great Britain on this point, as will secure to us a right after
the return of peace, to the greatest attainable portion of the
trade to her islands in the West Indies.

It has been alleged, should the expected modification of this
article retain its present stipulation on the subject of import and
tonnage duty, that as France by treaty may claim to enjoy the
rights and privileges of the most favored nation, she would
demand an exemption from the ten per cent, on the duties upon
the productions of the West Indies imported in foreign bottoms,
and would moreover be free to impose an alien tonnage on our
vessels entering her ports in the West Indies, equal to that im-
posed on her vessels in our ports. This is true. But in order to
make this demand, France must agree, by treaty, to open all her
ports in the West Indies, to give us a right to import into them
flour, bread, tobacco, and such other articles as Great Britain
should permit, and which France by her permanent system pro-
hibits ; she must also concede to us a right to purchase in her
islands, and bring away, sugar, coffee, and pimento, which by
the same system she also prohibits ; she must do all this, because,
by our treaty with her, she can only entitle herself to a special
privilege granted to another nation, by granting on her part to
us the equivalent of what was the consideration of our grant.
Should France be inclined to arrange the trade between us and her
islands-, we certainly shall not object; because, besides the right
to such an arrangement, it would be more advantageous to us than
that which now regulates our intercourse with her West Indies.

So much of the twelfth article as respects its duration and
the renewal of the negotiation previous to the expiration of two
years after the conclusion of the war, in order to agree in a new
arrangement on the subject of the West India trade, as well as
for the purpose of endeavoring to agree whether in any, and in
what cases, neutral vessels shall protect enemy's property, and in
what cases provisions, and other articles not generally contraband,
may become such, form a part of the treaty as ratified by the
president. These clauses sufficiently explain themselves, and
require no comment in this place. They, however, prove one

JEt. 38.]

CAMILLUS. 409

point, which is, that after every effort on the part of our nego-
tiator, the parties were not able to agree in the doctrine that free
bottoms should make free goods, nor in the cases in which alone
provisions and other articles not generally contraband, should be
deemed such. Leaving, therefore, both these points precisely as
they found them (except in respect to provisions, the payment
for which, when by the law of nations liable to capture as con-
traband, is secured) to be regulated by the existing law of nations,
it is stipulated to renew the negotiation on these points at the
epoch assigned for the future adjustment of the West India trade,
in order then to endeavor to agree in a conventional rule, which,
instead of the law of nations, should thereafter regulate the con-
duct of the parties in these respects.

[The eleventh article has been passed over in silence as being
merely introductory and formal.]

Camillus.

NO. XXVI.

1795.

The British trade to their possessions in the East Indies, as
well as to China, is a monopoly vested by the legislature in a
company of merchants. No other persons in Great Britain, nor
in any of her dominions or colonies, can send a vessel to, or
prosecute trade independent of the company, with any part of
Asia. The right to trade with their possessions in India is not
only refused to all British subjects, the India company excepted,
but is one, that Great Britain has never before yielded by treaty
to any foreign nation. By the terms of the charter to the India
company, among a variety of limitations, they are restrained and
confined to a direct trade between Asia and the port of London ;
they are prohibited from bringing any of the productions of
India or China directly to any part of America, as well to the
British colonies as to our territories; and moreover they are
restrained from carrying any of the productions of Asia, directly

410 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

to any part of Europe, or to any port in Great Britain, Scotland,
or Ireland, except the single port of London.

The 13th article stipulates, that our vessels shall be admitted
in all the sea-ports and harbors of the British territories in the
East Indies, and that our citizens may freely carry on a trade
between said territories and the United States, in all such
articles, of which the importation or exportation shall not be
entirely prohibited ; provided only, that when Great Britain is at
war, we may not export from their territories in India, without
the permission of their local government there, military stores,
naval stores, or rice. Our vessels shall pay in this trade, the
same tonnage duty as is paid by British vessels in our ports ; and
our cargoes on their importation and exportation shall pay no
other or higher charges or duties than shall be payable on the
same articles when imported or exported in British bottoms ;
but it is agreed that this trade shall be direct between the United
States and the said territories ; that the article shall not be
deemed to allow the vessels of the United States to carry on any
part of the coasting trade of the British territories in India, nor
to allow our citizens to settle or reside within the said territories,
or to go into the interior parts thereof, without the permission of
the British local government there.

The British trade to their territories in the East Indies is car-
ried on by a corporation, who have a monopoly against the great
body of British merchants. Our trade to the same territories
will be open to the skill and enterprise of every American
citizen. The British trade to these territories is direct, but con-
fined to the port of London ; our trade to the same must likewise
be direct, but may be carried on from and to all our principal
ports.

The article gives us a right in common with the India company
to carry to these territories, and to purchase and bring from
thence, all articles which may be carried to or purchased and
brought from the same, in British vessels : our cargoes paying
native duties, and our ships the same alien tonnage as British
ships pay in our ports. This trade is equally open to both
nations ; except when Great Britain is engaged in war, when the

jEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 411

consent of tlie British local government is required in order to
enable us to export naval stores, military stores, and rice ; a
limitation of small consequence ; none of the articles except nitre
being likely to form any part of our return cargoes. Though
this article is one against which the objection of a want of reci-
procity (so often, and so uncandidly urged against other parts of
the treaty) has not been preferred, it has not however escaped
censure.

It is said that we are already in the enjoyment of a less re-
strained commerce with the British territories in India, and that
the treaty will alter it for the worse : inasmuch as we thereby
incapacitate ourselves to carry on any part of the coasting
trade of the British territories in India, and as we relinquish the
profitable freights to be made between Bombay and Canton, and
likewise those sometimes obtained from the English territories in
Bengal to Ostend.

It would seem a sufficient answer to say, that this trade has
heretofore existed by the mere indulgence of those who permitted
it, that it was liable to variations, that a total exclusion, especial-
ly had it been of us in common with other foreign nations, could
have afforded no just ground of complaint: that the relaxation
which has hitherto given us admission to the British Indian ter-
ritories, was not a permanent, but a mere temporary and occa-
sional regulation, liable to alteration, and by no means to be
demanded as the basis of an intercourse to be adjusted by com-
pact, with a foreign nation, which would no longer leave the
power of alteration in either of the parties.

But in respect to the first objection, the article amounts to this,
that the rights which it does grant, shall not by implication be
construed to give a right to carry on any part of the British
coasting trade in India.

If we have before shared in this trade by permission, nothing
in the article will preclude us from enjoying the same in future.
If we did not participate in it, nothing in the article impairs either
the authority of the British local government to permit our par-
ticipation or our capacity to profit by such permission. This

412 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

objection, therefore, falls to the ground, since the coasting trade
remains as it was before the treaty was formed.*

[Further, according to my information] — It is not the trade
between the East Indies and China, as has been erroneously sup-
posed by some persons, but the exportation of rice and other
articles, which are exchanged between the British territories in
the hither and further Indies, that is denominated the coasting
trade of the British territories in India. The importance of this
trade is not well understood ; nor am I able to say whether we
have heretofore been allowed to carry it on. If we have, the
little that we have heard of it, leads to an opinion that it is not an
object of much consequence. Let it, however, be granted that
hereafter we shall not be allowed to engage in it. Shall we have
more reason to complain of this exclusion, than we have that we
are refused a share in the coasting trade of the European domin-
ions of Great Britain ? or that we are excluded from the coasting
trade between their islands in the "West Indies ? Or than the
British themselves have, that by our prohibiting tonnage duty
(being fifty cents per ton on entry of a foreign vessel, when our
own coasting vessels pay only six cents per ton, for a year's
license) they are excluded from sharing in our coasting trade ; a
branch of business that already employs a large proportion of our
whole navigation, and is daily increasing.

In respect to the second and third objections, it may be re-
marked, that so far as the trade has been heretofore enjoyed, it
has been in consequence of an exception from, and relaxation in,
the system by which the European commerce has been regulated;
that having depended on the mere occasional permission of the
local government, we may safely infer (though it may have been
supposed incompatible with the discretionary powers, vested in
that government, to confer by treaty a positive right to carry on
the trade in question) that so long, and as often as the interest

* [The terms used clearly denote this and nothing more ; they are — " It is also
understood that the permission granted by this article is not to extend to o'/aw."
This does not negative any pre-existing indulgence, but merely provides that the
main grant shall not convert the revocable indulgence, if any there was in this par-
ticular, into an irrevocable right by treaty.]

JEt. 38.] CAM1LLUS. 413

that has heretofore induced the grant of this permission shall
continue or exist, the permission will be continued or renewed.
The stipulation, restraining the trade, may, if the parties see fit,
be dispensed with, and the trade may be enlarged, or made free.
It being a contract only between them and us, the parties are free
to remodify it ; and without a formal alteration, if those in whose
favor the restraint is made consent to remove it, the other party
is released from the obligation to observe it.*

Again — Surat, which is in the neighborhood of Bombay, is
the emporium of Guzerat, and of the northern portion of the
Malabar coast ; the cottons shipped from Bombay to Canton, are
frequently first sent from Surat to Bombay. Surat belongs to
the native powers to which we have free access. If the trans-
portation of cotton and some few other commodities from the
coast of Malabar to Canton is an important branch of our com-
merce, what will prevent our prosecuting it from Surat or any
other free port in the hither Indies ?

That it may be undertaken from the ports of the native
powers is rendered probable by the circitmstance, that these
freights are supplied principally or alone by the native or black
merchants, whose residence would naturally be in the ports
under native jurisdiction more frequently than in those under
the jurisdiction of any of the foreign powers.

But is it not tune (and will not candor admit it) that the trade
to the Asiatic dominions of the European powers has usually
been confined to the nation to whom such territories belong ? In
our treaty with Holland, have we not even stipulated to respect

* [This has been affected to be questioned on account of what is called the per-
emptoriness of the expressions (to wit), " It is expressly agreed that the vessels of
the United States shall not carry, fyc." But there is no real room for the question-
In a contract between two parties, whether individuals or nations, where a restraint
is imposed upon one for the benefit of another, it is always an implied condition of
the restraint that it shall continue, unless dispensed with by the party for whose
benefit it is imposed. — Thus the British government in India may remove the re-
straint, by continuing the indulgence in this respect heretofore granted. — And it
seems to me clear that the law which the United States are to pass, for enforcing
the prohibition, may, with good faith, be qualified with this provision, " unless by
permission of the British government in India."]

414 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38'.

their monopoly of this trade ? And by our treaty with France,
a nation whose liberal policy is said to have laid us under eter-
nal obligations of gratitude, have we acquired the slightest pre-
tensions, much less a right, to resort to, or trade with any part of
their Asiatic territories ?

A late decree of the convention which opened to us the ports
in their West Indies, likewise laid open their remaining terri-
tories in Asia. But this measure proceeding from the necessities
of the war and their inability to carry on their foreign commerce,
will change hereafter, as heretofore it has done, with the establish-
ment of peace. Did this opinion require to be strengthened, it
is abundantly confirmed by the navigation act, decreed by the
convention : the operation whereof is suspended for the same
reason that induced the opening to foreigners that trade to their
colonies and territories in the West and East Indies.

The British for more than a hundred years excluded foreigners
from a share in their East India trade ; for a few years past they
relaxed in the rigor of this system. We have availed ourselves
of this circumstance, and shared with them in their India com-
merce. But this permission can be viewed only as an occasional
departure from a general law ; which may be affected by a
change of circumstances, the duration of which, therefore, is un-
certain. The loss and inconvenience to which our merchants
may be exposed from the prosecution of a tra4e, depending on
regulations arising from inconstant circumstances, and which fre-
quently vary, may, in some measure, be guarded against, where
the scene is not remote, and the alterations in the laws can be
known soon after they are made. But in the Asiatic and in our
other distant commerce, it is of importance that the laws under
which an adventure is begun, should be permanent. Losses to a
considerable amount have been experienced by some of our mer-
chants, who have undertaken distant voyages in the expecta-
tion of the continuation of these temporary regulations. The
trade, for example, with the Cape of Good Hope (which the
Dutch government ordinarily monopolize to their own people)
was some time since opened to foreigners, and some of our citi-
zens profited by it ; but others, who had engaged in large adven-

/Et. 38.] CAMILLUS. 415

tures to that market, suffered no small disappointment and loss
in finding themselves excluded, upon their arrival, by a repeal of
the permission to foreigners to trade there. It must then be con
sidered as an important object secured, in respect to the principal
proportion of our India trade, that alone which is capable of
being pursued as a branch of our commerce, that the treaty turns
a favor into a rigid, and that our direct intercourse with the
British territories in the East Indies, in all respects as broad as
that of Great Britain herself (except in the articles of rice, naval
and military stores, when Great Britain is engaged in war), instead
of being an uncertain and hazardous trade, as heretofore, from
its precarious nature, it has been, will, hereafter, be as certain as
any in which our merchants shall engage.

It is further alleged, by way of objection to this article, that
it does not secure to our citizens a right to reside and settle in
the British territories in India, without the consent of the British
local government. The observation that has been made on a
similar objection, in respect to the coasting trade in India, is
equally applicable to this. The article leaves subjects precisely
in the situation in which it found them. But let it be remem-
bered that the disproportion between the numbers of the native
Indians and the foreigners inhabiting their country, is more than
one thousand of the former to one of the latter — that the most
exact discipline and subordination among the foreigners are
therefore essential to the preservation of the British authority
over that country — that no foreigner, or even a British subject,
is allowed to reside there, except in the character of a servant of
the company, or of a licensed inhabitant — that it has long been
held as a sound opinion, that unrestrained liberty to the Euro-
peans to emigrate to, and settle among the Indians, would, in a
short time, overturn and destroy the British empire in India.
This danger would by no means be diminished by conferring a
right upon the Americans, freely to reside and settle in India —
that we shall be allowed to reside and settle there by permission
of the local British government, is fairly to be inferred from the
article. But an [absolute right] to an entire liberty on these
points, might evidently be dangerous to the British government
over India — [and in prudence could not have been stipulated.]

416 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [At. 38.

The advantageous footing on which the trade is placed, is so
evident, that those who had no reliance on the objections urged
against it, but who, nevertheless, have been unwilling to allow
the treaty any merit on the score of this article, have endeavored
to show that our India trade is of little importance, and of small
value.

Whatever article can be supplied by the India Company, may
likewise be supplied by us, and some of them on better terms by
us, than by them. The reports of the committee of the directors
of the East India company, published in 1793, when their charter
was renewed, afford useful information on this subject, and dis-
close facts which show the advantages that we shall possess in
this trade over the company. They admit, that in the articles of
iron, wines, canvas, cordage, arms, and naval and military stores,
foreigners can enter into a beneficial competition with them ; and
that canvas and cordage, and we may add, all naval stores and
several other articles, can always be furnished in India by
foreigners, cheaper than by the company.

If we appreciate the advantage we have over them, in such
articles of supply as are of our own growth or production, as
well as in the wines not unusually procured by touching at Ma-
deira on the outward voyage to India, and compare it with the
advantage that they have over us in the few articles of choice,
which they purchase at the first hands, and which we must im-
port in order to re-export to India, it is probable that our cargoes
to India will, on the whole, be laid in as advantageously, if not
more so, than those of the India company. If we consider the
vast extent of territory, the numerous population, and the esta-
blished manufactures of India, so far from supposing that a free
trade to that country will be of little value to a young and enter-
prising nation, whose manufactures are still in their infancy, we
ought rather to conclude that it is a country with which we
should be solicitous to establish a free trade and intercourse.

Every one who has bestowed the slightest attention upon the
foreign manufactures consumed in our country, must have ob-
served the general and increasing use of those of India, owing to
the better terms on which they can be procured from Asia than

Mt. 38.] CAM ILL US. 417

from Europe. Though no document is at hand that will show
the value of the annual importations from India, it is stated by
Mr. Coxe, in his View of the United States, that the amount in
value of our importations from Asia is more than one fifth of the
value of our whole annual consumption of foreign commodities.
It is true that the porcelain, silks, nankeens, and teas of China
form a large portion of this annual importation. But, after a full
deduction on this account, a great and profitable branch of our
commerce will be found in our trade to the East Indies. It
should be remembered, [also,] that it is not the consumption
of our own country that regulates the quantity of India goods
that we import ; other countries have been supplied through us
with the fabrics and productions of both India and China. The
treaty will enlarge this demand.*

Several circumstances calculated to give our trade with Asia,
an advantage against foreign competition, and a preference to our
trade with Europe, are deserving of attention.

First. — The direct trade between us and Asia, including the
East Indies as well as China, cannot be prosecuted by the British
East India company, their ships being obliged to return to the
port of London, and there to discharge.

Second. — The difference between the duties on Asiatic goods
imported in American bottoms direct from Asia, and the duties
imposed on the same goods in foreign bottoms from Asia or from
Europe ; being on all articles a favorable discrimination, and in
the articles of teas, the duties on those imported in foreign bot-
toms being 50 per cent, higher than on those imported in Ame-
rican bottoms.

The particular difference of duties on Asiatic goods imported
in American and in foreign bottoms, so favorable to our own
navigation, will not be affected by the right reserved by Great
Britain to impose countervailing duties in certain cases ; that
right being relative to the intercourse between the United States
and the British territories in Europe.

* Perhaps from the certainty of the rights which it confers, it may invite a
foreign capital to extensive enterprises, in which the United States will he an en-
trepot between India and a great part of Europe.

g 27

418 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

Third. — The European intercourse with Asia is, in most cases,
conducted by corporation or exclusive companies, and all expe-
rience has proved that in every species of business (that of bank-
ing and a few analogous employments excepted), in conducting
of which a competition shall exist between individuals and cor-
porations, the superior economy, enterprise, zeal, and perse-
verance of the former, will make them an overmatch for the
latter; and that while individuals acquire riches, corporations,
engaged in the same business, often sink their capital and be-
come bankrupt. The British East India company are moreover
burdened with various terms and conditions, which they are re-
quired to observe in their Asiatic trade, and which operate as
so many advantages in favor of their rivals in the supply of for-
eign markets. The company, for example, are obliged annu-
ally to invest a large capital in the purchase of British manufac-
tures to be exported and sold by them in India ; the loss on
these investments is considerable every year, as few of the ma-
nufactures which they are obliged to purchase, will sell in India
for their cost and charges ; besides, from the policy of protecting
the home manufactures, the company are, in a great measure,
shut out from supplying India goods for the home consumption
of Great Britain. Most of the goods which they import from
India, are re-exported with additional charges, incurred by the
regulations of the company, to foreign markets, in supplying of
which we shall be their rivals, as from the information of intelli-
gent merchants, it is a fact that Asiatic goods, including the teas
of China, are, [on an average,] cheaper within the United States
than in Great Britain.

Fourth. — The manufactures of Asia are not only cheaper here
than in Europe, but in general they are cheaper than goods of
equal quality of European manufacture. So long as from the
cheapness of subsistence and the immense population of India
(the inhabitants of the British territories only being estimated at
forty millions) the labor of a manufacturer can be procured from
two to three pence sterling per day, the similar manufactures of
Europe, aided with all their ingenious machinery, is likely, on a
fair competition, in almost every instance, to be excluded by

Mt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 419

those of India. So apprehensive have the British government
been of endangering their home manufactures by the permission
of Asiatic goods to be consumed in Great Britain, that they
have imposed eighteen per cent, duties on the gross sales of all
India muslins, which is equal to twenty-two per cent, on their
prime cost. The duties on coarser India goods are still higher,
and a long catalogue of Asiatic articles, including all stained
and printed goods, is prohibited from being consumed in Great
Britain.

The British manufacturers were not satisfied even with this
prohibitory system ; and on the late renewal of the company's
charter, they urged the total exclusion from British consump-
tion of all India goods, and moreover proposed that the company
should be held to import annually from India a large amount of
raw materials, and particularly cotton, for the supply of the Bri-
tish manufacturers.

Those facts are noticed to show the advantages to be derived
from a free access to the India market, from whence we may
obtain those goods which would be extensively consumed even
in the first manufacturing nations of Europe, did not the security
of their manufactories require their exclusion.*

Camillus.

NO. XXVII.

1795.

The third article contains the terms and conditions of the
trade and intercourse that it authorizes between us and the Bri-
tish colonies on the American continent. The twelfth article
was intended to adjust the trade between us and the British

[* Great Britain has made it a serious point, in which she has in more than one
instance succeeded, to engage foreign powers (the emperor was one) to renounce
establishments for carrying on the trade with India, from their own territories :
yet this treaty opens all the territories to us. And yet it is not only denied merit,
but criminated, in this very particular.]

420 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

islands in the West Indies. The thirteenth article secures to us
a direct trade with the British territories in the East Indies ; and
it is the office of the fourteenth and the fifteenth articles, to ascer-
tain and establish the terms of the intercourse and trade be-
tween the territories of the United States and the British domi-
nions in Europe.

The fourteenth article establishes a perfect and reciprocal li-
berty of commerce and navigation between the territories of the
United States and of the British dominions in Europe ; stipulates
that the people and inhabitants of the two countries respectively,
namely, of the United States, and of the British dominions in
Europe, shall have liberty to come with their ships and cargoes
to the ports, cities, and places of each other, within the territo-
ries and dominions aforesaid, to resort and reside there, without
limitation of time, to hire houses and stores for the purpose of
commerce ; and that the merchants and traders on each side shall
enjoy, for their commerce, the fullest protection and security,
subject, notwithstanding, in respect to the stipulations of this ar-
ticle, to the laws of the two nations respectively.

As this article, in the customary language employed in the
introductory articles of commercial treaties, speaks of a perfect
liberty of commerce and navigation, without excepting any com-
modity, or specifying any impost or duty, it was possible that a
latitude or freedom of trade, inconsistent with the revenue laws,
and policy of the two nations, might have been claimed under
it ; hence the propriety of the provision with which the article
concludes, and which reserves to the parties respectively, the
power of avoiding this inconvenience, by continuing and enact-
ing such laws as may be proper for the purpose.

But as under this power again, partial duties, and even par-
tial exclusions, might have been established, whereby ships and
merchandises, as well as the articles of the growth, produce, or
manufacture of one of the parties, might have been made liable
to higher duties and imposts in the territories of the other, than
the ships and similar merchandises, and articles of the growth,
produce, or manufacture of other nations ; or whereby one of
the parties might prohibit the importation or exportation, by the

JEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 421

other, of any article to and from his territories, the importation
or exportation whereof was at the same time free to some other
nation : in order to prevent such inequalities, and to secure ef-
fectually to the parties, a right to carry on their trade with each
other on terms equally advantageous and extensive, with those
established by either, with any other nation, the fifteenth arti-
cle stipulates —

1. That no other or higher duty shall be exacted or paid, on
the ships and merchandises, nor on the articles of the growth,
produce, or manufacture of one of the parties, on their entry or
importation into the territories of the other, than shall be paya-
ble on the like ships, and merchandises, and on similar articles
of the growth, produce, or manufacture of any other nation.

2. That no article, the importation or exportation of which by
either party, to or from the territories of the other, is prohibited,
shall be imported or exported to or from the same by any other
foreign nation ; and that every article allowed to be imported or
exported to or from the territories of either party, by any fo-
reign nation, may be imported or exported to or from the same,
by the parties respectively.

By these stipulations it is agreed, that the people and inhabit-
ants of the United States and of the British dominions in Europe,
shall have the right to carry on trade between the said territo-
ries in all articles and commodities in which any other foreign
nation may trade with either of the parties ; that the impost or
duties on any article in the course of such trade, shall be no
other or higher than the lowest imposts or duties paid by any
other foreign nation on the like article ; that both parties shall
remain free, totally to prohibit the importation or exportation,
to or from their respective territories, of any species of goods or
merchandise, or to increase the existing duties, or to impose new
ones on the importation of any species of goods or merchandises,
into their respective territories; such prohibitions and duties
operating equally against all foreign nations. So far as respects
the interchange of commodities between the parties, these stipu-
lations breathe the spirit of reciprocity : the residue of the fif-
teenth article principally relates to the navigation which the
parties shall employ in this trade.

422 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

The first clause of the 15th article, in the spirit of those trea-
ties which mutually confer the right of the most favored nations,
stipulates that no other or higher duties shall be paid by the
ships of the one party in the ports of the other, than such as are
paid by the like vessels of all other nations.

By our laws, a difference exists between the tonnage duty
paid by an American vessel, and that paid by a foreign vessel in
our ports ; the American vessel pays only six cents per ton on
her entry, the foreign vessel, on her entry, pays fifty cents per
ton, and about twenty per cent, more duties on all teas import-
ed from Europe, and ten per cent, more duties on the importa-
tion of other goods, than are payable on the importation of the
same goods, in an American vessel.

By the British laws, the difference between the duties paid
by British and foreign vessels in the British ports in Europe, is
less than that which exists in our ports : the consequence is, that
a British vessel, of a given burden, pays considerably more ton-
nage duties in the trade between our territories and the British
ports in Europe, than is paid by an American vessel of the same
burden, engaged in the same trade.

The trade being laid open to both parties, the principle of
equalization of duties was very naturally deemed an equitable
basis of treaty. This could be effected by lowering the Ameri-
can alien duties to the British standard, or by raising those of
Great Britain to the American standard. The former might
have been inconvenient to our revenue, [especially since, if it
was not general, it would have formed, in respect to foreign na-
tions, an unpleasant discrimination in our laws.]

The American tonnage duty, therefore, was left to operate ;
and by the 15th article, it is agreed, that the British government
shall reserve a right to raise the tonnage duty on our vessels
entering their ports in Europe, so as to make it equal to the ton-
nage duty payable by their vessels entering our ports : and in
order to balance the difference of duties on goods imported into
our ports by American or by British vessels, the effect whereof is
the same as that which proceeds from an alien tonnage duty, the
art cle further agrees, that the British government shall reserve a

JEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 423

right to impose such duty as may be adequate to effect this end.
The preceding clause of this article stipulates, that the vessels
and cargoes of each shall pay no higher or other duties than
those imposed on the like vessels and cargoes of all other nations ;
it was, therefore, necessary to reserve a right to increase against
us, their alien tonnage duty, and to impose the countervailing
duty in question ; as without such reservation, the same could
not have been done, unless by laws equally operating against all
other nations — [which would have been unjust in reference to
such of them as might not, like us, have discriminated in their
duties between their own and foreign vessels.]

Two methods have been suggested, by which this counter-
vailing power might be executed.

One by imposing a pro rata duty on the importation of goods
into the British ports in Europe by American vessels, equal to
the difference between the duties payable in our ports on the
importation of goods by American or British vessels.

[The other,] by imposing the identical duty on the exporta-
tion of goods from the British ports in Europe, by American
vessels, which forms the difference between the duties payable
on the importation of the same goods into our ports by American
or British vessels.

As the articles imported by our vessels into the British ports
in Europe, are dissimilar from those imported from the same into
our ports, one rule of difference would not effect the equalization
sought for ; and as our difference of duties is not the same on all
articles, being higher on some than on others — [and as, moreover,
the quantities and amount of different articles differ widely, and
are liable to continual proportional variations,] no uniform [ave-
rage] rule of countervailing these differences can be devised ; the
[correct] execution, therefore, of this power, in the method first
suggested, is impracticable, and, [it is presumed,] must be dis-
carded.

The power, then, [it would seem,] can only be [equitably]
exercised by imposing on the articles which we shall export in
American vessels from the British ports in Europe, a duty iden-
tically the same as that which constitutes, in any case, the differ-

424 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

ence of duty, payable in our ports, on the same articles imported
from the British ports in Europe, by a British or American ves-
sel. Thus they may impose on tea and other Asiatic goods, as
well as on the European goods, which we shall export from the
British ports in Europe, the identical duty or the same sum
which constitutes the difference of duties payable in our ports on
the importation from thence of the same articles by an American
or a British vessel.

The right to countervail our alien tonnage duty by imposing
an alien tonnage duty on our vessels entering the British ports in
Europe, equal to that which shall be payable on their vessels en-
tering our ports, will continue so long as the commercial treaty
shall endure, and will apply to any future increase of the tonnage
duty on foreign vessels that we may establish; it is however
stipulated in the conclusion of the fifteenth article, that we shall
abstain from increasing the tonnage duty on British vessels, and
also from increasing the difference that now exists between the
duties payable on the importation of any articles into our ports
in British or in American vessels, until the expiration of two
years after the termination of the war between France and Great
Britain. But we are free to increase the one or the other, after
the expiration of that period ; and though the British govern-
ment will have a right to countervail, by additional tonnage duties,
on our vessels, any increase of that duty on their vessels ; yet
they will have no right to countervail any increase of the differ-
ence between the duties payable on the importation of any arti-
cles into our ports, in British or in American vessels, unless by a
duty common to all foreign nations ; the right reserved on this
subject, being confined to the difference that now exists, will not
reach such future increase.*

From this analysis of the 14th and 15th articles, we are the
better enabled to perceive the truth of the following propositions.

* How ridiculous, then, the argument, if the basis of it were otherwise true,
that the treaty, by tying up the government from future discrimination, has
prostrated our navigation before Great Britain ! Can a restraint which is only to
operate the short term of two years after the termination of the present war, have
the mighty effect of sacrificing our navigation 1

JEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 425

1. As, for the purpose of encouraging or protecting the agri-
culture and manufactures of Great Britain, several of our pro-
ductions, in common with similar productions of the other na-
tions, are prohibited from being imported into the British ports in
Europe ; we are free, whenever our interest shall require it, also
to exclude any of the productions of the British dominions from
being imported into our ports, extending such exclusions, as they
do, to the like manufactures and productions of foreign nations.

Should that part of the twelfth article, which has not been
ratified, in its modification retain the stipulation relative to the
importation of coffee, sugar, and the other productions of the West
Indies, it would constitute an exception to this proposition. But
as the West India productions are dissimilar to those of our own
country, they would not fall within the reason of these prohibi-
tions, and, therefore, the exception would be of no consequence.

2. As, for the like reasons, some of our productions are
subject, in common with the like productions of other nations, to
high, or prohibitory duties in the British ports in Europe, we are
free, likewise, to impose similar duties on any of the productions
or manufactures of the British dominions, extending such duties,
as they do, to the like productions and manufactures of other
foreign nations.

3. As the navigation act of Great Britain, in order to extend
their own shipping, has heretofore confined the importation of
foreign productions into the British ports, to British ships, and to
the ships of the country producing the same; the 15th article
[appears] to contain an important innovation on this celebrated
act; inasmuch as [by the most obvious construction of the
terms] it gives us a right to import from our own territories into
the British ports in Europe every article and description of goods
and merchandises, which any nation in their own ships is allowed
to import. In consequence whereof, while all other foreign na-
tions are prohibited and restrained from importing in their own
vessels into Great Britain any goods or merchandises, except
those of their own particular growth, produce, or manufacture,
we, by the treaty, have a right to carry from our ports to the
British ports in Europe, not only goods and merchandises of our

426 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [iEr. 38.

own growth, produce, or manufacture, but also of such goods
and merchandises, the growth, produce, or manufacture of any
foreign nation, as a nation producing or manufacturing the same,
would import in their vessels into Great Britain.

4. Should it ever be politic to exclude all foreign vessels
from importing, or exporting, any species of goods, wares, or
merchandises, by confining their importation or exportation to
our own vessels ; we are perfectly free to do so ; with the excep-
tion, relative to the West India productions, referred to under
the first proposition ; thus, for example, we may prohibit the im-
portation of all Asiatic goods, except in American bottoms.

That these articles of the treaty leave our navigation and
commerce as free, and secure to us as extensive advantages as
have before been procured by our commercial treaties with
foreign nations, will be seen by the following comparison :

1. By the articles before us, the parties restrain themselves
from imposing any other or higher duties on the vessels and
cargoes of each other, than they impose on the vessels and car-
goes of all other nations ; and also from imposing a prohibition
of the importation or exportation of any article to or from the
territories of each other, which shall not extend to all other na-
tions. By the 3d and 4th articles of our treaty with France,
and by the 2d and 3d articles of our treaty with Prussia, it is
stipulated, that the subjects and citizens of the respective parties,
shall pay, in the ports, havens, and places of each other, no
other or greater duties or imposts, of whatsoever nature they
may be, than those which the nations most favored shall be
obliged to pay: and moreover, that they shall enjoy all the
rights, liberties, privileges, and exemptions in trade, navigation,
and commerce, which the said nations do, or shall enjoy : and by
the 2d article of the former, and the 26th article of the latter
treaty, the parties agree mutually, not to grant any particular
favor, in respect to navigation or commerce, which shall not im-
mediately become common to the other party, who shall enjoy
the same favor, if freely granted, or on allowing the same com-
pensation, if the concession was conditional.

The stipulations in the three treaties are, on these points,
equivalent.

JEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 427

The 2d and 3d articles of our treaty with Holland, and the
3d and 4th of our treaty with Sweden, likewise contain mutual
stipulations, that the subjects and citizens of the several parties
shall pay in the ports, havens, and places of their respective
countries, no other or higher duties or imposts than those which
the nations most favored shall pay ; and that they shall enjoy all
the rights, liberties, privileges, and exemptions in trade and
navigation, which the said nations shall enjoy.

2. The articles before us, after stipulating that there shall be
between our territories and the British dominions in Europe, a
reciprocal and perfect liberty of commerce, declare, that the same
shall be subject always to the laws of the respective countries.
The introductory articles of our treaties with France, Holland,
and Sweden, after asserting the intentions of the parties to take
equality and reciprocity as their basis, likewise leave each party
at liberty to form such regulations respecting commerce and navi-
gation as it shall find convenient to itself — and the 2d and 3d
articles of our treaty with Prussia, after stipulating the rights of
the parties, respecting the duties and imposts, and the freedom of
their navigation and trade, likewise require their submission to
the laws and usages established in the two countries.

3. The articles before us, in their provisions relative to navi-
gation, stipulate, as has been already observed, in common with
our other treaties, that the ships of the parties shall not be subject
to higher or other duties, than those paid by all other nations.
They go farther, and agreee to vary this rule, so far as shall be
necessary to equalize the tonnage duty imposed by the parties on
the ships of each other. Our treaty with France is the only one
in which we discover a similar stipulation. — France had a high
alien tonnage duty on all foreign vessels transporting the mer-
chandise of France from one port to another port in her domin-
ions. We had a less alien tonnage duty on foreign ships employed
in a similar trade : though not equally extensive, the case is
parallel to that which exists between us and Great Britain. We
have a high alien tonnage duty on all foreign vessels entering
our ports ; Great Britain has a less alien tonnage duty on foreign
vessels entering her ports. In our treaty with France we reserve

428 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 38.

a right to countervail the alien tonnage duty imposed by France ;
and in like manner, in our treaty with Great Britain, she reserves
a right to countervail the alien tonnage duty imposed by us.
The object, in both instances, has been to place the navigation of
the parties on the footing of exact equality.

The preceding exposition of these articles, illustrated by the
comparison of their provisions, with the analogous articles of our
other treaties, would be sufficient to vindicate them against the
objections to which they have been exposed. — It is, however,
thought advisable to take notice of such of these objections as
are likely to have any influence on the public opinion. — [This will
be done in a subsequent number.]

Camillus.

no. XXVIII.

1795.

An extraordinary construction of the last clause of the four-
teenth article has been assumed by the writer of Cato ; his mistake
in this instance has been the foundation of many of the errors
with which that performance abounds. The article stipulates
that there shall be a perfect and reciprocal liberty of navigation
and commerce between our territories and those of Great Britain
in Europe, subject always to the laws and statutes of the two
countries, respectively. This navigation and commerce, says
Cato, must be subject to, and defined and regulated by the laws
and statutes of the two countries, which existed at the time of
making the treaty, all future laws, that either party might be
disposed to make, relative to the same, being excluded.

The reason assigned, in support of this interpretation, is, that
the article would be nugatory, did not the laws and statutes
alluded to, mean only those in existence at the making of the
treaty ; since future laws might impair or destroy what the article
confers.

Mt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 42'J

Nothing in the expressions themselves requires this interpre-
tation.

The customary and established meaning of them in other trea-
ties would lead to a rejection of it. — The object of the clause is
not the limitation of the legislative power of the parties, but the
subjection of their mutual navigation and commerce to their
respective laws. — This end is most fully attained by understanding
the parties to mean their future as well as their existing laws.
Besides, the interpretation must be such as will not destroy the
use and meaning of other parts of the treaty. If this construction
is just, some of the most important stipulations of the fifteenth
article would really become useless. For instance, if the laws,
existing at the time of making the treaty, are alone to prevail, the
articles of commerce, admitted or excluded by those laws, must
remain entitled to admission or liable to exclusion. Why then
say in the fifteenth article " that no prohibition shall be imposed
on the exportation or importation of any articles to or from the
territories of the parties respectively, which shall not extend to
all other nations ?" If a prohibition, applying to all foreign
nations, may be imposed (as the clause allows), this would be a
new or subsequent law, varying the law existing at the time of
making the treaty, and consequently defeating the construction in
question.

The reason adduced by Cato to support his construction is
equally defective with his interpretation itself. The fourteenth
article is in general terms, and similar, as has been shown, to the
introductory articles of other treaties ; so far from the last clause
thereof being capable of destroying the preceding stipulations, it
is the peculiar province of the next article to ascertain the points
which the parties mutually agree to except from their legislative
power. In all cases not thus excepted, the navigation and com-
merce of the parties is subject to their existing or future laws.

It is not necessary to remark on the several objections which
have proceeded from the opinion that the treaty restrains us from
imposing prohibitory duties and exclusions : they are but sub-
divisions of the error that has been just combated.

Another objection which has been stated by several writers,

430 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

and much labored by Cato, is, that under the right reserved to
the British government to countervail an alien tonnage duty, by
the imposition of an equivalent one on our vessels entering their
ports, they would gain and we should lose.

Several methods are adopted to prove this opinion. The ob-
servation that we have a tonnage duty on our own vessels, and
that Great Britain has none, is repeated by way of objection
against this as well as against the proposed adjustment contained
in the 12th article. The same reply already given might be
sufficient in this place.

But [is it true] that British ships entering their own ports in
Europe are wholly free from a tonnage duty ? the contrary is
the fact ; since it is understood, that they pay a tonnage duty for
the support of light-houses, and some other institutions, connected
with their navigation, which [in all their ports*] exceeds the
tonnage duty of six cents per ton, that we levy on the entry of
our own vessels employed in foreign trade. But Great Britain
(it is alleged) will not only impose in virtue of this reserved
right, fifty cents per ton on our vessels entering her ports, but in
every port except that of London, she will furthermore exact
one shilling and ninepence sterling, or thirty-nine cents per ton,
for light-money and Trinity- dues more than is paid by her own
vessels ; this, added to the difference before stated, would have,
it is said, a very discouraging effect upon our navigation. Our
tonnage duty is a tax not divided and appropriated, like the
light-money, or Trinity-dues, in Great Britain, to specific, and
particular objects — but when levied, goes into the treasury with
the duty of impost, and stands appropriated to the various objects
to which that duty is appropriated — among those objects is the
support of light-houses — it is not the object to which the tax is
applied that gives a denomination ; whether it goes to support
the civil list, or to pay annuities, or to maintain light-houses, or
to support hospitals, it is equally a tonnage duty. A tonnage
duty then of a certain amount, is now paid by American vessels
entering the ports of Great Britain. This duty is not uniform,
being less in London than in the other ports, and, in some in-

* Unless London be an exception.

At. 38.] CAMILLUS. 431

stances, less than the tonnage duty paid by British ships entering
our ports. The object of this clause (8th of the 15th article) is to
equalize the alien tonnage duties of the parties. Hence the
reservation of a right to the British government, to impose on
our vessels entering their ports in Europe, a tonnage duty equal
to that which shall be payable by British vessels in our ports.
It would be against the manifest views of the parties as well as
against the explicit terms of the article, to impose a tonnage duty
(whether for light-money, Trinity-dues, or any other purpose)
which should exceed that which shall be payable by British
vessels in our ports.

The right reserved is expressly to impose on our vessels an
equal, not a greater tonnage duty than we shall impose on their
vessels. This objection, therefore, must be abandoned.

But again, it is urged, that our navigation, should it weather
Scylla, must perish on Charybdis : for we are gravely told by
Cato, that under the right reserved to the British government to
impose such duty as may be sufficient to countervail, or, which
is equivalent, to balance the difference of duty payable on the
importation into our ports of Asiatic or European goods by Ame-
rican or by British vessels, our ships will be thrown out of the
trade with the British European dominions ; because under this
right, the British government will impose a duty on our pro-
ductions carried to their ports in our own ships, equal to the
whole duty payable on the goods and merchandises imported
into our ports by British ships ; and as the goods and merchan-
dises which we receive from them exceed in value those that
they receive from us by one-third, and as the duty to be counter-
vailed is at least ten per cent, ad valorem on the goods received
from them, the consequence will be, that the countervailing duty
must amount to fifteen per cent, on the value of all our produc-
tions carried in our own ships to the British ports in Europe,
while the same will be free in British ships. A more extra-
vagant construction,* or an argument more inaccurately formed,
can scarcely be imagined.

[* If I mistake not, the assertion of Cato, as to the whole duty, has been retracted ;
but the residue of his error on this point remains unrecalled.]

432 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 38.

The countervailing right is not applicable to the whole duty-
payable on goods and merchandises imported into our ports in
British ships, but expressly confined to the difference of duty
now payable on the same when imported by American or by
British vessels. This difference is one-tenth part of the duty upon
all European goods, that is to say, these goods pay one-tenth
part more duty when imported in British vessels than is paid on
the same when imported in an American vessel ; in all cases,
therefore, where our impost is ten per cent, ad valorem, the dif-
ference of duty to be countervailed amounts to only one per cent,
on the value of the goods, instead of ten per cent, as is alleged by
Cato ; in the instance of teas imported from Europe the difference
is greater : again it is not an aggregate sum, that is to be appor-
tioned under this countervailing right, for this sum would be
liable to constant variation, according to the quantity and species
of goods imported into our ports from time to time by British
vessels ; and besides, the British government possess no means
whereby, the amount thereof could be ascertained.

Cato feels and admits the force of these remarks as decisive
against an average duty, without perceiving that they possess
equal strength against his project of countervailing the whole duty
paid on the importation of goods and merchandises into our
ports by British vessels ; for the same variation in the amount,
and the same want of the means to ascertain it, will operate in
both cases. The reasons which he himself employs to prove
that an average duty cannot be ascertained, equally show the
impracticability of the method which he considers as the one
that will be employed in the execution of the countervailing
right reserved to the British government. It has before been
stated, that the natural as well as the equitable mode of executing
this power will be, to impose a duty on the goods imported by us
from their European ports exactly the same as makes the dif-
ference of duty on the importation thereof into our ports by
American or by British vessels.

Admitting that the execution of the countervailing right
reserved to Great Britain will do no more than place the naviga-
tion of the parties on an equal footing in their mutual intercourse,

jEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 433

still we are told that for this, likewise, the treaty is blamable,
because even equality will be such an advantage to our rival,
that we shall be unable to maintain the competition.

This objection brings with it a quality rarely to be discovered
in the opinions of the cavillers against the treaty. Their usual
error is a false and magnified estimate of the comparative re-
sources, strength and importance of our country ; in this instance,
shifting their ground, they fall into the opposite extreme, and
contend for our inferiority in a branch of business in the pro-
secution of which, we are unquestionably able to meet a fair
competition with any nation.

With what propriety could we have proposed or expected an
adjustment of our intercourse by which our vessels should have
been placed on a better footing than those of the other party ?
As the trade was mutually beneficial, why could we, more than
Great Britain, ask for an arrangement that should subject our
rival to comparatively heavier burdens ? Does any considerate
man believe, that it would have been proper for us to ask, or
that there is the least probability that Great Britain would have
acceded to, an arrangement on the subject of our mutual navi-
gation, that should have secured to us advantages denied to
them ? To place the navigation of the parties on an equal foot-
ing, was all that could be rationally expected by either — and so
far from such a settlement being injurious to us, the contrary
has long been the opinion both here and in Great Britain. If
it is true, that we are unable to maintain a competition with the
British navigation, how are we to account for the jealousy [that
is understood] to have shown itself on their part on this subject.

But the fact is otherwise — British ships cannot be built and
equipped as cheap as American ships, nor are they victualled and
manned* on as good terms. Our country abounds with excellent
materials for ship-building. Great Britain is in a great measure
dependent upon other countries for a supply of them. The ma-
terials for the construction of ships are much cheaper in America

* [In the comparison in this particular, we must combine the number of hands
with the terms of compensation according to which the vessels of the two countries
are navigated.]

G 28

434 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 38.

than in Great Britain ; and intelligent characters in Great Britain
as well as in America have affirmed, that an American merchant
ship of any given burden, can be built and equipped for sea one-
third cheaper than a British, Dutch, or French ship of equal
goodness. Mr. Coxe informs us, that the cost of an American
ship, built of our live oak and cedar, is from 36 to 38 dollars per
ton, completely finished ; while an oak ship in the cheapest part
of England, France, or Holland, fitted in the same manner, will
cost from 55 to 60 dollars per ton. The capital employed on the
American merchantmen is therefore one-third less on any given
amount of tonnage than that employed in the same amount of
British tonnage ; or the money requisite to build and equip for
sea two British merchant ships, will be sufficient to build and
equip for sea three American merchant ships of the same burden
and of equal goodness. It is not only the difference in the first
cost, but to this should be added the difference of interest and
insurance, the annual amount whereof is ascertained by the value
of the ships.

If we add to this, the comparative advantages that we pos-
sess in victualling and manning our vessels, independent of the
acknowledged and distinguished skill and enterprise of our sea-
men, it may be safely affirmed, that no American who knows
the character of his countrymen, and who is not ignorant
of our peculiar resources for ship-building, will doubt our
superiority in an equal and fair competion with any other
nation.

It is further alleged, that the treaty wants reciprocity, inas-
much as the whole territory of the United States is laid open
to the British • navigation and commerce, while in return, the
British territories, in Europe only, are open to us. The short
answer to this allegation is, that it is not true. All the British
territories in Europe are laid open to us ; all their territories in
Asia are also opened to us ; the treaty likewise opened all their
territories in the "West Indies. The article relative to this branch
of trade, as has already been observed, is excepted from the
ratification of the treaty, and made the subject of future negotia-
tion. The British territories on our continent, that of the Hud-

jEt. 38.] CAM ILL US. 435

son's Bay company excepted, are also opened to us in like man-
ner as ours are opened to them. The intercourse is confined on
both sides to the interior communications, the inhabitants of
those colonies being equally destitute of a right to resort, by
sea, with their ships to our ports and harbors, as we are of
the right to resort, by sea, with our ships to their ports and har-
bors.

The territory of the Hudson's Bay company, the island of
Newfoundland and the establishments on the coast of Africa,
are the only British dominions to which the treaty, in its origi-
nal form does not give a right of intercourse and trade.

The settlement in the Bay of Honduras is on Spanish lands,
and the right of precedence is conceded for specified objects,
beyond which, the Spanish government are vigilant to restrain
the settlers.

Spain may possibly be induced to allow us a right in common
with Great Britain to cut mahogany and dye-woods in this region ;
but Great Britain cannot, consistently with her convention with
Spain, share with us the privilege that she enjoys.

Newfoundland is a mere establishment for the British fisheries.
The African trade has been, and might hereafter be pursued,
if our humanity and the force of public opinion did not impede
it, without procuring a right to resort to the British ports in that
quarter : and in respect to the unsettled territory of the Hudson's
Bay company, about which so much has been noticed and writ-
ten, it is of no sort of importance, except in a small Indian trade
that employs two or three annual ships which arrive there in
August, and escape in September ; besides, that this trade be-
longs to a company who possess a right to the exclusive enjoy-
ment of it even against their fellow-citizens. It is finally alleged
that the treaty will bind up and restrain our government from
making more specific and beneficial treaties of commerce with
other nations.

Those who urge this objection, have generally placed great
reliance on another objection, which asserts that the treaty with
Great Britain violates the Constitution, because it amounts to a
regulation of commerce, the power to regulate which is vested

436 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

in Congress and not in the executive. Yet these very charac-
ters, in the next breath, maintain that the treaty is bad, be-
cause it precludes our executive government (for no other
power can make treaties) from making more minute and benefi-
cial commercial treaties with other nations. If these observa-
tions can be reconciled, it must be thus : the Constitution does
not authorize the executive, with the aid of the senate, to
make a commercial treaty with Great Britain, having vested
in Congress the power to regulate the trade between us and that
nation ; but it allows the executive to make commercial treaties
with any other nation, which may establish the most material
and minute commercial and revenue laws, without affecting
the power vested in Congress to regulate trade. That Ave may
have characters among us sufficiently intemperate to wish that
such was the Constitution, I am not prepared to deny; — but
that such a construction can be made out, yet remains to be
proved.

The objection, as usual, is made in a loose and inaccurate
manner; literally interpreted, we should infer that the treaty
contained an article, whereby we had agreed with Great Bri-
tain, that we would not form any future treaties of commerce
with any nation ; but no such stipulation exists.

Is it meant by the objection to be alleged, that we can form
no commercial treaty, whereby, for an advantage yielded on
our part, we may acquire a privilege in return, unless we yield
the same advantage to Great Britain gratuitously and without
receiving from her the equivalent?

Admitting the truth of this objection, it might be replied :
So on the other hand, Great Britain can form no commercial
treaty, whereby, for an advantage yielded on her part, she may
acquire some privilege in return, unless she yields the same ad-
vantage to us gratuitously and without receiving from us the
equivalent ; and as Great Britain, whose commercial relations
are equally extensive with ours, and whose capital far exceeds
ours, is equally restrained on this point, our chance of gain would
be fully equal to our chance of loss.

But the allegation is not generally true, and the objection,

jEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 437

when examined, will be found to be of little weight, even with
those who may imagine that nations do sometimes make good
bargains by the purchase of privileges and exemptions in their
foreign trade. The case that has been chosen to enforce the ob-
jection, shall be employed to invalidate it.

Admit that the treaty with Great Britain is in operation —
that the oil and provision merchants of the United States, and
the wine and brandy merchants of France are desirous of a treaty
between the two countries, whereby those commodities shall be
received from each other on low duties or freely — admit further,
that the governments of the two nations are disposed to make
such a treaty (this is the case again put by the opposers of the
treaty as impracticable), what will restrain the conclusion of this
treaty ? The disadvantage that will arise from our treaty with
Great Britain? ISTo, for Britain produces neither wines, nor
brandy made from wines, with which she could supply us ; she
therefore could gain nothing, nor should we lose any thing by
the conclusion of such a treaty. All that will be requisite, there-
fore, in the formation of such treaties, will be to choose for the
purpose such articles of the growth, manufacture, or produce of
any country with whom we desire to treat, as are not common
to it and the British dominions, and any skilful merchant will
quickly make the selection. Hence it appears that the objection
is not well founded in point of fact.

But though it may be practicable, will it be politic in us to
conclude no commercial treaties of this character with any na-
tion ? If we resort to precedents as guides, we shall discover
few, the history of which would encourage us. Indeed they
are a description of conventions not often formed between na-
tions.

They are of difficult adjustment, and necessarily increase the
provisions of the commercial code, sufficiently intricate, when
only one rule prevails in respect to all nations. Besides, how-
ever perfect may be the right of nations in this respect, yet, when
the productions of one nation are received at lower duties than
the like productions of another, the discrimination will scarcely
fail to awaken desires and to produce dissatisfaction from their
disappointment.

438 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [J2r. 38.

Again, unless we are prepared, at the expense of the whole,
to procure advantages or privileges for a part of the community,
we shall doubt the policy of such stipulations. Between two
manufacturing nations, in each of which the manufactures have
attained to great perfection, a tariff of duties may be establish-
ed by treaties, in the payment of which the manufactures of the
two countries might be freely exchanged and mutually confirm-
ed ; such was the commercial treaty between France and Great
Britain in the year 1786. But the subject was so intricate and
involved such a variety of apparently independent circumstances,
such as the price of provisions, the amount and the manner of
levying of the taxes, and the price of the raw materials employ-
ed in their respective manufactures, that neither part felt entire
confidence in the equity and reciprocity of the treaty : and with
all the skill in negotiation, that France in a superior degree has
been supposed to have possessed, the opinion of that nation has
finally been, that the treaty was burdensome and disadvanta-
geous to them.

We have another specimen of this species of treaty in a short
convention between England and Portugal, concluded in 1703 —
the object was to procure a favorable market for dissimilar com-
modities, and such as were not the common production of the
two countries. But this treaty, which has been so much ap-
plauded, is essentially defective in point of reciprocity. England
agrees to admit the wine of Portugal on payment of two thirds of
the duty that shall be payable on French wines ; and in return,
Portugal agrees not to prohibit the English woollens. She does
not agree to receive them exclusively of the woollens of other
countries, nor to admit them on payment of lower duties. The
advantage, therefore, is manifestly on the side of Portugal. By
the treaty of commerce between France and Great Britain, con-
cluded in 1786, it was agreed, that the wines of France imported
into Great Britain should pay no higher duties than those which
the wines of Portugal then paid. The consequence must have
been a reduction, without compensation or equivalent from
Portugal, of the existing duties on the wines of that country
brought into Great Britain, equal to one third of the amount of

JEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 439

such duties. This is an instance of inconvenience and loss, re-
sulting from the species of treaties, which it is alleged as an ob-
jection to the treaty concluded between us and Great Britain,
that we are prevented by it from making with other nations.

A small compact nation, likewise, who excel in some one
species of manufacture, that is established throughout their ter-
ritory, and in the conducting and success whereof there is a
common interest, may find it useful to procure the exclusive
supply of some foreign market : provided, in this as in all other
bargains, the compensation shall not be too high. But in a na-
tion like ours, composed of different States, varying in climate,
productions, manufactures, and commercial pursuits, it will be
more difficult to enter into treaties of this kind. Should Great
Britain, for example, be inclined to admit our fish-oils freely, or
on payment of low duties, on condition that we would receive
their woollens or hardware freely, or on payment of low duties
— would the middle and southern States be satisfied with such a
treaty? — would they agree to a tax on their estates sufficient to
supply the deficiency in the revenue arising from the relinquish-
ment of the impost on British woollens or hardware ? Would
it not be said, that such a tax was a bounty out of the common
treasury, on a particular branch of business pursued alone by a
portion of the citizens of a single State in the Union ? Instances
might be multiplied in the illustration of this subject; but they
will readily occur to every man who will pursue a little detail
in his reflections. We have once made an experiment of this
kind — its fate should serve as a caution to us in future. By the
eleventh and twelfth articles of our treaty with France, it was
agreed, that France should never impose any duty on the mo-
lasses that we should import from the French West Indies ; and
in compensation of this exemption, that we should never im-
pose any duty on the exportation of any kind of merchandise by
Frenchmen, from our territories, for the use of the French West
Indies. These articles produced much dissatisfaction in Con-
gress : it was said to be a benefit that would enure to the use
and advantage of only a part, but which, must be compensated
by the whole. Those arguments which will show themselves in

440 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

future, should similar conventions be formed, were displayed on
this occasion. The treaty was ratified, Congress applied to the
king of France to consent to annul these articles — this request
was granted — and the articles were, by the several acts of the
parties, annulled.

Not only the few instances of the existence of these treaties
among the nations, added to the peculiar difficulties which we
must meet in their formation, should lead us to doubt their utili-
ty, but also the opinion of our own country, which, if explicit on
any point, has been repeatedly so in the condemnation of this
species of national compact.

The introductory article of our commercial treaty with
France, asserts, that the parties willing to fix in an equitable
and permanent manner, the rules which ought to be followed
relative to their correspondence and commerce, "have judged
that the said end could not be better obtained, than by taking
for the basis of their agreement the most perfect equality and
reciprocity, and by carefully avoiding all those burdensome
preferences which are usually sources of debate, embarrassment
and discontent."

The same language is employed in our subsequent treaties
with Holland and with Sweden ; the public voice is unequivocal
on this subject.

On the whole, the more closely this question is examined,
the more doubtful will the policy appear, of our entering into
treaties of this description. We shall have to encounter not only
the intrinsic difficulties that always attend a fair and precise ad-
justment of the equivalents, together with the national discon-
tents that proceed from errors on this point ; but moreover a
still greater embarrassment from the circumstances that our great
staple exports are not the common productions of the whole
Union, but different articles are peculiar to different parts there-
of. If, notwithstanding, our government shall discover an in-
stance in which, consistent with the common interest and sound
policy, such a treaty might be desirable, we have scope sufficient
to form it without incurring loss or disadvantage by the opera-
tion of our treaty with Great Britain.

Camillus.

vEt. 38.] CAM1LLUS. 441

NO. XXIX.

1795.

The sixteenth article is entirely conformable to the usage and
custom of nations. The exchange of consuls had already taken
place between us and Great Britain ; and their functions and
privileges being left to the definition of the law of nations, we
shall be exempt from those unpleasant controversies that too
often arise from special conventions, which enlarge the consular
privileges, power, and jurisdiction.

The agreement that either party may punish, dismiss, or send
back a consul for illegal or improper conduct, is calculated to
prevent national misunderstandings, and to secure a respectful
deportment in the consular corps. I have not observed that this
article has been disapproved of from any quarter.

The seventeenth article which respects the capture and deten-
tion of the vessels of the parties on just suspicion of having on
board enemy's property, or contraband of war, has been the ob-
ject of intemperate censure — with how much justice it shall be
the business of this paper to examine.

The principal complaint, is not, that the article exposed our
own property to loss by capture, for this is not the case, but that
it does not protect enemy's property on board our vessels. The
defence of the article will rest upon the proofs which shall be
exhibited, that it is in conformity with, and supported by, the
clear and acknowledged law of nations — that law which pro-
nounces that enemy's goods on the high seas are liable to capture,
and as a necessary mean to this end, that neutral ships are there
liable to examination or search.

The law of nature (as heretofore observed) applicable to indi-
viduals in their independent or unsocial state, is what, when ap-
plied to collections of individuals in society, constitutes the natural
or necessary law of nations. An individual in a state of uature,
for reparation of injuries, or in defence of his person and property,
has a right to seize the property of his enemy, and to destroy his
person.

442 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 38.

Nations always succeed to the rights that the individuals who
composed them enjoyed in a state of nature : and hence it is that
by the law of nations, from the earliest annals of society, the goods
or property of one enemy has been considered as liable to be
seized and applied to the use of another. This right must be so
used as not to injure the rights of others : subject to this limita-
tion, it is perfect, and an interruption of it by another is an injury.
As in a contest between two individuals in a state of nature, no
third has a right, without becoming a party in the controversy,
to protect the property, or defend the person of either of the par-
ties; so in a war between two nations no third nation can act out
of its own jurisdiction, consistent with the duties of neutrality ;
or, without becoming a party in the war, protect the property of,
or defend either of the parties. Though nations are, in respect
to each other, like individuals in a state of nature, the resemblance
is not in every particular perfect. Individuals in a state of nature
have not only the inferior dominion or private ownership of
property, but the entire and perfect dominion over it. In society
the latter right belongs exclusively to the nation, while the former
belongs to the several members that compose it. Immovable
things, such as lands, which are denominated the territory of a
nation, are the immediate and special objects of this perfect do-
minion or paramount property. Movable things are the proper
objects of inferior dominion or private ownership, and are no
otherwise the objects of the national or paramount propert}*- than
as they happen to be within its territorial limits. The perfect
dominion, or jurisdiction of a nation, in respect to property, ex-
tends over, and is bounded by, the lands thereof and the waters
appurtenant to the same.

As soon, therefore, as movable things pass out of these limits,
they cease to be under the dominion or jurisdiction of the nation,
the private property of whose members they may be.

This private property, in movable things, may be enjoyed
within the territory of a nation, by those who are not members
thereof. Hence in a war between two nations, a member of one
of which owns movables within the territory of a third or neutral
nation, such movables or property are not liable to seizure by

jEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 443

reason of the war ; because, being within and under the exclusive
jurisdiction of a third nation, it would be an injury to the right
of such nation to go there and seize the same. So long as such
movables remain within a foreign territory, they are objects of
its dominion and protection ; but as soon as they are carried out
of the same, they cease to be any longer under its jurisdiction or
protection.

In a war between two nations, all the members of each are
enemies to the other, and all the property of the several members,
as well as the strictly national property, is liable to seizure. In
general the character of the owner, whether enemy or friend,
decides whether property is liable to capture by reason of war ;
but the validity of the capture depends not only on the goods
being enemy's property, but likewise on the fact that the place of
capture is one in which the right maybe exercised without injury
to the rights of a neutral nation. Hence the property of an ene-
my is liable to capture only within the respective territories or
jurisdiction of the belligerent nations, or in a place not within the
territory or jurisdiction of any nation. In either of these places
the right may be exercised without injury to the rights of neutral
nations. The limitation of this right, so far as respects enemy's
property found within the territory of one of the parties on the
breaking out of war, has before been discussed and placed, I
flatter myself, on solid principles.

The main ocean not being within the territory, or subject to
the exclusive dominion of any nation, is a place, where enemy
goods may lawfully be captured. An impediment by any third
nation to the exercise of the right of capture on the ocean by
either of the belligerent parties, would be an injury.

As the goods of an enemy, within the territory of a neutral
State, are under the protection thereof, the law of nations, for
the reasons that have been stated, will not permit us to take
them : in like manner, we have no right to take them if they are
on board a ship, whilst the ship is in a neutral port, whether the
ship itself is a neutral one, or belongs to an enemy, because the
port is a part of the territory. When the goods of an enemy
are on board the ship of an enemy, and the ship is in the main

444 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

ocean, there is no doubt of our right to capture both the goods
and the ship, because they are then in a place which is not the
territory of any nation. But when the goods of an enemy are
on board a neutral ship, and the ship is in the main ocean,
though we have a right to take the goods, we have no right to
take the ship, or to detain her any longer than is necessary to
obtain possession of the goods — for the ocean itself is no terri-
tory— and neutral ships, as they are movable goods, can not be
parts of the neutral territory ; and consequently are no more un-
der the protection of the neutral state, than the same goods
would be, if they were passing through an unoccupied country
in neutral carriages, or on neutral horses.

A neutral ship (says Eutherford in his institutes, whose rea-
soning on this question I adopt) may indeed be called a neutral
place ; but when we call it so, the word place does not mean ter-
ritory, it only means the thing in which the goods are contained.
Though the goods of the enemy had been on board a ship be-
longing to the enemy, we might have said, in the same sense,
that they were in a neutral place, if they had been locked up
there in a neutral chest. But no one would imagine, that such a
neutral place, as a chest, can be considered as a part of the terri-
tory of the neutral state, or that it would protect the goods.
Notwithstanding, a neutral chest is as much a neutral place as
a neutral ship.

A ship, though a movable thing, is under the jurisdiction of
a nation whilst it continues in one of its ports — but as soon as it
is out at sea, only the private ownership, or inferior dominion, of
the ship remains, and it ceases to be under the dominion or
jurisdiction of the nation. The case will be the same, if, instead
of supposing the ship to be the property of a merchant, we sup-
pose it to be the property of the nation.

For though we cannot well call the property which the nation
has in such a ship by the name of private ownership ; yet, when
the ship comes into the main ocean, tne jurisdiction or paramount
property ceases, and the right that remains is an inferior kind of
property, which has the nature of private ownership. If the
jurisdiction, which a neutral state has over the ships of its mem-

^T. 38.] CAMJLLUS. 445

bers, or even over its own ships, ceases when the ships are out at
sea ; the goods of an enemy, that are on board such ships, can-
not be under the protection of the nation, in the same manner as
if the ships had been in one of its ports, or as if the goods had
been on its land.*

Notwithstanding a neutral nation, when its ship is in the
main ocean, has no jurisdiction over the ship itself, as if it was a
part of its territory, yet the nation, or some of its members,
which is the same thing, will continue to have the inferior sort
of property, or ownership in it. This species of property will
protect the ship from capture, though the enemy's goods on
board her may lawfully be taken.

But here a difficulty occurs. This inferior kind of property,
called private ownership, to distinguish it from the jurisdiction
over things, is an exclusive right ; those who have such owner-
ship in things, whether private or public persons, have a right to
exclude all others from making use of such things ; and by this
means, the rights of others are often hindered from taking
effect.

Wild beasts, birds, and fishes, are, till they are catched, in
common to all mankind ; and I, in common with others, have a
right to take them, and thereby to make them my own. But I
cannot hunt, or shoot, or fish, without perhaps sometimes using
the soil or water of another man ; and as I have no right to use
these without his consent, he may justly hinder me from doing
any of these acts, as far as his right of property extends. Thus
by private ownership I am prevented from taking such things, as
I should otherwise have a right to take, if they did not happen
to be in such places as he had an exclusive right to. In like
manner, though I have a right to take the goods of my enemy,
when they are out at sea, yet may not the effect of this right be
prevented by the inferior property or ownership, which a neutral
nation, or its members, have in the ship in which the goods are ?

* [The jurisdiction here spoken of is relative to property, and altogether dis-
tinct from what is termed personal jurisdiction, which respects the relations
between the society and its members. This latter species of jurisdiction is not
confined to the territorial limits of a nation.]

446 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

If the law of nations is nothing but the law of nature applied to
the collective persons of civil societies, instead of saying that the
law of nations has decided otherwise, we should disclose a natu-
ral reason why it should determine otherwise. When I have
merely a right to acquire property in a thing that is common to
all mankind, but cannot do it without the use of what is already
the property of some other man, this man neither does me an
injury, nor encourages or protects others who have injured me,
by excluding me from the use of what belongs to him. But
when we have a right in war, upon account of the damage which
the enemy has done us, to take goods of the enemy, and these
are in a neutral ship ; if the neutral state, though it has property
in the ship, should make use of its right of property to protect
the goods against us, this protection makes it an accessory to the
injury, which is the foundation of the claim upon the enemy to
obtain reparation of damages, and consequently is inconsistent
with the notion of neutrality.

But whilst this answer removes one difficulty, it bring ano-
ther. If a neutral nation makes itself accessory to the damages
done by the enemy, by protecting such enemy's goods as she has
a right to take for reparation of damages, when these goods are
out at sea in one of its ships ; why might not the same nation,
without becoming in like manner an accessory, protect the same
goods when the ship is in one of its ports, or when the goods are
on land within its territory ? A law of nations, which is natural
as to the matter of it, and positive only as to the objects of it,
will furnish an answer to this question.

Every state has, by universal acknowledgment and consent,
by the law of nations, an exclusive jurisdiction over its own ter-
ritory. As long, therefore, as a state keeps within its own terri-
tory, and exercises its jurisdiction there, the protection in question
is not a violation of our rights — but when its ships are in the
main ocean ; as they are then in a place out of its territory,
where, by the law of nations, it has no jurisdiction, this law will
allow us to take notice of the protection, which it gives to the
goods of an enemy, and to consider it as an accessory to the
damages done by the enemy, if it gives them protection.

JEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 447

In respect to the right of examination or search, if the end
is lawful, and the examination or search a necessary mean to
attain this end, the inference is inevitable, that the examination
or search is likewise lawful.

If the question, whether enemy goods are seizable on board
a neutral ship, were really doubtful ; yet the right to search neu-
tral ships must be admitted for another reason. All agree that
arms, ammunition and other contraband articles, may not be car-
ried to an enemy by a neutral power — without searching vessels
at sea, such supply could not be prevented. The right to search,
therefore, results, likewise, from the right to seize contraband
goods. Again, the state of war authorizes the capture of enemy's
ships and goods ; but on the main ocean, which is the great
highway where the ships and goods of all nations pass, how are
the ships and goods*of an enemy to be distinguished from those
of a friend? No other way than by examination and search.
Hence then the right of search is deducible from the general
right to capture the ships and goods of an enemy.

It would undoubtedly disembarrass the commerce of neutral
nations were passports and ships' papers received, in all cases, as
conclusive evidence of the quality and property of the cargo.
And did treaties, in fact, effectually secure an exemption from
rude and detrimental inquisitions upon the ocean, they would
become objects of inestimable worth to the neutral powers.
But, notwithstanding the existence of stipulations in our other
treaties [which aim at giving some force to similar credentials],
can it be said, that our ships have been visited with less cere-
mony by one party than by the other? And may not the
experience of other nations, as well as that of our own, be ap-
pealed to, in proof of the opinion, that these stipulations, how-
ever exact and positive, are too little regarded by that class of
men, to restrain and govern whose conduct they are instituted ?

The right of search ought to be used with moderation, and
with as little inconvenience as possible to the rights of nations
not engaged in the war. And the law of nations, on the other
hand, requires the utmost good faith on the part of the neutral
powers. They are bound not to conceal the property of the

448 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

enemy, but on the contrary, to disclose it when examination
shall be made ; in confidence of this impartiality, the law of na-
tions obliges the powers at war to give credit to the certificates,
bills of lading and other instruments of ownership, produced by
the masters of neutral ships, unless any fraud appear in them, or
there be good reason for suspecting their validity. The right of
search is [always] at the peril of those who exercise it ; the
right, notwithstanding, [must be acknowledged] to be indubita-
ble.

The reasoning employed to prove that all neutral ships, on
the main ocean, are liable to search, and enemy goods on board
them to capture, is supported by the ablest writers on public
law, and their decision is believed to be unanimously in its favor.

The Italian states were the first among modern nations, who
cultivated the interests of commerce, and Ifefore the passage of
the Cape of Good Hope, Venice and Genoa distributed the
manufactures of Asia throughout Europe. They, therefore, first
defined the rights of navigation. Their maritime regulations are
collected in a work called "Consolato del Mare;" I do not pos-
sess the collection, but find the following quotation from it in
Grotius.*

" If both the ship and freight belong to the enemy, then, with-
out dispute, they become lawful prize to the captor ; but if the
ship belong to those that be at peace with us, and the cargo be
the enemy's, they may be forced by the powers at war, to put into
any of their ports, and unlade ; but yet the master must be satis-
fied for the freight of them."

Grotius, that learned and persecuted friend of liberty, whose
life and great talents were dedicated to the service of mankind,
and who displayed so much ability and learning in defending the
freedom of the seas and of commerce, is clearly of opinion, that
enemy goods are not protected by neutral bottoms : he even
goes farther, and allows that such property occasions great pre-
sumption that the vessel is, likewise, enemy property, f Bynker-

* Grotius Book 3, chap. 1, sect 5, Note.

t Grotius. Book 3, chap. 1, sect, 8— Book 8, chap. 6, sect. 6.

Mt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 449

shoek is of the same opinion.* Puffendorff and Heinecius:}; agree
in this law ; and Vattel, who is the latest writer, is explicit in his
opinion ; " withont searching neutral ships at sea," says he, "the
commerce of contraband goods cannot be prevented — there is
then a right of searching. Some powerful nations have, at dif-
ferent times, refused to submit to this. At present a neutral ship
refusing to be searched, would, from that proceeding alone, be
condemned as lawful prize." " Effects belonging to an enemy,
found on board a neutral ship, are seizable by the rights of war ;
but by the law of nature, the master is to be paid his freight, and
not to suffer by the seizure. The effects of ; neutrals, found on
board an enemy ship, are to be restored to the owners, against
whom there is no right of confiscation."

Other authors of respectability might be quoted ; but those
already named will be acknowledged as the ablest, and their
authority the most decisive of any that can be cited — so strong,
clear and uninterrupted, are the authorities of the writers on
public law in relation to these points, that the advocates of an
opposite rule, may be challenged to produce a single authority of
approved respectability in support of their opinion.§

Camillus,

NO. XXX.

1795.
Admitting that it was the law of nations that enemy's goods
might be seized in neutral ships, it is alleged by Cato and other
writers, who have appeared on the same side, that the treaties
which have been formed between nations have annulled this laWj
and established another in its stead, equally extensive and binding
on the whole civilized world.

* Bynkershoek, Quest. Jur. Pub. lib. i, cap. 13 and 14.
t Puffendorf.

X Heinecius, de Navibus cap. 2, sect. 114, 115, 116.

§ Tbis subject will be resumed and pursued under different aspects in another
number.

g 29

450 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

In discussing this allegation, we should remember, that all
nations are in a state of equality, and independent of each other.
No law, other than the necessary or natural law of nations, is
binding on any nation without its consent, expressly or tacitly
given. A law among nations cannot, like a civil or municipal
law, be annulled, or enacted by a majority, or any portion short
of the whole. By agreement between two or more nations, the
operation of a law already in existence, may be suspended so far
as respects themselves ; but such agreement works no change of
such law, in relation to the rights or duties of other nations. The
same is true of any rule of action, established by convention be-
tween two nations ; such rule is obligatory on the parties that
form the contract, but is wholly without effect and nugatory in
respect to all other nations. Unless then all nations have con-
curred in the design to annul this law, it must still exist ; and
treaties containing opposite stipulations, can be considered in no
other light, than as exceptions to the same, in which certain na-
tions have seen it their interest to agree.

Though one nation may have agreed with another to suspend
the operation of this law, and to substitute the rule that free ships
make free goods, and enemy ships enemy goods, there may have
been some peculiar reason that induced the parties to form this
convention with each other, that would not apply in respect to
any other nation.

A nation may advance its interest perhaps by forming such a
treaty, with one nation, and injure it by forming it with another —
because a nation has, in some instances, or for a limited time,
formed stipulations of this sort, it cannot from thence be inferred,
that it has thereby, in any sense, expressed its consent to a total
repeal of a law, the operation of which it has agreed to suspend
only for a limited time, and in respect to a particular nation.
Commercial treaties, in which we discover these stipulations,
though not always, are commonly limited in their duration. This
limitation is a strong argument against the doctrine which these
treaties are cited to establish. For so many years, say the parties,
we will suspend the operation of the law. When the treaty
expires by its proper limitation, or is dissolved by war, the rule

Mt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 451

of the treaty ceases, and the law is again in force between the par-
ties, and prescribes to them, in common with other nations, their
rights and duties in this respect.

The law of nations, that authorizes the capture of enemy
goods in neutral ships, requires the restoration of neutral goods
captured in enemy ships : the treaties, which stipulate that free
ships make free goods, stipulate also that enemy ships make
enemy goods. I have discovered no instance of the former sti-
pulation, that has not been accompanied by the latter : though I
have found instances of the latter stipulation unaccompanied by
the former. This is the case in the treaty of peace, commerce
and alliance between Spain and England, concluded at Madrid,
in 1667. Those, therefore, who contend that the law of nations
has been repealed in one instance, must also insist that it has
been repealed in the other. If the number of stipulations is to
be received as evidence, the proof is stronger of a repeal in the
latter than in the former case. But will any one seriously main-
tain, that a nation would have a right to confiscate the goods of
a neutral power found on board an enemy ship, without an ex-
press stipulation on the part of such neutral state consenting to
the same? Would England or Spain, for example, have a
right to confiscate American property captured in a French ship ?
Would America, if at war, have a right to confiscate the neutral
property of Spain, Portugal, Denmark, or Russia, found on board
an enemy ship ? Has any nation ever confiscated property
under this circumstance ? If not, the inference is clear, that
these stipulations are exclusively relative to the parties who form
them, and that the rights of other states remain under the pro-
tection of the law of nations.

But according to Cato, this reasoning may be just, yet in-
applicable ; for he maintains that all nations have consented to
the establishment of this conventional law. " As far back as 150
years, " says this writer, " and ever since, I find that the com-
mercial nations have stipulated in their treaties, that free ships
shall make free goods, that full credit shall be given to ships'
papers, and that armed vessels shall not come within cannon
shot of a neutral ship, but send their boats on board with only

452 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

two or three men at most, to examine papers, but not to search,,
and that the treaties (by which is understood all the treaties) for
150 years back, relative to this object, are drawn in the words of
the treaty between the United States and France."

Struck with the fulness of this assertion, I have carefully
examined such collection of treaties, as I have been able to pro-
cure, and going back to the year 1645, I have given a patient
search to all the public conventions between Great Britain and
the several powers of Europe since that period. I find, that
since that epoch, Great Britain has concluded commercial treaties
with Spain, Portugal, France, Holland, Dantzic, Denmark, Swe-
den, and Russia.

In the treaties with Holland and with France, she has agreed
to the stipulation, that free ships shall make free goods, and
enemy ships, enemy goods. In Chalmers's collection of treaties,
a similar stipulation is contained in the 28d article of the treaty
of alliance, concluded in 1564, between Oliver Cromwell and
the king of Portugal ; but in other collections, in which that
treaty is found, it does not contain a stipulation that free ships
shall make free goods ; and it has been denied, from a reputable
quarter on the part of Great Britain, that she has ever acceded
to this principle, except in the instances of her treaties with
Holland and France ; neither of which exist any longer, the
former having expired long since, and the latter being dissolved
by the present war. Her treaties with Spain, Dantzic, Denmark,
Sweden, and Russia, do neither of them contain this stipulation.
On the contrary, the 12th article of the treaty with Sweden, and
the 20th of the treaty with Denmark, each of which is now in
force, and has been so for more than a century, as likewise the
14th article of the treaty with Dantzic, declares, that "lest the
enemy's goods and merchandise should be concealed under the
disguise of the goods of friends, it is stipulated, that all ships
shall be furnished with passports and certificates, by which it
shall be manifest to whom the articles, composing the cargoes,
belong :" and the two first of these treaties, moreover, declare it
" to be injurious to protect the property of enemies," and esta-
blish special guards to prevent the same.

JEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 453

In relation to the fall credit to be given to ships' papers, and
the manner of boarding neutral vessels, — in the treaties with
Spain, France, and Holland, it is stipulated, that full faith shall
be given to the passports, and that the boarding shall be by two
or three men only. But the treaties with Portugal and Russia
are destitute of any stipulation on this subject, except that in the
latter it is agreed,* that "the searching of merchant ships shall
be as favorable as the reason of the war can possibly admit,
toward the most favored neutral nation, observing, as near as
may be, the principles of the law of nations that are generally
acknowledged."f In the treaties with Dantzic, Denmark, and
Sweden, passports are required for the purpose of distinguishing,
according to the solemnities of those treaties, the enemy property
on board the ships of the parties ; and it is stipulated, that credit
shall be given to such passports, except in cases of just and
urgent cause of suspicion, when, say these treaties, the ship ought
to be searched ; an exception, that fully recognizes the right to
search, essentially does away the security intended by the pass-
ports. But neither of these treaties contain any regulation rela-
tive to the manner of boarding neutral vessels.

This research, though made with care, may have been imper-
fect ; the result thereof is, that there are only two, possibly three,
of these eight nations, with whom Great Britain has ever agreed
to the stipulation, that free ships shall make free goods ; only
three of them with whom she has stipulated, that full credit shall
be given to passports or ships' papers, or with whom the manner
of boarding is settled. Instead, therefore, of that uniformity and
universality in the stipulations in the commercial treaties, con-
cluded within the last 150 years, so confidently asserted by Cato,
we see that in five instances out of eight, of treaties concluded
between Great Britain and the principal powers of Europe,
within that term, they have on each of these points, given their
sanction to a law directly in opposition to the assertion of this
adventurous writer.

Yet, says Cato, " the principles of the armed neutrality, by

* Treaty of 1776, article 10. f Treaty with Dantzic of 170G, article 20.

454 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

the general consent of the great community of the civilized
world, changed the law of nations." It is a singular logic that
proves the agreement of nations by their disagreement, and their
consent to a principle, by their drawing forth their fleet to dis-
pute it. The armed neutrality, with those who understand its
history, will not be relied on by way of proving a change in the
law of nations, brought about by universal consent.

It will not be denied that this league, which was aimed prin-
cipally against Great Britain, failed to accomplish its purpose,
and that it expired with the American war. Nothing has been
heard of it during the present war ; and it is notorious, that
Russia, and Holland before its conquest, were under agreements
incompatible with the views of that association. The northern
powers of Europe under the countenance of France, united to
support the principles of the armed neutrality ; but the league
did not include all the neutral powers ; and of the powers en-
gaged in the war, at that period, Spain consented to observe the
principles contended for by the confederacy, on condition that
Great Britain would agree to them, who, so far from agreeing,
openly resisted them.

On the same principle, by which it is contended that this
association introduced a new law of nations, might the armed
leagues between certain nations to prohibit all commerce what-
ever with an enemy, be appealed to in proof of an alteration of
the law of nations in this respect. England and Holland entered
into such a league against France, in the year 1689 ; and other
instances are mentioned by Grotius ; yet no one has ever ima-
gined that thereby any change was wrought in the law of
nations.

The objection that has arisen from the dissimilarity between
this article and those relative to the same subject in our other
treaties, is equally defective with those already considered. The
objection proceeds from an opinion that the law of nations has
been changed, and that the stipulations in our other treaties are
evidence thereof. The observations that have been offered on
this subject, are equally applicable to this objection, and it is
therefore unnecessary to repeat them.

jEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 455

Not only reason, and the authority of jurists, but likewise
the practice of nations, where they have been unrestrained by
particular conventions, may be appealed to in support of this
doctrine.

The practice of France, of Holland, even subsequent to par-
ticular stipulations, regulating this subject between themselves,
has, in respect to other powers, been conformable to the law of
nations. The ordinances and maritime decisions of France may
be consulted to show what her practice has been, and that of
Holland is evident by the convention of 1689, between her and
England. The practice of Spain is understood to be the same ;
and in an instance that occurred during the American war, she
carried the law to its utmost rigor, in assigning as a cause of con-
demnation of a neutral Tuscan ship, her forcible resistance of the
right of search. Her capture of American ships, during the
present war, on suspicion of their cargoes being enemy property,
affords additional evidence of her practice and opinions on this
subject. In respect to Great Britain, from the general notoriety
of the fact, it seems, in some sort, unnecessary to add, that she
has immemorially adhered, in her general practice, to the law of
nations in its widest interpretation on this subject. In a few
instances, and perhaps for special reasons, as was the case in
respect to the treaty with Holland, concluded in 1667, she has
entered into opposite stipulations; but at this time, unless it
may be with Portugal, Great Britain has no such treaty with any
nation.

So undisputed was the law on this subject, and so uniform
the practice of nations in cases, not governed by a conventional
rule, that Congress, in the commencement, and through the
greater part of our revolution war, authorized our ships of
war and privateers, to capture enemy property on board neu-
tral ships, and our admiralty courts uniformly restored neutral
property found on board enemy ships. This practice continued
years after the conclusion of our treaty with France, which
contains a stipulation, that free ships shall make free. goods, and
enemy ships enemy goods ; no person, during that period, hav-
ing supposed that thereby the law was altered in respect to other
nations.

456 HAMILTON'S WORKS. LEt. 38.

Towards the close of the war, to favor the views of the
armed neutrality, in which league the United States were not
a party, but whose opposition to Great Britain they naturally
approved, Congress, in an ordinance on the subject of captures,
ordained that neutral bottoms should protect enemy goods —
but here they stopped. Thus far the authority was indubitable,
because it was exercised only in abridgment of their own rights.
Being engaged in war, they could not by their own act enlarge
their rights, or abridge those of neutral ships ; the extent of
both being defined and settled by the public law of nations.
They, therefore, never authorized the capture and condemna-
tion of neutral goods found in enemy ships, nor could they have
authorized the same, without a manifest violation of the rights
of the neutral powers.

It is finally alleged that the article, if sound in its principles,
is defective in those provisions which are requisite to protect and
secure the neutral rights of the parties ; inasmuch as it does not
contain an explicit stipulation for the payment of freight on
enemy goods, nor for the payment of damages for the detention
or loss of neutral ships taken without just cause. I do not re-
collect to have met with any precise stipulation on these points,
in the commercial treaties between other nations. — None such,
if my recollection be right, are found in any of our other trea-
ties ; and I think it would be somewhat difficult to form such
as would afford to the parties a more satisfactory security than
that which arises from the law of nations — a neutral ship is
entitled to freight for enemy goods captured on board her ; but
this right, if so admitted, may be forfeited by the irregular
conduct of the neutral, by the possession of false or double pa-
pers, by the destruction of papers, or by those fraudulent con-
cealments and evasions, which are inconsistent with fair and
impartial neutrality. A ship taken and detained without just
cause, is, together with her cargo, at the risk of the captors
from the moment of capture ; and in cases of partial or total
loss, or of damages by detention, the owner is entitled to full
and complete indemnification. But in case the neutral ship is
under such equivocal and doubtful circumstances, as afford

JEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 457

probable cause to believe that either the ship, or cargo, is ene-
my property, a situation not to be reconciled with an open and
fair neutrality, in such case, though on trial both ship and car-
go should turn out to have been bona fide neutral property,
yet the captors may avail themselves of her equivocal situation
and character, in mitigation, if not under very peculiar cir-
cumstances, in total discharge of damages. No stipulation, there-
fore, without these exceptions, would have afforded to the
parties adequate security against such irregularities; and with
them, its want of precision would have left the subject as it now
stands, to be regulated by the known and approved provisions
of the law of nations.

These provisions being well understood, the article concludes
with a stipulation against delays in the admiralty, and in the
payment and recovery of the damages it shall decree.

This examination, I flatter myself, has fulfilled its object,
whicli was to prove, that the article relinquishes no right that
we possessed as a nation, that it is agreeable to, and supported
by, the law of nations. A law in relation to this subject, coeval
with the origin of maritime commerce, and the principles where-
of have immemorially operated among nations.

It was desirable that a stipulation, similar to that contained
in our other treaties, should have been obtained. But the time
was unfavorable to the attainment of this object : and, as with
great propriety has been observed by Mr. Jefferson, in behalf
of our government — "since it depends on the will of other
nations as well as our own, we can only obtain it, when they
shall be ready to consent." By the 12th article, the parties
agree to renew the negotiation on this point, within the com-
pass of two years after the conclusion of the present war ; when
perhaps the restoration of peace, and other circumstances, may
prove more propitious to our views.

Camillus.

458 HAMILTON'S WORKS, [Mt. 38.

NO. XXXI.

1795.

I resume the subjects of the two last papers for the sake of a
few supplementary observations.

The objections to the treaty, for not containing the principle,
" that free ships make free goods," as being the relinquishment
of an advantage, which the modern law of nations gives to neu-
trals, have been fully examined, and, I flatter myself, completely
refuted.

I shall, however, add one or two reflections by way of further
illustration. A pre-established rule of the law of nations, can only
be changed by their common consent. This consent may either be
express, by treaties, declarations, &c. adopting and promising the
observance of a different rule, or it may be implied, by a course
of practice or usage. The consent, in either case, must embrace
the great community of civilized nations. If to be inferred from
treaties, it must be shown that they are uniform and universal.
It can, at least, never be inferred, while the treaties of different
nations follow different rules, or the treaties between the same
nation and others, vary from each other. So also as to usage. It
must be uniform and universal, and, let it be added, it must be
continued. A usage adopted by some nations, and resisted by
others, or adopted by all temporarily and then discontinued, is
insufficient to abolish an old, or substitute a new rule of the law
of nations. It has been demonstrated, that no consent of either
description has been given to the rule, which is contended fur in
opposition to the treaty.

The armed neutrality, so much quoted, is entirely deficient
in the requisite characters. Its name imports that it was an armed
combination of particular powers. It grew up in the midst of a
war, and is understood to have been particularly levelled against
one of the belligerent parties. It was resisted by that power.
There were other powers, which did not accede to it. It is a re-
cent transaction, and has never acquired the confirmation of
continued usage. What is more, it has been virtually abandoned

jEt. 38.]

CAMILLUS. 459

by some of the parties to it— and among these, by the principal
promoter of it, the politic and enterprising Catharine. It is, there-
fore, a perversion of all just ideas, to ascribe to such a combination
the effect of altering a rule of the law of nations.

In most important questions, it is remarkable that the opposers
of the truth are as much at variance with each other as they are
with the truth they oppose. This was strikingly exemplified
when the present Constitution of the United States was under
deliberation. The opposition to it was composed of the most
incongruous materials— the same thing is observable in relation
to the treaty. And one instance of the contrariety applies to the
rule cited above.

While some of the adversaries of the treaty complain of the
admission of a contrary principle by that instrument, as the
abandonment of a rule of the present law of nations; others, con-
ceding that there is no such rule yet established, censure that
admission as a check to its complete and formal establishment, and as
a retrograde step from this desirable point.

The objection in this form is more plausible than in the other,
but it is not less destitute of substance. If there has been any
retrograde step, it was taken by the government prior to the
treaty— authentic documents, which have been communicated by
the Executive to Congress, contain the evidence of this fact.

Early in the year 1793, some British cruisers having stopped
vessels of the United States, and taken out of them articles which
were the property of French citizens, Mr. Genet, the then minister
of France, in a letter of the 9th of July of that year, made a lively
representation upon the subject to our government, insisting, in
a subsequent letter of the 25th of that month, in which he recurs
to the same point, that the principles of neutrality established,
that friendly vessels make friendly goods ; and in effect, that the
violation of this rule by Great Britain was a violation of our neu-
tral rights, which we were bound to resent.

The reply of our government, is seen in a letter from our
Secretary of State to that minister, of the 24th of July. It is in
these terms— "I believe," says Mr. Jefferson, "it cannot be
doubted, but that by the general law of nations, the goods of a

460 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mi. 38.

friend, found in the vessel of an enemy, are free, and the goods
of an enemy, found in the vessel of a friend, are lawful prize.
Upon this principle, I presume, the British armed vessels have
taken the property of French citizens found in our vessels in the
cases above mentioned ; and, I confess, I should be at a loss on
what principle to reclaim them. It is true that sundry nations,
desirous of avoiding the inconveniences of having their vessels
stopped at sea, ransacked, carried into port, and detained under
pretence of having enemy goods on board, have, in many instances,
introduced, by their special treaties, another principle between
them, that enemy bottoms shall make enemy goods, and friendly
bottoms friendly goods ; a principle much less embarrassing to
commerce, and equal to all parties in point of gain and loss ; but
this is altogether the effect of particular treaty, controlling, in
special cases, the general principles of the law of nations, and,
therefore, taking effect between such nations only as have so
agreed to control it."

Nothing can be a more explicit or unequivocal abandonment
of the rule, that free ships make free goods, and vice versa, than
is contained in this communication. But this is not all : In the
letter, from Mr. Jefferson to our minister in France, of the 26th
of August, 1793, instructing him to urge the recall of Mr. Genet,
the subject is resumed, the position asserted in answer to Mr.
Genet, insisted upon anew, and enforced by additional considera-
tions. Among other suggestions, we find these : " We suppose it
to have been long an established principle of the law of nations,
that the goods of a friend are free in an enemy's vessel, and an
enemy's goods lawful prize in the vessel of a friend. The incon-
venience of this principle has induced several nations latterly to
stipulate against it by treaty, and to substitute another in its stead,
that free bottoms shall make free goods, and enemy bottoms,
enemy goods. We have introduced it into our treaties with
France, Holland, and Eussia ; and French goods, found by the
two last nations in American bottoms, are not made prize of. It
is our wish to establish it with other nations : — But this requires
their consent also, is a work of time, and in the mean while they
have a right to act on the general principle, without giving to

JEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 461

us or to France, cause of complaint. Nor do I see, that France
can lose by it on the whole. For though she loses her goods
when found in our vessels, by the nations with whom we have
no treaties — yet she gains our goods when found in the vessels
of the same and all other nations ; and we believe the latter mass
to be greater than the former."

Thus, then, stood the business antecedent to the treaty.
Great Britain, adhering to the principle of the general and long
established law of nations, captures French property in our ves-
sels, and leaves free our property in French vessels. We acqui-
esce in this practice, without even a remonstrance or murmur.
The French minister complains of it, as contrary to the princi-
ples of neutrality. We reply, that, in our opinion, it is not con-
trary to those principles — that it is fully warranted by the gen-
eral law of nations — that treaties, which establish a different
rule, are merely exceptions to that law, binding only on the con-
tracting parties ; that having no treaty of the sort with Great
Britain, we should be at a loss on what ground to dispute the
legitimacy of her practice. We do not simply forbear to oppose
— we do not offer to France as an excuse for our forbearance,
that it is inconvenient to us, at the moment, to assert a question-
able right at the hazard of war — but we tell her peremptorily,
that, in our opinion, no such right exists, and that the conduct
of Great Britain, in the particular case, is justified by the law of
nations — neither do we wrap the motive of our forbearance in
silence, nor content ourselves with revealing it confidentially to
France alone ; but we publish it without reserve to the world,
and thus, in the presence of Great Britain, and every other na-
tion, make a formal renunciation of the pretension, that " free
ships shall make free goods, and enemy ships enemy goods;" no
counter declaration is heard from either house of Congn^s.

It was impossible to give a more full sanction to the opposite
principle than was given by this conduct, and these public and
positive declarations of our government. It was impossible more
completely to abandon the favorite ground. It is puerile to at-
tempt to discriminate between the force of this species of renun-
ciation and that of an admission of its propriety by treaty. The

462 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

conduct of a government avowed and explained, as to motives,
by authentic public declarations, may assert or renounce a pre-
tension as effectually as its compacts. Every nation, with whom
we had no contrary stipulation, could say to us as well before as
since the treaty with Great Britain, " your government has ex-
plicitly admitted that free ships do not make free goods, and you
have no right to complain of our not observing that rule towards
you." Candor, therefore, would oblige us to say that the treaty
has left this point where it found it — that it has only not ob-
tained from Great Britain a concession in favor of an innovation
upon the law of nations, which it is desirable to establish, but
which cannot be claimed as matter of right. Though, therefore,
it may not have the merit of strengthening, it has not the de-
merit of weakening the ground.

The difference in our position, in this respect, before and since
the treaty, amounts to this, that before the treaty the govern-
ment had abandoned the ground through one organ, Mr. Jeffer-
son ; by the treaty, it continued the abandonment through ano-
ther organ, Mr. Jay. If we consider the organ as the voluntary
cause in each case (the presumption of which is equally fair in
both cases), and if there be any blame, it falls more heavily on
Mr. Jefferson than on Mr. Jay ; for the former founded and made
the retreat, and the latter only did not advance from the disad-
vantageous post to which he had retreated. In other words,
Mr. Jay did only not recover the ground which Mr. Jefferson
had lost. And we know that, in general, it is a far more diffi-
cult task to regain than to keep an advantageous position.

But, in truth, no blame can justly be imputed in either case.
The law of nations was against the rule which it is desired to
introduce. The United States could not have insisted upon it as
matter of right ; and in point of policy it would have been mad-
ness in them to go to war, to support an innovation upon the
pre-established law. It was not honorable to claim a right, and
suffer it to be infracted without resistance. It is not for young
and weak nations to attempt to enforce novelties or pretensions
of equivocal validity. It is still less proper for them to contend,
at the hazard of their peace, against the clear right of others.

jEt. 38.] CAM ILL US. 463

The object was truly not of moment enough to risk much upon
it. To use the French proverb, " The play was not worth the
candle." In every view, therefore, it was wise to desert the pre-
tension.

So, also, in the midst of a war, like that in which Great Britain
was engaged, it were preposterous to have expected, that she
would have acceded to a new rule, which, under the circum-
stances of her great maritime superiority, would have oper-
ated so much more conveniently to her enemy than to herself.
And it would have been no less absurd to have made her acces-
sion to that rule the sine qua non of an arrangement, otherwise
expedient. Here again the play ivoidd not have been worth the
candle.

The importance of the rule has artfully been very much mag-
nified, to depreciate proportionably the treaty, for not establish-
ing it. It is to be remembered, that if something is gained by
it, something is also given up. It depends on incalculable cir-
cumstances, whether, in a particular war, most will be lost or
gained. Yet the rule is, upon the whole, a convenient one to
neutral powers. But it cannot be pretended that it is of so great
a value, as that the United States ought to adopt it as a maxim,
never to make a treaty of commerce, in which it was not recog-
nized. They might by this maxim forego the advantages of
regulating their commercial intercourse in time of peace with
several foreign powers, with whom they have extensive relations
of trade, by fixed and useful conventional rules, and still remain
subject in time of war to the inconveniences of not having estab-
lished, with those powers, the principle to which they make that
sacrifice.

Though, therefore, it be a merit to a certain extent in a treaty
to contain this principle, it is not a positive fault or blemish, that
it does not contain it. The want of it is not a good cause of ob-
jection to a treaty otherwise eligible.

Let me add, too, in the spirit of Mr. Jefferson's letter, that
however it may be our wish to establish the rule with other
nations besides those with whom we have already done it, this
requires their consent also, of course their conviction, that it

464 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

is their interest to consent ; and that, considering the obstacles
which lie in the way, the attainment of the object must be " a
work of timer It presupposes, in some of the principal mari-
time powers, a great change of ideas, which is not to be looked
for very suddenly. It was not, therefore, to have been expected
of our envoy, that he was to have accomplished the point at so
premature and so unfavorable a juncture.

The assertion, that he has abandoned it, is made in too un-
qualified a manner. For while he admits the operation for the
present, of the general rule of the law of nations, he has, by the
12th article, engaged Great Britain in a stipulation, that the par-
ties will, at the expiration of two years after the existing war,
renew their discussion, and endeavor to agree whether in any, and
what cases neutral vessels shall protect enemy's property. It is
true, it will be in the option of Great Britain then, to agree or
not : but it is not less true that the principle is retained with
consent of Great Britain in a negotiable state. So far perhaps
some ground has been retrieved.

I confess, however, that I entertain much doubt as to the
probability of a speedy general establishment of the rule, that
friendly ships shall make friendly goods, and enemy ships enemy
goods. It is a rule against which, it is to be feared, the prepon-
derant maritime power, to whatever nation this character may
belong, will be apt to struggle with perseverance and effect, since
it would tend to contract materially the means of that power to
annoy and distress her enemies, whose inferiority on the sea
would naturally cause their commerce, during war, to be carried
on in neutral bottoms. This consideration will account for the
resistance of Great Britain to the principle, and for the endea-
vors of some other powers to promote it — and it deserves notice,
that her last treaty with France was severely assailed by some of
the chiefs of opposition, for containing a stipulation in favor
of that principle. The motive for consenting to it, in this in-
stance, probably was, that the stipulation was likely to be ren-
dered, in a great degree, nugatory by the relative situation of the
two nations, which, in almost any war in which one of the two
was engaged on one side, would probably render the other a
party on the opposite side.

iEi. 38.] CAMILLUS. 465

If these conjectures be right, there is a reflection which
lessens much the value of stipulations in favor of the rule ; that
so long as one or more of the maritime powers disavow it, there
will be a strong temptation to depart from a scrupulous observ-
ance of such stipulations, as we, in relation to France, have ex-
perienced in the present war.

In the course of the arguments against the 17th article, for
virtually admitting the right of search in time of war, the ob-
jectors have had the temerity to cite the opinion of Vattel, as
being opposed to that right; and a mutilated quotation has given
an appearance of truth to the assertion. It has been heretofore
shown, by passages extracted from his work, that his opinion, so
far from denying explicitly, supports the right to search. But it
may be useful to examine the part of it which has been tortured
into a contrary inference.

After affirming the right of search (B. 3, chap. 7, 8. 14) he
proceeds thus : " but to avoid inconveniences, violence, and every
other irregularity, the manner of the search is settled in the
treaties of navigation and commerce. According to the present
custom, credit is to be given to certificates and bills of lading pro-
duced by the master of the ship." Hence it is alleged the right to
search is turned into the right of inspecting the ship's papers,
which, being entitled to credit, are to preclude further scrutiny.

But what immediately follows, destroys this conclusion ; the
words " unless any ground appear in them, or there be very good
reasons for suspecting their validity," are subjoined to the clause
just quoted. This admits clearly, that the ship's papers are not
to be conclusive — but that, upon just cause of suspicion, the
papers may be disregarded, and the right of search may be exer-
cised.

Who is to be the judge of the credit due to the papers and
of the just cause of suspicion? Manifestly the officer of the
belligerent party, who visits the neutral vessel. Then what does
the whole amount to ? Merely this— that ship's papers are enti-
tled to a certain degree of respect and credit ; how much, is left
to the discretion of the officer of the belligerent party !— who, if
he be not satisfied of the fairness and validity of the papers, may
g 30

466 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

proceed to their verification, by a more strict and particular
search, and then if he still sees, or supposes he sees, just cause of
suspicion, he may carry the vessel into a port of his own country,
for judicial investigation. In doing this, he acts at his peril,
and for an abuse of his discretion exposes himself to damages
and other punishment.

This is the true and evident sense of Vattel, and it agrees
with the doctrine advocated in these papers, and, I will add, with
the treaty under examination.

The 17th article admits, that the vessels of each party for
fust cause of suspicion of having on board enemy's property, or
of carrying to the enemy contraband articles, may be captured
or detained, and carried to the nearest and most convenient port
of the belligerent party, to the end that enemy's property and con-
traband articles aboard may become lawful prize. But so far from
countenancing any proceeding without just cause of suspicion, or
from exonerating the officer of the belligerent party from a re-
sponsibility for such proceeding, it leaves the law of nations, in
this particular, in full force, and contemplating that such officer
shall be liable for damages, when he proceeds without just cause
of suspicion, provides that all proper measures shall be taken to
prevent delay in deciding the cases of ships or cargoes brought
in for adjudication, or in i\\Q ptayment or recovery of any indemnifica-
tion adjudged or agreed to he paid to the masters or owners of such
ships. Besides which, the 19th article stipulates, in order that
more abundant care may be taken for the security of the respec-
tive subjects and citizens of the contracting parties, and to pre-
vent their suffering injuries by the men-of-war and privateers of
either party, that the commanders of ships of war and privateers,
shall forbear doing any damage to those of the other party, com-
mitting any outrage against them ; and that if they act to the
contrary, they shall be punished, and shall also be bound in their
persons and estates, to make satisfaction and reparation for all
damages, and the interest thereof of whatever nature the said
damages may he. And further, after establishing that the com-
manders of privateers shall, before they are commissioned, give
security to satisfy all damages and injuries, it adds, that in all

Mt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 467

cases of aggressions their commissions shall be revoked and an-
nulled.

These provisions not only conform to, and corroborate the
injunctions of the laws of nations, but they refute the assertion,
that the treaty is altogether deficient in precautions for guarding
neutral rights ; since those above-mentioned are among the most
efficacious. It is not presumable that any stipulations have been
or can be made which will take away all discretion from the
marine officers of the belligerent parties ; for this would be a
total surrender of the rights of belligerent to neutral nations,
and so long as any discretion is left, its right or wrong exercise
will depend on the personal character of each officer ; and abuses
can only be restrained by the penalties that await them. Those
stipulations of treaties, then, which reinforce the laws of nations
as to the infliction of penalties, are the most effectual of the pre-
cautions which treaties can adopt for the security of neutral
rights ; and in this particular the treaty with Great Britain is to
the full as provident as our other treaties. In one point I believe
it is more so ; for it expressly stipulates a revocation of the com-
missions of the commanders of privateers, for the aggressions
they may commit.

Is not the passage last cited from Yattel a true commentary
on those stipulations, for regulating and mitigating the right of
search, which are found in our own and other treaties ? Do they
not all intend to reserve to the belligerent party a right of judg-
ing of the validity and fidelity of the papers to be exhibited,
and of extending the search or not, according to the circum-
stances of just suspicion which do or do not appear? and if this
be their true construction, as it certainly is their construction in
practice, which our own experience testifies, to what, after all, do
they amount, more than without them the laws of nations, as
universally recognized, of themselves pronounce ? What real
security do they afford more than the treaty with Great Britain
affords ?

It is much to be suspected, that there will always be found
advantages essentially nominal, operating or not according to the
strength or weakness of the neutral party ; which, if strong, will

46S HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

find abundant foundation in the acknowledged laws of nations
on which to rest the protection of its rights.

It has been said to be just matter of surprise, that these pre-
cautions should have no place in a treaty with Great Britain,
whose conduct on the seas, so particularly suggested and en-
forced every guard to our rights that could be reasonably insisted
on. Observations of this kind assume constantly the supposition
that we had it in our power to fashion every provision of the
treaty exactly to our own taste, and that the ideas of the other
contracting party were to have no influence even upon the minor
features of the contract. But this supposition is absurd ; and a
treaty may still be entitled to our approbation, which adjusts ac-
ceptably the great points of interest, though in some of its details
it falls short of our desires. Nor can any well-informed man
sincerely deny that it was to have been expected, that an adjust-
ment of the particulars in question, would fall short of our ideas.
It may be answered, that we were then at liberty not to make
the treaty ; so we were, but does it follow that it would have
been wise to split on such points? — upon a just estimate, their
intrinsic value is very moderate.

Camilltjs.

NO. XXXII.

1795.

The eighteenth article of the treaty, which regulates the sub-
ject of contraband, has been grievously misrepresented; the
objections used against it with most acrimony, are disingenuous
and unfounded I Yet while I make this assertion, which, I flat-
ter myself, I shall be able to prove, I shall not pretend to main-
tain that it is an article completely satisfactory. I even admit
that it has one unpleasant ingredient in it, and I am convinced
that our envoy must have consented to it with reluctance.

But while candor demands this concession, it equally admon-
ishes us, that, under the circumstances of the moment, the points

JEt. 38.] CAM1LLUS. 469

in this respect to be adjusted were peculiarly unmanageable —
that the position of the other party rendered an arrangement
entirely agreeable to us, impracticable ; that without compromise
nothing could have been regulated ; that the article made no
change for the worse in our prior situation, but in some particu-
lars made our ground better; and that estimating truly the rela-
tive circumstances of the parties, there is no probability that any
thing more acceptable could have been established.

I will add, that a degree of imperfection, which may fairly be
attributed to this article, is far from being of such importance,
as, on solid calculations, ought to defeat the treaty. No clear
right is abandoned, no material interest of the nation injured.

It is one thing, whether every part of the treaty be satisfac-
tory— another, and a very different thing, whether in the aggre-
gate it be eligible or not, and ought to be accepted or rejected. Na-
tions could never make contracts with one another, if each were
to require that every part of it should be adjusted by its own
standard of right and expediency. The true question always is
upon the collective merits of the instrument ; whether, upon the
whole, it reasonably accommodates the opinions and interests of
the parties. Tried by this test, the treaty negotiated with Great
Britain, fully justifies the acceptance of it by the constituted
authorities of our country, and claims the acquiescence of every
good citizen.

The most labored, and, at the same time, the most false of the
charges against the eighteenth article is, that it allows provisions
to be contraband in cases not heretofore warranted by the laws
of nations, and refers to the belligerent party, the decision of
what those cases are. This is the general form of the charge.
The draft of a petition to the legislature of Virginia, reduces it
to this shape. The treaty "expressly admits, that provisions are
to be held contraband in cases other than when bound to an in-
vested place, and impliedly admits, that such cases exist at present.'

The first is a palpable untruth, which may be detected by a
bare persual of the article. — The last is an untrue inference, im-
pregnated with the malignant insinuation that there was a design
to sanction the unwarrantable pretension of a right to inflict
famine on a whole nation.

470 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

Before we proceed to an analysis of the article, let us review
the prior situation of the parties. Great Britain, it is known,
had taken and acted upon the ground, that she had a right to
stop and detain, on payment for them, provisions belonging to
neutrals, going to the dominions of France. For this violent
and impolitic measure, which the final opinion of mankind will
certainly condemn, she found color, in the sayings of some writ-
ers of reputation, on public laws.

A passage of this kind, from Vattel, has been more than once
quoted, in these terms, " Commodities, particularly used in war,
and the importation of which, to an enemy, is prohibited, are
called contraband goods. Such are military and naval stores,
timber, horses, and even provisions in certain junctures, when there
are hopes of reducing the enemy by famine." Heinecius* counten-
ances the same opinion, and even Grotius seems to lean towards

it.f

The United States, with reason, disputed this construction of
the law of nations! restraining the general propositions which
appear to favor it, to those cases in which the chance of reduc-
ing by famine was manifested and palpable, such as the cases of
particular places, bona fide, besieged, blockaded or invested.
The government accordingly remonstrated against the proceed-
ing of Great Britain, and made every effort against it which pru-
dence, in the then posture of affairs, would permit. The order
for seizing provisions, was, after a time, revoked.

In this state our envoy found the business, pending the very
war in which Great Britain had exercised the pretension, with
the same administration which had done it, was it to have been
expected that she would, in a treaty with us, even virtually or
impliedly have acknowledged the injustice or impropriety of
the conduct ? Here was no escape, as in the instance of the
order of the 6th of November, 1793, in the misconceptions of
her officers. The question was to condemn a deliberate and un-
ambiguous act of the administration itself. The pride, the repu-
tation, and the interest of that administration forbade it.

* Law of nature and nations. B. 2. C. 9. S. 201. Navibus cb vect.
f Book III. Chap. 1. and V. 3. Chap. 1. and X.

Mt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 471

On our side, to admit the pretensions of Great Britain was
still more impossible. — We had every inducement of character,
right and interest against it. What was the natural and only
issue out of this embarrassment? Plainly, to leave the point
unsettled ; to get rid of it ; to let it remain substantially where
it was before the treaty. This, I have good ground to believe,
was the real understanding of the two negotiators ; and the
article has fulfilled that view.

After enumerating specifically what articles shall be deemed
contraband, it proceeds thus, " And whereas the difficulty of
agreeing on the precise cases, in which alone provisions and other
articles, not generally contraband, may be regarded as such,
renders it expedient to provide against the inconveniences and
misunderstandings which might thence arise : It is further agreed,
that whenever any such articles, so becoming contraband
according to the laws of nations, shall, for that reason, be seized,
the same shall not be confiscated, but the owners thereof shall be
speedily and completely indemnified ; and the captors, or, in their
default, the government under Avhose authority they act, shall
pay to the masters or owners of such vessels, the full value
of all articles with a reasonable mercantile profit thereon, togeth-
er with the freight and also the demurrage, incident to such
detention."

The difficulty of agreeing on the precise cases in which arti-
cles, not generally contraband, become so, from particular cir-
cumstances, is expressly assigned as the motive to the stipulation
which follows. — This excludes the supposition that any cases
whatever were intended to be admitted or agreed. But this dif-
ficulty rendered it expedient to provide against the inconvenien-
ces and misunderstandings which might thence arise — a provi-
sion, with this view, is, therefore, made, which is that of liberal
compensation for the articles taken — The evident intent of this
provision is, that in doubtful cases, the inconveniences to the
neutral party being obviated or lessened by compensation, there
may be the less cause or temptation to controversy and rupture
— the affair may be more susceptible of negotiation and accom-
modation. More than this cannot be pretended; because it is

472 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

further agreed, "that whenever any such articles, so become con-
traband, according to the existing laws of nations, shall, for that
reason, be seized, the same shall not be confiscated, but the
owners thereof shall be speedily and completely indemnified,"
&c. &c.

Thus the criterion of the cases, in which articles, not generally
contraband, may, from particular circumstances, become so, is
expressly the existing law of nations ; in other words, the law of
nations at the time the transaction happens. When these laws
pronounce them contraband, they may, for that reason, be seized ;
when otherwise, they may not be seized. Each party is as free
as the other to decide whether the laws of nations do, in the given
case, pronounce them contraband or not, and neither is obliged to
be governed by the opinion of the other. If one party, on a false
pretext of being authorized by the laws of nations, makes a seizure,
the other is at full liberty to contest it, to appeal to those laws,
and, if it thinks fit, to oppose, even to reprisals and war. This
is the express tenor of the provision — there is nothing to the con-
trary ; nothing that narrows the ground ; nothing that warrants
either party in making a seizure, which the law of nations, inde-
pendent of the treaty, permits ; nothing which obliges either party
to submit to one, when it is of opinion the law of nations has been
violated by it.

But as liberal compensation is to be made in every case of
seizure, whereof difference of opinion happens, it will become a
question of prudence and expediency, whether to be satisfied with
the compensation, or to seek farther redress. The provision will,
in doubtful cases, render an accommodation of opinion the more
easy, and, as a circumstance conducing to the preservation of
peace, is a valuable ingredient in the treaty. A very different
phraseology was to have been expected, if the intention had been,
to leave each party at liberty to seize, agreeably to its own opinion
of the law of nations, upon the condition of making compensa-
tion. The stipulation would thus have been : " It is agreed, that
whenever either of the contracting parties shall seize any such
articles so becoming contraband, and which shall, for that reason,
be seized ;" this makes, not the opinion of either party, but the

JEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 473

fact of the articles having become contraband by the laws of na-
tions, the condition of the seizure.

A cavil has arisen on the term "existing" as if it had the ef-
fect of enabling one of the parties to make a law of nations for the
occasion. But this is a mere cavil.

No one nation can make a law of nations ; no positive regu-
lation of one state, or of a partial nomination of states, can pretend
to this character. A law of nations is a law which nature, agree-
ment, or usage, has established between nations ; as this may vary
from one period to another by agreement or usage, the article
very properly uses the term " existing," to denote that law, which
at the time the transaction may happen, shall be then the law of
nations. This is a plain and obvious use of the term, which noth-
ing but a spirit of misrepresentation could have perverted to a
different meaning.

The argument against the foregoing construction is in sub-
stance this (viz.), it is now a settled doctrine of the law of na-
tions, that provisions and other articles, not generally contraband,
can only become so when going to a place besieged, blockaded,
or invested— cases of this kind are fully provided for in a sub-
sequent part of the article ; the implication therefore is, that
something more was intended to be embraced in the antecedent

part.

Let us first examine the fact, whether all the cases of that kind
are comprehended in the subsequent part of the article. I say
they are not— the remaining clause of the article divides itself
into two parts. The first describes the case of a vessel sailing for
a port or place belonging to an enemy, without knowing that
the same is either besieged, blockaded, or invested ; and provides,
that, in such case, the vessel may be turned away, but not detain-
ed, nor her cargo, if not contraband, confiscated, unless after
notice she shall again attempt to enter : the second describes the
case of a vessel, or goods, which had entered into such port or
place before it was besieged, blockaded, or invested, and declares
that the one or the other shall not be liable to confiscation, but
shall be restored to the owners thereof. These are the only cases
described or provided for. A third, which occurs on the slightest

474 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

reflection, is not mentioned : the case of a vessel going to a port
or place which, is besieged, blockaded, or invested, with notice of
its being in that state when she commences her voyage, or pre-
vious to her receiving notice from the besieging, blockading, or
investing party. This is left to the operation of the general law
of nations, except so far as it may be affected in respect to com-
pensation by the antecedent clause. Thus the fact, which is the
foundation of the argument, fails, and with it, of course, the
argument itself.

But had this been otherwise, the conclusion would still have
been erroneous — the two clauses are entirely independent of each
other, and though they might both contemplate the same cases
in whole, or in part, they do it with an eye to very different
purposes.

The object of the first is to lessen the danger of misunder-
standing, by establishing this general rule, that whenever articles,
not commonly contraband, become so from particular circum-
stances, according to the law of nations, they shall still not be
confiscated, but, when seized, the owners of them shall be in-
demnified.

The object of the last is to regulate some special consequences
with regard to vessels and goods going to, or which had pre-
viously gone to places besieged, blockaded, or invested ; and in
respect to which the dispositions of the laws of nations may have
been deemed doubtful or too rigorous. Thus it is held, that the
laws of nations permit the confiscation of ships and goods going
to places besieged, blockaded, or invested; but this clause de-
cides, that if going without notice, so far from being confiscated,
they shall not even be detained, but shall be permitted to go
whithersoever they please. If they persist after notice, then the
contumacy shall be punished with confiscation. In both in-
stances the consequence is entirely different from every thing in
the antecedent clause.

There, there is seizure, with compensation. Here, in one
instance, seizure is forbidden, and permission to go elsewhere is
enjoined. In the other instances, the offending things are con-
fiscated, which excludes the idea of compensation. Again, the

At. 38.] C A M ILLUS. 475

last part of the last clause stipulates in the case, which it supposes,
the restoration of the property to its owners, and so excludes
both seizure and compensation. Hence it is apparent the objects
of the two clauses are entirely foreign to each other, and that no
argument nor inference whatever can be drawn from the one to
the other.

If it be asked, what other cases there can be, except those of
places besieged, blockaded, or invested ? and if none other, what
difficulty in defining them ? why leave the point so vague and
indeterminate? One answer, which indeed has already been
given in substance, is, that the situation of one of the parties pre-
vented an agreement at the time ; that not being able to agree,
they could not define ; and the alternative was to avoid definition.
The want of definition only argues want of agreement. It is
strange logic to assert, that this or that is admitted, because
nothing is defined.

Another answer is, that even if the parties had been agreed
that there were no other cases than those of besieged, blockaded,
or invested places, still there would have remained much room
for dispute about the precise cases, owing to the impracticability
of defining what is a besieged, blockaded, or invested place. About
this there has been frequent controversy ; and the fact is so com-
plicated, puts on such a variety of shapes, that no definition can
well be devised, which will suit all. Thence nations, in their
compacts with each other, frequently do not attempt one ; and
where the attempt has been made, it has left almost as much
room for dispute about the definition as there was about the

thing.

Moreover, is it impossible to conceive other cases than those
mentioned above, in which provisions and other articles not
generally contraband might, on rational grounds, be deemed so?
What if they were going expressly, and with notice, to a besieg-
ing army, whereby it might obtain a supply essential to the
success of its operations ? Is there no doubt that it would be
justifiable in such case to seize them ? Can the liberty of trade
be said to apply to any instance of direct and immediate aid to a
military expedition ? It would be at least a singular effect of
HAMILTON'S WORKS. \Mt.M.

the rule, if provisions could be carried without interruption for
the supply of a Spanish army besieging Gibraltar, when, if des-
tined for the supply of the garrison in that place, they might, of
right, be seized by a Spanish fleet.

The calumniators of the article have not had the candor to
notice that it is not confined to provisions, but speaks of provi-
sions and other articles. Even this is an ingredient which com-
bats the supposition that countenance was intended to be given to
the pretension of Great Britain with regard to provisions, which,
depending on a reason peculiar to itself; cannot be deemed to be
supported by a clause including other articles, to which that reason
is entirely inapplicable.

^ There is one more observation which has been made against
this part of the article which may deserve a moment's attention.
It is this, that though the true meaning of the clause, be such
as I contend for, still the existence of it affords to Great Britain
a pretext for abuse which she may improve to our disadvantage.
I answer, it is difficult to guard against all the perversions of a
contract which ill faith may suggest. But we have the same
security against abuses of this sort, which we have against those
of other kinds, namely, the right of judging for ourselves, and
the power of causing our rights to be respected. We have this
plain and decisive reply to make, to any uncandid construction
which Great Britain may, at any time, endeavor to raise, " The
article pointedly and explicitly makes the existing law of na-
tions, the standard of the cases in which you may rightfully seize
provisions and other articles not generally contraband. This
law does not authorize the seizure in the instance in question ;
you have consequently no warrant under the treaty for what
you do."

The same disingenuous spirit which tinctures all the conduct
of the adversaries of the treaty, has been hardy enough to im-
pute to it the last order of Great Britain, to seize provisions going
to the dominions of France.

Strange, that an order issued before the treaty had ever been
considered in this country, and embracing the other neutral
powers besides the United States, should be represented as the

jEt. 39.]

CAM1LLUS. 477

fruit of that instrument !* The appearances are, that a motive
no less imperious than that of impending scarcity, has great share
in dictating the measure, and time, I am persuaded, will prove
that it will not ever be pretended to justify it by any thing in the

treaty.

Camillus.

no. XXXIII.

1796.
The course thus far pursued in the discussion of the 18th arti-
cle, has inverted the order of it, as it stands in the treaty. It is
composed of three clauses ; the two last of which have been first
examined— I thought it advisable, in the outset, to dispose of an
objection which has been the principal source of clamor.

The first clause of that which remains to be examined, enu-
merates the articles, which, it is agreed, shall be deemed contra-
band of war. These are, "all arms, and implements serving for
the purpose of war, such as cannon, muskets, mortars, petards,
bombs, grenadoes, carcases, saucisses, carriages for cannon, mus-
ket-rests, bandoliers, gunpowder, match, salt-petre, balls, pikes,
swords, head-pieces, cuirasses, halberts, lances, javelins, horse
furniture, holsters, belts, and generally all other implements of
war ; as also timber for ship-building, tar or rosin, copper in sheets,
sails, hemp, and cordage, and generally whatever may serve
directly to the equipment of vessels, unwrought iron and fir planks

only excepted."

All which articles are declared to be just objects of confisca-
tion, when attempted to be carried to any enemy of either

party. ,

It is well understood, that war abridges the liberty oi trade ol

neutral nations; and that it is not lawful for them to supply

either of two belligerent parties with any article deemed contra-

* As reasonable would it be to place to its account the similar order which was
issued before the mission of an envoy was thought of.

478 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt .39.

band of war ; nor may they supply any article whatever to a
place besieged, blockaded, or invested. The former case includes
a special catalogue of articles which have an immediate reference
to war — the latter extends to all kinds of goods and merchandise.
The penalty in both cases is confiscation.

These positions have not been disputed. The only question
which has been or can be raised, must respect the enumeration of
the articles which are to be considered as contraband.

In comparing the enumeration in the present treaty, with
that of our former treaties, we find the differences to be these.
Our former treaties include "horses" and one of them "soldiers,"
which our present does not; but our present includes "timber
for ship-building, tar or rosin, copper in sheets, sails, hemp, and
cordage, and generally whatever may serve directly to the equip-
ment of vessels, unwrought iron and fir planks only excepted,"
which are not to be found in our former treaties.

It is alleged that the including of these articles is an extension
of the list of contraband beyond the limit of the modern law of
nations ; in support of which allegation, it is affirmed, that they
have been excluded by the uniform tenor of the treaties which
have been formed for more than a century past.

Though this position will not, upon careful examination, ap-
pear correct; yet it is so far founded, as to claim an acknow-
ledgment, that the article under consideration has, in this
instance, pursued the rigor of the law of nations. It was to this
I alluded, when I observed that it contained one unpleasant
ingredient.

It is a fact, that far the greater proportion of modern treaties
exclude naval stores or articles for ship-building ; yet this is not
universally the case.

By the third article of the treaty of alliance and commerce
between Great Britain and Denmark, in 1670, the parties agree,
" not to furnish the enemies of each other with any provisions of
war, as soldiers, arms, engines, guns, ships, or other necessaries
for the use of war, nor to suffer the same to be furnished by their
subjects." An explanation of this article was made by a conven-
tion, dated the 4th of July, 1780, which, after enumerating as

JEt. 39.] CAMILLUS. 479

contraband, the usual catalogue of military implements, adds, in
the precise terms of our article, "as also timber for ship-building,
tar, rosin, copper in sheets, sails, hemp, and cordage, and generally
whatever may serve directly to the equipment of vessels, un-
wrought iron, and fir planks only excepted."

In a series of treaties between Great Britain and Portugal,
down to the year 1703, I do not discover that there has ever
been a regulation of the articles which are to be treated as con-
traband, between these powers.

And between Sweden and Great Britain, the 11th article of
a treaty, entered into in 1661, (and still in force unaltered, though
a subsequent commercial treaty was made between those powers
as late as 1776,) subjects to confiscation equally all articles called
contraband, and especially money, 2>r°visions, &c. This specifica-
tion not being complete, naval stores are left upon the open
ground of the law of nations ; but money and provisions arc
superadded. This latitude would bear little doubt as to the
intention to include naval stores.*

* An opinion has been propagated that Sweden armed in concert with Denmark,
in order to maintain the neutral right of carrying corn and flour to France, in op-
position to the convention of March, 1793, between Great Britain and Russia ; and
that in consequence of this proceeding, the remonstrances of these powers have
proved more successful than we have been in obtaining satisfaction from Great
Britain.

This opinion is, throughout, an error, made use of by those whose persevering
aim has been, by silencing truth, reason, and moderation, and inflaming the angry
passions of the community, to involve the country in anarchy and war. The
authors of this imposture, as well as the exalted patriots who have seen in the me-
morial of our envoy, the humiliation of our country, are referred to a " collection
of state papers relative to the war against France," published by Debret, in 1794.
The perusal of the Swedish state papers, as well as the memorials of the able and
prudent Bernstorff, may teach these gentlemen a little of what is deemed good
manners on these occasions.

So far from even remonstrating, much less arming on account of the British
instruction of June, 1793, when that order was notified at Stockholm, by the
British resident there, the government of Sweden, by their resident at London.
acknowledged, in terms too respectful to be repeated in the hearing of our exclu-
sive patriots, that Sweden was perfectly satisfied with the instruction; since.
instead of payment, which the order insured, all provisions, in virtue of an existing
treaty between the two nations, were liable to confiscation when seized, on their
way to an enemy.

This note is added for the purpose of refuting a popular error, and not to vindi-

4K0 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mi. 39.

It appears from these specimens, that there is not a perfect
uniformity in the conventions between nations; and that no
purely positive law of nations can be deduced from that source.

If we call to our aid the principles of reason and natural
justice, which are the great foundations of the law of nations,
we shall not discover, in this instance, data as certain as could be
wished, for a satisfactory conclusion ; and the soundest determi-
nation, which we can adopt, will be, that beyond a certain point,
the question is in a great degree arbitrary, and must depend
materially upon conventional regulation between nation and
nation. Hence it is there is so great a diversity in the stipulations
of different parties on this point; indicating that there is no
absolute rule. Hence also it is, that several nations, at different
times, being at war, have thought themselves authorized to regu-
late and announce, by public declarations, the articles which they
would consider and treat as contraband.

The opinion of writers will be found to support the article as
it stands, in the particular, which is now the subject of discus-
sion.

Vattel, we have before seen, (B. B. C. 3. 6, 7. s. 112,) expressly
ranks naval stores and timber under the denomination of contra-
band goods.

Hienecius (de navibus, &c, chap. I. S. 10, 11 and 14) accords
in the same position to the extent of whatsoever appertains to
the equipment of vessels.*

Bynkershoek is less explicit. After laying it down as the
general rule that naval stores, or the materials of ships, are not
contraband, he proceeds thus — "Yet it sometimes happens that
the materials of ships may be prohibited, if an enemy is in great
icant of tJiem, and ivithout them cannot conveniently carry on the
war ;"f and he afterwards cites, with approbation, several edicts or

cate the instruction alluded to, which I consider as an injury to the rights of neutral
nations, that has not heen justified by the answers that have been given by Great
Britain to the American and Danish memorials.

* Vela, Restes et si quse alia ad apparatum nauticum pertinent.

■j- Quandoque tamen accidit ut et navium materia prohibeatur, si hostis ea
quam maxime indigeat at absque ea commode belluui gerere baud possit. Qusesti-
onum juris Publici L., i. chap, x., page 80.

Mt. 39.] CAMILLUS. 481

proclamations, which the states general, in different wars with
different nations, have published, declaring those articles contra-
band— thus referring it to the belligerent party to judge of, and
pronounce the cases when they may rightfully be deemed so-
And the same idea seems to have been adopted by Grotius* and
some other writers on public law. — I have not met with one
whose opinion excludes naval stores from the list of contraband.
Grotius, in discussing this question, divides goods into three
classes, 1. Those which are of use only in war, as arms, &c. •
2. Those which serve only for pleasure ; 3. Those useful for
peaceable as well as for warlike purposes, " as money, provisions,
ships and naval stores " — concerning which he argues in substance,
that the first class are clearly contraband ; that the second class
are clearly not contraband ; and that the third class may or may
not be so, according to the state and circumstances of the war ;
alleging, that if necessary to our defence, they may he intercepted
but upon condition of restitution, unless there be just cause to
the contrary ; which just cause is explained by the examples of
sending them to a besieged, or blockaded place.

The reasoning about the third class has a very inconvenient
latitude. It subjects the trade of neutral nations too extensively
to the discretion of belligerent powers ; and yet there is a serious
embarrassment about drawing the true line, one which will duly
conciliate the safety of the belligerent, with that of the neutral,
party.

What definition of contraband, consulting reason alone, shall
we adopt ? Shall we say, that none but articles peculiar to war
ought to receive this denomination ? But is even powder exclu-
sively applicable to war? Are nitre and sulphur, its chief ingre-
dients, peculiar to war ? Are they not all useful for other pur-
poses ; some of them in medicine, and other important arts ?
Shall we say, that none but articles prepared and organized for
war, as their primary object, ought to have that character? But
what substantial difference can reason know, between the supply
to our enemy of powder, and that of sulphur and saltpetre, the
easily convertible materials of this mischievous compound ?

* B. iii., c. i., v.
G 31

482 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 39.

How would either of these definitions, or any other, comport
with what those of our treaties which are thought unexceptiona-
ble, in this particular, have regulated, or with what is common
in the treaties between other nations ? Under which of them
shall we bring horses and their furniture ?

If we say, that in wars by land, these are instruments little
less important than men, and, for that reason, ought to be com-
prehended ; it may be asked in return, what can be more neces-
sary in wars by sea, than the materials of ships, and why should
they not, for the like reasons, be equally comprehended ?

In wars between maritime nations, who transfer its calamities
from the land to the ocean, and wage their most furious conflicts
on that element, whose dominions cannot be attacked or defended
without a superiority in naval strength, who moreover possess
distant territories, the protection and commercial advantages of
which, depend upon the existence and support of navies, it is
difficult to maintain, that it is against reason, or against those
principles which regulate the description of contraband, to con-
sider as such the materials which appertain to the construction
and equipment of ships.

It is not a sufficient objection, that these articles are useful
for other purposes, and especially for those of maritime com-
merce. Horses are of primary utility in agriculture ; and it has
been seen that there are other articles indisputably on the list of
contraband, which are entirely within the principle of that objec-
tion.

Eutherforth, a sensible modern writer,* after truly observing,
"that the notion of contraband goods is of some latitude, so that
it is not easy precisely to determine what are and what are not of
this sort — that all warlike stores are certainly contraband, but that
still the question returns, what are to be reckoned warlike stores?"
after noticing the division of articles by Grotius and the diffi-
culties with regard to the third class — draws this conclusion, that
" where a war is carried on by sea as well as by land, not only
ships of war which are already built, but the materials for build-

* Institutes of Natural Law, book ii., chap. x. xix.

JEt. 39.] CAMILLUS. 483

ing or repairing of ships, will come under the notion of warlike
stores." This is a precise idea, and, it must be confessed, on
principle, not an irrational one.

If we resort to the opinions which have been entertained and
evidenced in our own country, they will be found to have given
great extent to the idea of contraband. Congress, by an act of
May the 8th, 1777, establishing the form of commissions for pri-
vateers, authorize them " to attack, subdue, and take all ships
and other vessels whatever, carrying soldiers, arms, gunpowder,
ammunition, provisions, or any other contraband goods, to any of
the British armies or ships of war, employed against the United
States." And in their act of the 27th of November, 1780, acced-
ing, in part, to the rule of the armed neutrality, they declare,
that contraband shall be thereafter confined to the articles con-
tained under this character, in our treaty with France ; indicat-
ing, by this, their opinion that the list of those articles is abridged
by that treaty. If the first mentioned act was well founded
(and there are strong reasons for it), it establishes that even pro-
visions may be contraband, if going directly to invading fleets
and armies ; which affords an instance of their being so (analo-
gous to the case heretofore put of a besieging army) in addition
to the cases of places besieged, blockaded, or invested. And as
to naval stores, I assert a belief, that the common opinion of
those persons in this country, whose contemplation had embraced
the subject, included them in the catalogue of contraband.

Nevertheless, from the number of modern treaties, which
exclude from that list naval stores, and moreover from the man-
ifest interest of nations, truly considered, to narrow the rights
of war in favor of those of peace ; this clause of the treaty,
which takes a different route, is to be regretted as pursuing the
rigor of the law of nations.— Still, however, it cannot be object-
ed to, as a departure from the law ; and agreeing with the course
observed by Great Britain antecedent to the treaty, it does not
place our trade in those articles upon a worse footing than it
was, independent of the treaty.

The period of the negotiation was most unpropitious to a
change for the better— in the midst of any maritime war, a

484 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 39.

belligerent nation, enjoying a naval superiority, was like to have-
been tenacious of a right which she supposed herself to possess
to intercept naval supplies to her enemy.— But in a war, in which
it was more than ordinarily possible that the independent exist-
ence of a nation might depend on the retaining a naval superi-
ority, it was to have been foreseen that she would not consent to
relinquish such a right. The alternative was, to insert the article
as it stands, or to omit it wholly.

Had it been omitted, the condition of naval stores would
have been the same as with it. But our merchants would then
have continued to be exposed to uncertain risks, which is always
a great inconvenience. It is desirable, in similar cases, to have
a fixed rule. Merchants can then accommodate their specula-
tions to the rule ; and causes of national contention are avoided.

It is in this view to be regretted, that the cases when provi-
sions may be treated as contraband, could not have been agreed
upon ; but as this was impracticable, the next best thing has
been done, by establishing the certainty of compensation in all
such cases. This gives one important species of security, obvi-
ates one source of contention. And if really there may be
other cases than the universally admitted ones, in which provi-
sions can fairly be deemed contraband (as that designated by the
act of Congress of May 1777) the securing of compensation was
truly a point gained by the article.

But while I confess, that the including of naval stores, among
contraband articles, is an ineligible feature of the treaty, I ought
to declare, that its consequences to the interests of the United
States, as it regards the trade in those articles in time of war,
do not appear to me important. — War between other nations,
when we are at peace, will always increase the demand for our
bottoms, so as to require much additional building of vessels,
and probably in that way to produce a more beneficial species of
employment of the naval stores our country affords, than that of
their exportation for sale.

The adversaries of the treaty are eagle-eyed to spy out in-
stances in which it omits any favorable minutes which are found
in our other treaties ; but they forget to balance the account by

Mt. 39.] CAMILLUS. 485

particulars which distinguish it favorably from those treaties.
Of this nature is the omission of horses from the list of contra-
band, and still more the salutary regulations, with regard to
vessels and their cargoes going to places besieged, blockaded,
or invested. I do not discover that these useful provisions or
their equivalents, are in either of our treaties with France, Hol-
land, or Sweden.

It has been said, in reference to this article, "whenever the
law of nations has been a topic for consideration, the result of
the treaty accommodates Great Britian, in relation to one or both
of the republics at war with her, as well as in the abandonment
of the rights and interests of the United States," — and the fol-
lowing examples' are given, to each of which will be annexed a
reply.

I. " American vessels, bound to Great Britain, are protect-
ed, by sea-papers, against French and Dutch searches; but
when bound to France or Holland, are left exposed to British
searches, without regard to ships' papers." The truth of this
proposition depends on another, which is, that the sea-papers
are to be absolutely conclusive ; but reasons have been given for
doubting this construction, which, it has been remarked, does
not obtain in practice. And it is certainly a violent one, inas-
much as it puts it in the power of the neutral, to defeat the
rights of the belligerent party, in points of great consequence
to its safety.

II. " American provisions, in American vessels, bound to the
enemies of Great Britain, are left by the treaty to the seizure and
use of Great Britain ; but provisions, whether American or not,
in American vessels, cannot be touched by the enemies of Great
Britain." The construction of the treaty, upon which this dif-
ference is supposed, has been demonstrated to be erroneous. —
The difference therefore, does not exist.

III. "British property, in American vessels, is not subject
to FrencLuor Dutch confiscation.— French or Dutch property
in Americrtn vessels, is subject to British confiscation." This
was the case before the treaty, which makes no alteration in
the matter.— Moreover, it is counterbalanced by this circum-

486 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 39.

stance ; — that American property, in British vessels, is subject
to confiscation by France or Holland ; but American property,
in French or Dutch vessels, is not subject to confiscation by
Great Britain.

IV. " Articles of ship-building, bound to the enemies of
Great Britain for the equipment of vessels of trade only, are
contraband. — Bound to Great Britain, for the equipment of ves-
sels of war, are not contraband." This, also, was the case before
the treaty, which, consequently, has not in this particular more
than the former, produced any benefit to one party, to the pre-
judice of the other. I forbear to dwell upon the article of horses,
as falling under a contrary discrimination ; — nor shall I insist on
the additional circumstances, that all American goods not gen-
erally contraband, if going to a place besieged, blockaded, or
invested by French or Dutch forces, are liable to confiscation by
France or Holland ; if going to a place besieged, blockaded, or
invested by British forces, are not liable to confiscation by Great
Britain.

Differences of these several kinds are the accidental results
of the varying views of different contracting powers, and form
slender grounds of blame or praise of the respective contracts
made with them.

The form of the criticisms last stated, leaves little doubt that
it was designed to insinuate an intention in this article to favor
the Monarchs of Great Britain, at the expense of the Republics
of France and Holland. The candor of it may be judged of by
the two facts, first, that it makes no alteration, in this view, in
the antecedent state of things; and secondly, that the relative
situation of Holland, as the enemy of Great Britain, is subse-
quent to the adjustment of the article.

Camillus.

Mt. 39.] CAMILLUS. 487

NO. XXXIV.

1796.

The remaining articles of the treaty principally relate to those
maritime regulations, that are usually inserted in modern trea-
ties between commercial nations — and on that consideration, as
well as from their evident utility in enabling us to distinguish
with precision between what is, and what is not lawful, in re-
lation to those points — they are entitled to our approbation;
still however even some of these customary articles, whose ob-
ject and meaning are so well understood, have been deemed
exceptionable.

The first paragraph of the nineteenth article, in order to pre-
vent injuries by men of war, or privateers, enjoins (as before
noticed) all commanders of ships of war and privateers, and all
other citizens or subjects, of either party, to forbear doing any
damage to those of the other, or from committing any outrage
against them : and declares, that if they act to the contrary, they
shall be punishable, and moreover bound in their persons and
estates to make full satisfaction and reparation for all damages, of
whatsoever nature the same may be.

These prohibitions are conformable with the laws of the Uni-
ted States. If under color of authority, those to whom the same
does not relate, shall receive injury, the act, according to its
circumstances, is an offence, for which the offender is not only
answerable to his own country, but moreover to the injured
party, to whom he is bound to make full and complete repara-
tion.

The open and explicit views of the parties, and their mutual
engagement to put this law in execution against all offenders,
will be a salutary check upon the too frequent irregularities that
occur in the course of war between maritime nations. The para-
graph is a copy of a similar one contained in the fifteenth article
of the commercial treaty between France and Great Britain,
concluded in 1786, and agrees with the fourteenth article of our
treaty with Holland. In order to guard still more effectually

488 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 39.

against the injuries to which the citizens and subjects may be
exposed from the private ships of war of each other, the next
paragraph stipulates, that all commanders of privateers, before
they receive their commissions, shall be subjected to give securi-
ty, by at least two responsible sureties, who have no interest in
the privateer, in the sum of fifteen hundred pounds sterling, or
six thousand six hundred and sixty-six dollars ; or, if the priva-
teer is manned with more than one hundred and fifty men, in the
sum of three thousand pounds sterling, or thirteen thousand three
hundred and thirty-three dollars, to satisfy all damages and inju-
ries committed by such privateers, her officers, or any of her men,
against the tenor of the treaty, or the laws and instructions
for the regulation of their conduct ; and in case of aggression,
the commission of such privateer shall be recalled and made
void.

This particular regulation has been frequently introduced in
modern treaties, and exists in this precise shape in the last treaty
of commerce between France and Great Britain ; I have found
no instance where a larger sum has been mentioned. It has,
with little consideration, been made an objection to this regula-
tion, that the amount of the bonds is not adequate to com-
pensate or satisfy the damages that may be committed by these
privateers.

The preceding part of the article gives the injured party a
remedy against the persons and estates of the aggressors; the
bonds are not required for the exclusive purpose of being the
fund, to which the injured may have recourse for satisfaction ;
but principally for the purpose of excluding from the command
of privateers, those dissolute and irregular characters, who are
not restrained by either moral or political ties, and for whose
good behavior, responsible and disinterested men would not
become bondsmen. The same principle is developed in the civil
administration of every nation. In cases of pecuniary trust, it is
a common and useful precaution, to require surety for the faithful
discharge of the office; and the principal advantage of this regu-
lation is to secure the employment of virtuous and upright offi-
cers. The amount of the bonds required on these occasions is

JEt. 39.] CAMILLUS. 489

sufficient for this purpose, though inferior to the property confided
to them.

Thus the treasurer of the United States, who has the custody
of millions, gives bonds for only one hundred and fifty thousand
dollars, the collectors of New- York and Philadelphia for fifty and
sixty thousand dollars ; sums very far short of the public money
[of which they are in the receipt], yet sufficient to secure the
public against characters of doubtful integrity. The adequacy of
the sums, [in the particular case,] is moreover evidenced by the
law and practice of our own country. In the resolution of Con-
gress, of the third of April 1776, which, so far as regards this
point, remained in force throughout the American war, Congress
required that the commander of every privateer, before his com-
mission should be delivered to him, should give bonds, with sure-
ties, to the president of Congress, in the sum of five thousand
dollars, if the vessel was of or under one hundred tons; and of
ten thousand dollars, if the vessel was upwards of one hundred
tons, to observe the rules and instructions prescribed for their
' government. These sums are one quarter less than those required
by the article before us.

The last paragraph, requiring the judges of the admiralty
courts to furnish formal and duly authenticated copies of their
proceedings in cases of the condemnation of vessels or cargoes,
belonging to the citizens or subjects of the parties, is pursuant to
that reasonable course of proceeding, which ought always in this
and similar cases to prevail.

The twentieth article, which is in prevention of piracy, has
the sanction of numerous precedents. A pirate is the common
enemy of all mankind.— All, therefore, should unite in refusing
him assistance and refuge, and in the establishment of such re-
gulations relative to the sale of his plunder, as, by shutting
against him every market, may thereby annihilate the motives
to his piracy.

The twenty-first article stipulates, that the citizens and sub-
jects of the parties, shall do no acts of hostility or violence
against each other, nor accept commissions or instructions so to
act from any foreign state being an enemy to the other party.

490 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 39.

That the enemies of either nation shall not be allowed to invite,
or endeavor to enlist, in their military service, any of the citi-
zens or subjects of the other ; and the laws, prohibiting such
offences, are to be punctually executed. The article farther
stipulates, if any citizen or subject of either party, who has
accepted of a foreign commission to arm a privateer against
the other, it shall be lawful for the said party to treat and pun-
nish the said citizen or subject, having such commission, as a
pirate.

The general tenor of this article is in comformity with the
spirit of our preceding laws on this subject; it is moreover in
perfect unison with the duties of neutrality ; those duties which
a just regard to the principles of integrity, as well as an en-
lightened pursuit of our own interest, require us faithfully to
perform.

Two objections have been offered against this article ; one
that it precludes such of our citizens as, with a view of acquir-
ing military knowledge, would otherwise engage as volunteers int
foreign service — the other, that it [makes] every citizen and
subject, of either party, who has accepted a foreign commission
to arm a privateer against the other, and who shall be taken
in possession of such commission, [liable] to be punished as a
pirate.

In respect to the first objection, if, by a rigorous construction,
the case is included within the prohibition, it should be remark-
ed, that it is applicable only to such engagements as commence
and are made in time of mutual war. If we have citizens, who,
with the view of military education, are inclined to engage in
foreign service, though from past experience there is not much
reason to conclude that the examples would be numerous, they
have full scope, as I understand the article, in the periods of
peace, to enter into any of the regular armies of Europe, that
they may prefer ; and being thus engaged, they are free to make
the campaigns of war against Great Britian, if that is their pas-
sion, without injuring this article. [The prohibition seems to be
against engaging in the military service of a nation, previously
in the condition of " enemy " to one of the parties.]

jEt. 39.] CAMILLUS. 491

The second objection has even less plausibility than the first ;
the disingenuous means that have been used to excite a repro-
bation of this clause of the article, manifest the want of truth
and patriotism of those who have employed them : passion and
the spirit of opposition have asserted, that the provision before
us is so extensive as to place the subordinate officers and private
men, on board of a privateer, within the predicament of her
commander; nay, that all persons, citizens, or subjects, of either
nation, who would accept commissions, or [enter, in any capa-
city,] in a foreign army or navy, would, in consequence of this
stipulation, be liable to be treated and punished as pirates. It
is sufficient, after noticing these attempts to impose upon the pub-
lic, to observe that the stipulation [expressly] confines the punish-
ment, in question, to the commanders of privateers, who, con-
trary to the laws of the land, and the clear and equitable obliga-
tions of the members of a neutral nation, shall be taken with
such commission ; and that it does not extend to the under
officers or crew, much less to such persons, as, contrary to the
preceding inhibition of the article, should accept commissions in
a foreign army or navy. In respect to such misdemeanors in all
cases (except that of equipping and commanding a privateer,
which will expose the commander, when taken, to be punished
as a pirate) the offence is cognizable only by the nation [within
whose jurisdiction the offence is committed, or] of which the
offender is a citizen, or subject ; and, by our laws, is punishable
only by fine and imprisonment.

[A perversion of the sense of the clause, stipulating, that
" the law against all such offences and aggressions shall be punc-
tually executed," has been attempted, though nothing can be
more innocent or unexceptionable. Its plain meaning is, that
each party, in the cases falling within its jurisdiction, shall
faithfully put in execution its own laws against the offences and
aggressions, in contravention of the article. A stipulation be-
tween the governments, to execute laws on a certain subject,
can mean nothing else than that each shall execute its own
laws on that subject, in the cases appertaining to its jurisdic-
tion.]

492 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [At. 39.

Though most of the objections preferred against the treaty
are marked with that illiberal spirit which characterizes the
party who have unceasingly labored to bring into discredit the
government of the country, yet few of them have been less veil-
ed than this which condemns a stipulation intended to curb and
restrain the few dissolute and daring characters, who, from the
least worthy of all motives that lead to military enterprise,
might otherwise engage in this piratical warfare.

What virtuous citizen would feel himself justified in accept-
ing such command? What must be the morals of those in-
structors, who contend for a freedom to commit what humanity
and honor forbid ? Every treaty that we have concluded with
other nations is enriched with this stipulation ; not only our
own treaties, but those between other nations contain it. How
is it that we nowhere discover a trace of disapprobation, either
on the part of our statesmen, or from an enlightened people,
against a series of treaties, formed by different public ministers,
and ratified by a succession of Congresses, each of which contains
a provision that the crime of accepting a foreign commission to
arm and command a privateer, against a nation with whom we
are at peace, shall be treated and punished as piracy ? Is it that
our virtue has become less severe ? our morality more indulgent ?
Or is it that our predecessors were less vigilant in defending the
rights of the citizens, than the ostentatious patriots of the present
day? But it is time to dismiss an objection entirely destitute of
integrity and [decency].

Camillus.

NO. XXXV.

1796.
The twenty-second article bears upon its face its own justifi-
cation— it is pursuant to those [maxims which enlightened moral-
ists recommend, and just nations respect]. It prescribes a course
of conduct the most likely to procure satisfaction for injuries,

Mt. 39.] CAMILLUS. 4*»3

and to maintain peace, and is therefore entitled to the approba-
tion of all good men and real patriots. [It is particularly valua-
ble to a weak nation, or a nation in its infancy, as an additional
guard against sudden and unforeseen attacks of more powerful
rivals.]

The first paragraph of the twenty-third article provides for
the hospitable reception of the public or national ships of war of
the parties, in the ports of each other ; and engages that the offi-
cers of such ships shall be free from insult, and treated with
decorum and respect.

The practice which our government has adopted in relation
to these points* independent of parties, is agreeable to this pro-
vision.* And though the stipulation will be of less importance
to us than it would be, were we possessed of a respectable naval
force, yet it may be useful. By our treaty with France, our
ships of war have a right to enter their ports only in case of
urgent necessity, and not freely and for mere convenience.

With Spain and Portugal we have no treaties, and conse-
quently not an ascertained or perfect right to use their ports.
Our navigation must be protected from the Barbary powers by
force or by treaty. It is questionable whether the latter mode
will prove effectual without the support of the former ; Congress
have therefore resolved to equip a small naval force, for the spe-
cial object of protecting our trade against the Algerines, and the
other Barbary powers. Some port convenient to the scene of its
cruising will be of essential advantage to the efficiency and suc-
cess of its employment : not only the ports of Great Britain, but
likewise the port of Gibraltar will, by this article of the treaty,
be open to us ; and our frigates will be there entitled to a hospi-
table reception, and their officers to that respect which shall be
due to the commissions which they bear.

The other paragraph of this article provides, in case an Amer-
ican vessel by stress of weather, danger from enemies, or other
misfortune, should be obliged to seek shelter in any British port,

*See Mr. Jefferson's letter of September 9th, 1793, to Mr. Hammond ; also his
letter of the same date to Mr. Van Berckel.

494 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 39.

into which, in ordinary cases such vessel could not claim to be
admitted, that she shall be hospitably received, permitted to refit,
and to purchase such necessaries as she may want; and, by per-
mission of the local government, to sell such part of her cargo
as may be necessary to defray her expenses. Our treaty with
France contains a similar provision ; but the restrictions with
which it is guarded are less than those of the article before us.

The twenty -fourth article stipulates, that it shall not be lawful
for any foreign privateers, commissioned by any nation at war
with either of the parties, to arm the vessels, or to sell or ex-
change their prizes in the ports of either of the parties ; and
that they shall not be allowed to purchase more .provisions than
shall be necessary to carry them to the nearest port of the nation
from whom they received their commission ; and the twenty-fifth
article stipulates that the ships of war and privateers of either
party may carry whithersoever they please the ships and goods
taken from their enemy ; and that such prizes, on their arrival
in the ports of the parties, shall not be searched, seized, detained,
nor judicially examined touching the validity of their capture,
but may freely depart — and furthermore, that no shelter or refuge
shall be given in the ports of one of the parties to such as have
made prizes upon the citizens or subjects of the other. Though
the law of nations is explicit, that one nation having foftned a par-
ticular stipulation with another, is not capable, by a subsequent
treaty with a third nation, to do away or annul its former stipu-
lations, but that the elder treaty, in such case, remains in full
force, notwithstanding such posterior and contradictory treaty ;
yet, in order to remove all cavil on this point, and to maintain a
scrupulous regard to good faith, even in appearance as well as in
reality, and especially in relation to our treaty with France, the
article further declares, " that nothing in the treaty contained
shall be construed or operate contrary to former and existing
public treaties with other sovereigns or states," and adds, that
neither of the parties, while they continue in friendship, will
form any treaty inconsistent with this and the preceding article.
[This last clause has been censured as an undue restraint ; while
it is in fact a mere redundancy ; as long as a treaty between two

Mi. 39.] CAM ILL US. 495

nations continues in force, it is against good faith for either to
form a treaty with another nation inconsistent with it ; if the
treaty is once disclosed, by whatever means, no treaty with an-
other nation can be inconsistent with it. The clause, therefore,
only converts into an express promise, what without it is an im-
plied one, that the parties will not contravene their stipulations
with each other by repugnant engagements with a third party.
The disingenuity on this point has gone so far as to torture the
clause into a positive stipulation against any treaty with anoth-
er power conferring peculiar advantages of commerce upon that
power. It is a sufficient reply to this, that the clause is expressly
confined to the. twenty-fourth and twenty-fifth articles; deter-
mining nothing as to the other articles of the treaty. The gene-
ral principle of this last objection has been sufficiently discussed
elsewhere.]

The article concludes with a mutual engagement, that neither
of the parties will permit the ships or goods of the other to be
taken within cannon shot of the coast, nor in any of the bays,
ports, or rivers of their territories ; and in case of such capture,
the party whose territorial rights are violated shall use his ut-
most endeavors to obtain full satisfaction for the vessels or goods
taken. This stipulation is conformable to the duty and practice
of nations who have entered into no special engagements re-
quiring the same, and agrees with a common provision in public
treaties.

Hitherto we have prudently avoided granting to any nation
a right to arm their privateers or to sell their prizes in our ports ;
our laws are explicit in prohibiting such equipments ; and the
exclusion thereof, contained in the twenty fourth article, is
agreeable to the declared policy of the country. We have en-
gaged in our treaty with France to prohibit her enemies from
selling their prizes within our ports; but not having engaged
to permit France to sell her prizes therein, we were free to agree
with Great Britain, that her enemies shall likewise be prohibited
from selling their prizes within our territory. A clause in the
twenty -fifth article denies all refuge to the ships of war and pri-
vateers that have made prizes upon either of the parties ; and the

496 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 39.

last clause of the twenty-fourth article stipulates, that foreign
privateers, enemies to either of the parties, shall not be allowed
to purchase more provisions than sufficient to carry them to the
nearest port of the nation from whom they received their com-
missions.

These clauses will operate only against such nations as have
not, by an elder treaty, secured a right of reception in the ports
of the parties. Still, however, it is alleged that these articles
violate our treaty with France. It has already been observed
that the treaty contains a clear and explicit agreement of the
parties, excepting from its operation all former existing public
treaties. Our treaty with France is an antecedent and existing
public treaty, and consequently excepted, in all its parts, from
the operation of the treaty before us. Whatever right or privi-
lege, therefore, is secured to France in virtue of that treaty, she
will continue to enjoy, whether the same respects the reception
of her public ships of war, privateers or prizes, in our ports, or
the exclusion therefrom of those of her enemies.

Could there be a doubt on this point, the practice of other
nations, and especially that of France, on the very point, would
effectually remove it. The fifteenth and thirty-sixth articles of
the commercial treaty of Utrecht, between France and Great
Britain, contain the same stipulations as the twenty-fourth and
twenty-fifth articles of the treaty before us. That treat}' was in
existence and force at the time of forming our treaty with
France, yet France found no difficulty in the insertion of the
same stipulations in her treaty with us. She could not have con-
sidered their insertion in the treaty with us as a violation of her
treaty with Great Britain, otherwise good faith would have re-
strained her. The war that soon after took place between France
and Great Britain, dissolved the treaty of Utrecht. Our treaty
with France remained in force ; yet, in the year one thousand
seven hundred and eighty-six, France and Great Britain entered
into a commercial treaty, the sixteenth and fortieth articles of
which renew the stipulations contained in the fifteenth and
thirty-sixth articles of the treaty of Utrecht.

If France was free, first to form these stipulations with us, in

^Et. 39.] CAMILLUS. 1D7

1778, notwithstanding her prior and existing treaty with Great
Britain, and afterwards in 1786 to renew the same stipulations
with Great Britain, we must be equally free in a treaty with
the same, or any other power, to agree to similar stipulations.
Both were free, and neither violates the former engagements, by
assenting, as we have done, to these stipulations in a posterio)
treaty.

It is further alleged, that these articles are injurious to the
interest of the United States, because they prohibit, in certain
cases, foreign privateers to rendezvous in our ports, and to sell
within our territory, the prizes they may have taken. If it is
desirable to render our principal sea-ports and cities scenes of
riot and confusion; if it is politic to divide our citizens, by in-
fusing into their minds the hostile spirit with which the nations
at war are animated against each other ; if we are prepared to see
the prostration of public authority, and to behold the laws
trampled upon by armed banditti; if we are ready to invite our
citizens to abandon their regular and useful employments, and
to engage, as adventurers, even against each other, in the pur-
suit of plunder, then is the objection well-founded, then is the
restraint pernicious, then is the stipulation worthy of condemna-
tion. But if to establish the reverse of all this, is the effort and
aim of every wise and prudent government, the stipulation in
question demands the approbation of all virtuous citizens.

But were none of these consequences to be apprehended
from the free admission of the privateers of all nations engaged
in war, and the permission to sell their plunder, it would, not-
withstanding, be against the interests of the United States to
allow the same. It is a sound commercial principle, that the
interest of buyers, as well as sellers, is best promoted by a free
competition. Ihe great number of the sellers of foreign manu-
factures and productions, afford the best market for the buyers.
The great number of buyers of our productions, afford the best
market for the sellers — foreign privateers are precarious sellers,
and buyers only for their own consumption. They drive away
and banish from our markets, both buyers and sellers. When
our coasts are lined with foreign privateers that rendezvous in
G 32

498 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 39

our ports, the merchant ships of all nations, not excepting our
own, will be liable to interruption, and discouraged from coming
to our markets; and those of the belligerent powers will be
generally excluded. Our markets might, perhaps, derive sup-
plies from the prizes that such privateers should take, so as, in
some degree, to compensate for the deficiency that would pro-
ceed from the exclusion of foreign merchantmen ; but this supply
would be uncertain, irregular, ill-assorted, and partial, while the
principal commercial detriment would exist without mitigation,
that of a partial or total destruction of foreign competition in the
purchase of our agricultural and other productions.

If, moreover, it is the duty, as well as the interest, of the
United States, to observe an exact and scrupulous neutrality,
amidst the wars of other nations, one of the most efficacious
means of effecting that purpose, will be, to remove every temp-
tation that might lead our citizens to an opposite course. No
allurement would be more likely to seduce them from their duty
than that which is offered by the expected gains of privateering
— no avenue of political mischief should, therefore, be more
carefully closed.

If these articles are exceptionable, in any respect, it is that
in imitation of the analogous articles of our treaty with France,
they allow the privateers of the parties, in cases not inconsistent
with former treaties, to rendezvous in, and their prizes to be
brought into, each other's ports and harbors : it would, in my
judgment, have been the true policy of the United States, as well
as with the view of maintaining an impartial and decided neu-
trality in the wars of Europe, from a participation in which our
remote situation, with [due] prudence, is an exemption; as like-
wise, in order to promote, in the most advantageous manner, our
national prosperity, totally and for ever to hawe excluded all
foreign privateers and prizes from our ports and harbors.

But having entered into these stipulations with France, by
which she has the use of all our ports against all other nations,
we having the use of her ports only against those nations who
have not an elder treaty with her, it would have manifested an
unwise partiality to have refused to enter into similar stipula-

JEt. 39.] CAMILLUS. 499

tions with other nations who might desire them ; accordingly they
are found in our treaties with as well as in that un-

der consideration — another refutation of the objection to this
last as being in these respects repugnant to that with France.

The twenty-sixth article provides, in case of a rupture be-
tween the parties, that the merchants and others of each nation,
residing in the dominions of the other, may remain and continue
their trade during good behavior; in case, however, their con-
duct should become suspicious, they may be removed, and a
twelvemonth after the publication of the order of removal is to
be allowed for that purpose : but this term is not to be granted
to such persons as act contrary to law, or are guilty of any of-
fence against the government: all such persons may be forth-
with removed or sent out of the respective dominions of the par-
ties. The residue of the article is calculated to ascertain the con-
dition of the parties, when the rupture shall be deemed to exist
— each nation remains the exclusive judge of the foreigners
among them, and will be able to decide from their behavior, how
far their residence may be compatible with the public safety. In
case of suspicion only, that their residence will prove detrimen-
tal, they may order them to depart, reasonable time being allow-
ed them to collect their effects. On the one hand, the article
affords to the parties perfect security against the irregular and
suspicious conduct of foreigners, who may be among them on the
breaking out of war, and, on the other, consults with that liberal-
ity which the modern usage of nations sanctions, the safety and
convenience of those, who, under the faith of the respective gov-
ernments, have chosen a residence in the dominions of the par-
ties. Our treaties with France, Holland, and Sweden, secure to
the merchants of the respective parties a limited period, after the
commencement of war, within which they may collect their ef-
fects, and remove ; and the article before us relative to this sub-
ject, is a transcript of the second article of the treaty of com-
merce, of 1786, between France and Great Britain. [The objec-
tion, therefore, to there being a certain term within which they
cannot be removed upon bare suspicion lies against our other
treaties and against almost all the treaties of Europe for many

500 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mi. 39.

years — the pretence to order away upon mere supposition would
defeat all the stipulations, that allow a certain term to collect,
sell, and remove debts and effects; and for that reason could not
be supported.

The remainder of the article which gives an option to each
party, either to request the recall, or immediately to send home,
the ambassador of the other without prejudice to their mutual
friendship and good understanding, is a valuable feature. The
power " immediately to send home,11 without giving offence, avoids
much delicate embarrassment connected with an application to
recall — it renders it easier to arrest an intriguing minister in the
midst of a dangerous intrigue, and it is a check upon the minis-
ter by placing him more completely in the power of the gov-
ernment with which he resides. These last circumstances are
particularly important to a republic, one of the chief dangers
of which, arises from its exposure to foreign intrigue and cor-
ruption.]

The twenty -seventh article, which provides for the delivery
of all persons, charged with murder or forgery committed within
the jurisdiction of one party, and who have taken refuge within
the territories of the other, is a regulation of peculiar worth be-
tween nations whose territories are contiguous to each other ;
without such regulation, the ease with which the perpetrators
of these atrocious crimes might escape punishment, especially
on the frontiers, by passing out of one jurisdiction into the other,
would, in a great measure, destroy the security against these of-
fences, that arises from the fear and certainty of punishment.
The provision, that such delivery shall not be made unless upon
the exhibition of such evidence of criminality, as, according to
the laws of the place where the fugitive shall be found, would
justify his apprehension and commitment for trial, if the crime
had there been committed, will prevent vexatious requisitions,
and is a caution due to the rights of individuals.

The twenty-eighth, and concluding article, establishes, that
the first ten articles of the treaty, shall be permanent ; that the
remaining ones, except the twelfth, which, with the twenty-fifth,
constitute the body of the commercial part of the treaty, shall be

Mr. 39.] CAMILLUS. 501

limited in their duration to twelve years ; and reciting, that the
twelfth will end, by its own limitation, at the end of two years
after the termination of the present European war, further estab-
lishes, that, within the last mentioned term, and in time to perfect
the business by the expiration of that term, the discussion of the
subject of the twelfth article shall be renewed, and if the parties
cannot agree on such new arrangement, concerning it, as may be
satisfactory, that then all the said remaining articles (in other
words, all but the first ten) shall cease and expire together. This
article, which is an entirely independent one, obviates the doubt,
affected to be entertained, whether the exception in the ratifica-
tion, with regard to the twelfth article, did not do away the stip-
ulation, by which the continuance of the treaty, except the first
ten articles, beyond the term of two years after the expiration of
the war, is made to depend on a further arrangement of the West
India trade. This separate article is positive and conclusive,
absolutely annulling the treaty at that time, if such an arrange-
ment be not made, and thereby places it in the power of either
party so to manage the matter as to put an end to all the com-
mercial part of it, except what relates to inland trade and naviga-
tion with the neighboring British territories, at the end of the
short period of two years from the termination of the existing
war. This alone is sufficient to confound all the high-charged
declamations against the tendency of the treaty to ruin our trade
and navigation.

Camillus.

NO. XXXVI.

179G.

It is now time to fulfil my promise of an examination of the
constitutionality of the treaty. Of all the objections which have
been contrived against this instrument, those relating to this point
are the most futile. — If there be a political problem capable of
complete demonstration, the constitutionality of the treat}*, in all

502 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 39.

its parts, is of this sort. — It is even difficult to believe, that any
man in either house of Congress, who values his reputation for
discernment or sincerity, will publicly hazard it by a serious at-
tempt to controvert the position.

It is, nevertheless, too much a fashion with some politicians,
when hard pressed on the expediency of a measure, to intrench
themselves behind objections to its constitutionality — aware that
there is naturally in the public mind a jealous sensibility to ob-
jections of that nature, which may predispose against a thing
otherwise acceptable, if even a doubt, in this respect, can be rais-
ed. They have been too forward to take advantage of this
propensity, without weighing the real mischief of the example.
For, however it may serve a temporary purpose, its ultimate
tendency is, by accustoming the people to observe that alarms
of this kind are repeated with levity and without cause, to prepare
them for distrusting the cry of danger when it may be real : yet
the imprudence has been such, that there has scarcely been an
important public question, which has not involved more or less
of this species of controversy.

In the present case, the motives of those who may incline to
defeat the treaty, are unusually strong for creating, if possible, a
doubt concerning its constitutionality.

The treaty, having been ratified on both sides, the dilemma
plainly is between a violation of the Constitution, by the treaty,
and a violation of the Constitution by obstructing the execution
of the treaty.

The Vlth article of the Constitution of the United States,
declares, that " the Constitution and the laws of the United
States, made in pursuance thereof, all treaties made, or which shall
be made under the authority of the United States, shall be the supreme
law of the land, anything in the Constitution or laws of any State
to the contrary notwithstanding." A law of the land, till revoked
or annulled, by the competent authority, is binding, not less on
each branch or department of the government than on each indi-
vidual of the society. Each house of Congress collectively, as
well as the members of it separately, are under a constitutional
obligation to observe the injunctions of a pre-existing law, and

jEt. 39.] CAM1LLUS. 503

to give it effect — if they act otherwise, they infringe the Consti-
tution ; the theory of which knows, in such case, no discretion on
their part. — To resort to first principles for their justification, in
assuming such a discretion, is to go out of the Constitution for an
authority, which they cannot find in it — it is to usurp the original
character of the people themselves — it is, in principle, to prostrate
the government.

The cases must be very extraordinary that can excuse so vio-
lent an assumption of discretion. They must be of a kind to
authorize a revolution in government; — for every resort to origi-
nal principles, in derogation from the established Constitution,
partakes of this character.

Kecalling to view, that all but the first ten articles of the
treaty are liable to expire at the termination of two years after
the present war; if the objection to it in point of constitutionality
cannot be supported — let me ask, who is the man hardy enough
to maintain, that the instrument is of such a nature as to justify
a revolution in government?

If this can be answered in the affirmative, adieu to all the
securities which nations expect to derive from constitutions of
government. They become mere bubbles, subject to be blown
away by every breath of party. The precedent would be a fatal
one — our government, from being fixed and limited, would become
revolutionary and arbitrary — all the provisions which our Con-
stitution, with so much solemnity, ordains " for forming a more
perfect union, establishing justice, insuring domestic tranquillity,
providing for the common defence, promoting the general welfare,
and securing the blessings of liberty to ourselves and posterity,"
evaporate and disappear

Equally will this be the case, if the rage of party spirit can
meditate, if the momentary ascendency of party, in a particular
branch of the government, can effect, and if the people can be so
deceived as to tolerate — that the pretence of a violation of the
Constitution shall be made the instrument of its actual viola-
tion.

This, however, cannot be — there are already convincing indi-
cations on the very subject before us, that the good sense of the

504 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 39.

people will triumph over prejudice and the acts of party — that
they will finally decide according to their true interest, and that
any transient or partial superiority, which may exist, if abused
for the purpose of infracting the Constitution, will consign the
perpetrators of the infraction to ruin and disgrace. But alas !
what consolation would there be in the ruin of a party for the
ruin of the Constitution ?

It is time to enter on the momentous discussion. The ques-
tion shall be examined in the four following views — 1. In rela-
tion to the theory of the Constitution — 2. In relation to the man-
ner in which it was understood by the convention who framed
it, and by the people who adopted it — 3. In relation to the
practice upon a similar power in the confederation — 4. In rela-
tion to the practice under our present constitution, prior to the
treaty with Great Britain.- — In all these views, the constitution-
ality of the treaty can be vindicated beyond the possibility of a
serious doubt.

1. As to the theory of the Constitution. — The Constitution of
the United States distributes its powers into three departments,
legislative, executive, judiciary. — The first article defines the
structure, and specifies the various powers, of the legislative de-
partment— the second article establishes the organization and
powers of the executive department — the third article does the
same with respect to the judiciary department — the fourth and
fifth, and sixth articles, which are the last, are a miscellany of
particular provisions.

The first article declares that " all legislative power granted
by the Constitution shall be vested in a Congress of the United
States, which shall consist of a Senate and a House of Represen-
tatives."

The second article, which organizes and regulates the exe-
cutive department, declares that the " executive power- shall be
vested in a President of the United States of America;" and
proceeding to detail particular authorities of the executive, it
declares that the " President shall have power, by and with the
advice and consent of the Senate, to make treaties, provided
two-thirds of the senators present concur." There is in no part

Mr. 39.] CAMILLUS. 505

of the Constitution any explanation of this power to make trea-
ties, any definition of its objects, or delineation of its bounds. —
The only other provision in the Constitution respecting it, is in
the sixth article, which provides, as already noticed, that all
treaties made or which shall be made under the authority of the
United States, shall be the supreme law of the land! — and this
notwithstanding any thing in the Constitution or laws of any
State to the contrary.

It was impossible for words more comprehensive to be used
than those which grant the power to make treaties. They are
such as would naturally be employed to confer a plenipotentiary
authority. — A power " to make treaties," granted in these inde-
finite terms, extends to all kinds of treaties, and with all the
latitude which such a power, under any form of government,
can possess — the power " to make" implies a power to act autho-
ritatively and conclusively, independent of the after-clause which
expressly places treaties among the supreme laws of the land.
The thing to be made is a treaty.

With regard to the objects of the treaty, there being no spe-
cification, there is, of course, a carte blanche. The general pro-
position must, therefore, be, that whatever is a proper subject of
compact, between nation and nation, may be embraced by a
treaty between the President of the United States, with the
advice and consent of the Senate, and the correspondent organ
of a foreign state.

The authority being general, it comprises, of course, what-
ever cannot be shown to be necessarily an exception to it,

The only constitutional exception to the power of making
treaties is, that it shall not change the Constitution ; which re-
sults from this fundamental maxim, that a delegated authority
cannot alter the constituting act, unless so expressly authorized
by the constituting power. An agent cannot new-model his
own commission. — A treaty, for example, cannot transfer the
legislative power to the executive department, nor the power of
this last department to the judiciary ; in other words, i( cannot
stipulate that the President, and not Congress, shall make laws
for the United States, that the judges, and not the President,
shall command the national forces.

506 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 39.

Again, there is also a national exception to the power of
making treaties, as there is to every other delegated power,
which respects abuses of authority in palpable and extreme cases.
On natural principles, a treaty, which should manifestly betray
or sacrifice the private interests of the state, would be null. But
this presents a question foreign from that of the modification or
distribution of constitutional powers. It applies to the case of
the pernicious exercise of a power, where there is legal com-
petency. Thus the power of treaty, though extending to the
right of making alliances offensive and defensive, might not be
exercised in making an alliance, so injurious to the state as to
justify the non-observance of the contract.

Beyond these exceptions to the power, none occurs that can
be supported.

Those which have been insisted upon, towards invalidating
the treaty with Great Britain, are not even plausible. They
amount to this, that a treaty can establish nothing between the
United States and a foreign nation, which it is the province of
the legislative authority to regulate in reference tp the United
States alone. It cannot, for instance, establish a particular rule
of commercial intercourse between the United States and Great
Britain ; because it is provided in the Constitution, that Congress
" shall have power to regulate commerce loith foreign nations.'1'' This
is equivalent to affirming that all the objects upon which the
legislative power may act, in relation to our country, are except-
ed out of the power to make treaties.

Two obvious considerations refute this doctrine. One, that
the power to make treaties, and the power to make laws, are dif-
ferent things, operating by different means, upon different sub-
jects ; the other, that the construction resulting from such a doc-
trine would defeat the power to make treaties, while its opposite
reconciles this power with the power of making laws.

The power to make laws is " the power of pronouncing
authoritatively the will of the nation as to all persons and
things over which it has jurisdiction :" or it may be defined to
be "the power of prescribing rules binding upon all persons and
things over which the nation has jurisdiction." It acts compul-

Mr. 39.] CAMILLUS. 507

sively upon all persons, whether foreigners or citizens, and upon
all things within the territory of such nation, and also upon its
own citizens and their property without its territory in certain
cases and under certain limitations. But it can have no obliga-
tory action whatsoever upon a foreign nation, or upon any person
or thing within the jurisdiction of a foreign nation.

The power of treaty, on the other hand, is the power by
agreement, convention, or compact, to establish rules binding upon
two or more nations, their respective citizens and property. The
rule established derives its reciprocal obligation from promise,
from the faith which the contracting parties pledge to each other
— not from the power of either to prescribe a rule for the other.
It is not here the will of a superior that commands ; it is the con-
sent of two independent parties that contract.

The means which the power of legislation employs, are laws
which it enacts, or rules which it enjoins ; the subject upon which
it acts is the nation of whom it is, the persons and property
within the jurisdiction of the nation. The means which the
power of treaty employs, are contracts with other nations, who
may or may not enter into them — the subjects upon which it
acts, are the nations contracting and those persons and things of
each to which the contract relates. Though a treaty may effect
what a law can, yet a law cannot effect what a treaty does.
These discriminations are obvious and decisive ; and however
the operation of a treaty may, in some things, resemble that of a
law, no two ideas are more distinct than that of legislating and
that of contracting.

It follows that there is no ground for the inference pretended
to be drawn, that the legislative powers of Congress are excepted
out of the power of making treaties. It is the province of the
latter to do what the former cannot do. Congress (to pursue
still the case of regulating trade) may regulate, by law, our own
trade and that which foreigners come to carry on with us; but
they cannot regulate the trade which we may go to carry on in
foreign countries ; they can give to us no rights, no privileges
there. This must depend on the will and regulations of those
countries ; and, consequently, it is the province of the power of

508 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 39.

treaty to establish the rules of commercial intercourse between
foreign nations and the United States. The legislative may reg-
ulate our own trade, but treaty only can regulate the national
trade between our own and another country.

The Constitution accordingly considers the power of treaty as
different from that of legislation. This is proved in two ways :
1. That while the Constitution declares that all the legislative
powers which it grants shall be vested in Congress, it vests the
power of making treaties in the President with consent of the
Senate. 2. That the same article by which it is declared that the
executive power shall be vested in a President, and in which sun-
dry executive powers are detailed, gives the power to make
treaties to the President, with the auxiliary agency of the Sen-
ate. Thus the power of making treaties is placed in the class of
executive authorities ; while the force of laws is annexed to its
results. This agrees with the distribution commonly made by
theoretical writers, though perhaps the power of treaty, from its
peculiar nature, ought to form a class by itself.

When it is said that Congress shall have power to regulate
commerce with foreign nations, this has reference to the distri-
bution of the general legislative power of regulating trade be-
tween the national and the particular governments ; and serves
merely to distinguish the right of regulating our external trade,
as far as it can be done by law, which is vested in Congress, from
that of regulating the trade of a State within itself, which is left
to each State.

This will the better appear from the entire clause. "The
Congress shall have power to regulate commerce with foreign
nations and among the several States and with the Indian tribes,"
which is the same as if it had been said, The whole powers of
regulating trade by law shall reside in Congress, except as to the
trade within a State, the power to regulate which shall remain
with such State. But it is clearly foreign to that mutual regula-
tion of trade between the United States and other nations, which,
from the necessity of mutual consent, can only be performed by
treaty. It is indeed an absurdity to say, that the power of regu-
lating trade by law is incompatible with the power of regulating

jEt. 39.]

CAMILLUS. 509

it by treaty ; since the former can, by no means, do what the
Utter can alone accomplish ; consequently, it is an absurdity to
say, that the legislative power of regulating trade is an exception
to the power of making treaties.

Laws are the acts of legislation of a particular nation for
itself. Treaties are the acts of the legislation of several nations
for themselves jointly and reciprocally. The legislative powers
of one state cannot reach the cases which depend on the joint
legislation of two or more states. For this, resort must be had
teethe factitious power, or the power of treaty. This is another
attitude of the subject, displaying the fallacy of the proposition,
that the legislative powers of Congress, are ^exceptions to, or
limitations of, the power of the President, with the aid of the

Senate, to make treaties.

Camillus.

NO. XXXVII.

1796.

It shall now be shown, that the objections to the treaty,
founded on its pretended interference with the power of Congress,
tend to render the power of making treaties, in a very great
degree, if not altogether, nominal. This will be best seen by an
enumeration of the cases of pretended interference. ^

1st. The power of Congress to lay taxes, is said to be im-
paired by those stipulations which prevent the laying of duties
on particular articles ; which also prevent the laying of higher
or other duties on British commodities than on the commodities
of other countries, and which restrict the power of increasing the
difference of duties on British tonnage and on goods imported m
British bottoms.

2d. The power of Congress to regulate trade is said to be im-
paired by the same restrictions respecting duties, inasmuch as
they are intended, and operate, as regulations of trade— by the
stipulations against prohibitions in certain cases ; and, m general,

510 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Jfr. 39.

by all the rights, privileges, immunities, and restrictions in trade,
which are contained in the treaty ; all which are so many regula-
tions of commerce, which are said to encroach upon the legislative
authority.

3d. The power of Congress to establish an uniform rule of
naturalization, is said to be interfered with, by those provisions
of the treaty which secure to the settlers, within the precincts of
the British posts, the right of becoming citizens of the United
States, and those which, in certain cases, remove the disability of
alienism as to propert}^.

4th. The power of Congress " to define and punish piracies
and felonies, committed on the high seas, and offences against
the law of nations," is said to be contravened by those parts of
the treaty, which declare that certain acts shall be deemed piracy,
which constitute certain other things offences, and stipulate the
reciprocal punishment of them by each.

5th. It is also said that the Constitution is violated, in rela-
tion to that provision which declares, that " no money shall be
drawn from the treasury but in consequence of appropriations
made by law" — by those parts of the treaty which stipulate com-
pensations to certain commissioners, and indemnifications to Great
Britain, in certain cases to be adjusted and pronounced by the
commissioners; and generally, by all those parts which may
involve an expenditure of money.

6th. The Constitution is said to be violated in that part which
empowers Congress to dispose of, and make all needful rules and
regulations respecting the territory, or other property of the
United States, by those provisions of the treaty which respect
the adjustment of boundary in the cases of the rivers St. Croix
and Mississippi.

Lastly. The Constitution is said to be violated, in its pro-
visions concerning the judiciary department, by those parts of
the treaty which contemplate the confiding to the determination
of commissioners certain questions between the two nations.

A careful inspection of the treaty with these objections in
view, will discover, that of the 28 articles which compose it, at
least seventeen are involved in the charge of unconstitutionality ;

iET. 39.] CAMILLUS. 511

and that these seventeen comprise all the provisions which adjust
past controversies, or establish rules of commercial intercourse
between the parties. The other eleven, which are the 1st, 10th
17th, 18th, 19th, 20th, 22d, 23d, and 24th, except the 1st, are
made up of provisions which have reference to war ; the first
merely declaring that there shall be peace between the parties.
And it is a question, even with respect to all of these, except the
1st, and 10th, whether they also are not implicated in the charge-
inasmuch as some of their dispositions have commercial rela-
tions. Is not this alone sufficient to bring under a strong sus-
picion the validity of the principles which impeach the constitu-
tionality of the instrument?

It must have been observed that the argument in the last
number is applicable to all the legislative powers of Congress as
well as to that of regulating trade, which was selected, by way of
illustration, on the ground of its being common to all. — Indeed
the instance of the regulations of trade is that which is most
favorable to the opposite doctrine, since foreign nations are
named in the clause ; the true intent of which, however, has been
explained.

The same reasoning, too, would extend the power of treaties
to those objects which are consigned to the legislation of indi-
vidual States ; but here the Constitution has announced its mean-
ing in express terms, by declaring, that the treaties which have
been and shall be made under the authority of the United States,
shall be the supreme law of the land, any thing in the Constitu-
tion or laws of any State to the contrary notwithstanding. This
manifestly recognizes the supremacy of the power of treaties over
the laws of particular States, and goes even a step farther.

The obvious reason for this special provision, in regard to the
laws of individual States, is, that there might otherwise have been
room for question — whether a treaty of the Union could embrace
objects, the internal regulation of which belonged to the separate
authorities of the States. But with regard to the United States
there was no room for a similar question.

The power of treaty could not but be supposed commensurate
with all these objects to which the legislative power of the Union

512 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 2%

extended, which are the proper subjects of compacts with foreign
nations.

It is a question among some theoretical writers — whether a
treaty can repeal pre-existing laws f This question must always
be answered by the particular form of government of each na-
tion. In our Constitution, which gives, ipso facto, the force of
law to treaties, making them equal with the acts of Congress, the
supreme law of the land, a treaty must necessarily repeal an an-
tecedent law contrary to it ; according to the legal maxim that
" leges posteriores priores contrarias aoroganV

But even in those forms of government, in which there may
be room for such a question, it is not understood that a treaty
containing stipulations which require the repeal of antecedent
laws, is, on that account, unconstitutional and null. The true
meaning is, that the antecedent laws are not, ipso facto, abrogated
by the treaty — but the legislature is, nevertheless, bound in good
faith, under the general limitation, stated in another place, to lend
its authority to remove obstacles which previous laws might op-
pose to a fair execution of a treaty.

One instance of the inconsistency, prevailing in the arguments
against the treaty negotiated by Mr. Jay, is observable in this
point. To get rid of the infractions of our treaty of peace with
Great Britain by certain laws of particular States, it is strenuously
maintained that treaties control the laws of States. To impeach
the constitutionality of the treaty under consideration, it is object-
ed, that, in some points, it interferes with the objects of State
legislation. The express provision of the Constitution in this
particular, quoted above, has not been sufficient to check the
rage for objection.

The absurdity of the alleged interferences will fully appear,
by showing how they would operate upon the several kinds of
treaties usual among nations. These may be classed under three
principal heads. 1. Treaties of commerce, 2. Treaties of alliance,
3. Treaties of peace.

Treaties of commerce are, of course, excluded; for every
treaty of commerce is a system of rules devised to regulate and
govern the trade between contracting nations ; invading directly

jEt. 39.] CAM1LLUS. 513

tlie exclusive power of regulating trade which is attributed to
Congress.

Treaties of alliance, whether defensive or offensive, are equally
excluded, and this on two grounds — 1. Because it is their imme-
diate object to define a case or cases in which one nation shall
take part with another in war, contrary, in the sense of the objec-
tion, to that clause of the Constitution which gives to Congress
the power of declaring war ; and 2. Because the succors stipu-
lated, in whatever shape they may be, must involve an expendi-
ture of money — not to say, that it is common to stipulate succors
in money, either in the first instance or by way of alternative.
It will be pertinent to observe incidentally, in this place, that
even the humane and laudable provision in the seventeenth arti-
cle, which all have approved, is within the spirit of the objection ;
for the effect of this is to restrain the power and discretion of
Congress to grant reprisals, till there has been an unsuccessful
demand of justice. Nothing can better illustrate the unreasona-
ble tendency of the principle.

Treaties of peace are also excluded, or, at the least, are so
narrowed as to be in the greatest number of cases impracticable.
The most common conditions of these treaties are restitutions or
cessions of territory, on one side or on the other, frequently on
both sides, regulations of boundary — restitutions and confirma-
tions of property — pecuniary indemnifications for injuries or ex-
penses.— It will, probably, not be easy to find a precedent of a
treaty of peace, which does not contain one or more of these pro-
visions, as the basis of the cessation of hostilities, and they are all
of them naturally to be looked for in an agreement which is to put
an end to the state of war between conflicting nations.

Yet they are all precluded by the objections which have been
enumerated : pecuniary indemnifications, by that which respects
the appropriations of money ; restitutions or cessions of terri-
tory or property, regulations of boundary, by that which respects
the right of Congress to dispose of, and make all needful rules
and regulations concerning the territory and property of the
United States. It is to be observed, likewise, that cessions of
territory are almost always accompanied with stipulations in favor
G 33

514 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 39.

of those who inhabit the ceded territory, securing personal privi-
leges and private rights of property ; neither of which could be
acceded to on the principles of that objection, which relates to
the power of naturalization ; for this power has reference to two
species of rights, those of privilege and those of property. An
act allowing a foreigner to hold real estate is so far an act of na-
turalization ; since it is one of the consequences of alienism, not
to be able to hold real estate.

It follows, that if the objections which are taken to the treaty,
on the point of constitutionality, are valid, the President, with
the advice and consent of the Senate, can make neither a treaty
of commerce nor alliance, and rarely, if at all, a treaty of peace.
It is probable, that on a minute analysis, there is scarcely any
species of treaty which would not clash, in some particular, with
the principle of those objections; and thus, as was before ob-
served, the power to make treaties, granted in such comprehen-
sive and indefinite terms, and guarded with so much precaution,
would become essentially nugatory.

This is so obviously against the principles of sound construc-
tion ; it, at the same time, exposes the government to so much
impotence in one great branch of political power, in opposition
to a main intent of the Constitution ; and it tends so directly to
frustrate one principal object of the situation of a general gov-
ernment, the convenient management of our external concerns,
that it cannot but be rejected by every discerning man who will
examine and pronounce with sincerity. It is against the principles
of sound construction ; because these teach us, that every instru-
ment is so to be interpreted, as that all the parts may, if possible,
consist with each other, and have their effect. But the construc-
tion which is combated would cause the legislative power to
destroy the power of making treaties. Moreover, if the power
of the executive department be inadequate to the making of the
several kinds of treaties, which have been mentioned, there is,
then, no power in the government to make them ; for there is
not a syllable in the Constitution which authorizes either the
legislative or judiciary departments, to make a treaty with a
foreign nation. And our Constitution would then exhibit the

jEt. 39.] CAMILLUS. 515

ridiculous spectacle of a government without a power to make
treaties with foreign nations ; a result as inadmissible as it is ab-
surd ; since, in fact, our Constitution grants the power of making
treaties, in the most explicit and ample terms, to the President,
with the advice and consent of the Senate. On the contrary, all
difficulty is avoided, by distinguishing the province of the two
powers, according to ideas which have been always familiar to
us, and which were never exposed to any question till the treaty
with Great Britain gave exercise to the subtilties of party spirit.

By confining the power to make laws within its proper sphere,
and restricting its actions to the establishment of rules for our
own nation and those foreigners who come within our jurisdic-
tion— and by assigning to the power of treaty the office of con-
certing those rules of mutual intercourse and connection, be-
tween us and foreign nations, which require their consent as well
as our own ; allowing to it the latitude necessary for this purpose, a
harmonious agreement is preserved between the different powers
of the government: that to make laws, and that to make treaties;
between the authority of the legislative and the authority of the
executive department. Hence,

Though Congress, by the Constitution, have power to lay
taxes, yet a treaty may restrain the exercise of it in particular
cases. For a nation, like an individual, may abridge its moral
power of action by agreement ; and the organ charged with the
legislative power of a nation may be restrained in its operation
by the agreements of the organ of its federative power, or power
to contract : let it be remembered, that the nation is the constitu-
ent, and that the executive, within its sphere, is no less the organ
of its will than the legislature.

Though Congress are empowered to make regulations of trade,
yet they are not exclusively so empowered — but regulations of
trade may also be made by treaty ; and, where other nations are
to be bound by them, must be made by treaty.

Though Congress are authorized to establish a uniform rule
of naturalization, yet this contemplates only the ordinary cases of
internal administration; in particular and extraordinary cases,
those in which the pretensions of a foreign government are to be

516 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 39.

managed — a treaty may also confer the rights and privileges of
citizens; thus the absolute cession and plenary dominion of a
province or district, possessed by our arms in war, may be ac-
cepted by the treaty of peace, on the condition that its inhabit-
ants shall, in their persons and property, enjoy the privileges of
citizens.

The same reasoning applies to all the other instances of sup-
posed infraction of the legislative authority : with regard to
piracies and offences against the laws of nations ; with regard to
expenditures of money, with regard to the appointment of officers,
with regard to the judiciary tribunals, with regard to the disposal
and regulation of the national territory and propeily. In all
these cases, the power to make laws and the power to make
treaties are concurrent and co-ordinate. The latter, and not the
former, must act, where the co-operation of other nations is re-
quisite.

As to what respects the commissioners agreed to be appointed,
they are not, in a strict sense, officers. They are arbitrators
between the two countries. Though in the Constitutions, both
of the United States and of most of the individual States, a par-
ticular mode of appointing officers is designated — yet, in prac-
tice, it has not been deemed a violation of the provision to
appoint commissioners or special agents for special purposes, in
a different mode.

As to the provision, which restricts the issuing of money
from the treasury, to cases of appropriation by law, and which,
from its intrinsic nature, may be considered as applicable to the
exercise of every power of government, it is, in no sort, touched
by the treaty. In the constant practice of the government, the
cause of an expenditure, or the contract which incurs it, is a
different thing from the appropriation for satisfying it. Thus
the salary of a public officer is fixed by one law, the appropri-
ation for its payment by another. So, the treaty only stipulates
what may be a cause of expenditure. An appropriation by law
will still be requisite for actual payment.

As to the disposal and regulation of the territory and pro-
perty of the United States, this will be naturally understood of

Mr. 39.] CAMILLUS. 517

dispositions and regulations purely domestic, and where the title
is not disputed by a foreign power. Where there are interfering
claims of foreign powers, as neither will acknowledge the right
of the other to decide, treaty must directly or indirectly adjust
the dispute.

So far then it is from being true, that the power of treaty
can extend to nothing upon which, in relation to ourselves, the
legislative power may act — that it may rather be laid down as
a general rule, that a treaty may do between different nations
whatever the legislative power of each may do with regard to
itself. The exceptions to this rule are to be deduced from the
unfitness and inconvenience of its application to particular cases,
and are of the nature of abuses of a general principle.

In considering the power of legislation in its relations to the
power of treaty, instead of saying, that the objects of the former
are excepted out of the latter, it will be more correct, indeed it
will be entirely correct, to invert the rule, and to say, that the
power of treaty is the power of making exceptions, in particular
cases, to the power of legislation. The stipulations of treaty are,
in good faith, restraints upon the exercise of the last-mentioned
power. Where there is no treaty, it is completely free to act.
Where there is a treaty, it is still free to act in all the cases not
specially excepted by the treaty. Thus, Congress is free to re-
gulate trade with a foreign nation, with whom we have no treaty
of commerce, in such manner as they judge for the interest of the
United States; and they are also free so to regulate it with a
foreign nation with whom we have a treaty, in all the points
which the treaty does not specially except. There is always,
therefore, great latitude for the exercise of the legislative power
of regulating trade with foreign nations, notwithstanding any
treaties of commerce which may be formed.

The effects of a treaty to impose restraints upon the legislative

powers, may, in some degree, be exemplified by the case of the

compacts which the legislature itself makes, as with regard to the

public debt. Its own compacts are, in good faith, exceptions to

its power of action. Treaties with foreign powers, for obvious

reasons, are much stronger exceptions.

Camillus.

518 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 39.

NO. XXXVIII. — AND LAST.

1796.

The manner in which the power of treaty, as it exists in the
Constitution, was understood by the convention in framing it,
and by the people in adopting it, is the point next to be con-
sidered.

As to the sense of the convention, the secrecy with which
their deliberations were conducted, does not permit any formal
proof of the opinions and views which prevailed in digesting the
power of treaty. But from the best opportunity of knowing the fact,
I aver, that it was understood by all, to be the intent of the pro-
vision to give to that power the most ample latitude — to render
it competent to all the stipulations, which the exigencies of na-
tional affairs might require ; competent to the making of treaties
of alliance, treaties of commerce, treaties of peace, and every
other species of convention usual among nations ; and competent,
in the course of its exercise for these purposes, to control and
bind the legislative power of Congress. And it was emphatically
for this reason, that it was so carefully guarded ; the co-operation
of two-thirds of the Senate, with the President, being required to
make any treaty whatever. I appeal for this, with confidence,
to every member of the convention — particularly to those in
the two houses of Congress. Two of these are in the House of
Eepresentatives, Mr. Madison, and Mr. Baldwin : it is expected
by the adversaries of the treaty, that these gentlemen will, in
their places, obstruct its execution. However this may be, I feel
a confidence that neither of them will deny the assertion I have
made — to suppose them capable of such a denial were to suppose
them utterly regardless of truth. But, though direct proof of
the views of the convention on the point, cannot be produced,
yet we are not wholly without proof on this head.

Three members of the convention dissented from the Consti-
tution ; Mr. Mason, Mr. Gerry, and Mr. Randolph. Among the
reasons for his dissent, published by Mr. Mason, we find this
clause : " By declaring all treaties supreme laws of the land, the

Mr. 39.] CAM1LLUS. 519

Executive and Senate have, in many cases, an exclusive power of
legislation, which might have been avoided by proper distinctions
with respect to treaties, and requiring the assent of the house of re-
presentatives where it could be done with safety." This shows
the great extent of the power, in the conception of Mr. Mason :
in many cases amounting to an exclusive power of legislation ; nor
did he object to the extent, but only desired that it should have
been further guarded, by certain distinctions, and by requiring,
in certain cases, the assent of the House of Representatives.

Among the objections to the Constitution, addressed by Mr.
Gerry to the legislature of Massachusetts, we find one to have
been, "that treaties of the highest importance might be formed by
the President, with the advice of two-thirds of a quorum of the
Senate." This shows his idea of the magnitude of the power ;
and impliedly admitting with Mr. Mason, the propriety of its ex-
tent, he seems only to have desired that the concurrence of the
Senate should have embraced two-thirds of the ivhole body, instead
of two-thirds of a quorum. But how small and how insignificant
would the power of treaty be, according to the doctrine lately
promulgated, with regard to its constitutional limit ?

As to the sense of the community in the adoption of the Con-
stitution, this can only be ascertained from two sources, the
writings for and against it, and the debates in the several State
conventions — while it was under consideration.

I possess not, at this moment, materials for an investigation,
which would enable me to present the evidence they afford ; but
I refer to them, with confidence, for proof of the fact, that the
organization of the power of treaty, in the Constitution, was at-
tacked and defended with an admission on both sides, of its be-
ing of the character which I have assigned to it. Its great extent
and importance — its effect to control, by its stipulations, the
legislative authority, were mutually taken for granted, and upon
this basis, it was insisted, by way of objection — that there were
not adequate guards for the safe exercise of so vast a power ;
that there ought to have been reservations of certain rights, a
better disposition of the power to impeach, and a participation,
general or special, of the House of Representatives in the making
of treaties.

520 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [2Et. 39.

The reply to these objections, acknowledging the delicacy
and magnitude of the power, was directed to show that its organ-
ization was a proper one, and that it was sufficiently guarded.*

* The Federalist, No. XLII, has these passages : "The power to make treaties
and to receive and send ambassadors, speak their own propriety— both of them
are comprised in the articles of confederation, with the difference only that the for-
mer is disembarrassed by the plan of the convention, of an exception by which trea-
ties might be substantially frustrated by regulations of the States." This plainly
alludes to the proviso which has been cited and commented upon. " It is true that
when treaties of commerce stipulate for the nominal appointment of consuls, the
admission of foreign consuls may fall within the power of making commercial
treaties." And in number LXIV. are these passages: "The power of making
treaties is an important one, especially as it relates to war, peace, and commerce; and it
should not be delegated but in such a mode and with such precautions as will afford
the highest security, that it will be exercised by men the best qualified for the pur-
pose, and in the manner most conducive to the public good." " There are few who
will not admit, that the affairs of trade and navigation should be regulated by a
system cautiously formed and steadily pursued, and that both our treaties and our
laws should correspond with, and be made to promote it." " Some are displeased
with it (that is, the power of treaty), not on account of any errors or defects in it,
but because, as the treaties, when made, are to have the force of laws, they should
be made only by men invested with legislative authority ;" " others, though con-
tent that treaties should be made in the mode proposed, are averse to their being
the supreme law of the land."

It is generally understood that two persons were concerned in the writings of
these papers, who, from having been members of the convention, had a good op-
portunity of knowing its views— and were under no temptation at that time, in this
particular, to misrepresent them.

In the address and reasons of dissent of the minority of the convention of Penn-
sylvania to their constituents, they state, that they had suggested the following
proposition, among others, for an amendment to the Constitution, " That no trea-
ty which shall be directly opposed to the existing laws of the United States in
Congress assembled, shall be valid until such laws shall be repealed or made con-
formable to such treaty." This shows that it was understood that the power of
treaty in the Constitution extended to abrogating even pre-existing laws of the
United States, which was thought exceptionable; while no objection was made to
the idea of its controlling future exercises of the legislative power. The same ad-
dress states, in another place, that the President and Senate "may form treaties
with foreign nations, that may control and abrogate the Constitution and laws of
the several States."

In the 2d volume of the Debates of the Convention of Virginia, which is the
only part I possess, there are many passages that show the great extent of the
power of treaty in the opinion of the speakers on both sides. As quotations would
be tedious, I will content myself with referring to the papers where they will be
found, viz., 91, 99, 131, 137, 143, 147, 150, 186. It will, in particular, appear, that

jEt. 39.] CAMILLUS. <r>21

The manner of exercising a similar power under the confede-
ration shall now be examined.

To judge of the similarity of the power, it will be useful to
quote the terms in which it was granted. They are these : " The
United States in Congress assembled, shall have the sole and
exclusive right and power of entering into treaties and alliances,
provided that no treaty of commerce shall be made, whereby the
legislative power of the respective States shall be restrained from
imposing such imposts and duties on foreigners as their own
people are subject to, or from prohibiting the importation or
exportation of any species of commodities whatsoever." (Ar-
ticle IX.)

It will not be disputed that the words " treaties and alli-
ances " are of equivalent import, and of no greater force than
the single word " treaties." An alliance is only a species of
treaty, a particular of a general ;— and the power of "entering
into treaties," which terms confer the authority under which
the former government acted, will not be pretended to be
stronger than the power "to make treaties," which are the
terms constituting the authority under which the present govern-
ment acts ; it follows, that the power, respecting treaties, un-
der the former, and that under the present government, are
similar.

But though similar, that under the present government is
more comprehensive ; for it is divested of the restriction in the
provision cited above, and is fortified by the express declaration,
that its acts shall be valid notwithstanding the Constitution or
laws of any State. — This is evidence (as was the fact) of a dis-
position in the convention to disembarrass and reinforce the pow-
er of treaty. It ought not to pass unnoticed, that an important
argument results from the proviso, which accompanies the power
granted by the confederation as to the natural extent of this
power. The declaration that no treaty of commerce shall be

while the opposers of the Constitution denied the power of the House of Represen-
tatives to break in upon, or control the power of treaties, the friends of the Constitu-
tion did not affirm the contrary, but merely contended, that the House of Repre-
sentatives might check by its influence the President aud Senate— on the subject of
treaties.

522 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 39.

made restraining the legislative power of a State from imposing
such duties and imposts on foreigners as their own people are
subject to, or from prohibiting the importation or exportation of
any species of commodities whatsoever, is an admission, 1. That
the general power of entering into treaties, included that of mak-
ing treaties of commerce, and 2. That without the limitation in
the proviso, a treaty of commerce might have been made which
would restrain the legislative authority of the State in the points
interdicted by that proviso.

Let it not be said, that the proviso, by implication, granted
the power to make treaties of commerce, under which Congress
afterwards acted ; for besides that this is inconsistent with the
more obvious meaning of the clause, the first article of the con-
federation leaves to the States individually every power not ex-
pressly delegated to the United States in Congress assembled.
The power of Congress, therefore, to make a treaty of commerce,
and every other treaty they did make — must be vindicated on
the ground that the express grant of power to enter into treaties
and alliances is a general, which necessarily included as particu-
lars the various treaties they have made, and the various stipula-
tions of those treaties.

Under this power, thus granted and defined, the alliance with
France was contracted: guaranteeing, in the case of a defen-
sive war, her West India possessions, and when the casus fcederis
occurs, obliging the United States to make war for the defence
of those possessions, and consequently, to incur the expenses of
war.

Under the same power, treaties of commerce were made with
France, the Netherlands, Sweden, and Prussia.' — Besides that
every treaty of commerce is necessarily a regulation of commerce
between the parties, it has been shown in the antecedent com-
parison of those treaties,* with that lately negotiated, that they
produce the specific effects of restraining the legislative power
from imposing higher or other duties on the articles of those

* Articles 2d, 3d, and 4th of treaty with France, 2d, 3d, and 20th of treaty
with Russia, 2d_and 3d of treaty with Holland, 3d and 4th of treaty with Sweden.

JEt. 39.]

CAMILLUS. 523

nations than on the like articles of other nations, and from ex-
tending prohibitions to them which shall not equally extend to
other nations the most favored ; and thus abridge the exercise of
the legislative power to tax, and the exercise of the legislative
power to regulate trade.

These treaties likewise define and establish the same case of
piracy, which is defined in the treaty with Great Britain. More-
over, the treaty with France, as has been elsewhere shown, with
regard to the rights of property, naturalizes the whole French na-
tion.

The consular convention with France, negotiated, likewise,
under the same power, grants to the consuls of that country, va-
rious authorities and jurisdiction, some of a judicial nature, which
are actual transfers to them of portions of the internal jurisdiction
and ordinary judiciary power of the country; the exercise of
which our government is bound to aid with its whole strength.
It also grants exemptions to French consuls from certain kinds
of taxes, and to them, and French citizens, from all personal ser-
vice ; all which are extremely delicate interferences with our
internal policy and ordinary jurisdiction.

Under the same power, the treaty with Morocco was formed,
which, besides various other regulations relative to war, and
several relative to trade, contains the rule, that neither party
shall make war without a previous demand of reparation ; in
restraint of the general discretionary power of Congress to declare

war

Under the same power, the treaty of peace with Great Britain
was made. This treaty contains the establishment of a boundary
line between the parties, which, in part, is arbitrary, and could
not have been predicated upon precise antecedent right. It also
prohibits the future confiscation of the property of adherents to
Great Britain : declares that no person shall, on account of the
part he took in the war, suffer any future loss or damage in his
person, liberty, or property, and provides for the release of such
persons from confinement, and the discontinuance of prosecutions

against them. . . , - ...

It is difficult to conceive a higher act of control, both of the

524 HAMILTON'S WORKS. |>Et. 39.

legislative and judiciary authority, than by this article. These
provisions are analogous in principle, to those stipulations which,
in the second and ninth articles of the treaty under examination,
have given occasion to constitutional objection.

Under the same power, various treaties with Indians, inhabit-
ing the territory of the United States, have been made, establish-
ing arbitrary lines of boundary with them : which determine the
right of soil on the one side and on the other. Some of these
treaties proceed on the principle of the United States having
conquered the Indian country, and profess to make gratuitous
concessions to them of the lands which are left to their occupa-
tion. There is also a feature of importance common to these trea-
ties, which is the withdrawing of the protection of the United States
from those of their citizens, who intrude on Indian laws, leaving
them to be punished at the pleasure of the Indians.

Hence it appears, that, except as to the stipulations for ap-
pointing commissioners, the treaties made under the confederation,
contain all the features, identically or by analogy, which create
constitutional objections to the treaty before us : they restrain, in
certain instances, the legislative power to lay taxes ; they make
numerous and important regulations of trade ; they confer the
benefit of naturalization as to property ; they define cases of pi-
racy ; they create causes of expenditure ; they direct and modify
the power of war ; they erect, within the country, tribunals unknown
to our constitutions and laws, in cases to which these are compe-
tent— whereas the treaty with Great Britain only provides for the
appointment of arbitrators in cases to which our tribunals and
laws are incompetent ; and they make dispositions concerning
the territory and property of the United States.

It is true, that some of the treaties made under the former
government, though subsequent to the proposing of the articles
of confederation to the States, were prior to the final adoption of
these articles ; but still it is presumable that the treaties were
negotiated with an eye to the powers of the pending national
compact. Those with Great Britain, Sweden, Russia, and Moroc-
co, and the convention with France, were posterior to the com-
pletion of that compact.

Mr. 39.] CAMILLU8. 525

It may, perhaps, be argued, that a more extensive construction
of the power of treaty, in the confederation, than in our present
Constitution, was countenanced by the union in the same body of
legislative powers with the power of treaty. But this argument
can have no force, when it is considered that the principal legis-
lative powers with regard to the objects embraced by the treaties
of Congress, were not vested in that body, but remained with the
individual States. Such are the power of specific taxation, the
power of regulating trade, the power of naturalization, &c.

If in theory the objects of legislative power are excepted out
of the power of treaty, this must have been equally, at least, the
case with the legislative powers of the State governments as with
those of the United States. Indeed the argument was much
stronger for the objection, where distinct governments were the
depository of the legislative power, than where the same govern-
ment was the depository of that power and of the power of treaty.
Nothing but the intrinsic force of the power of treaty could have
enabled it to penetrate the separate spheres of the State govern-
ments. The practice under the confederation for so many years,
acquiesced in by all the States, is, therefore, a conclusive ill ustration
of the power of treaty, and an irresistible refutation of the novel
and preposterous doctrine, which impeaches the constitutionality
of that lately negotiated. If the natural import of the terms used
in the Constitution were less clear and decisive than they are,
that practice is a commentary upon them, and fixes their sense.
For the sense in which certain terms were practised upon in a
prior constitution of government, must be presumed to have been
intended, in using the like terms in a subsequent constitution of
government for the same nation.

Accordingly, the practice under the present government be-
fore the late treaty, has corresponded with that sense.

Our treaties with several Indian nations regulate and change
the boundaries between them and the United States. And in
addition to compensations in gross, they stipulate the payment of
certain specific and perpetual annuities. Thus a treaty in August,
1790, with the Creeks (article 5) promises them the yearly sum
of one thousand five hundred dollars. And similar features are

526 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEx. 39.

found in subsequent treaties with the Six Nations, the Cherokees,
and the North Western Indians. This last has just been ratified
by the unanimous voice of the Senate. It stipulates an annuity of
9500 dollars — and relinquishes to the Indians, a large tract of
land which they had, by preceding treaties, ceded to the United
States.

Hence we find that our former treaties under the present
government, as well as one subsequent to that under considera-
tion, contradict the doctrine set up against its constitutionality —
in the important particulars of making dispositions concerning
the territory and property of the United States, and binding
them to raise and pay money. These treaties have not only been
made by the President, and ratified by the Senate, without any
impeachment of their constitutionality, but the House of Repre-
sentatives lias heretofore concurred, and without,. objection, in
carrying them into effect, by the requisite appropriation of
money.

The consular convention with France stands in a peculiar pre-
dicament. It was negotiated under the former government, and
ratified under the present ; and so may be regarded as a treaty of
both governments, illustrative of the extent of the power of
treaty in both. The delicate and even the extraordinary nature
of the provisions it contains, have been adverted to. Though
all reflecting men have thought ill of the propriety of some of
them, as inconveniently breaking in upon our interior adminis-
tration, legislative, executive and judiciary ; only acquiescing in
them from the difficulty of getting rid of stipulations entered
into by our public agents under competent powers, yet no ques-
tion has been heard about their constitutionality. And Congress
have, by law, assisted their execution by making our judicial
tribunals, and the public force of the country, auxiliary to the
decrees of the foreign tribunals which they authorize within our
territory.

If it should be said, that our Constitution, by making all
former treaties and engagements as obligatory upon the United
States, under that Constitution, as they were under the confedera-
tion, rendered the ratification of the convention a matter of

JEt. 39.] CAMILLUS. 527

necessity — the answer is, that either the engagements, Avhich it
contracted, were already conclusive, or they were not — if the
former, there was no need of a ratification ; if the latter, there was
no absolute obligation to it. And, in every supposition, a ratifi-
cation by the President, with the consent of the Senate, could
have been predicated only upon the power given in the present
Constitution in relation to treaties ; and to have any validity,
must have been within the limit of that power.

But it has been heretofore seen that the inference from this
instrument is no less strong, if referred to the power under the
confederation, than if referred to the power under the present
Constitution.

How happens it, that all these invasions of the Constitu-
tion, if they were such, were never discovered, and that all the
departments .of the government, and all parties in the public
councils should have co-operated in giving them a sanction?
Does it not prove that all were convinced, that the power of
treaty, applied in our exterior relations to objects, which, in the
ordinary course of internal administration and in reference to
ourselves, were of the cognizance of the legislative power ? and
particularly that the former was competent to bind the latter in
the delicate points of raising and appropriating money ? If com-
petent to this, what legislative power can be more sacred, more
out of its reach?

Let me now ask (and a very solemn question it is, especially
for those who are bound by oath to support the Constitution)
has it not been demonstrated that the provisions in the treaty
are j ustified by the true and manifest interpretation of the Con-
stitution— are sanctioned by the practice upon a similar power
under the confederation, and by the practice in other instances
under the present government ?

If this has been demonstrated, what shall we think of the
candor and sincerity of the objections which have been erected
on the basis of a contrary supposition ? Do they not unequi-
vocally prove, that the adversaries of the treaty have been re-
solved to discredit it by every artifice they could invent ? That
they have not had truth for their guide, and consequently aiv

528 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

very unfit guides for the public opinion, very unsafe guardians
of the public welfare ?

It is really painful and disgusting to observe sophisms so
miserable as those which question the constitutionality of the
treaty, retailed to an enlightened people, and insisted upon with so
much seeming fervency and earnestness. It is impossible not to
bestow on sensible men, who act this part, the imputation of
hypocrisy. The absurdity of the doctrine is too glaring to per-
mit even charity itself to suppose it sincere. If it were possible
to imagine that a majority in any branch of our government,
could betray the Constitution, and trifle with the nation, so far
as to adopt and act upon such a doctrine — it would be time to
despair of the republic.

There would be no security at home, no respectability abroad.
Our constitutional charter would become a dead letter. The
organ of our government for foreign affairs would be treated
with derision whenever he should hereafter talk of negotiation or
treaty. May the great Euler of nations avert from our country
so grievous a calamity ! *

Camillus.

EXPLANATION.

November 11th, 1795.

A very virulent attack has recently been made upon the

President of the United States, the present Secretary of the

Treasury and myself, as his predecessor in office, on the ground

of extra payments to the President on account of his salary.

* It is very probable that a treaty with Algiers is now on its way to the United
States, which may be expected to contain similar stipulations with that with Mo-
rocco. This treaty, which will have cost the United States no trifling sum, and will
be of very great value to our trade, must equally fall, on the doctrine which I
oppose.

JEt. 38.] EXPLANATION. 520

The charges against all the three are no less heinous than those
of intentional violation of the Constitution, of the law, and of
their oaths of office. I use the epithet intentional, because though
not expressly used in the terms of the attack, it is implied in
every line of it, since an involuntary error of construction, if that
could ever be made out, would not warrant the imputation " of
contemning and despising every principle which the people have
established for the security of their rights, of setting at defiance all
law and authority, and of servile submission and compliance with
the lawless will and pleasure of a President."

Were considerations personal to myself alone to be considered,
the present attempt would be treated with no greater attention
than has been shown to all the anonymous slanders by which I
have been so long and so implacably persecuted. But convinced
by a course of observation for more than four years, that there
exists in this country an unprincipled and daring combination,
to obstruct by any means, which shall he necessary and can he com-
manded, not short even of force, the due and efficient administration
of the present government, to make our most important national
interests subservient to those of a foreign power, and as means to
these ends to destroy, by calumny and misrepresentation, the
confidence of the people in the truly virtuous men of our
country ; and to transfer it, with the power of the state, to am-
bitious hypocrites and intriguing demagogues, perhaps corrupted
partisans ; perceiving likewise, that this infatuated combination,
in the belief that the well-earned esteem and attachment of his
fellow-citizens towards the Chief Magistrate of the United States,
is the principal remaining actual obstacle to the execution of
their plan, are making the most systematic efforts to extinguish
those sentiments in the breasts of the people ; I think it a duty
to depart from my general rule of conduct, and to submit to the
public with my name, an explanation of the principles which
have governed the Treasury Department on the point in ques-
tion.

I shall state in the first place, that the rule with regard to
expenditures and appropriations which has uniformly regulated
the practice of the department is this, (viz.,) to issue no money
Q 34

530 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

from the Treasury, but for an object for which there ivas a lata pre-
viously passed making an appropriation, and designating the fund
from which the money was to arise; but there being such a laic, and
an adequate fund to support the expenditure, it was deemed justifiable,
as well before as after the service was performed, or the supply obtained,
for which the appropriation was designed, to make disbursements
from the Treasury for the object, if it appeared safe and expedient so
to do. If made before, it was an advance or anticipation, for
which the party was charged, and held accountable till exon-
erated by the performance of the service, or the furnishing of the
supply. If afterwards, it was a payment, and went to some gene-
ral head of account as such.

Thus, if a sum was appropriated for provisions for the army
for a particular year, it was common to make advances on account
to the contractors, long before the supplies were furnished. If
the law was passed in one year for the next, there would be no
hesitation to make the advance immediately after the passing of
the law, and before the year to which the appropriation was
applicable had commenced. So also sums would be furnished to
the Department of War, in anticipation of the monthly pay of
the officers and soldiers, and advances on account of pay, in par-
ticular circumstances, and for good reasons, would be actually
made by that department to the officers and soldiers. And so
likewise advances have been made for the use of the President
and the members of both houses of Congress, in anticipation of
their respective compensations.

It will without difficulty be comprehended, that this practice
of the Treasury has in some cases been essential to the due
course of the public service.

Every good judge will be sensible that from the insufficiency
of individual capitals to such large advances, as the supplies
of an army require, it was indispensable to the obtaining of
them, that anticipations from the Treasury would enable the
Contractors to do, what otherwise they would have been un-
able to do ; and that these anticipations must also have had the
effect of procuring the supplies on cheaper terms to the United
States.

JEt. 38.] EXPLANATION. 531

When is is answered to us, that the army has operated for
several years past at several hundred miles distance from the
seat of government ; and a considerable part of the year, from the
rudeness of the country, and obstructions of the waters, it is
impracticable to transmit moneys to the scenes of payment, —
it will be perceived that without advances from the Treasury
in anticipation of the pay, not only a compliance with the en-
gagement of the government would have been impossible ;
but the troops must have been always left most unseasonably
in arrear. — In June, 1794, Congress passed a law, declaring that
the army should in future be paid in such a manner as that the
arrears should not exceed two months. Compliance with this
regulation renders anticipations a matter of physical necessity,
yet that law gave no special authority for the purpose.

A particular case, by way of example, in which, different
from general rules, advances or anticipations in the war depart-
ment are necessary, respects the recruiting service. The of-
ficers, who are for a long time distant from their corps, re-
quire the accommodation of an advance of pay to be able to
discharge their duty. Towards the possibility of enlisting men,
it is indispensable they should carry with them the bounty
money ; another, upon conjecture of what may be done, and
with the possibility that from not being able to obtain the men
the ultimate expenditure may not take place. This instance
will suggest to reflection an infinite number of cases in the
course of service in which a disbursement from the Treasury
must precede the execution of the object, and may exceed the
sum finally requisite for it.

These cases indicate the expediency and even necessity of the
construction which has regulated the practice of the Treasury.
And it might be shown, if necessary, that it is analogous to the
practice under the other government of the United States ; and
under other goverments ; and this too when the theory of expend-
iture equally is, as expressed in our Constitution, that no money
shall be expended, but in consequence of an appropriation by law.

It remains to see whether this rule of conduct, so indispensa-
ble in the practice of the department, be permitted by a fair
interpretation of the Constitution and the laws.

532 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [At. 38.

The general injunction of the Constitution (article i., § ix.)is,
that " no money shall be drawn from the Treasury but in conse-
quence of appropriations made by law."

That clause appears to me to be exactly equivalent to this
other clause — "No money shall be drawn from the Treasury,
but for which there is an appropriation made by law;" in other
words, before money can legally issue from the Treasury for any
purpose, there must be a law authorizing an expenditure, and
designating the object, and the fund. Then such a law is passed.
This being done, the disbursement maybe made consistently with
the Constitution, either by way of advance, or anticipation, or by
way of payment. It may precede or follow the service, supply, or
other object of expenditure. Either will equally satisfy the words
" in consequence of," which are not words of strict import, but may
be taken in several senses — in one sense, that is "in consequence"
of a thing which being followed upon it, follows it in order of
time. A disbursement must be either an advance, ox anticipation,
or a payment. 'Tis not presumable, that the Constitution meant to
distinguish between these two modes of disbursement. It must
have intended to leave this matter wholly to convenience.

The design of the Constitution in this provision was, as I
conceive, to secure these important ends, — that the purpose, the
limit, and the fund of every expenditure should be ascertained
by a previous law. The public security is complete in this
particular, if no money can be expended, but for an object, to an
extent, and out of a fund, which the laws have prescribed.

Even in cases which affect only individual interests, if the
terms of a law will bear several meanings, that is to be preferred,
which will best accord with convenience. In cases that concern
the public, this rule is applicable with still greater latitude. Pub-
lic convenience is to be promoted; public inconveniences to be
avoided. The business of administration requires accommodation
to so great a variety of circumstances, that a rigid construction
would in countless instances arrest the wheels of government.
It has been shown that the construction that has been adopted at
the Treasury is in many cases essential in practice. This inclines
the scale in favor of it, — the words " in consequence of, " admit-
ting of various significations.

Mt. 38.] EXPLANATION. 533

The practice of the legislature as to appropriation laws favors
this construction.

These laws are generally distinct from those which create the
cause of expenditure. Thus the act which declares, that the
President shall be allowed twenty-five thousand dollars per an-
num ; that which declares that each Senator and Kepresentative
shall be entitled to so much per day ; that which determines that
each officer and soldier shall have so much per month &c, neither
of these acts is an act of appropriation. The Treasury has not
considered itself authorized to expend a single cent upon the basis
of any such act ; regarding it merely as constituting a claim upon
the government for a certain compensation, bat requiring, prior
to an actual disbursement for such claim, that a law be passed,
authorizing the disbursement out of a specified fund. This is
what is considered as the law by which the appropriation is made,
from which results to the public a double security.

Hence every year a particular act (sometimes more than one)
is passed, appropriating certain sums for the various branches of
the public service, and indicating the funds from which the moneys
are to be drawn. The object, the sum, and the fund, are all that
are to be found in these acts. They are commonly, if not
universally, silent as to any thing further.

This, I regard as constructive of the clause in the Constitution.
The appropriation laws are in execution of that provision, and
fulfil all its purposes, and they are silent as to the distinction
between anticipation and payment; in other words, as to the man-
ner of disbursement.

Hence I conclude, that if there exist a law appropriating a
certain sum for the salary of the President, an advance upon that
sum in anticipation of the service, is as constitutional, as a payment
after the service has been performed. In other words, that the
advance of a quarter's salary at the beginning of a quarter, is as
much warranted by the Constitution, as the payment of it at the
end of a quarter.

It is in this sense that the present Secretary of the Treasury
has affirmed, that " not one dollar has at any time been advanced
for the use of the President, for which there was not an existing

534 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEi. 38.

appropriation." He did not mean to say that no money had been
advanced in anticipation of the service, for the fact is otherwise ;
but nothing is more true than that the sums disbursed were within
the limits of the sums appropriated. If there. was an excess at
the end of one year, there had been a previous appropriation for
a succeeding year, upon which that excess was an advance.

It is objected to this practice, that the death of the party,
between the advance to him and the expiration of an equivalent
term of service, by superseding the object of the advance, would
render it a misexpenditure of so much money ; and therefore a
violation of the Constitution.

I answer, that the same casualty might have the same effect
in other cases, in which it would be against common sense to
suppose that an advance might not be made with legality and
propriety. Suppose, for example, a law was to be passed,
directing a given quantity of powder to be purchased for public
use, and appropriating a definite sum for the purchase ; and sup-
pose intelligence brought to the Secretary of the Treasury, that
the quantity required could be procured for prompt payment at
Boston ? It cannot in such case be doubted, that the sum appro-
priated might legally be advanced to an agent to proceed to
Boston to make the purchases. Yet, that agent might die, and
the money never be applied according to its destination, or the
desired quantity might be procured for a less sum, and a balance
remain in his hands. In either case, this would be money dis-
bursed, which was not applied to the object of the law. In the
last case, there is no final object for the disbursement, because
the balance is a surplus. This proves that the possibility of a
failure, or falling short of the object for which an advance is
made, is not an objection to its legality. Indeed, the conse-
quence is a possible one in every case of an anticipation, whether
to contractors, or to other public agents, for a determinate or an
indeterminate purpose.

The only consequence is, that the sums unapplied must be
accounted for, and refunded. The distinction here again is
between an advance and a payment. More cannot certainly be
finally paid, than is equal to the object of an appropriation,

Mr. 38.] EXPLANATION. 535

though, the sura appropriated exceed the sum necessary. But
more may be advanced, to the full extent of the appropriation,
than may be ultimately exhausted by the object of the expendi-
ture, on the condition, which always attends an advance, of
accounting for the application, and refunding an excess. This is
a direct answer to the question, whether more can be paid than
is necessary to satisfy the object of an appropriation. More
cannot be paid, but more may be advanced on the accountability
of the person to whom it is advanced.

But risk of loss to the public may attend this principle ?
This is true, but it is as true in all the cases of advances to con-
tractors, &c, as in those of advances upon salaries and compensa-
tions. Nor does this point of risk affect the question of legalitv.
It touches merely that of a prudent exercise of discretion. When
large sums are advanced, it is usual to obtain security for their
due application, or for indemnification. This security is greater
or less according to the circumstances of the parties to whom the
advances are made. When small sums are advanced, especially,
if for the purposes quickly fulfilled, and to persons who are them-
selves adequate sureties, no collateral security is demanded. The
head of the department " is responsible to the government, for
observing proper measures, and taking proper precautions." If
he acts so as to incur justly the charge of improvidence or pro-
fusion, he may be dismissed, or punished, according to the nature
of his misconduct.

But the principle which is set up, would (it is said) be pro-
ductive of confusion, distress, and bankruptcy at the Treasury,
since the appropriation for the support of government is made
payable out of the accruing duties of each year ; and an established
right in the officers of government to claim their compensations,
which amount to several hundred thousand dollars per annum,
either on the first day of the year, or on the first day of a quarter,
before the services were rendered, would create a demand at a
time when there might not, and possibly would not, be a single
shilling in the Treasury, arising out of that appropriation, to
satisfy it. These ideas with regard to the administration of the
fund, are very crude and incorrect, but it would complicate the
subject to go into the development.

536 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

It is not pretended that there is an established right in the
officers to claim their salaries by anticipation, at the beginning of
a year, or at the beginning of a quarter. No such right exists.
The performance of the service must precede the right to demand
payment. But it does not follow, that because there is no right
in the officer to demand payment, it may not be allowable for
the Treasury to advance upon account for good reasons. A
discretion of this sort in the head of the department, can, at least,
involve no embarrassments to the Treasury, nor the formidable
evils indicated ; for the officer who makes the advance, being
himself the judge, whether there is a competent fund, and whe-
ther it can be made with convenience to the Treasury, he will
only make it when he perceives that no evil will ensue.
• Let me recur to the example of advances to contractors for
supplying the army. Suppose that in the terms of contract, cer-
tain advances were stipulated and made, but it turned out never-
theless that the contractor, disappointed in the funds on which he
had relied, could not execute his contract without further ad-
vances. Here there would be no right on his part to demand
such further advances; but there would be a discretion in the
Treasury to make them. This is the example of a discretion to
do what there is not a right to demand. The existence of this
discretion can do no harm, because the head of the Treasury will
judge whether the state of it permits the required advances.
But it is essential, that the discretion should exist, because other-
wise there might be a failure of supplies, which no plan that
could be substituted might be able to avert.

Yet the discretion is in neither case an arbitrary one; it is
one which the head of the department is responsible to exercise'
with a careful eye to the public interest and safety. The abuse
of it, in other words, the careless or wanton exercise of it, would
be a cause of dismission for incapacity, or of punishment for
malconduct.

Thus, advances on account of salaries or to contractors for
procuring public supplies, might be carried so far, and so improvi-
dently managed, as to be highly culpable and justly punishable :
but this is a different question from the violation of Constitution
or law.

jEt. 38.] EXPLANATION. 537

In all the cases it is a complete answer to the objection of
embarrassment to the Treasury, that not the will of the parties,
but the judgment of the head of the department is the rule and
measure of the advances which he may make, within the bounds
of the sums appropriated by law.

I consider the law which has been cited with regard to the
pay of the army, as a legislative recognition of the rule of prac-
tice at the Treasury. The legislature could not have been igno-
rant that it was impracticable at certain seasons of the year to
convey the money to the army to fulfil their injunction, without
an advance from the Treasury before the pay became due. They
presuppose a right to make this advance, and enjoin that the
troops shall not be left more than two months in arrear. The
origin of this law enforces the observation. It is known that it
passed in consequence of a representation that the pay of the army
was left too long in arrear, and it was intended to quicken the
measures of payment. No person in either house of the legisla-
ture, I believe, doubted that there was power to precede the ser-
vice by advances so as to render the payment even more punctual
than was enjoined.

Indeed such advances when the army operated at a distance,
were necessary to fulfil the contract with the army. It became
due monthly, and in strictness of contract, was to be made at the
end of each month, — a thing impossible, unless advanced from
the Treasury before it became due. No special authority was
ever given for this purpose to the Treasury, but it appears to
have been left to take its course on the principle that the disburse-
ment might take place as soon as there was an appropriation,
though in anticipation of the term of service.

The foregoing observations vindicate, I trust, the construction
of the Treasury as to the power of making disbursements in
anticipation of services and supplies, if there has been a previous
appropriation by law of the object, and if the advances never
exceed the amount appropriated ; and at the same time evince
that this practice involves no violation of the constitutional pro-
visions with respect to appropriations.

I proceed to examine that clause which respects the pay of

538 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [£h\ 38.

the President. It is in these words: "The President shall, at
stated times, receive for his services a compensation which shall
neither be increased nor diminished during the period for which
he shall have been elected, and he shall not receive within that
period any other emolument from the United States or any of
them."

I understand this clause as equivalent to the following:
" There shall be established by law for the services of the Presi-
dent a periodical compensation, which shall not be increased nor
diminished during the term for which he shall have been elected,
and neither the United States nor any State shall allow him any
emolument in addition to his periodical compensation."

This will, I think, at first sight appear foreign to the ques-
tion of a provisional advance on account of the compensation
periodically established by law for his services.

The manifest object of the provision is to guard the inde-
pendence of the President from the legislative control of the
United States or of any State, by the ability to withhold, lessen,
or increase his compensation.

It requires that the law shall assign him a definite compensa-
tion for a definite time. It prohibits the legislature from in-
creasing or diminishing this compensation during any term of his
election, and it prohibits every State from granting him an addi-
tional emolument. This is all that the clause imports.

It is. therefore satisfied as to the United States, when the
legislature has provided that the President shall be allowed a
certain sum for a certain term of time ; and so long as it refrains
from making an alteration in the provision. All beyond this is
foreign to the subject.

The legislature having done this, an advance by the Treasury
in anticipation of the service cannot be a breach of the provision.
'Tis in no sense an additional allowance by the United States.
'Tis a mere advance or loan upon account of the established pe-
riodical compensation ; will legal ideas, or common parlance,
warrant the giving the denomination of additional compensation,
to the mere anticipation of the term of an established allowance ?
If they will not, 'tis plain such an advance is no breach of this
part of the Constitution.

jEt. 38.] EXPLANATION. 539

If the clause is to be understood literally, it leads to an ab-
surdity. The terms are, " The President shall at stated times
receive" &c. ; and again, "he shall not receive within that pe-
riod," &c.

His allowance is at the rate of 25,000 dollars per annum,
6,250 dollars quarter yearly. Suppose at the end of a year an
arrear of 5000 dollars was due to him, which he omits to receive
till some time in the succeeding year, and in the succeeding year
actually receives that balance with his full salary for the last
year. Tis plain, that he would not have received in the whole
more than he was allowed by law, and yet in the stated period of
one year he would have received 30,000 dollars, five thousand
more than his salary for the year. In a literal sense, then, con-
stitutional provision as to actual payment would not have been
complied with ; for within the first stated period he would not
have received the compensation allotted, and within the second of
them he would have received more. In a literal sense it would be
necessary to make the payment at the precise day, to the precise
amount, neither more or less, which as a general rule the indis-
pensable forms of the Treasury render impossible. It follows
that actual receipt or payment are not the criterion — but the ab-
solute definitive allowance by law. An advance beforehand, or
a payment afterwards, are equally consistent with the true spirit
and meaning of this part of the Constitution.

Let us now see if the construction of the Treasury violates
the law which establishes the President's compensation.

The act of the 29th of September, 1789, allows to the Presi-
dent at the rate of 25,000 dollars per annum, to commence from
the time of his entering on the duties of his office, and to be paid
quarterly out of the Treasury cf the United States.

The question is, what is to be understood from these words,
" to be paid quarterly out of the Treasury of the United Slates fn

The conception of the Treasury has been, that these words,
as used in this and in the analogous cases, were meant to define
the time when the right of an individual to the compensation earned
became absolute, not as a command to the Treasury to issue the
money at a precise clay and no other.

540 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

As mentioned above, the indispensable forms of the Treasury,
in compliance with the law establishing the department, and to
secure a due accountability, make it impracticable to pay at the
day ; and if expressions of the kind in question are to be con-
strued literally, and as a positive injunction to the Treasury to
issue the money at the period defined, it will be as much a breach
of the law to pay afterwards as to advance beforehand.

The position that an after payment would be a breach of the
law, will hardly be contended for; and if not, the alternative
seems to be the construction adopted by the Treasury. Such
expressions denote simply, that at certain periods individuals
acquire a perfect right to particular sums of money for their ser-
vices, which it becomes a matter of course to pay ; but they are
not obliged to receive it at the day, nor is the Treasurer re-
strained from paying it afterwards, or from anticipating by way
of loan, if there are adequate reasons for such anticipation.

It is not true, as alleged, that the invariable practice of the
Treasury as to compensations for services differs in principle from
what was done in the case of the President.

Instances to the contrary have been stated. As to what re-
gards the army, there has been sufficient explanation.

But it will be useful to be more particular as to the course
which has been pursued with reference to the two houses of
Congress.

The law that regulates their compensations (passed the 29th
of September, 1789) allows to each member a compensation of
six dollars for every day he shall attend the House to which he
belongs, together with six dollars for every twenty miles of dis-
tance to and from his place of residence ; and directs that the
compensation which shall be due shall be certified by the Presi-
dent of the Senate or Speaker of the House of Representatives,
and shall be paid as public accounts are paid out of the Treasury.

By an arrangement between each House and the Treasuiy
Department, the course actually pursued has been as follows :

Certain gross sums, usually at the commencement of each
session, and from time to time afterwards, have been advanced
from the Treasury at request, to the President of the Senate for

iET. 38.] EXPLANATION. 541

the members of the Senate, to the Speaker of the House of Rep-
resentatives for the members of that House, on account, and fre-
quently in anticipation of their accruing compensations. The
President of the Senate in the Senate, and the Speaker of the
House of Representatives in that House, disbursed the moneys
to the individuals, and afterwards, upon the close of each session,
settled an account at the Treasury, accompanied with the certifi-
cates required by the law, and the receipts of the members,
which were examined, adjusted, and passed, as other public
accounts.

Whether there were any advances actually made to the mem-
bers, in anticipation of their compensations, was a point never
discussed between the Treasury and the presiding officers of the
two Houses with whom the money was deposited. But I under-
stand that examples of such advances did exist in relation to the
House of Representatives. The fact is however immaterial to
the point in issue ; that must be tested by the times of the advan-
ces from the Treasury ; and it is certain that these were usually
made in anticipation of compensations to grow due ; and it is also
certain that the course was well understood by both Houses, and
is exhibited by the accounts of the Treasurer laid before them in
each session.

If, therefore, the advances for the President were unconstitu-
tional and illegal, those for both Houses of Congress were equally
so ; and if the President be chargeable with a violation of the
Constitution, of the laws, and of his oath of office, on account of
extra advances to his secretaries, whether with or without his
privity, the members of both Houses of Congress, without ex-
ception, have been guilty of the same crimes, in consequence of
the extra advances, with their privity, to the presiding officers
of their respective Houses. A distinction may possibly be at-
tempted to be taken in the two cases from this circumstance, that
the law which allots the compensation of the members of the
two Houses does not use the words " to be paid every day out of
the Treasury," while that which establishes the President's com-
pensation does use the terms " to be paid quarterly out of the
Treasury." But this distinction would be evidently a cavil.

542 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

When a law fixes the term of a compensation, whether per day,
per month, per quarter, or annum, if it says nothing more, it is
implied that it is payable at each epoch out of the Treasury, in
the same sense as if this was expressly said. This observation
applies as well to the monthly pay of the army, as to the daily
pay of Congress.

Having examined the question as it stands upon the Con-
stitution and the laws, I proceed to examine the course of the
fact.

But previous to this, I shall take notice of one point about
which there have been doubts — and which it is not within my
present recollection, whether definitively settled or not by the
accounting officers of the department. It respects the time of
the commencement of the President's compensation. The law
establishing it refers to the time of his entering upon the duties
of his office, but without defining that time.

When in a constitutional and legal sense did the President
enter upon the duties of his office ?

The Constitution enjoins that before he enters upon the
execution of his office he shall take a certain oath which is
prescribed. This oath was not taken till the 30th of April, 1789.
If we date the entrance upon the duties of his office at the
time of taking this oath, it determines the epoch to be the 80th
of April, 1789.

The notice of the arrangement which was made for the
payment of the members of Congress was twofold. It was to
obviate embarrassment to them by facilitating and acceler-
ating the receipt of their compensations, and to avoid an incon-
venient multiplication of adjustments, entries, warrants, and
payments. The theory of the provision admitted of as many
Treasury settlements, entries, warrants, and payments, each day,
as there were members in both Houses.

But there is room for another construction. The 3d of
March, 1789, is the day when the term for which the President,
the Vice-President, and the members of the Congress were first
elected and was deemed to commence. The Constitution de-
clares, that the President shall hold his office for four years;

JEt. 38.] EXPLANATION. 543

and it is presumable that the clause respecting his compensation
contemplates its being for the whole term for which he is to
hold his office. Its object may otherwise be evaded.

It is also, I believe, certain, that the President may execute
his office and do valid acts as President without previously tak-
ing the oath prescribed. Though in so doing, if voluntarily, he
would be guilty of a breach of the Constitution, and would be
liable to punishment. The taking the oath is not, therefore,
necessarily, the criterion of entering upon the duties of office.

It is a fact, if I remember right, that the President was at
New-York, the place assigned for the first meeting of the govern-
ment, on the 3d of March, 1789, which might be considered as an
entrance upon the duties of his office : though from the delays
which attended the meeting of Congress, the oath was deferred
till the 30th of April following.

On the strength of these facts, it may be argued, that by force
of the Constitution, dating the commencement of the President's
term of service on the 3d of March, 1789, the law respecting his
compensation ought to be considered as referring to that period,
for a virtual entrance upon the duties of his office.

In stating this construction, I must not be understood to
adopt it. I acknowledge that the other, as most agreeable to the
more familiar sense of the law terms, has appeared to me prefer-
able, though I had reason to believe that an important officer of
the government (I do not mean the President) once thought
otherwise. The result, in point of fact, will vary, as the one or
the other is deemed the true construction.

I return to an examination of the course of the transaction.

Authentic statements which have been published, with some
supplementary ones received from the Treasury upon the occa-
sion, exhibit the following results.

1st. Result. The sums advanced for the use of the President
from the Treasury, have never exceeded the sums previously
appropriated by law: though they have sometimes exceeded,
sometimes fallen short, of the sums actually due for services.
This is thus explained :

An Act of the 29th of September, 1789, appropriated for the
compensation of the President, $25,000.

544 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

The sums to the 8th of April, 1790, and charged to this

appropriation, are $25,000

An Act of the 26th of March, 1790, appropriated for the

same purpose. ....... 25,000

The sums advanced from May 4th, 1790, to the 28th Feb-
ruary, 1791, and charged to this appropriation, . . 25,000

An Act of the 11th February, 1791, appropriated for the

same purpose ....... 25,000

The sums advanced from the 28th February, 1791, to
27 th of December in the same year, and charged to
this appropriation, are ...... 22,150

Excess of appropriation beyond the advances, . . 2,850

An Act of the 23d December, 1791, appropriated for the

same purpose 25,000

The sums advanced from the 3d January, 1792, to the
15th January, 1793, and charged to this appropria-
tion, are 25,000

An Act of the 28th February, 1793, appropriates for the

same purpose ........ 25,000

The sums advanced from the 9th March, 1793, to 27th of
December in the same year, and charged to this appro-
priation, are 25,000

An Act of the 14th of March, 1794, appropriates for the

same purpose 25,000

The sums advanced from the 17th of March, 1794, to the
1st of January, 1795, and charged to the same appro-
priation, are 25,000

An Act of the 2d of January, 1795, appropriated for the

same purpose 25,000

The sums advanced from the 12th of January, 1795, and
prior to the 1st of October in the same year, and
charged to this appropriation, are .... 12,500

12,500

vEt. 38.] EXPLANATION. 545

Excess of appropriation beyond advances, on the 1st of

August, 1795, $12,500

Excess of appropriation on the Act of the 11th of Feb-
ruary, 1791, 2,850

Total excess of appropriation beyond advances, to the 1st

of October, 1795, $15,350

The residue of the proposition is illustrated by the quarterly
statement of salary and advances at foot.

2d Eesult. The Treasury has never been in advance for the
President beyond the sums actually accrued, and due to him for
services to the amount of one quarter's salary. The largest
advance at any time is $6,154. A quarter's salary is, $6,250,
Deduct the sums at certain times in arrear from those at other
times in advance, the average of the advances for the whole term
of his service is about

The particulars of this result appear in the statement at foot.
This statement is digested by a quarter of the calendar year,
which is the established course of the Treasury, and a course
essential to the order of its affairs ; that is to say, it is essential
there should be certain fixed periods to which the ordinary stated
disbursements are referred, and in conforming with which the
accounts of the Treasury are kept.

3d Eesult. On the 1st of October, 1795, there was actually
due to the President, for his compensation, over and above all
advances for his use, the sum of $846. This likewise appears
from the statement at foot, and entirely refutes the malevolent
suggestion which has appeared, of an accumulation of advances to
twelve or fifteen thousand dollars.

4th Eesult. The sums advanced for the President prior to
the commencement of the term of his second election, the 3d of
March, 1793, fall short of the sums appropriated for his com-
pensation, $2,850. Thus:

The aggregate of the sums appropriated for four years,
from the 29th of September, 1789, to the 23d of
G 35

546 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 38.

December, 1791, inclusively is ... $100,000

The amount of all the sums advanced prior to the 3d

of March, 1793, is 97,150

Excess of appropriations beyond advances, . . . $2,850

It is nevertheless true, that not only have there been frequent
anticipations of the President's salary, as appears more particu-
larly in the statement at foot, but. counting from the 30th of
April, 1789, as the commencement of his compensation, the sums
advanced for his use prior to the 3d of March, 1793, the expira-
tion of his first term of election, exceed those actually due up
to that period, by $1108 34.

If, on the contrary, the construction were adopted which dates
his compensation on the 4th of March, 1789, there would have
been a balance due to him on the 4th of March, 1795, of 2,850

dollars.

But proceeding on the first supposition, the whole question
still turns upon the legality of the advances. If it was legal to
make him an advance, in anticipation of his salary, within any
period of his election— within one quarter, on account of a suc-
ceeding quarter, it was equally legal to do it within one year, on
account of a succeeding year; and within one term of an election,
on account of a succeeding term. The only inquiry would be, in
either case, will the sum advanced be within the bounds of the
sums before that time appropriated ?— It has been seen that the sums
appropriated for the first four years of service exceeded those ad-
vanced prior to the commencement of the second period of elec-
tion by 2,850 dollars ; besides this, on the 28th of February, 1793,
there was a further appropriation of 25,000 dollars— so that at the
beginning of the second term the total appropriations exceeded
the total disbursements by 27,850 dollars.

Thus has it been shown that the advances for the use of the
President have been governed by a rule of construction which
has obtained in analogous cases, or more truly, which has regu-
lated the general course of disbursements from the Treasury— a
rule which, I trust, has been demonstrated to be consonant with
the Constitution and the laws.

JEt. 38.] EXPLANATION. 547

It is requisite to inquire a little further, whether there has
been any improper use. or rather abuse of the discretion which is
contended for ; for here there is likewise an unquestionable re-
sponsibility. It is seen, that the advances have at no time equalled
one quarter's salary.

I ask, was it unreasonable or unfit, if constitutional and legal,
to afford the President of the United States an accommodation of
this extent ?

I pledge my veracity, that I have always understood, and to
this moment I have good reason to be satisfied, that the expenses
of the President, those of his household and others, incident to
his official situation, have fully equalled, if not on some occasions
exceeded, the allowance made to him by the United States.
Under this conviction especially, how could the head of a depart-
ment hesitate, by so small an accommodation as the advance of
less than a quarter's salary, to enable the President of the United
States to meet his expenses as they accrued, without being oblig-
ed to encroach upon his own private resources, or to resort to
the expedient of borrowing, to defray expenses imposed upon
him by public situation ? I knew that no possible risk could
attend the advance, little considerable as it was. The estate of
the President was answerable in case of death, or other premature
vacancy, for the indemnification of the government.

Reasons of a peculiar kind forbade hesitation. The scale of
expense was such as to render the income even of what is deemed
a large landed property in this country a slender auxiliary —
without an advance from the Treasury, it was not impossible
borrowing might be necessary. Was it just to compel the Presi-
dent to resort to that expedient, for a purpose in fact public, at
his private expense ? Was it for the dignity of the nation that
he should have been exposed to a necessity, an embarrassment
of this sort ?

My judgment and feelings answered both these questions in
the negative. I. entertained no doubt of the constitutionality and
legality of the advance, and I thought the making of it due to the
situation — due to propriety— due to every public consideration
connected with the subject. I can never regret it.

548 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. E8.

How far the President was privy to the course of advances, I
cannot say ; but it is certain they have been all made to his pri-
vate secretaries upon a general arrangement, and not by special
directions from him. And I think it proper to add, that very
early in the day, and probably before any was made, on an ap-
plication to Mr. Lear fur a sum which would constitute an ad-
vance, he qualified it by this observation ; " If in your opinion
it can be done with legality and perfect propriety." I answered
that I had no doubt of either. I shall not attempt to assume
any greater responsibility in this transaction than belongs to me,
but I have been accustomed to think that the responsibility for
the due and regular disbursement of moneys from the Treasury
lies exclusively with the officers of the department, and that, ex-
cept in a very palpable and glaring case, the charge of blamable
participation could not fall on any other person.

As between the officers of the Treasury, I take the responsi-
bility to stand thus. The Secretary and Comptroller, in granting
warrants upon the Treasury, are both answerable for their legal-
ity. In this respect, the Comptroller is a check upon the Secre-
tary. "With regard to the expediency of an advance, in my
opinion, the right of judging is exclusively with the head of the
department. The Comptroller has no voice in this matter. So
far, therefore, as concerns legality in the issues of money, while
I was in the department, the Comptroller must answer with me ;
so far as a question of expedienc}^, or the due exercise of discre-
tion may be involved, I am solely answerable. And uniformly
was the matter so understood between successive comptrollers
and myself. Also it is essential to the due administration of the
department, that it should have been so understood.

I have stated my reasons for considering the advances made,
for the use of the President, constitutional, legal, and proper,
But I pretend not to infallibility ; 'tis possible, I may have erred,
but to convert error into guilt, it must be supposed to have been
wilful. To suppose it wilful, it is necessary to trace it to some
interested or sinister motive. If any appear, let it be pointed
out. It is not common for men to commit crimes without some
adequate inducement.

Mt. 38.] EXPLANATION. 549

What criminal inducement would have probably influenced
the rule of construction as to advances which has been stated to
have been adopted and acted upon at the Treasury ? What crimi-
nal inducement particularly could have led to the application of
this rule to the President's compensation, in so restricted a form
as never to equal one quarter's salary ? Who in his senses will
believe that the President would consciously have hazarded the
imputation of violating the Constitution, the laws, and his oath
of office, by imposing on the officers of the Treasury the neces*
sity of making him so paltry an advance, falsely and ridicu-
lously called a donation ? Who will believe that those officers
would have consented to expose themselves to the same imputa-
tion, by compliance, when they knew that the evidence of their
guilt must regularly be communicated in each succeeding ses-
sion, to both Houses of Congress, and to the public at large? To
believe either, is to believe all the parties concerned foolish, as
well as profligate in the extreme, destitute equally of intellect as
of principle.

To an observation made by Mr. Wolcott in the communica-
tion from the Treasury, it has been answered, that there was no
merit in the disclosure, because the number of agents and the
forms of the Treasury rendered it unavoidable. The fact is so —
but the force of the observation turns upon the egregious folly
of intentionally committing the crimes imputed; when it was
certain, beforehand, that the means of detection must be furnish-
ed, and without delay, by the Treasury itself.

It is certain, that there never has been the least attempt at
mystery or concealment. The documents reported by the Trea-
sury to both Houses of Congress, carried in their face the promi-
nent evidence of what was done. Frequent and indiscriminaU
personal suggestions regarded the principle of action. It is evi-
dent that it must have been understood and acquiesced in by all
the members of the two Houses of Congress.

Hard would be the condition of public officers if even a mis-
construction of constitutional and legal provisions, attended with
no symptom of criminal motive, carrying the proof of innocence
in the openness and publicity of conduct, could justly expose

550 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [,Et. 38.

them to the odious charges which on this occasion are preferred.
Harder still would be their condition if, in the management
of the great and complicated business of a nation, the fact of
misconstruction, which is to constitute their guilt, is to be de-
cided by the narrow and rigid rules of a criticism no less pedantic
than malevolent. Pre-eminently hard in such circumstances was
the lot of the man who, called to the head of the most arduous
department in the public administration in a new government,
without the guidance of antecedent practice and precedent, had to
trace out his own path, and to adjust for himself the import and
bearings of delicate and important provisions in the Constitution
and in the laws.

Reposing myself on a consciousness which, in no possible
situation, can fail to prove an invulnerable shield to my tran-
quillity, I leave to a candid public to pronounce the sentence
which is due to an attempt, on such a foundation, to erect against
the President of the United States, my successor in office, and
myself, the heinous charges of violation of the Constitution, vio-
lation of the laws, exaction of arbitrary will on the one side, ab-
ject submission on the other, misapplication of the public money,
and, to complete the newspaper group, intentional perjury.

A. Hamilton.

WASHINGTON'S SPEECH TO CONGRESS.

Draft by Hamilton.

Dec. 8, 1795.
I trust I do not deceive myself while I indulge the persua-
sion, that I have never met you at any period, when more than
at the present the situation of our public affairs has afforded just
cause for mutual congratulation, and for inviting you to join with
me in profound gratitude to the Author of all Good for the
numerous and distinguished signal blessings we enjoy.

Mr. 38.] WASHINGTON'S SPEECH. 551

The termination of the long, expensive, and distressing war
in which we have been engaged with certain Indians northwest
of the Ohio, is placed in the option of the United States by a
treaty which the commander of our army has provisionally con-
cluded with twelve of the most powerful of the hostile tribes in
that region. In the adjustment of these terms, the satisfaction
of the Indians was deemed an object worthy no less of the policy
than of the liberality of the United States, as the necessary basis
of permanent tranquillity. This object, it is believed, has been
fully attained. The articles agreed upon will be immediately
laid before the Senate for their advice and consent.

The Creek and Cherokee Indians, who alone of the Southern
tribes had annoyed our frontier, have lately confirmed their pre-
existing treaties with us, and have given unequivocal evidence
of a sincere disposition to carry them into effect by the surrender
of the prisoners and property they had taken. But we have to
lament that the fair prospect in this quarter has been momenta-
rily clouded by wanton murders, which some citizens of Georgia
have perpetrated on hunting parties of the Creeks, which have
again involved that frontier in disquietude and danger, or which
will be productive of further expense, and is likely to occasion
more effusion of blood. Measures are in train to obviate or
mitigate the consequences, and with the reliance of being able at
least to prevent general hostility.

A letter from the Emperor of Morocco announces to me the
renewal of our treaty, and consequently the restoration of peace,
with that power. But the instrument for this purpose, which
was to pass through the hands of our minister resident at Lisbon,
who was temporarily absent on business of importance, is not
yet received. It is with peculiar satisfaction I can add to this
intelligence, that an agent, deputed on our part to Algiers, com-
municates that the preliminaries of a treaty with the regency
of that country had been settled, and that he had no doubt of
completing the business of his mission, comprehending the re-
demption of our unfortunate fellow-citizens from a grievous
captivity.

The last advices from our envoy to the court of Madrid give,

552 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 38.

moreover, the pleasing information that he had received positive
assurances of a speedy and satisfactory conclusion of his negotia-
tion. While the event, depending on unadjusted particulars, can-
not be regarded as ascertained, it is agreeable to cherish the
expectation of an issue, which, securing amicably very essential
interests of the United States, will, at the same time, establish
the foundation of durable harmony with a power whose friend-
ship we have so uniformly and so sincerely endeavored to
cultivate.

Though not before officially disclosed to the House of Repre-
sentatives, you are all apprised that a treaty of amity, com-
merce, and navigation has been negotiated with Great Britain,
and that the Senate, by the voice of two-thirds, have advised and
consented to its ratification, upon a condition which excepts part
of one article. Agreeably to this advice and consent, and to the
best judgment I was able to form of the public interest, after
full and mature deliberation, I have added my sanction. The
result on the part of His Britannic Majesty is unknown. When
received, the subject will, without delay, be placed before Con-
gress.

This interesting summary of affairs, with regard to the foreign
powers between whom and the United States controversies have
subsisted, and with regard also to those of our Indian neighbors,
with whom we have been in a state of enmity or misunderstand-
ing, opens a wide field for consoling and gratifying reflections.
If, by prudence and moderation on every side, the extinguish-
ment of all the causes of external discord, which have heretofore
menaced our tranquillity, on terms consistent with our national
rights and honor, shall be the happy result, how firm and how
precious a foundation will have been laid for establishing, accele-
rating, and maturing the prosperity of our country !

Contemplating the situation of the United States in their
internal as well as external relations, Ave find equal cause for
contentment and satisfaction, while the greater part of the nations
of Europe, with their American dependencies, have been, and
several of them continue to be, involved in a contest unusually
bloody, exhausting, and calamitous ; in which the ordinary evils

^Et. 38.] WASHINGTON'S SPEECH. 553

of foreign war are aggravated by domestic convulsion, riot, and
insurrection ; in which many of the arts most useful to society are
exposed to decay or exile; and in which scarcity of subsistence
embitters other sufferings, while even the anticipations of the
blessings of peace and repose are alloyed by the sense of heavv
and accumulating burthens, which press upon all the departments
of industry, and threaten to clog the future springs of govern-
ment ; — our favored country, happy in a striking contrast, enjoys
universal peace — a peace the more satisfactory because preserved
at the expense of no duty. Faithful to ourselves we have not
been unmindful of any obligation to others. Our agriculture, our
commerce, our manufactures, prosper beyond former examples
(the occ^ional depredations upon our trade, however detrimental
to individuals, being greatly overbalanced by the aggregate
benefits derived to it from a neutral position). Our population
advances with a celerity which exceeds the most sanguine calcu-
lations, augmenting fast our strength and resources, and guaran-
teeing more and more our national security. Every part of
the Union gives indications of rapid and various improve-
ment. "With burthens so light as scarcely to be perceived, with
resources more than adequate to our present exigencies, with a
mild Constitution and wholesome laws, is it too much to say that
our country affords a spectacle of national happiness never sur-
passed, if ever before equalled in the annals of human affairs?

Placed by Providence in a situation so auspicious, motives
the most sacred and commanding admonish us, with sincere grati-
tude to Heaven and pure love of our country, to unite our efforts
to preserve, prolong, and improve the immense advantages of
our condition. To co-operate with you in this most interesting-
work is the dearest wish of my heart.

Fellow-citizens: — Amongst the objects which will claim
your attention in the course of the session, a review of our mili-
tary establishment will not be the least important. It is called for
by the events which have changed, and are likely still further to
change, the relative situation of our interior frontier. In this
review, you will no doubt allow due weight to the consideration,
that the questions between us and certain foreign powers are

554 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [/Et. 38.

not yet finally adjusted, that the war in Europe is not yet ter-
minated, and that the evacuation of our Western posts, when it
shall happen, will demand a provision for garrisoning and
securing them. You will consider this subject with a compre-
hensiveness equal to the extent and variety of its relations.
The Secretary at War will be directed to lay before Congress the
present state of the

With the review of our army is naturally connected that of
our militia establishment. It will merit inquiry what imper-
fections, in the existing plan, experience may have unfolded ;
what improvements will comport with the progress of public
opinion. The subject is of so much magnitude, in my estimation,
as to beget a constant solicitude that the consideration §f it will
be renewed, till the greatest attainable degree of perfection is
accomplished. Time, while it may furnish others, is wearing
away some advantages for forwarding the object. None better
deserves the persevering attention of our public councils.

In contemplating the actual condition of our Western bor-
ders, the pleasure it is calculated to afford ought not to cause us
to lose sight of a truth, to the confirmation of which every day's
experience contributes, viz. : That the provisions heretofore
made are inadequate to protect the Indians from the violences
of the irregular and lawless part of the frontier inhabitants ;
and that, without some more effectual plan for restraining the
murders of those people, by bringing the murderers to condign
punishment, all the exertions of the government to prevent or
repress the outrages of the Indians, and to preserve peace with
them, must prove fruitless — all our present agreeable prospects
fugitive and illusory. The frequent destruction of innocent
women and children, chiefly the victims of retaliation, must
continue to shock humanite, while an expense truly enormous
will drain the treasure of the Union.

To enforce the observance of justice upon the Indians, it is
indispensable there should be competent means of rendering
justice to them. If to these means could be added a provision
to facilitate the supply of the articles they want on reasonable
terms (a measure the mention of which I the more readily re-

JJ*. 3*.] WASHINGTON'S SPEECH. 555

peat, as in all the conferences with them they urge it with so-
licitude), I should not hesitate to entertain a strong hope of a
permanent good understanding with them. It is agreeable to
add that even the probability of their civilization, by per-
severance in a proper plan, has not been diminished by the
experiments thus far made.

Gentlemen of the House of Representatives: — The state of the
revenue in its several relations, with the sums which have been
borrowed and reimbursed, pursuant to different acts of Congress,
will be submitted by the proper officer — together with an esti-
mate of the appropriations necessary to be made for the current
service of the ensuing year. Eeports from the late and present
director of the Mint (which I shall also cause to be laid before
you), will show the situation and progress of that institution,
and the necessity of some further legislative provisions for car-
rying the business of it more completely into execution, and for
checking abuses which appear to be arising in particular quar-
ters.

Whether measures may not be advisable to reinforce the
provision for the redemption of the public debt, will not fail, I
am sure, to engage your attention. In this examination, the
question will naturally occur, whether the present be not a fa-
vorable juncture for the disposal of the vacant lands of the
United States, northwest of the Ohio. Congress have demon-
strated the sense to be, and it were superfluous to repeat more,
that whatever will tend to accelerate the honorable extinguish-
ment of our public debt, will accord as much with the true in-
terest of our country as with the general sense of our consti-
tuents.

Gentlemen : — The progress in providing materials for the
frigates, and in building them, and the state of the fortifications
of our harbors, the measures which have been pursued !'<>r
obtaining proper sites for arsenals, and for furnishing our mag-
azines with military stores; and the steps which have been
taken in execution of the law for opening a trade with the In-
dians, will also be presented for the information of Congr.

556 HAMILTON'S WORKS. r^T. 39.

MESSAGE for WASHINGTON TO CONGRESS, IN
REPLY TO A CALL FOR PAPERS RELATING TO
THE TREATY WITH GREAT BRITAIN.

Draft by Hamilton.

March 29th, 1796.

I have received your resolution of the inst., and have con-
sidered it with the attention always due to a request of the House
of Representatives. I feel a consciousness (not contradicted I
trust by any part of my conduct) of a sincere disposition to
respect the rights, privileges, and authorities of Congress col-
lectively, and in its separate branches — to pay just deference to
their opinions and wishes — to avoid intrusion on their province
— to communicate freely information pertinent to the subjects of
their deliberation. But this disposition, keeping steadily in
view the public good, must likewise be limited and directed by
the duty incumbent upon us all, of preserving inviolate the
constitutional boundary between the several departments of the
government; a duty enjoined by the very nature of a Constitu-
tion, which defines the powers delegated, and distributes them
among different depositories ; enforced by the solemn sanction
of an oath ; and only to be fulfilled by a regard no less scrupu-
lous for the rights of the Executive, than for those of every other
department.

When I communicated to the House of Representatives the
treaty lately made with Great Britain, I did not transmit the
papers respecting its negotiation, for reasons which appeared to
me decisive.

It is contrary to the general practice of governments, to pro-
mulge the intermediate transactions of a foreign negotiation,
without weighty and special reasons. The motives for great
delicacy and reserve on this point are powerful. There may be
situations of a country, in which particular occurrences of a nego-
tiation, though conducted with the best views to its interest, and

iET. 39.] MESSAGE. 557

even to a satisfactory issue, if immediately disclosed, might tend
to embarrassment and mischief in the interior affairs of that
country. Confidential discussions and overtures arc inseparable
from the nature of certain negotiations, and frequently occur in
others. Essays are occasionally made by one party to discover
the views of another in reference to collateral objects; motives
are sometimes assigned for what is yielded by one party to
another ; which, if made public, might kindle the resentment or
jealousy of other powers, or might raise in them pretensions not
expedient to be gratified. Hence it is a rule of mutual con-
venience and security among nations, that neither shall, without
adequate cause and proper reserves, promulge the details of a
negotiation between them ; otherwise, one party might be injured
by the disclosures of the other, and sometimes without being
aware of the injury likely to be done.

Consequently, the general neglect of this rule in the practice
of a government, would naturally tend to destroy that confidence
in its prudence and delicacy — that freedom of communication
with it, which are so important in the intercourses between nation
and nation, towards the accommodation of mutual differences
and the adjustment of mutual interests.

Neither would it be likely to promote the advantage of a

nation, that the agents of a foreign government with which it

was at any time in treaty, should act under the apprehension

that every expression, every step of theirs, would presently be

exposed, by the promulgation of the other party, to the criticism

of their political adversaries at home. The disposition to a

liberal, and, perhaps, for that very reason, a wise policy in them,

might be checked by the reflection, that it might afterwards

appear from the disclosures on the other side, that they had not

made as good bargains as they might have made. And while

they might be stimulated by this to extraordinary effort and

perseverance, maxims of greater secrecy and reserve id their

cabinet would leave their competitors in the negotiation without

the same motive to exertion. These having nothing to fear from

the indiscretion of the opposite government, would only have to

manage with caution their communications to their own. The

558 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mi. 39.

consequence of such a state of things would naturally be an in-
crease of obstacles to the favorable close of a negotiation, and the
probability of worse bargains for the nation in the habit of giving
indiscreet publicity to its proceedings.

The agents of such a nation themselves would have strong
inducements to extreme reserve in their communications with
their own government, lest parts of their conduct might subject
them in other quarters to unfriendly and uncandid constructions,
which might so narrow the information they gave, as scarcely to
afford sufficient light, with regard either to the fitness of their
own course of proceeding, or the true state and prospects of the
negotiation with which they were charged.

And thus, in different ways, the channels of information to
a government might be materially obstructed by the impolitic
practice of too free disclosure, in regard to its foreign negotia-
tions.

Moreover, it is not uncommon for the instructions to nego-
tiating agents, especially where differences are to be settled, to
contain observations on the views and motives of the other party,
which after an amicable termination of the business it would be
contrary to decorum, unfriendly and offensive to make public.
Such instructions also frequently manifest views which, if dis-
closed, might renew sources of jealousy and ill-will which a
treaty had extinguished, might exhibit eventual plans of proceed-
ing which had better remain unknown for future emergencies,
and might even furnish occasion for suspicion, and pretext for
discontent, to other powers. And in general, where more had
been obtained by a treaty than the ultimata prescribed to the
negotiator, it would be inexpedient to publish those ultimata;
since, among other ill effects, the publication of them might pre-
judice the interest of the country in future negotiations with the
same or with different powers.

These reasons explain the grounds of a prevailing rule of con-
duct among prudent governments, namely, not to promulge
without weighty cause, nor without due reserves, the particulars
of a foreign negotiation. It so happens indeed that many of
them have no immediate application to the case of the present

jEt. 39.] MESSAGE. 55U

treaty. And it would be unadvisable to discriminate here be-
tween such as may and such as may not so apply. But it would
be very extraordinary, situated as the United States were in re-
lation to Great Britain at the commencement of the negotiation,
if some of them did not operate against a full disclosure of the
papers in which it is recorded.

Connected with these general reasons against the transmission
of the papers with the treaty, it was proper to consider if there
were any special reasons, which recommended in the particular
case a departure from the rule, and especially whether there was
any purpose to which the House of Representatives is constitu-
tionally competent which might be elucidated by those papers.

This involved a consideration of the nature of the constitu-
tional agency of that house, in regard to treaties.

The Constitution of the United States empowers the Pesident,
with the advice and consent of the Senate, two thirds concurring,
to make treaties. It nowhere professes to authorize the House
of Representatives or any other branch of the government to
partake with the President and Senate in the making of treaties.
The whole power of making treaties is therefore by the Consti-
tution vested in the President and Senate.

To make a treaty, as applied to nations, is to conclude a con-
tract between them obligatory on their faith : but that cannot be
an obligatory contract, to the validity and obligation of which
the assent of another power in the state is constitutionally neces-
sary.

Again : the Constitution declares that a treaty made under
the authority of the United States shall be a " supreme law of
the land,"— let it be said " a law." A law is an obligatory rule
of action prescribed by the competent authority, but that cannot
be an obligatory rule of action or a law, to the validity and obli-
gation of which the assent of another power in the state is con-
stitutionally necessary.

Hence a discretionary righ^ in the House of Representatives
to assent or not to a treaty, or, what is equivalent, to execute it
or not, would negative these two important provisions of our
Constitution— 1st, that the President and Senate shall have

5(d0 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 39.

power to make treaties ; 2dl y, that a treaty made by them shall
be a law: and in the room of them would establish this provi-
sion, " that the power of making treaties resides in the President,
Senate, and House of Representatives." For, whatever coloring
may be given, a right of discretionary assent to a contract is a
right to participate in the making of it.

Is there any thing in the Constitution which by necessary
implication changes the force of the express terms that regulate
the deposit of the power to make treaties ?

If there is, it must be found in those clauses which regulate
the deposit of the legislative power. Here two questions arise :

1st. Can the power of treaty reach and embrace objects upon
which the legislative power is authorized to act, as the regulation
of commerce, the defining of piracy, &c. ; or are these objects
virtually excepted out of the operation of that power?

2dly. If it can reach and embrace those objects, is there any
principle which as to them gives to Congress, or more properly,
the House of Representatives, a discretionary right of assent or
dissent ?

The affirmative of the first question is supported by these
considerations :

1. The words which establish the power of treaty are mani-
festly broad enough to comprehend all treaties.

2. It is a reasonable presumption that they were meant to
extend to all treaties usual among nations, and so to be commen-
surate with the variety of exigencies and objects of intercourse
which occur between nation and nation ; in other words, that they
were meant to enable the organ of the power to manage with
efficacy the external affairs of the country in all cases in which
they must depend upon compact with another nation.

3. The treaties usual among nations are principally those of
peace, alliance, and commerce. It is the office of treaties of peace
to establish the cessation of hostilities and the conditions of it, in-
cluding frequently indemnifications, sometimes pecuniary ones.
It is the office of treaties of alliance to establish cases in which
nations shall succor each other in war, stipulating a union of

orces, the furnishing of troops, ships of war, pecuniary and other

Mt. 39.] MESSAGE. 561

aids. It is the office of treaties of commerce to establish rules
and conditions according to which nations shall trade with each
other, regulating as far as they go the external commerce of the
nations in treaty. Whence it is evident that treaties naturally
bear in different ways upon many of the most imporant objects
upon which the legislative power is authorized to act ; as the ap-
propriation of money, the raising of armies, the equipment of
fleets, the declaring of war, the regulation of trade. But,

4. This is no objection to the power of treaty having a ca-
pacity to embrace those objects : (First.) Because that latitude is
essential to the great ends for which the power is instituted:
(Second.) Because, unless the power of treaty can embrace ob-
jects upon which the legislative power may also act, it is essen-
tially nugatory, often inadequate to mere treaties of peace, al-
ways inadequate to treaties of alliance or commerce. (Third.)
Because it is the office of the legislative power to establish sepa-
rate rules of action for the nation of which it is (the organ), its
arm being too short to reach a single case in which a common
obligatory rule of action for two nations is to be established.
(Fourth.) Because, inasmuch as a common rule of action for inde-
pendent nations can only be established by compact, it necessa-
rily is of the office of the power of treaty to effect its establish-
ment. (Fifth.) Because the power of legislation being unable to-
effect what the power of treaty must effect, it is unreasonable to
suppose that the former was intended to exclude the action of
the latter. (Sixth.) Because, on the other hand, there is no in-
congruity in the supposition that the power of treaty in estab-
lishing a joint rule of action with another nation may act upon
the same subject which the legislative power may act upon in
establishing a separate rule of action for one nation. (Seventh.)
Because it is a common case for the different powers of govern-
ment to act upon the same subject within different spheres and
in different modes. Thus the legislative power lays and pro-
vides for the collection of a particular tax, the executive power
collects the tax and brings it into the Treasury. So the treaty
power may stipulate a pecuniary indemnification for an injury,
and the legislative power may execute the stipulation by pro*
G 36

562 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 39-

viding and designating the fund out of which the indemnifica-
tion shall be made. As in the first instance the executive power
is auxiliary to the legislative, so in the last the legislative power
is auxiliary to the treaty powers. (Eighth.) Because this doc-
trine leads to no collision of powers, inasmuch as the stipulations
of a treaty may reasonably be considered as restraints upon the
legislative discretion. Those stipulations operate by pledging the
faith of a nation and restricting its will by the force of moral ob-
ligation, and it is a fundamental principle of social right that the
will of a nation as well as that of an individual, may be bound by
the moral obligation of a contract. (Ninth.) Because the organ
of the power of treaty is as truly the organ of the will of a na-
tion as that of its legislative power ; and there is no incongruity
in the supposition that the will of a nation acting through one
organ may be bound by the pledge of its faith through another
organ. From these different views of the subject it results that
the position, that the power of legislation acting in one sphere,
and the power of treaty acting in another sphere, may embrace
in their action the same objects, involves no interference of con-
stitutional powers ; and of course that the latter may reach and
•comprehend objects which the former is authorized to act upon ;
which it is necessary to suppose it does do, since the contrary
supposition would essentially destroy the power of treaty:
whereas the stipulations of treaties being only particular excep-
tions to the discretion of the legislative power, this power will
always still have a wide field of action beyond and out of the
exceptions.

The latitude of the power of treaty granted by analogous
terms in the articles of our late confederation, as practised upon
for years in treaties with several foreign powers and acquiesced
in by the government and citizens of these States, is an unequi-
vocal comment upon the meaning of the provision of our pre-
sent Constitution, and a conclusive evidence of the sense in
which it was understood by those who planned and by those
who adopted that Constitution — supporting fully the construc-
tion of the power here advocated. That latitude could derive
no aid from the circumstance of all the powers of the con-

^Et. 39.] MESSAGE. 563

federation being vested in one body, for that body had very lit-
tle legislative power, and none in several important particulars
which were actually embraced by our treaties. The examples of
practice under our present government, without the least ques-
tion of their propriety, is a further corroboration of the intended
and accepted sense of the constitutional instrument, agreeing
with the foregoing construction.

The negative of the second question above stated is supported
by these considerations,

1st. A discretionary right of assent in the House of Represen-
tatives (as before shown) would contradict the two important
provisions of the Constitution, that the President with the
Senate shall have power to make treaties, — that the treaties so
made shall be laws.

2dly. It supposes the House of Eepresentatives at liberty to
contravene the faith of the nation engaged in a treaty made by
the declared constitutional agents of the nation for that purpose,
and thus implies the contradiction that a nation may rightfully
pledge its faith through one organ, and without any change of
circumstances to dissolve the obligation, may revoke the pledge
through another organ.

3dly. The obvious import of the terms which grant the power
of treaty, can only be controlled, if at all, by some manifest
necessary implication in favor of the discretionary right which
has been mentioned. But it has been seen that no such implica-
tion can be derived from the mere grant of certain powers to the
House of Representatives in common with the other branch of the
legislative body. As there is a rational construction which ren-
ders the due exercise of these powers in the cases to which they
are competent, compatible with the operation of the power of
treaty, in all the necessary latitude, excluding the discretionary
co-operation of the House of Representatives, that construction is
to be preferred. It is far more natural to consider the exercise
of those powers as liable to the exceptions which the power of
treaty granted to the President and Senate may make, than to
infer from them a right in the House to share in this power in
opposition to the terms of the grant, and without a single ex-

564 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 39.

pression in the Constitution to designate the right. It is im-
probable that the Constitution intended to vest in the House of
Representatives so extensive a control over treaties without a
single phrase that would look directly to the object. It is the
more improbable, because the Senate being in the first instance a
party to treaties, the right of discretionary co-operation in the
House of Representatives, in virtue of its legislative character,
would, in fact, terminate in itself, though but a part of the legis-
lative body, — which suggests this question, Can the House of Re-
presentatives have any right in virtue of its general legislative
character, which is not effectually participated by the Senate ?

4thly. The claim of such a right on the ground that the legis-
lative power is essentially deliberative, that whenever its agency
is in question it has a right to act or not, and that, consequently,
when provision by law is requisite to execute a treaty there is
liberty to refuse it, cannot be acceded to without admitting in
the legislative body, and in each part of it, an absolute discretion
uncontrollable by any constitutional injunctions, limits, or re-
strictions, thereby overturning the fabric of a fixed and definite
Constitution, and erecting upon its ruins a legislative omnipo-
tence.

It would, for example, give to Congress a discretion to allow
or not a fixed compensation to the Judges, though the Constitu-
tion expressly enjoins " that they shall at stated times receive for
their services a compensation, which shall not be diminished
during their continuance in office;" and would sacrifice this
solemn and peremptory command of the Constitution to the
opinion of Congress respecting a more essential application of the
public money. Can this be true ? Can any thing but absolute
inability excuse a compliance with this injunction, and does not
the Constitution presuppose a moral impossibility of such ina-
bility ? If there be a legal discretion in any case to contravene
this injunction, what limit is there to the legal discretion of the
legislative body ? What injunction, what restriction of the Con-
stitution may they not supersede ? If the Constitution cannot
direct the exercise of their authority in particular cases, how can
it limit it in any ? What becomes of the appeal to our courts on

/Et. 39.] MESSAGE. 565

the constitutionality of a legislative act? What becomes of the
power they solemnly assert to test such an act by the constitu-
tional commission, and to pronounce it operative or null according
to its conformity with or repugnance to that commission ? "What,
in fine, becomes of the Constitution itself?

This inquiry suggests a truth fundamental to the principles
of our government, and all important to the security of the peo-
ple of the United States, namely, that the legislative body is not
deliberative in all cases — that it is only deliberative and discre-
tionary where the Constitution and the laws lay it under no
command nor prohibition — that where they command, it can
only execute ; where they prohibit, it cannot act. If the thing be
commanded and the means of execution are undefined, it may
then deliberate on the choice of the means, but it is obliged to
devise some means. It is true that the Constitution provides no
method of compelling the legislative body to act, but it is not the
less under a constitutional, legal, and moral obligation to act,
where action is prescribed, and in conformity with the rule of
action prescribed.

In asserting the authority of laws as well as of the Constitu-
tion to direct and restrain the legislative action, the position is to
be understood with this difference. The Constitution obliges
always — the laws till they are annulled or repealed by the proper
authority ; but till then they oblige the legislative body as well
as individuals, and all their antecedent effects are valid and
binding. And the abrogation or repeal of a law must be by an
act of the regular organ of the national will for that purpose in
the forms of the Constitution — not by a mere refusal to give
effect to its injunctions and requisitions ; especially by a part of
the legislative body. A legal discretion to refuse the execution
of a pre-existing law, is virtually a power to repeal it, and to
attribute this discretion to a part of the legislative body is to
attribute to it the whole instead of a part of the legislative power
in the given case. When towards the execution of an antecedent
law, further legislative provision is necessary, the past effects of
the law are obligatory, and a positive repeal or suspension by
the whole legislature is requisite to arrest its future operation.

566 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 39.

The idea is essential in a government like ours that there is no
body of men or individual above the law ; not even the legisla-
tive body till by an act of legislation they have annulled the

law.

The argument from the principle of an essentially delibera-
tive faculty in the legislative body is the less admissible, because
it would result from it, that the nation could never be conclu-
sively bound by a treaty. Why should the inherent discretion
of a future legislature be more bound by the assent of a preceding
one, than this was by a pledge of the public faith through the
President and Senate? Even the Senate itself, after having
assented to a treaty by two-thirds in one capacity, might in
another, by a bare majority, refuse to execute ; a contradiction
not to be vindicated by any just theory.

Hence it follows that the House of ^Representatives have no
moral power to refuse the execution of a treaty, which is not
contrary to the Constitution, because it pledges the public faith ;
and have no legal power to refuse its execution because it is a
law, until at least it ceases to be a law by a regular act of revoca-
tion of the competent authority.

The ingredient peculiar to our Constitution in that provision
which declares that treaties are laws, is of no inconsiderable
weight in the question. It is one thing, whether a treaty pledg-
ing the faith of the nation shall by force of moral duty oblige
the legislative will to carry it into effect ; another, whether it
shall be of itself a law. The last is the case in our Constitution,
which by a fundamental decree gives the character of a law to
every treaty made under the authority which it designates.
Treaties, therefore, in our government, of themselves and with-
out any additional sanction, have full legal perfection as laws.

Questions may be made as to the cases in which, and the
authority by which, under our Constitution, a treaty consonant
with it may be pronounced to have lost or may be divested of its
obligatory force; a point not necessary now to be discussed-
But admitting that authority to reside in the legislative body,
still its exercise must be by an act of Congress, declaring the
fact and the consequence, or declaring war against the power

JEt. 39.] MESSAGE. 567

with whom the treaty is. There is perceived to be nothing in
our Constitution, no rule of constitutional law to authorize one
branch alone, or the House of Representatives in particular,
to pronounce the existence of such cases, or from the beginning
to refuse compliance with such a treaty, without any new events
to change the original obligation. A right in the whole legisla-
tive body (in our Constitution the two Houses of Congress) by
a collective act to pronounce the non-operation or nullity of a
treaty, satisfies every claim in favor of the legislative power,
and gives to it all the weight and efficacy which is reconcilable
with the due operation of the treaty power.

How discordant might be the results of a doctrine that the
House of Representatives may at discretion execute or not a
constitutional treaty! What confusion, if our courts of justice
should recognize and enforce as laws treaties, the obligation of
which was denied by the House of Representatives, and that
on a principle of inherent discretion which no decision of the
courts could guide ! We might see our commercial and fiscal
systems disorganized by the breaches made in antecedent laws
by posterior treaties, through the want of some collateral pro-
visions requisite to give due effect to the principle of the new
rule. Can that doctrine be true which may present a treaty
operating as a law upon all the citizens of a country, and yet
legally disregarded by a portion of the legislative body?

The sound conclusion appears to be, that when a treaty
contains nothing but what the Constitution permits, it is con-
clusive upon all, and all are bound to give it effect. When it
contains more than the Constitution permits, it is void either
in the whole, or as to so much as it improperly contains.
While I can discover no sufficient foundation in the Constitution
for the claim of a discretionary right in the House of Represen-
tatives to participate in giving validity to treaties, I am con-
firmed in the contrary inference by the knowledge I have that the
expediency of this participation was Considered by the convention
which planned the constitution, and was by them overruled.

The greatness of the power of treaty under this construction
is no objection to its truth. It is doubtless a great power, and

568 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 39.

necessarily so, else it could not answer those purposes of na-
tional security and interest in the external relations of a country
for which it is designed. Nor does the manner in which it is
granted in our Constitution furnish any argument against the
magnitude which is ascribed to it, but the contrary. A treaty
cannot be made without the actual co-operation and mutual
consent of the Executive and two-thirds of the Senate. This
necessity of positive co-operation of the Executive charges him
with a high responsibility, which cannot but be one great se-
curity for the proper exercise of the power. The proportion
of the Senate requisite to their valid consent to a treaty, ap-
proaches so near to unanimity that it would always be very
extraordinary, if it should be given to one really pernicious or
hurtful to the state. These great guards are manifest indica-
tions of a great power being meant to be deposited. So that
the manner of its deposit is an argument for its magnitude
rather than an argument against it, and an argument against
the intention to admit with a view to security the discretionary
co-operation of the House of Kepresentatives rather than in favor
of such a right in them.

Two-thirds of the two Houses of Congress may exercise their
whole legislative power not only without but against the consent
of the Executive. It is not evident on general principles that in
this arrangement there is a materially greater security against a
bad law than in the other against a bad treaty. The frequent
absolute necessity of secrecy not only in the conduct of a foreign
negotiation but at certain conjunctures, as to the very articles of
a treaty, is a natural reason why a part, and that the least nu-
merous part, of the legislative body was united with the Executive
in the making of treaties in exclusion of the other and the most
numerous. But if the deposit of the power of treaty was less
safe, and less well guarded than it is conceived to be, this would
not be a good argument against its being in fact exclusively
•deposited as the terms of the Constitution, which establish it, im-
port it to be. It would only be an argument for an amendment
to the Constitution modifying the deposit of the power differently,
.and superadding new guards.

jEt. 39.] MESSAGE. 569

If the House of Kepresentatives, called upon to act in aid of a
treaty made by the President and Senate, believe it to be un-
warranted by the Constitution which they are sworn to support,
it will not be denied that they may pause in the execution until
a decision on the point of constitutionality in the Supreme Court
of the United States shall have settled the question.

But this is the only discretion of that House, as to the obli-
gation to carry a treaty made by the President and Senate into
effect, in the existence of which I can acquiesce as being within
the intent of the Constitution.

Hence there was no question, in my opinion, of the competen-
cy of the House of Representatives, which I could presuppose
likely to arise, to which any of the papers now requested could be
deemed applicable ; nor does it yet appear that any such ques-
tion has arisen, upon which the request has been predicated.

Were even the course of reasoning which I have pursued less
well founded than it appears to me to be, the call for papers as
a preliminary proceeding of the House would still seem to be
premature.

A question on the constitutionality of a treaty can manifestly
only be decided by comparing the instrument itself with the
Constitution.

A question whether a treaty be consistent with, or adverse
to the interests of the United States, must likewise be decided
by comparing the stipulations which it actually contains with
the situation of the United Sates in their internal and external
relations.

Nothing extrinsic to the treaty, or in the manner of its nego-
tiation, can make it constitutional or unconstitutional, good or
bad, salutary or pernicious. The internal evidence it affords
is the only proper standard of its merits.

Whatever therefore be the nature of the duty, or discretion of
the House, as to the execution of the treaty, it will find its rule of
action in the treaty.

Even with reference to and animadversion on the conduct of
the agents who made the treaty, the presumption of a criminal
mismanagement of the interests of the United States ought first,

570. HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 39.

it is conceived, to be deduced from the intrinsic nature of the trea-
ty, and ought to be pronounced to exist prior to a further inquiry
to ascertain the guilt and the guilty. Whenever the House of
Representatives, proceeding upon any treaty, shall have taken
the ground that such a presumption exists, in order to such an
inquiry, their request to the Executive to be caused to be laid
before them papers which may contain information on the subject,
will rest on a foundation that cannot fail to secure to it due effi-
cacy.

But, under all the circumstances of the present request (cir-
cumstances which I forbear to particularize), and in its present
indefinite form, I adopt with reluctance and regret, but with en-
tire conviction, the opinion, that a just regard to the Constitution
and to the duty of my office forbids on my part a compliance
with that request.

FAREWELL ADDRESS.

ABSTRACT OF POINTS TO FORM AN ADDRESS.*

1796.

I. The period of a new election approaching, it is his duty to
announce his intention to decline.

II. He had hoped that long ere this it would have been in his
power, and particularly had nearly come to a final resolution in
the year 1792 to do it, but the peculiar situation of affairs, and
advice of confidential friends, dissuaded.

III. In acquiescing in a further election he still hoped a year
or two longer would have enabled him to withdraw, but a con-
tinuance of causes has delayed till now, when the position of our

* This endorsement, together with the whole of this paper, is copied from a
draft in Hamilton's hand.— Ed.

jEt. 39.] FAREWELL ADDRESS. 571

country, abroad and at home, justify him in pursuing his incli-
nation.

IV. In doing it he has not been unmindful of his relation as
a dutiful citizen to his country, nor is now influenced by the
smallest diminution of zeal for its interest or gratitude for its
past kindness, but by a belief that the step is compatible with
both.

Y. The impressions under which he first accepted were ex-
plained on the proper occasion.

VI. In the execution of it he has contributed the best exer-
tions of a very fallible judgment — anticipated his insufficiency —
experienced his disqualifications for the difficult trust, and every
day a stronger sentiment from that cause to yield the place — ad-
vance into the decline of life — every day more sensible of weight
of years, of the necessity of repose, of the duty to seek retire-
ment, &c. Add,

VII. It will be among the purest enjoyments which can
sweeten the remnant of his days, to partake in a private station,
in the midst of his fellow-citizens, the laws of a free government,
the ultimate object of his cares and wishes.

VIII. As to rotation.

IX. In contemplating the moment of retreat, cannot forbear
to express his deep acknowledgments and debt of gratitude for
the many honors conferred on him — the steady confidence which,
even amidst discouraging scenes and efforts to poison its source,
has adhered to support him, and enabled him to be useful —
marking, if well placed, the virtue and wisdom of his country-
men. All the return he can now make must be in the vows he
will carry with him to his retirement: 1st, for a continuance of
the Divine beneficence to his country ; 2d, for the perpetuity of
their union and brotherly affection — for a good administration
insured by a happy union of watchfulness and confidence ; 3d,
that happiness of people under auspices of liberty may be com-
plete ; 4th, that by a prudent use of the blessing they may re-
commend to the affection, the praise, and the adoption, of every
nation yet a stranger to it.

X. Perhaps here he ought to end. But an unconquerable

572 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 39.

solicitude for the happiness of his country will not permit him
to leave the scene without availing himself of whatever confi-
dence may remain in him, to strengthen some sentiments which
he believes to be essential to their happiness, and to recommend
some rules of conduct, the importance of which his own experi-
ence has more than ever impressed upon him.

XL To consider the Union as the rock of their salvation,
presenting summarily these ideas:

1. The strength and greater security from external danger.

2. Internal peace, and avoiding the necessity of establishments
Safety, peace dangerous to liberty.

and liberty and D

commerce. 3. Avoids the effects of foreign intrigue.

4. Breaks the force of faction by rendering combinations more
difficult.
Fitness of the parts for each other by their very discrimi-
nations :

1. The North, by its capacity for maritime strength and
manufacture.

2. The agricultural South furnishing materials and requiring
those protections.

The Atlantic board to the western country by the strong in-
terest of peace, and

The Western, by the necessity of Atlantic maritime protection.

Cannot be secure of their great outlet otherwise — cannot trust
a foreign connection.

Solid interests invite to Union. Speculation of difficulty of
Government ought not to be indulged, nor momentary jealousies
— lead to impatience.

Faction and individual ambition are the only advisers of dis-
union.

Let confidence be cherished. Let the recent experience of
the West be a lesson against impatience and distrust.

XII. Cherish the actual Government. It is the Government
of our own choice, free in its principles, the guardian of our
common rights, the patron of our common interests, and con-
taining within itself a provision for its own amendment.

But let that provision be cautiously used — not abused ; chang-
ing only in any material points as experience shall direct; nei-

jEt. 39.] FAREWELL ADDRESS. 573

ther indulging speculations of too much or too little force in the
system ; and remembering always the extent of our country.

Time and habit of great consequence to every government of
"whatever structure.

Discourage the spirit of faction, the bane of free government ;
and particularly avoid founding it on geographical discrimina-
tions. Discountenance slander of public men. Let the Depart-
ments of Government avoid interfering and mutual encroach-
ment.

XIII. Morals, religion, industry, commerce, economy.
Cherish public credit — source of strength and security.
Adherence to systematic views.

XIV. Cherish good faith, justice, and peace, with other na-
tions :

1. Because religion and morality dictate it.

2. Because policy dictates it.

If these could exist, a nation invariably honest and faithful,
the benefits would be immense.

But avoid national antipathies or national attachments.

Display the evils ; fertile source of wars — instrument "of ambi-
tious rulers.

XV. Eepublics peculiarly exposed to foreign intrigue, those
sentiments lay them open to it.

XVI. The great rule of our foreign politics ought to be to
have as little political connection as possible with foreign nations.

Cultivating commerce with all by gentle
Establishing temporary and an(j natural means, diffusing and diversifying

convenient rules that com- ' <-> .

rnerce may be placed on a sta- •+ but forcinq nothinq — and cherish the senti-

ble footing ; merchants know ) J O o

p^theTnoTsLkYng^: ment of independence, taking pride in the ap-
pellation of American.

XVII. Our separation from Europe renders standing alliances
inexpedient — subjecting our peace and interest to the primary
and complicated relations of European interests.

C Keeping constantly in view to place ourselves upon a re-
\ spectable defensive, and if forced into controversy, trusting to
( connections of the occasion.

XVIII. Our attitude imposing and rendering this policy
safe.

574 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 39.

But this must be with the exception of existing engagements,
to be preserved but not extended.

XIX. It is not expected that these admonitions can control
the course of the human passions, but if they only moderate
them in some instances, and now and then excite the reflections
of virtuous men heated by party spirit, my endeavor is rewarded.

XX. How far in the administration of my present office my
conduct has conformed to these principles, the public records
must witness. My conscience assures me that I believed myself
to be guided by them.

XXI. Particularly in relation to the present war, the procla-
mation of the 22d of April, 1793, is the key to my plan.

Touch sentiments Approved by your voice and that of your repre-

conducIt'Sorclbei0 sentatives in Congress, the spirit of that measure has

Aerewisi.p0Wthat continually guided me, uninfluenced by, and regard-

tabiishTgood^ov- less of, the complaints and attempts of any of the

powers at war or their partisans to change them.

I thought our country had a right under all the

tTh'i!!g. every circumstances to take this ground, and I was resolved

as far as depended on me to maintain it firmly.

XXII. However, in reviewing the course of my administra-
tion, I may be unconscious of intentional errors, I am too sen-
sible of my own deficiencies not to believe that I may have fallen
into many. I deprecate the evils to which they may tend,
and pray Heaven to avert or mitigate and abridge them. I carry
with me, nevertheless, the hope that my motives will continue to
be viewed with indulgence, that after forty-five years of my life
devoted to public service with a good zeal and upright views,
the faults of deficient abilities will be consigned to oblivion, and
myself must soon be to the mansions of rest.

XXIII. Neither interest nor ambition has been my impelling
motive. I never abused the power confided' to me — I have not
bettered my fortune, retiring with it, no otherwise improved than
by the influence on property of the common blessings of my
country : — I retire with undefiled hands and an uncorrupted
heart, and with ardent vows for the welfare of that country,
which has been the native soil of myself and my ancestors for

four generations.

Mr. 39. J FAREWELL ADDRESS. -)7'>

WASHINGTON'S FAREWELL ADDRESS*

Draft by Hamilton.

August, 1796.

The period for a new election of a citizen to administer the
executive government of the United States, being not very distant,
and the time actually arrived when your thoughts must be em-
ployed in designating the person who is to be clothed with that
important trust for another term, it appears to me proper, and
especially as it may conduce to a more distinct expression of the
public voice, that I should now apprize you of the resolution I
have formed to decline being considered among the number of
those out of whom a choice is to be made.

I beg you, nevertheless,! to be assured that the resolution
which I announce, has not been taken without a strict regard to
all the considerations attached to^: the relation which, as a duti-
ful citizen, I bear § to my || country, and that in withdrawing the
tender of my service, which silence in my situation might imply,
I am influenced by no diminution of zeal for its future interest,
nor by any deficiency of grateful respect for its past kindness,
but by a full conviction that such a step is compatible with both.

The acceptance of, and the continuance hitherto in the office
to which your suffrages have twice called me, has been a uniform
sacrifice of private inclination to 1" the opinion of public duty
coinciding with what appeared to be your wishes. I had con-
stantly hoped that it would have been much earlier in my power,
consistently with motives which I was not at liberty to disregard,

* This is a copy of the original draft in Hamilton's autograph. The notes
embrace the final alterations in this draft— but there are many previous erasures
which can only be given in a fac-simile.— Ed.

I at the same time.

% connected with— inseparable from — incident to.

§ bears.

|| his.

*[[ combined with a deference for.

576 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 39.

to return to that retirement from which those* motives had re-
luctantly drawn me.

The strength of my desire to withdraw previous to the last
election, had even led to the preparation of an address to declare
it to you, but deliberate f reflection on the very critical and per-
plexed posture of our affairs with foreign nations, and the unani-
mous advice of men;}: every way entitled to my confidence,
obliged § me to abandon the idea.

I rejoice that the state of your national concerns, external as
well as internal, no longer renders the pursuit of my inclination
incompatible with the sentiment of duty or propriety, and | that
whatever partiality any portion of you may still retain for my
services, they, under the existing circumstances of our country,
will not disapprove the^f resolution** I have formed.

The impressions under which I first accepted the arduous
trust of Chief Magistrate of the United States, were explained
on the proper occasion. In the discharge of this trust, I can
only say that I have, with pure intentions, contributed towards
the organization and administration of the government the best
exertions of Avhich a very fallible judgment was capable; that
conscious at ft the outset of the inferiority of my qualifications
for the station, experience in my own eyes, and perhaps still
more in those of others, has not diminished in me the diffidence
of myself — and every day the increasing weight of years admon-
ishes me more and more that the shade of retirement is as neces-
sary^ as it will be welcome to me. Satisfied that if any cir-
cumstances have given a peculiar value to my services, they were
temporary. I have the consolation to believe that while inclina-
tion and prudence urge me to recede from the political scene,
patriotism does not forbid it. May I also have that of knowing
in my §§ retreat, that the involuntary errors which I have probably
committed, have been the causes of no serious or lasting mischief
to my country, and thus be spared the anguish of regrets which
would disturb the repose of my retreat and embitter the remnant

* they.

f mature.

| persons.

§ impelled,

| whatever.

IF my.

** to retire.

ft in.

:)4 to me.

§§ retirement.

At. 39.] FAREWELL ADDRESS. 577

of my life! I may then expect to realize, without alloy, the
pure enjoyment of partaking, in the midst of my fellow-citizens,
of the benign influence of good laws under a free government;
the ultimate object of all my wishes, and to which I look as the
happy reward* of our mutual labors and dangers.

In looking forward to the moment which is to terminate the
career of my public life, my sensations do not permit me to sus-
pend the deep acknowledgments required by that debt of grati-
tude, which I owe to my beloved country, for the many honors
it has conferred upon me, still more for the distinguished and
steadfast confidence it has reposed in me, and for the opportuni-
ties it has thus afforded mef of manifesting my inviolable attach-
ment, by services faithful and persevering — however the mad-
equateness of my faculties may have ill seconded mjX zeal. If
benefits have resulted to you, my fellow-citizens, from these ser-
vices, let it always be remembered to your praise, and as an in-
structive example in our annals, that the constancy of your sup-
port amidst appearances§ dubious, vicissitudes of fortune often
discouraging, and in situations in which, not unfrequently, want
of success has seconded the criticisms of malevolence,! was the
essential prop of the efforts and the guarantee of the measures by
which they were achieved.

Profoundly penetrated with this idea, I shall carry it with me
to my retirement, and to my grave, as a lively incitement to
unceasing vows (the only returns I can henceforth make) that
Heaven may continue to you the choicest tokens of its benefi-
cence, merited by national piety and morality— that your union
and brotherly affection may be perpetual— that the free Constitu-
tion, which is the work of your own hands, may be sacredly
maintained— that its administration in every department may be
stamped with wisdom and virtue— that, in fine, the happiness of

* I hope.

■f I have thence enjoyed.

X have rendered their efforts unequal to my— disproportional.
$ under circumstances in which the passions, agitated in every direction, were
liable to the greatest fluctuations.
|| sometimes.

g 37

578 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 3ft

the people of these States under the auspices of liberty may be
made complete, by so careful a preservation, and so prudent a use
of this blessing, as will acquire them the glorious satisfaction of
recommending it to the affection — -the praise — and the adoption
of every nation which is yet a stranger to it.

Here, perhaps, I ought to stop ; but a solicitude for your
welfare, which cannot end but with my life, and the fear that
there may exist projects unfriendly to it, against which it may be
necessary you should be guarded, urge me in taking leave of you
to offer to your solemn consideration and frequent review, some
sentiments, the result of mature reflection confirmed by observa-
tion and experience, which appear to me essential to the perma-
nency of your felicity as a people. These will be offered with
the more freedom, as you can only see in them the disinterested
advice of a parting friend, who can have no personal motive to
tincture or bias his counsel.

Interwoven as is the love of liberty with every fibre of your
hearts, no recommendation is necessary to fortify your attachment
TO it. Next to this, that unity of government which constitutes
you one people, claims your vigilant care and guardianship — as
a main pillar of your real independence, of your peace, safety,
freedom, and happiness.

This being the point in your political fortress, against which
the batteries of internal and external enemies will be most con-
stantly and actively, however covertly and insidiously levelled,
it is of the utmost importance that you should appreciate, in
its full force, the immense value of your political union to
your national and individual happiness — that you should
cherish towards it an affectionate and immovable attachment,
and that you should watch for its preservation with zealous soli-
citude.

For this, you have every motive of sympathy and interest.
Children for the most part of a common country, that country
claims and ought to concentrate your affections. The name of
American must always gratify and exalt the just pride of patriot-
ism more than any denomination which can be derived from
local discriminations. You have with slight shades of difference

JEt. 39.] FAREWELL ADDRESS. 579

the same religion, manners, habits, and political institutions
and principles — you have, in a common cause, fought and tri-
umphed together. The independence and liberty you enjoy are
the work of joint councils, efforts, dangers, sufferings, and suc-
cesses. By your union you achieved them, by your union you
will most effectually maintain them.

The considerations which address themselves to your sensi-
bility, are greatly* strengthened! by those which apply to your
interest. Here, every portion of our country will find the most
urgent and commanding motives for guarding and preserving
the union of the whole.

The North in:}; intercourse with the South under the equal
laws of one government, will, in the productions of the latter,
many of them peculiar, find vast additional resources of mari-
time and commercial enterprise.! The South, in the same inter-
course, will share in the benefits of the agency of the North, will
find its agriculture promoted and its commerce extended by
turning into its own channels those means of navigation which
the North more abundantly affords ; and while it contributes to
extend the national navigation, will participate in the protection
of a maritime strength to which itself is unequally adapted. The
East, in a like intercourse with the West, fmds|| a valuable vent
for the commodities which it brings from abroad or manufactures
at home. The West derives through this channel an essential
supply of its wants; and what is far more important to it, it
must owe the secure and permanent enjoyment of the indis-
pensable outlets for its own productions to the weight, influ-
ence, and maritime resources of the Atlantic States.^" The
tenure by which it could hold this advantage either from its own
separate strength, or by an apostate and unnatural connection
with any foreign nation, must be intrinsically and necessarily

* even.

f outweighed.

$ free and unfettered.

$ and precious materials of their manufacturing industry.

II and in the progressive improvement of internal navigation will more and more

find.

T[ directed by an indissoluble community of interests.

580 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 39.

precarious, at every moment liable to be disturbed by the* com-
binations' of those primaryf interests which constantly regulate
the conduct of every portion of Europe— and where every part
finds a particular interest in the Union. All the parts of our
country will find in their Union^: strength, proportional security
from external danger, less frequent interruption of their peace
with foreign nations; and what is far more valuable, an exemp-
tion from those broils and wars between the parts if disunited,
which, then, our rivalships, fomented by foreign intrigue or the
opposite alliances with foreign nations engendered by their mu-
tual jealousies, would inevitably produce.g

These considerations speak a conclusive language to every
virtuous and considerate mind. They place the continuance of
our union among the first objects of patriotic desire. Is there a
doubt whether a common government can long embrace so ex-
tensive a sphere ? Let time and experience decide the question.
Speculation in such a case ought not to be listened to. And 'tis
rational to hope that the auxiliary! governments of the subdivi-
sions, with a proper organization of the whole, will secure a fa-
vorable issue to the experiment. 'Tis allowable to believe that
the spirit of party, the intrigues of foreign nations, the corrup-
tion and the ambition of individuals, are likely to prove more
formidable adversaries to the unity of our empire, than any in-
herent difficulties in the scheme. 'Tis against these that the
guards^" of national opinion, national sympathy, national prudence
and virtue, are to be erected. With such obvious motives to
union, there will be always cause from the fact itself to distrust
the patriotism of those who** may endeavor to weaken its bands.

* .fluctuating.

•f- European.

X greater independence from the superior abundance and variety of production
incident to the diversity of soil and climate. All the parts of it must find in the ag-
gregate assemblage and reaction of their mutual population — production.

§ consequent exemption from the necessity of those military establishments up-
on a large scale which bear in every country so menacing an aspect towards liberty.

|| agency of.

«|[ mounds.

** in any quarter-

At. 39.] FAREWELL ADDRESS. 581

And by all the love I bear you, my fellow-citizens, I conjure*
you, asf often as it appears, to frown upon tlie attempt.

Besides the more serious causes which have been hinted at,
as endangering our Union, there is another less dangerous but
against which it is necessary to be on our guard ; I mean the
petulance of party;}: differences of opinion. It is not uncom-
mon to hear the irritations which these excite, vent themselves
in declarations that the different parts of the Union are ill
assorted and cannot remain together — in menaces from the
inhabitants of one part to those of another, that it will be dis-
solved by this or that measure. Intimations of the kind are as
indiscreet as they are intemperate. Though frequently made
with levity and without being in earnest, they have a tendency
to produce the consequence which they indicate. They teach
the minds of men to consider the Union as precarious, as an ob-
ject to which they are not to attach their hopes and fortunes, and
thus weaken the sentiment in its favor. By rousing the resent-
ment and alarming the pride of those to whom they are ad-
dressed, they set ingenuity to work to depreciate the value of
the object, and to discover motives of indifference to it. This is
not wise. Prudence demands that we should habituate our-
selves in all our words and actions to reverence the Union as a
sacred and inviolable palladium of our happiness, and should
discountenance whatever can lead to a suspicion that it can in
any event be abandoned.

'Tis matter of serious concern that parties in this country for
some time past have been too much characterized by geographi-
cal discriminations— northern and southern States, Atlantic and
western country. These discriminations, § which are the mere
artifice of the spirit of party, (always dexterous to avail itself of
every source of sympathy, of every handle by which the passions
can be taken hold of, and which has been careful to turn to
account the circumstance of territorial vicinity,-!) have furnished
an argument against the Union as evidence of a real difference

* exhort— {written first.) t " often"— instead of " far."

% collisions and disgusts. $ of party.

|| sympathy of. 11 neighborhood.

582 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 39.

of local interests and views, and serve to hazard it by organ-
izing large districts of country under the direction of* different
factions whose passions and prejudices, rather than the true
interests of the country, will be too apt to regulate the use of
their influence. If it be possible to correct this poison in the
affairs of our country, it is worthy the best endeavors of mode
rate and virtuous men to effect it.

One of the expedients which the partisans of faction employ
towards strengthening their influence by local discriminations, f
is to misrepresent the opinions and views of rival districts. The
people at large cannot be too much on their guard against the
jealousies which grow out of these misrepresentations. They
tend to render aliens to each other those who ought to be tied
together by fraternal affection. The western country have lately
had a useful lesson on this subject. They have seen in the
negotiation by the Executive, and in the unanimous ratification
of the treaty with Spain by the Senate, and in the universal sat-
isfaction at that event in all parts of the country, a decisive proof
how unfounded have been the suspicions instilled:}: in them of a
policy in the Atlantic States, and in the different departments of
the general government, hostile to their interests in relation to
the Mississippi. They have seen two treaties formed which se-
cure to them every thing that they could desire to confirm their
prosperity. Will they not henceforth rely for the preservation
of these advantages on that Union by which they were procured?
Will they not reject those counsellors who would render them

alien to their brethren and connect them with aliens?

To the duration and efficacy of your Union, a government
extending over the whole is indispensable. No alliances how-
ever strict between the parts could be an adequate substitute.
These could not fail to be liable to the infractions and inter-
ruptions which all alliances in all times have suffered. Sen-
sible of this important truth, you have lately established a Con-
stitution of general government, better calculated than the for-
mer for an intimate union, and more adequate to the duration of

* the leaders of. f within local spheres. ^ propagated among.

.Et. 39.] FAREWELL ADDRESS. 583

your common concerns. This government, the offspring of your
own choice, uninfluenced and unavved, completely free in its
principles, in the distribution of its powers, uniting energy with
safety, and containing in itself a provision for its own amend-
ment, is well entitled to your confidence and support. Respect
for its authority, compliance with its laws, acquiescence in its
measures,* are duties dictated by the fundamental maxims of
true liberty. The basis of our political systems is the right of
the people to make and to alter their constitutions of govern-
ment. But the Constitution for the time, and until changed by
an explicit and authentic act of the whole people, is sacredly bind-
ing upon alL The very idea of the right and power of the peo-
ple to establish government, presupposes the duty of every indi-
vidual to obey the established government.

All obstructions to the execution of the laws — all combina-
tions and associations under whatever plausible character, with
the real design to counteract^ control, £ or awe the regular§ ac-
tion of the constituted authorities, are contrary to this fundamen-
tal principle, and of the most fatal tendency. They serve to
organize faction, || and to put in the stead of the delegated will of
the whole nation the will of a party, often a small** minority of
the whole community; and according to the alternate triumph
of different parties to make the public administration reflect theft
schemes and projects of faction rather than the wholesome plans
of common councils and deliberations. However combinations
or associations of this description may occasionally promote po-
pular ends and purposes, they are likely to produce, in the course
of time and things, the most effectual engines by which artful,
ambitious, and unprincipled men will be enabled to subvert
the power of the people and usurp the reins of government.

Towards the preservation of your government and the per-

* ordinary management of affairs to be left to represent.

•f direct.

jf. influence.

^ deliberation or.

j| to give it an artificial force.

** but artful and enterprising.

ff ill concerted.

584 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 39.

manency of your present happy state, it is not only requisite
that you steadily discountenance irregular oppositions to its
authority, but that you should be upon your guard against the
spirit of innovation upon its principles, however specious the
pretexts. One method of assault may be, to effect alterations in
the forms of the Constitution tending to impair the energy of the
system, and so to undermine what cannot be directly overthrown.
In all the changes to which you may be invited, remember that
time and habit are as necessary to fix the true character of gov-
ernments as of any other human institutions; that experience is
the surest standard by which the real tendency of existing con-
stitutions of government can be tried ; that changes upon* the
credit of mere hypothesis and opinion exposes you to perpetual
change from the successive and endless variety of hypothesis and
opinion. And remember also,f that for the efficacious manage-
ment of your common interests, in a country so extensive as
ours, a government of as much force and strength as is consist-
ent with the perfect security of liberty is indispensable. Liber-
ty itself will find in such a government, with powers properly
distributed and arranged, its surest guardian and protector. In
my opinion, the real danger in our system is, that the general
government, organized as at present, will prove too weak, rather
than too powerful.

I have already observed the danger to be apprehended from
founding our parties on geographical discriminations. Let me
now enlarge the view of this point, and caution you in the most
solemn manner against the baneful effects of party spirit in ge-
neral. This spirit unfortunately is inseparable from human na-
ture, and has its root in the strongest passions of the human
heart. It exists under different shapes in all governments, but J
in those of the popular form it is always seen in its utmost vigor
and rankness, and is their worst enemy. In republics of narrow
extent, it is not difficult for those who at any time possess the
reins of administration, or even for partial combinations of men,

* facility in.

t always.

£ in different degrees stifled, controlled or repressed.

JEt. 39.] FAREWELL ADDRESS. 585

who from birth, riches, and other sources of distinction, have an
extraordinary influence, by possessing or acquiring the direction
of the military force, or by sudden efforts of partisans and fol-
lowers to overturn the established order of things, and effect a
usurpation. But in republics of large extent, the one or the
other is scarcely possible. The powers and opportunities of re-
sistance of a numerous and wide extended nation defy the suc-
cessful efforts of the ordinary military force, or of any collections*
which wealth and patronage may call to their aid, especially if
there be no city of overbearing force, resources, and influence.
In such republics it is perhaps safe to assert, that the conflicts of
popular faction offer the only avenues to tyranny and usurpation.
The domination of one faction over another, stimulated by
that spirit of revenge which is apt to be gradually engendered,
and which in different ages and countries has produced the great-
est enormities, is itself a frightful despotism. But this leads at
length to a more formal and permanent despotism. The disor-
ders and miseries which result, predispose the minds of men to
seek repose and security in the absolute power of a single man.
And thef leader of a prevailing faction, more able or more for-
tunate than his competitors, turns this disposition to the purposes
of an ambitious and criminal self-aggrandizement.

Without looking forward to such an extremity (which, how-
ever, ought not to be out of sight), the ordinary and continual
mischiefs of the spirit of party make it the interest and the duty
of a wise people, to discountenance and repress it.

It serves always to distract the councils and enfeeble the
administration of the government. It agitates the community
with ill-founded jealousies and false alarms.:}: It opens inlets for
foreign corruption and influence, which find an easy access
through the channels of party passions — and cause the true
policy and interest of our own country to be made subservient to
the policy and interest of one and another foreign nation ; some-

* assemblages,
•f- sonic.

X embittering one part of the community against another, and producing occa-
sionally riot and insurrection.

586 HAMILTON'S WORKS. I Air. 39.

times enslaving our own government to the will of a foreign
government.

There is an opinion that parties in free countries are salutary
checks upon the administration of the government, and serve to
invigorate the spirit of liberty. This, within certain limits, is
true ; and in governments of a monarchical character or bias,
patriotism may look with some favor on the spirit of party. But
in those of the popular kind, in those purely elective, it is a
spirit not to be fostered or encouraged. From the natural tend-
ency of such governments, it is certain there will always be
enough of it for every salutary purpose, and there being constant
danger of excess, the effort ought to be, by the force of public
opinion, to mitigate and correct it. 'Tis a fire which *cannot be
quenched, but demandsf a uniform vigilance to prevent its
bursting into a flame — lest it should not only warm, but con-
sume.

It is important, likewise, that the habits of thinking of the
people should tend to produce caution in their public agents in
the several departments of government, to retain each within its
proper sphere, and not to permit one to encroach upon another,
— that every attempt of the kind, from whatever quarter, should
meet with the discountenance^: of the community, and that, in
every case in which a precedent of encroachment shall have
been given, a corrective be sought in [revocation be effected by]
a careful attention to the next choice§ of public agents. The
spirit of encroachment tends to absorbf the powers of the several
branches and departments into one, and thus to establish, under
whatever forms, a despotism. A just knowledge of the human
heart, of that love of power which predominates in it, is alone
sufficient to establish this truth. Experiments, ancient and
modern — some in our own country, and under our own eyes,
serve to confirm it. If, in the public opinion, the distribution of
the constitutional powers be in any instance wrong, or inexpe-
dient— let it be corrected by the authority of the people in a

* not to. t demanding. £ reprobation.

§ election. || and consolidate.

jEt. 39.] FAREWELL ADDRESS. 587

legitimate constitutional course. Let there be no change by
usurpation, for though this may be the instrument of good in one
instance, it is the ordinary* instrument of the destructionf of
free government — and. the influence of the precedent is always
infinitely more pernicious than any thing which it may achieve
can be beneficial.

In all those dispositions which promote political happmess,^
religion and morality are essential props. In vain does he§
claim the praise of patriotism, who labors to subvert or under-
mine these great pillars of human happiness, these firmest foun-
dations of the duties of men and citizens. The mere politician,
equally with the pious man, ought to respect and cherish them.
A volume could not trace all their connections with private and
public happiness.

Let it simply be asked, where is the security for property, for
reputation, for life, if the sense of moral and religious obligation
deserts the oaths which are ||administered in courts of j ustice ?
Nor ought we to flatter ourselves that morality can be separated
from religion. Concede as much as may be asked to the effect
of refined education in minds of peculiar structure — can we be-
lieve— can we in prudence suppose that national morality can be
maintained in exclusion of religious principles ? Does it not
require the aid of a generally received and divinely authoritative
religion ?

"Tis essentially true that virtue or morality is a main and ne-
cessary spring of popular or republican governments. The rule,
indeed, extends with more or less force to all free governments.
Who that is a prudent and sincere friend to them, can look with
indifference on the ravages which are making in the foundation
of the fabric — religion ? The uncommon means which of late
have been directed to this fatal end, seem to make it in a parti-
cular manner the duty of the retiring chief of a nation to warn
his country against tasting of the poisonous draught.

Cultivate also, industry and frugality. They arc auxiliaries

* and natural. t death. t prosperity.

<j that man. |J instruments of investigation.

588 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [,Et. 39.

of good morals, and great sources of private and national pros-
perity. Is there not room for regret, that our propensity to ex-
pense exceeds the maturity of our country for expense? Is
there not more luxury among us, in various classes, than suits
the actual period of our national progress ? Whatever may be
the apology for luxury in a country mature in all the arts which
are its ministers and the means of national opulence — can it pro-
mote the advantage of a young agricultural country, little ad-
vanced in manufactures, and not much advanced in wealth ?*

Cherish public credit as a mean of strength and security.
As one method of preserving it, use it as little as possible.
Avoid occasions of expense by cultivating peace — remembering
always that the preparation against danger, by timely and provi-
dent disbursements, is often a mean of avoiding greater disburse-
ments to repel it. Avoid the accumulation of debt by avoiding
occasions of expense, and by vigorous exertions in time of peace
to discharge the debts which unavoidable wars -may have occa-
sioned, not transferring to posterity the burthen which we ought
to bear ourselves. Eecollect, that towards the payment of debts
there must be revenue, that to have revenue there must be taxes,
that it is impossible to devise taxes which are not, more or less,
inconvenient and unpleasant — that they are always a choice
of difficulties — that the intrinsic embarrassment which never
fails to attend a selection of objects, ought to be a motive
for a candid construction of the conduct of the government in
making it — and that a spirit of acquiescence in those measures
for obtaining revenue which the public exigencies dictate, is, in
an especial manner, the duty and interest of the citizens of every
State.

Cherish good faith and justice towards, and peace and har-
mony with, all nations. Keligion and morality enjoin this con-
duct, and it cannot be but that true policy equally demands it.
It will be worthy of a free, enlightened, and at no distant period,
a great nation, to give to mankind the magnanimous and too
novel example of a people invariably governed byf those exalted

* in the infancy of the arts, and certainly not in the manhood of wealth,
f exalted justice and henevolence.

jEt. 39] FAREWELL ADDRESS. 589

views. Who can doubt that in a long course of time and events
the fruits of such a conduct would richly repay any temporary
advantages which might be lost by a steady adherence to the
plan ? Can it be that Providence has not connected the perma-
nent felicity of a nation with its virtue? The experiment is
recommended by every sentiment which ennobles human nature.
— Alas ! is it rendered impossible by its vices ?

Towards the execution of such a plan, ^nothing is more
essential than that f antipathies against particular nations and
passionate attachments for others, should be avoided, — and
that instead of them we should cultivate just and amicable
feelings towards all . . . .That nation, which indulges towards
another, an habitual hatred or an habitual fondness, is in some
degree a slave ... .It is a slave to its animosity, or to its affec-
tion— either of which is sufficient to lead it astray from its duty
and interest. Antipathy against one nation, which never fails to
beget a similar sentiment in the other, disposes each more readily
to offer injury and insult to the other, to lay hold of slight causes
of umbrage, and to be haughty and untractable, when accidental
or trifling differences arise. Hence frequent quarrels:}: and bitter
and obstinate contests. The nation, urged by resentment and
rage, sometimes impels the government to war, contrary to its
own calculations of policy. The government sometimes partici-
pates in this propensity, and does through passion, what reason
would forbid at other times ; it makes the animosity of the na-
tions subservient to hostile projects which originate in ambition
and other sinister motives. The peace, often, and sometimes the
liberty of nations, has been the victim of this cause.

In like manner, § a passionate attachment of one nation to
another produces multiplied ills. Sympathy for the favorite

* it is very material.

t that while we entertain proper impressions of particular cases— of friendly or
unfriendly conduct of different foreign nations towards us, we nevertheless avoid
fixed and rooted antipathies against any. or passionate attachments for any, instead
of these cultivating, as a general rule, just and amicable feelings towards all.

$ broils.

§ So likewise.

590 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 39.

nation, promoting* the illusion of a supposed common interest,
in cases where it does not exist, fthe enmities of the one betrays
into a participation in its quarrels and wars, without adequate
inducements or justifications. It leads to the concession of pri-
vileges to one nation, and to the denial of them to others — which
is apt doubly to injure the nation making the concession by an
unnecessary yielding of what ought to have been retained, and
by exciting jealousy, ill-will, and retaliation in the party from
whom an equal privilege is withheld. And it gives to ambitious,
corrupted:}: citizens, who devote themselves to the views of the
favorite foreign power, facility in betraying or sacrificing the
interests of their own country, even with popularity,! gilding
withf

As avenues to foreign influence in innumerable ways, such
attachments are peculiarly alarming to the enlightened inde-
pendent patriot. How many opportunities do they afford to
intrigue with domestic factions, to practise with success the arts
of seduction, to misleadl~the public opinion — to influence or awe
the public councils ? Such an attachment of a small or weak,
towards a great and powerful nation, destines the former to re-
volve round the latter as its satellite.

Against the mischiefs of foreign influence all the jealousy of
a free people ought to be constantly** exerted ;f f but the jealousy
of it to be useful must be impartial, else it becomes an instru-
ment of the very influence to be avoided instead of a defence^
against it.

Excessive partiality for one foreign nation, and excessive dis-

* facilitating.

f and communicating to one.

X or deluded.

() without odium.

|| the appearance of a virtuous impulse, the base yieldings of ambition or cor-
ruption.

H" " mislead "for " misdirect."

** continually.

ff all history and experience in different ages and nations has proved that foreign
influence is one of the most baneful foes of republican government.

Xt guard.

JEt. 39.] FAREWELL ADDRESS. 591

like of another, leads to see danger only on one side, and serves
to veil* the arts of influence on the other. Real patriots, who
resist the intrigues of the favorite, become suspected and odious.
Its tools and dupes usurp the applause and confidence of the
people to betray their interests.

The great rule of conduct for us in regard to foreign nations,
ought to be to have as little political connection with them as
possible. So far as we have already formed engagements, let
them be fulfilled with circumspection, indeed, but with perfect
good faith ; heref let it stop.

Europe has a set of primary interests, which have none or a
very remote relation to us. Hence she must be involved in
frequent contests, the causes of which will be essentially foreign
to us. Hence, therefore, it must necessarily be unwise on our
part to implicate ourselves by an artificial connection in the
ordinary vicissitudes of European politics — in the combination
and collisions of her friendships or enmities.

Our detached and distant situation invites us to a different
course, and enables us to pursue it. If we remain a united peo-
ple, under an efficient government, the period is not distant when
we may defy material injury from external annoyance — when we
may take such an attitude as will cause the neutrality we shall
at any time resolve to observe, to be violated with caution
— when it will be the interest of belligerent nations, under the
impossibility of making acquisitions upon us, to be very careful
how either forced us to throw our weight into the opposite scale
— when we may choose peace or war, as our interest, guided by
justice, shall dictate*

Why should we forego the advantages of so felicitous a
situation? "Why quit our own ground to stand upon foreign
ground ? Why, by interweaving our destiny with any part of
Europe, should we entangle our prosperity and peace in the nets
of European ambition, rivalship, interest or caprice ?

Permanent alliance, intimate connection with any part of the
foreign world, is to be avoided ; so far, I mean, as we are now at

* and second. t but there.

592 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 39.

liberty to do it; for let me never be understood as patronizing
infidelity to pre-existing engagements. These must be observed
in their true and genuine sense.*

Harmony, liberal intercourse, and commerce with all nations,
are recommended by justice, humanity, and interest. But even
our commercial policy should hold an equal hand, neither seek-
ing nor granting exclusive favors or preferences — consulting the
natural course of things — diffusing and diversifying by gentle
means the streams of commerce, but forcing nothing — establish-
ing with powers so disposed f temporary:}; rules of intercourse, the
best that present circumstances and mutual opinion of interest
will permit, but temporary ; and liable to be abandoned or varied,
as time, experience, and future circumstances may dictate —
remembering§ that it is folly in one nation to expect disinterested
favor in another — that to accept|| is to part with a portion of its
independence, and that it may find itself in the condition of
having given equivalents for nominal favors, and of being
reproached with ingratitude in the bargain. There can be no
greater error in national policy than to desire, expect, or calculate
upon real favors. Tis an illusion that experience must cure,
that a just pride ought to discard.

In offering to you, my countrymen, these counsels of an old
and affectionate friend — counsels suggested by laborious reflec-
tion, and matured by a various experience, I dare not hope
that they will make the strong and lasting impressions I wish —
that they will control the current of the passions or prevent our
nation from running the course which has hitherto marked the
destiny of all nations.

ButT if they may even produce partial benefit, some occasional

* But 'tis not necessary, nor will it be prudent, to extend them. 'Tis our true
policy, as a general principle, to avoid permanent or close alliances. Taking care
always to keep ourselves by suitable establishments in a respectably defensive posi-
tion, we may safely trust to occasional alliances for extraordinary emergencies.

f In order to give to trade a stable course, to define the rights of our merchants,
and enable the government to support them.

% and conventional.

§ always.

|| any thing under that character.

% I may flatter myself.

vEt. 39.] FAREWELL ADDRESS. 593

good . . . that they sometimes recur to moderate the violence of
party spirit — to warn against the evils of foreign intrigue — to
guard against the impositions of pretended patriotism — the hav-
ing offered them, must always afford me a precious consolation.

How far in the execution of my present office I have been
guided by the principles which have been recommended,* the
public records and the external evidences of my conduct must
witness. My conscience assures me that I have at least believed
myself to be guided by them.

In reference to the present war of Europe, my proclamation
of the 22d of April, 1793, is the key to my plan, sanctioned by
your approving voice, and that of your Representatives in Con-
gress— the spirit of that measure has continually governed me —
uninfluenced and unawed by the attempts of any of the warring
powers, their agents, or partisans, to deter or divert from it.

After deliberate consideration, and the best lights I could
obtain (and from men who did not agree in their views of the
origin, progress, and nature of that war) I was satisfied that our
country, under all the circumstances of the case, had a right and
was bound in propriety and interest to take a neutral position.
And having taken it, I determined asf should depend on me to
maintain it steadily and firmly 4

Though in reviewing the incidents of my administration, I
am unconscious of intentional error — I am yet too sensible of my
own deficiencies, not to think it possible§ that I have committed
many errors — I deprecate the evils to which they may tend —
and fervently implore the Almighty to avert or mitigate them.
I shall carry with me, nevertheless, the hope that my motives
will continue to be viewed by my country with indulgence, and
that after forty-five years of my life, devoted with an upright
zeal to the public service, the faults of inadequate abilities will
be consigned to oblivion, as myself must soon be, to the mansions
of rest.

* "inculcated" for "recommended."
f as far as.

X Here a large space is found in the draft evidently left for the insertion of
other matter.

§ " probable " for " possible."

Q 38

594 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 39.

Neither ambition nor interest has been the impelling cause of
my actions. I never designedly misused any power confided to
me. The fortune with which I came into office, is not bettered
otherwise than by that improvement in the value of property
which the natural progress and peculiar prosperity of our country
have produced. I retire* with a pure heart, f with undefiled
hands, and with ardent vows for the happiness of a country, the
native soil of myself and progenitors for four generations.

FRANCE.

1796.
There are circumstances which render it too probable, that
;a very delicate state of things is approaching between the United
States and France. When threatened with foreign danger, from
whatever quarter, it is highly necessary that we should be united
at home ; and considering our partiality hitherto for France, it is
necessary towards this union, that we should understand what
has really been the conduct of that country towards us. It is
time for plain truths, which can only be unacceptable to the
hirelings or dupes of that nation.

France, in our revolution war, took part with us. At first
she afforded us secret and rather scanty succors, which wore
more the complexion of a disposition to nourish a temporary
disturbance in the dominions of a rival power, than of an inten-
tion to second a revolution.

The capture of Burgoyne and his army decided the till then
hesitating councils of France, produced the acknowledgment of
our independence, and treaties of commerce and defensive alli-

* without cause for a blush.

f with no alien sentiment to the ardor of those vows for the happiness of his
country, which is so natural to a citizen who sees in it.

JEt. 39.] FRANCE. 595

ance. These again produced the war which ensued between
France and Great Britain.

The co-operation and succor of France after this period was
efficient and liberal. They were extremely useful to our cause,
and no doubt contributed materially to its success.

The primary motives of France for the assistance she gave
us, was obviously to enfeeble a hated and powerful rival, by
breaking in pieces the British empire. A secondary motive was
to extend her relations of commerce in the new world, and to
acquire additional security for her possessions there, by forming
a connection with this country when detached from Great Bri-
tain. To ascribe to her any other motives — to suppose that she
was actuated by friendship towards us, or by a regard for our
particular advantage, is to be ignorant of the springs of action
which invariably regulate the cabinets of princes. He must be
a fool, who can be credulous enough to believe, that a despotic
court aided a popular revolution, from regard to liberty or friend-
ship to the principles of such a revolution. In forming the con-
ditions upon which France lent her aid, she was too politic to
attempt to take any unworthy advantage of our situation. But
they are much mistaken who imagine that she did not take care
to make a good bargain for herself. Without granting to us any
material privilege in any of her external possessions, she secured
in perpetuity a right to participate in our trade, on the foot of
the most favored nation. But what is far more important, she,
in return for the guarantee of our sovereignty and independence,
obtained our guarantee of her West India possessions in every
future defensive war. This may appear at first sight a mutual
and equal advantage, but in its permanent operation it is not so.
The guarantee of our . sovereignty and independence, which is
never likely to be again drawn into question, must hereafter be
essentially nominal; while our guarantee of the West India
possessions must grow into a solid advantage, increasing in im-
portance as we advance in strength— and exposing us often to
the chances of being engaged in wars, in which we may have no
direct interest. However this guarantee may be regarded as
nominal on our part, in this very early stage of our national

596 HAMILTON'S WORKS. |>Et. 39.

power, it cannot be so in time to come. We shall be able to
afford it with effect, and our faith will oblige us to do so.

But whatever were the motives of France, and though the
conditions of the alliance may be in their permanent tendency
more beneficial to her than to us, it was our duty to be faithful
to the engagements which we contracted with her, and it even
became us, without scanning too rigidly those motives, to yield
ourselves to the impulses of kind and cordial sentiments towards
a power, by which we were succored in so perilous a crisis.

Nor should we ever lightly depart from the line of conduct
which these principles dictate. But they ought not to be carried
so far as to occasion us to shut our eyes against the just causes
of complaint which France has given or may hereafter give us.
They ought not to blind us to the real nature of any instances of
an unfair and unfriendly policy which we have experienced or
may hereafter experience from that country. Let us cherish
faith, justice, and, as far as possible, good will, but let us not be
dupes.

It is certain that in the progress and towards the close of our
revolution war, the views of France, in several important parti-
culars, did not accord with our interests — she manifestly favored
and intrigued to effect the sacrifice of our pretensions on the
Mississippi to Spain. She looked coldly upon our claim to the
privileges we enjoy in the cod fisheries ; and she patronized our
negotiation with Great Britain without the previous acknowledg.
merit of our independence : — a conduct which, whatever color of
moderation may be attempted to be given to it, can only be
rationally explained into the desire of leaving us in such a state of
half peace, half hostility with Great Britain, as would necessarily
render us dependent upon France,

Since the peace every careful observer has been convinced
that the policy of the French government has been adverse to
our acquiring internally the consistency of which we were capable — in
other words, a well-constituted and efficient government. Her
agents every where supported, and with too little reserve, that
feeble and anarchical system, the old confederation ; — which had
brought us almost to the last stage of national nothingness, and

jEt. 39.] FRANCE. 597

which remained the theme of their eulogies, when every en-
lightened and virtuous man of this country perceived and ac-
knowledged its radical defects and the necessity of essential
alterations.

The truth of all this, of which no vigilant and unbiased
friend to his country had before the least doubt, has been fully
confirmed to us by the present government of France, which
has formally proclaimed to us and to the world the Machiavellian
conduct of the old governments towards this country ; nor can
we suspect the promulgation to have been the effect of the en-
mity of the new against the old government, for our records and
our own observations assure us that there is no misrepresentation.

This disclosure, which has not sufficiently attracted the atten-
tion of the American people, is very serious and instructive.
Surely it ought to put us upon our guard — to convince us that it
is at least possible the succeeding rulers of France may have
been on some occasions tinctured with a similar spirit. They
ought to remember that the magnanimity and kindness of France
and the former government were as much trumpeted by its parti-
sans among us as are now the magnanimity and kindness of the
present government. What say facts ?

Genet was the first minister sent by the new government to this
country. Are there no marks of a policy in his behavior,

or in his instructions? Did he say to us, or was he instructed to
say to us with frankness and fair-dealing— Americans, France
wishes your co-operation ;— she thinks you bound by your treaty
— or by gratitude — or by affinity of principles to afford it ? Not
a word of all this. The language was— France does not require
your assistance ; she wishes you to pursue what you think your
interest.

What was the conduct? Genet came out with his pocket
full of commissions to arm privateers. Arrived at Charlestown,
before he had an opportunity of sounding our government,
he begins to them, and to fit out privateers from our

ports ;— certain that this was a practice never to be tolerated
by the enemies of France, and that it would infallibly implicate
us in the war, our government mildly signifies to him its dis

598 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 39.

approbation of the measure. He affects to acquiesce, but still
goes on in the same way — very soon in open defiance of the
o-overnment ; — between which and our own citizens he presently
endeavors to introduce jealousy and schism. He sets on foot
intrigues with our southern and western extremes, and attempts
to organize our territory, and to carry on from it military expe-
ditions against the territories of Spain in our neighborhood — a
nation with wjaich we were at peace.

It is impossible to doubt that the end of all this was to drag
us into the war, with the humiliation of being plunged into it
without ever being consulted, and without any volition of our
own.

No government or people could have been more horridly
treated than we were by this foreign agent. Our Executive,
nevertheless, from the strong desire of maintaining good under-
standing with France, forbore to impute to the French govern-
ment the conduct of its agent ; made the personal with
him, and requested his recall. The French government could
not refuse our request without a rupture with us, which at that
time would have been extremely inconvenient for many plain
reasons. The application for the recall accordingly had full suc-
cess ; and the more readily as it arrived shortly after the over-
throw of the party (to which Genet belonged), and thus
afforded another opportunity of exercising vengeance on that
devoted party.

But it were to be very credulous to be persuaded that Genet
acted in this extraordinary manner, from the very beginning,
without the authority of the government by which he was sent ;
and did not the nature of his conduct contain an internal evidence
of the source it could be easily traced in the instructions which he
published. These instructions demonstrate three things, though
the last is couched in very covert terms. 1. That France did
not consider us as bound to aid her in the war. 2. That she
desired to engage us in it, and the principal bribe was to be large
privileges in her West India trade. 3. That if direct negotiation
did not succeed, indirect means were to be taken to entangle us
in it whether so disposed or not. It is not matter of complaint,

yET. 39.] FRANCE. 599

that France should endeavor to engage by fair means our assist-
ance in the war, if she thought it would be useful to her, but it
is just matter of bitter complaint that she should attempt against
our will to ensnare or drive us into it.

Fauchet succeeded Genet. It was a meteor following a comet.
No very marked phenomena distinguish his course. But the little
twinkling appearances which here and there are discernible, indi-
cate the same general in him which governed his predecessor.
The Executive of our country, in consequence of an insurrec-
tion, to which one of them had materially contributed, had pub-
licly arraigned political clubs. Fauchet, in opposition, openly
patronizes them. At the festivals of these clubs he is always a
guest, swallowing toasts full of sedition and hostility to the gov-
ernment. Without examining what is the real tendency of
these clubs, without examining even the policy of what is called
the President's denunciation of them, it was enough for a foreign
minister that the Chief Magistrate of our country had declared
them to be occasions of calamity to it. It was neither friendly
nor decent in a foreign minister after this, to countenance these
institutions. This conduct discovered towards us not only un-
kindness but contempt. There is the more point in it, as this
countenance continued after similar societies had been proscribed
in France; — what were destructive poisons there, were in this
country salutary medicines. But the hostility of the views of
this minister is palpable in that intercepted letter of his, which
unveils the treachery of Randolph. We there learn, that he
pretended to think it was a duty of patriotism to second the
western insurrection ; that he knew and approved of a conspiracy
which was destined to overthrow the administration of our gov-
ernment, even by the most irregular means.

Another revolution of party in France placed Mr. Adet in
the room of Mr. Fauchet. Mr. Adet has been more circumspect
than either of his predecessors — and. perhaps we ought scarcely
to impute it to him as matter of reproach, that he openly seconded
the opposition in Congress to the treaty concluded with Great
Britain. This was a measure of a nature to call forth the
manoeuvres of diplomatic tactics. But if we are wise, we shall

600 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 39.

endeavor to estimate rightly the probable motives of whatever
displeasure France or her agents may have shown at this measure.
Can it be any thing else than a part of the same plan which in-
duced the minister of Louis XVI. to advise us to treat with
Great Britain without the previous acknowledgment of our
Independence ? Can it be any thing else than a part of that
policy which deems it useful to France, that there should perpe-
tually exist between us and Great Britain germs of discord and
quarrel ? Is it not manifest that in the eyes of France the un-
pardonable sin of that treaty is, that it roots up for the present
those germs of discord and quarrel ? To pretend that the treaty
interferes with our engagements with France, is a ridiculous
absurdity — for it expressly excepts them. To say that it estab-
lishes a course of things hurtful to France in her present strug-
gle, is belied by the very course of things since the treaty — all
goes on exactly as it did before.

Those who can justify displeasure in France on this account^
are not Americans, but Frenchmen. They are not fit for being
members of an independent nation, but prepared for the al
state of colonists. If our government could not without the
permission of France terminate its controversies with another
foreign power, and settle with it a treaty of commerce, to endure
three or four years, our boasted independence is a name. We
have only transferred our allegiance ! we are slaves I

THE ANSWEK.

December 6, 1796.
The French republic have, at various times during the pre-
sent war, complained of certain principles and decisions of the
American government, as being violations of its neutrality, or
infractions of the treaty made with France in the year 1778.

Mi. 39.] THE ANSWER. 6(Jl

These complaints were principally made in the year 1793, and
explanations, which till now were deemed satisfactory, were
made by Mr. Jefferson's correspondence, in August of that year.
They are now not only renewed with great exaggeration, but
the French government have directed that it should be done in
the tone of reproach, instead of the language of friendship. The ap-
parent intention of this menacing tone, at this particular time, is
to influence timid minds to vote agreeably to their wishes in the
election of President and Vice-President, and probably with this
view the memorial was published in the newspapers. This is
certainly a practice that must not be permitted. If one foreign
minister is permitted to publish what he pleases to the people, in
the name of his government, every other foreign minister must
be indulged with the same right. What then will be our situation
on the election of a President and Vice-President, when the gov-
ernment is insulted, the persons who administer it traduced, and
the election menaced by public addresses from these intriguing
agents ? Poland, that was once a respectable and powerful na-
tion, but is now a nation no longer, is a melancholy example of
the dangers of foreign influence in the election of a Chief Magis-
trate. Eleven millions of people have lost their independence from
that cause alone. What would have been the conduct of the
French directory, if the American minister had published an
elaborate and inflammatory address to the people of France
against the government, reprobating the conduct of those in
power, and extolling that of the party opposed to them ? They
would have done as the parliament of England did in 1727, when
the emperor's resident presented an insolent memorial to the
king, and published it next day in the newspapers. All parties
concurred in expressing the highest indignation and resentment
at the affront offered to the government by the memorial deliver-
ed by Monsieur Palm, and more particularly at his audacious
manner of appealing from the government to the people, under
the pretext of applying for reparation and redress of supposed
injuries. In consequence of an address from both houses, Mon-
sieur Palm was ordered to quit England immediately. And is it
not necessary that we should adopt some remedy adequate to

602 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 39.

this evil, to avoid those serious consequences which may other-
wise be apprehended from it ?

The conduct of the American government to preserve its
neutrality, has been repeatedly justified by arguments drawn
from the law of nations, and in the application of its principles
they have gone as far, in every instance, and in one particular
instance, farther in favor of France, than the strict rule of neu-
trality would justify. It would therefore answer no valuable
purpose, to state the same principles, and deduce the same conse-
quences, in order to justify ourselves on the same ground, that
we have already done : but as the reproaches of the French re-
public are founded on an idea, that our construction and appli-
cation of the law of nations is erroneous, partial, and inimical, it
may be worth while to examine whether we cannot justify our-
selves by the example of the French nation itself. I presume a
better rule of justification against any charge cannot be required,
than the conduct of those who have made it in like cases.

I propose, therefore, to compare the decisions of the American
government, in the several points wherein they have been com-
plained of in Mr. Adet's memorial, with the laws of France on
the same points.

It is asserted that the American government has violated the
17th article of the treaty of 1778, by arresting French privateers
and their prizes ; and that it has exercised shocking persecutions
towards them.

It will be found on an accurate inquiry, that all the prizes
brought in under French commissions, that have been restored,
have been found to be in one or the other of the following des-
criptions :

1. Those captured within a marine league of the shores of the
United States.

2. When the captured vessel was owned, and principally
manned by American citizens.

3. When the capturing vessel was armed in our ports.

As to the jurisdiction exercised by the United States, over
the sea contiguous to its shores, all nations claim and exercise
such a jurisdiction, and all writers admit this claim to be well

jEt. 39.] THE ANSWER. 603

founded : and they have differed in opinion, only as to the dis-
tance to which it may extend. Let us see whether France has
claimed a greater or less extent of dominion over the sea, than
the United States. Valin, the king's advocate at Kochelle, in his
new commentary on the marine laws of France, published first in
1761, and again by approbation in 1776,* after mentioning the
opinions of many different writers on public law on this subject,
says, " as far as the distance of two leagues the sea is the domi-
nion of the sovereign of the neighboring coast ; and that whether
there be soundings there or not." It is proper to observe this
method in favor of states whose coasts are so high that there
are no soundings close to the shore, but this does not prevent the
extension of the dominion of the sea, as well as in respect to juris-
diction as the fisheries, to a greater distance by particular treaties,
or the rule herein before mentioned, which extends dominion as
far as there are soundings, or as far as the reach of a cannon
shot; which is the rule at present universally acknowledged. "The
effect of this dominion," the same author says, "according to the
principles of Puffendorf, which are incontestable, is, that every
sovereign has a right to protect foreign commerce in his domi-
nions, as well as to secure them from insult, by preventing others
from approaching nearer to a certain distance." In extending
our dominion over the sea to one league, we have not extended
it so far, as the example of France and the other powers of Eu-
rope would have justified. They therefore can have no right to
complain of our conduct in this respect.

The second description of cases, which has induced the Ameri-
can government to restore prizes claimed by the French, is when
our citizens have made the capture under a French commission.

The third article of the ordinances of the marine of France
which the commission now given to French privateers requires to
be observed (Valin, vol. 2, 235), is as follows: " We prohibit all
our subjects from taking commissions from foreign kings, princes,
Qr states, to arm vessels for war, and to cruise at sea under their
colors, unless by our permission, on pain of being treated as
pirates." The commentator says these general and indefinite

* Book 5, Title 1.

604 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 39.

prohibitions have no exception. They extend to commissions
taken from friends or allies, as well as neutrals, and those that
are equivocal, and they were considered as necessary consequences
of the laws of neutrality.

" If," says Valin, " the commission of the foreign prince be to
cruise against his enemies who are our allies, or those with whom we
intend to preserve neutrality, it would afford just ground of com-
plaint on their part, and might lead to a rupture." The rule
extends as well to subjects domiciliated as not domiciliated in the
kingdom, and foreign countries ; " for Frenchmen are not the less
Frenchmen, for having gone to live in foreign countries." If
France may rightfully prohibit her citizens from accepting foreign
commissions to make prize of the property of her friends, why
should the United States be reproached for exercising a similar
right? A necessary consequence of this wise and just prohibi-
tion is, that all prizes taken contrary to it should be restored
with damages to the party injured.

The third description of prizes restored, is where they have
been fitted and armed in the ports of the United States.

I find no direct, positive provision by the marine laws of
France, prohibiting this ; but the whole tenor of those laws sup-
pose that vessels of war are armed in the ports of the sovereign
who gives the commission. French privateers must not only fit
out in a French port, but are bound to bring all prizes made by
them into some particular port or ports expressed in their com-
missions. (Valin, vol. 2, 276.) And it is certain that the king of
France, previous to his alliance with the United States, delivered
up some American prizes to the English, because the capturing
vessel had been armed in a French port.

Mr. Adet's memorial charges that the English have been per-
mitted to arm their vessels, and bring their prizes into our ports.
As to this charge, the fact is simply denied. In the cases mention-
ed, the vessels said to have taken in guns for their defence, were
gone before he made his representation ; yet he complained, and
the government did nothing. I ask what could they have done?
Mr. Adet will answer, they might have declared war against
Great Britain : and it is certain this was the only remedy that

Mt. 39.] THE ANSWER. 605

remained in such a case : but neither our interest nor our duty
would have permitted us to have adopted it. Our interest did
not permit us to give up our neutrality, and engage in a foreign
war, the event of which would have produced many and certain
evils, and could not by any possibility have produced any good; —
and it was contrary to every principle by which a just nation
would desire to act, to have made war on a whole people because
one or two of them had clandestinely taken arms on board for
their defence, in one of our ports, without the knowledge of their
government or of ours.

The memorial complains that we have infringed the 17th
article of the treaty of 1778, by restraining the prohibition
therein contained only to the ships of war and privateers of
their enemies, who should come into our ports with their prizes.

The literal sense of the 17th article, is, that no armed ship
who shall have made prizes from the French people, shall receive
an asylum in our ports. The 22d article says that no privateer,
fitted under a commission of the enemy of either, shall have
asylum in the ports of the others. Neither of these articles says
any thing of prizes. The literal application of them therefore
would exclude the capturing vessels, but give admission to their
prizes : which would never have been the intention of the
parties. The law of nations expressly adopted by France, re-
lative to the right of asylum, may illustrate these articles of
the treaty. Ord. Louis XIV., art XIV., declares, " that no
prizes made by captains under a foreign commission, shall re-
main in our ports longer than twenty-four hours, unless de-
tained by bad weather, or unless the prize have been made from
our enemies." But this article, says Valin, is only applicable
to prizes carried into a neutral port, " and not at all to armed
vessels, whether neutrals or allies, who have taken refuge there,
without prizes, either to escape the pursuit of enemies, or for any
other cause. They may in this case remain as long as they
please." By the law of neutrality, simply, French prizes could
only have remained twenty-four hours in our ports, but by the
treaty they have obtained the privilege of remaining as long
as they please. This privilege has not only been allowed them

606 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 39.

in its fullest extent, but we had gone a step farther, and as a
favor permitted them to sell their prizes, which neither the
treaty nor the law of nations required ; and which was of more
importance than all the rest put together. This favor, as favors
generally are, is now claimed as a right, and the withholding
is considered as an injury. Let us see what the ordinances of
the French marine have said on this point. Ord. Louis XIV.,
Tit. Prizes, Art. XIV. "If in the prizes brought into our ports
by vessels armed under a foreign commission, there be any mer-
chandises belonging to our subjects, or allies, those belonging to
our subjects shall be restored, and the rest shall not he put into any
storehouses, or be purchased by any person under any pretext whatsoever '.''
"And all this," says Valin, "is founded on the law of neutrality.
By the treaty of Utrecht, Louis XIY. and his grandson the
king of Spain, agreed mutually to permit the prizes made by
one to be brought in, and sold in the ports of the other. But
this, the same author says, was only a particular arrangement,
so much the less to be proposed for a general rule, as the two
nations had given up the duties on prize goods sold in their
dominions, which however did not last long, on account of the
abuses to which it gave rise. Abuses similar, I presume, to
those to which the same permission gave rise in this country.
The next ground of complaint is the British treaty and its
consequences. This treaty is said to deprive France of all the
advantages stipulated in a preceding treaty, and this is done by
an abandonment of the modern law of nations.

If we may credit the declaration of the King of France,
there were no exclusive advantages stipulated for France in
that treaty. His ambassador delivered a paper to the British
Court, dated the 18th of March, 1778, wherein, after announc-
ing the treaty between France and the United States, he says :
" His majesty declares at the same time, that the contracting
parties have paid great attention not to stipulate any exclusive
advantages in favor of the French nation : and that the United States
have reserved the liberty of treating with every other nation ivhatever,
upon the same footing of equality and reciprocity.

The injury supposed to have resulted from an abandonment

At. 39.] THE ANSWER. 607

of the modern public law, assumes two propositions, neither
of which is true : 1st. That neutral ships make neutral pro-
perty : 2d. That materials for building ships are not among
the articles considered as contraband of war. By the marine
laws of France, Eeg. Dec. 1744, Art. 5, it is directed, that " if
there are found on board of neutral vessels, of whatever nation
they may be, merchandises or effects, belonging to the enemies
of his majesty, they shall be good prize, even though they are
not of the growth or manufacture of the enemy's country,
but the vessels shall be released." Previous to this regulation,
and contrary to the law of nations, as Valin acknowledges,
if either the ship or the cargo, or any part of it, was enemy's
property, the whole was confiscated by the laws of France. And
at this day neutral property on board of enemy's ships is, by
the same laws, liable to confiscation.

As to the contraband of war, timber is enumerated among
the articles that are so, by Vattel, Lib. iii., chap. vii. ; but Valin
is much more particular, vol. 2, 264. "In the treaty of com-
merce concluded with the king of Denmark, the 23d of August,
1724, pitch and tar were declared contraband, as also rosin, sail-
cloth, hemp, cordage, masts and timber, for the building of ships.
There would have been, therefore, no reason to complain of the
conduct of the English, if they had not violated particular trea-
ties ; for of right (de droit) these things are contraband at present, and
have been so, since the beginning of this century, which was not the
case formerly -." By the modern law of nations, expressly adopted
by France, enemies' property, on board neutral ships, is good
prize ; and by the same law, the number of contraband articles
has been increased so as to include the materials for ship-build-
ing. All the situations were probably foreseen, in which the
treaty might operate favorably or unfavorably for France at the
time it was made. It might have been stipulated that materials
for ship-building should be deemed contraband, instead of de-
claring that they should not ; or, that the United States should
not enter into any treaty in which they should be made so.
Neither of these being the case, there is no ground of complaint,
except that the consequence is inconvenient, at present, to France,

60S HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 39.

and the belligerent powers allied to her. If timber and naval
stores are contraband by the law of nations, to declare them to
be so by a treaty cannot be considered as a privilege granted to
one nation, or an injury to any other. The French nation will not
persist in asserting, that because the exercise of rights which she
has claimed as legitimate on former occasions, becomes inconve-
nient when exercised by others, she may therefore refuse to ac-
knowledge and respect them. This would be the language of an
haughty despot, in a conquered country, not of justice, honor,
and good faith, from one friend to another.

It is said that the 18th article of the treaty with Great Bri-
tain, suspends all the commercial relations between the United
States and France, by preventing the supplies looked for by
France from this country.

This article has not introduced any new case, in which pro-
visions may be contraband. It only alters the consequence re-
sulting from a seizure of them, when they are so. Valin (vol. 2,
264) says, " By our law and the law of nations, provisions are
not prohibited, except to places besieged or blockaded? The article
complained of says explicitly, that when provisions, and other
articles not generally contraband, are become so, according to the
existing law of nations, and shall, for that reason, be seized, they
shall not be confiscated, but the owner shall be completely in-
demnified, and receive besides a reasonable mercantile profit.
This principle operated as an encouragement for American ves-
sels to seek the French markets, by insuring them against loss,
if they happened in any instance to be interrupted in the voy-
age. France, I presume, might consider our vessels bound with
provisions to a place besieged or blockaded, liable to seizure,
after due notice of the fact ; if instead of this, they contend for
the privilege of paying for them according to the terms of the
treaty with Great Britain, I suppose it will not be denied to
them. But if, under pretence that a vessel is bound to a besieged
or blockaded port, when she is not, either France or Great Bri-
tain should seize or detain her, it is an injury not authorized by
the treaty or the law of nations. This is what both nations have
done, when their interests or necessities required it — sometimes

Mt. 39.] THE ANSWER. 000

with, and often without any apology ; and what they will often
continue to do, I fear, as long as they know we cannot punish
them for it.

These injuries are said to have been received while every
other object around reminds us of the tyranny of Britain and the
generous assistance of France, during the American war.

The generosity of France and the magnitude of the United
States have been often suggested by some of our own citizens,
and we are now reproached with it by France herself. Gratitude
is due for favors received ; and this virtue may exist among na-
tions as well as among individuals ; but the motive of the bene-
fit must be solely the advantage of the party on whom it was
conferred, else it ceases to be a favor. There is positive proof
that France did not enter into the alliance with us in 1778, for
our advantage, but for her own. The whole course of the inves-
tigation, as well as a positive knowledge of the fact, proves this.
She resisted all of our solicitations for effectual assistance for
war three years ; and rose in her demand during the campaign
of 1777, when our affairs presented the most threatening aspect.
Memorials were presented in August and September of that
year, while General Burgoyne's army arrived in December; fear-
ing we might be able to do the business without them, the French
court began to change its tone. In January the British minister
gave notice in the House of Commons that he meant to propose
terms of accommodation with America. The French ministry
on the arrival of this intelligence in France, immediately pressed
the conclusion of the treaty which they had resisted for three
years, and proposed terms much more favorable for us than
those our commissioner had offered, and they had refused three
months before. The treaty was signed on the 8th February. I
perceive no generosity in all this. They did then, as we have
done now, and as every discerning nation will do — they regarded
only their own interest and advantage, and not that of any other
nation. In the interval between the declaration of indepen-
dence and the alliance with France, that court sometimes ordered
away our privateers, and sometimes restored their prizes. They
refused to receive an ambassador or acknowledge our indepen-
G 39

610 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [iEi. 39.

dence ; all of which was for fear of bringing France prematurely
into the war. The fact is, that the French spoke of very differ-
ent terms, as the condition of their assistance, before the capture
of Burgoyne, from those actually agreed on afterwards. There
can be no doubt that our success on that occasion, and the dis-
position it appeared to have produced in the British ministry, were
the immediate causes of that alliance. It was certainly the in-
terest of the French to unite with America in the war against
Great Britain. They therefore acted right in doing this at last,
though with too much refinement in putting it off so long, but it
is not the interest of the United States to be engaged in any war
whatsoever — much less do they desire to imbrue their hands in
the blood of one nation to gratify the hatred, or serve the inter-
est of another. We have acted right hitherto, in laying it down
as a principle not to suffer ourselves to be drawn into the wars
of Europe ; and if we must have a war, I hope it will be for re-
fusing to depart from that principle.

Our government has acted with firmness, consistency, and
moderation, in repelling the unjust pretensions of the belligerent
powers, as far as reason and argument could have weight. If
it has not attempted in every instance, to preserve our rights by
force, wherein the remedy would have been worse than the dis-
ease, they have not yielded them by concession, in any instance.
Into whatsoever hands the administration of the government
may now come, they are called on by the suggestions of a wise
policy, and the voice of their country, to pursue the same gene-
ral line of conduct, that has been hitherto pursued, without yield-
ing to the violence of party on either side. They will then be
sure of the approbation and support of the most virtuous, which
it is to be hoped are the most numerous of all parties. On the
contrary, if, departing from these principles, they unnecessarily
involve their country in the horrors of war, they will meet the
merited execration of good men, and in the end the punishment
justly due to such conduct from an injured people.

Americanus.

JEt. 39.] WASHINGTON'S SPEECH. Gil

PART OF WASHINGTON'S SPEECH TO CONGRESS.

First Draft by Hamilton.

December 7th, 1796.

That, among the objects of labor and industry, agriculture,
considered with reference either to individual or national welfare.
is first in importance, may safely be affirmed, without derogating
from the just and real value of any other branch. It is, indeed,
the best basis of the prosperity of every other. In proportion as
nations progress in population and other circumstances of ma-
turity, this truth forces itself more and more upon the conviction
of rulers, and makes the cultivation of the soil more and more
an object of public patronage and care. Institutions for pro-
moting it sooner or later grow up, supported by the public purse
— and the full fruits of them, when judiciously conceived and
directed, have fully justified the undertaking.

Among these, none have been found of greater utility than
Boards, composed of proper characters, charged with collecting
and communicating information, and enabled to stimulate enter-
prise and experiment by premiums and honorary rewards.
These have been found very cheap instruments of imrn
benefits. They serve to excite a general spirit of discovery and
improvement, to stimulate invention, to excite new and useful
experiments — and accumulating in one centre the skill and im-
provement of every part of the nation, they spread it thence ovei
the whole nation, at the same time promoting new discovery, and
diffusing generally, the knowledge of all the discoveries which
are made.

In the United States, hitherto, no such institution has been
essayed, though perhaps no country has stronger motives to it.

Agriculture among us is certainly in a very imperfect state.
In much of those parts where there have been early settlements
the soil, impoverished by an unskilful tillage, yields but a scanty
reward for the labor bestowed upon it, and leaves its possessors

612 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [At. 39.

under strong temptation to abandon it, and emigrate to distant
regions, more fertile, because they are newer, and have not yet
been exhausted by an unskilful use. This is every way an evil.
The undue dislocation of our population from this cause, pro-
motes neither the strength, the opulence, nor the happiness of
our country. It strongly admonishes our national councils to
apply as far as may be practical, by natural and salutary means,
an adequate remedy. Nothing appears to be so unexceptionable,
and likely to be more efficacious, than the institution of a Board
of Agriculture, with the views I have mentioned, and with a
moderate fund towards executing them. After mature reflection,
I am persuaded it is difficult to render our country a more
precious and general service, than by such an institution.

I will, however, observe, that if it be thought expedient, the
objects of the Board may be still more comprehensive. It may
embrace the encouragement of the mechanic and manufacturing
arts by means analogous to those for the improvement of agri-
culture, and with an eye to the introduction, from abroad, of
useful machinery, &c. Or there may be separate Boards, one
charged with one object, the other with the other.

I have, heretofore, suggested the expediency of establishing
a National University, and a Military Academy. The vast
utility of both these measures presses so seriously and so con-
stantly upon my mind, that I cannot forbear with earnestness to
repeat the recommendation.

The assembly to which I address myself, will not doubt that
the extension of science and knowledge is an object primarily
interesting to our national welfare. To effect this, is most
naturally the care of the particular local jurisdictions into which
our country is subdivided, as far as regards those branches of
instruction which ought to be universally diffused, and it gives
pleasure to observe that new progress is continually making in
the means employed for this end. But, can it be doubted that
the general government would with peculiar propriety occupy
itself in affording nutriment to those higher branches of science,
which, though not within the reach of general acquisition, are in
their consequences and relations productive of general advantage ?

JEt. 39.] WASHINGTON'S SPEECH. 613

Or can it be doubted that this great object would be materially
advanced by a university erected on that broad basis to which
the national resources are most adequate, and so liberally en-
dowed, as to command the ablest professors in the several
branches of liberal knowledge ? It is true, and to the honor of
our country, that it offers many colleges and academics, highly
respectable and useful — but the funds upon which they are es-
tablished are too narrow to permit any of them to be an ade-
quate substitute for such an institution as is contemplated, and
to which they would be excellent auxiliaries. Amongst the
motives to such an institution, the assimilation of the principles,
opinions, manners, and habits of our countrymen, by drawing
from all quarters our youth to participate in a common education,
well deserves the attention of government. To render the peo-
ple of this country as homogeneous as possible, must tend as
much as any other circumstance to the permanency of their
union and prosperity.

The eligibleness of a military academy depends on that evi-
dent maxim of policy, which requires every nation to be prepared
for war, while cultivating peace, and warns it against suffering
the military spirit and military knowledge wholly to decay.
However particular instances, superficially viewed, may seem
exceptions, it will not be doubted by any who have attentively
considered the subject, that the military art is of a complicated
and comprehensive nature; that it demands much previous
study, as well as practice, and that the possession of it in its
most improved state, is always of vast importance to the security
of a nation. It ought, therefore, to be a principal care of every
government, however pacific its general policy, to preserve and
cultivate— indeed, in proportion as the policy of a country is
pacific, and it is little liable to be called to practice the rules of
the military art, does it become the duty of the government to
take care, by proper institutions, that it b ■ not lost. A military
academy instituted on proper principles, would serve to secure
to our country, though within a narrow sphere, a solid fund of
military information which would always be ready for national
emergencies, and would facilitate the diffusion of military know-
ledge as those emergencies might require.

614 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEi. 39.

A systematic plan for the creation of a moderate navy appears
to me recommended by very weighty considerations. An active
external commerce demands a naval power to protect it, besides
the dangers from wars, in which a state is a party. It is a truth,
which our own experience has confirmed, that the most equitable
and sincere neutrality is not sufficient to exempt a state from
the depredations of other nations at war with each other. It is
essential to induce them to respect that neutrality, that there
shall be an organized force ready to vindicate the national flag.
This may even prevent the necessity of going into war by dis-
couraging from those insults and infractions of right, which some-
times proceed to an extreme that leaves no alternative. The
United States abound in materials. Their commerce, fast in-
creasing, must proportionably augment the number of their sea-
men, and give us rapidly the means of a naval power, respect-
able, if not great. Our relative situation, likewise, for obvious
reasons, would render a moderate force very influential, more so,
perhaps, than a much greater in the hands of any other power.
It is submitted as well deserving consideration, whether it will
not be prudent immediately and gradually to provide and lay up
magazines of ship-timber, and to build and equip annually, one
or more ships of force, as the development of resources shall ren-
der convenient and practicable, so that a future war in Europe,
if we escape the present storm, may not find our commerce in
the defenceless situation in which the present found it.

There is a subject which has dwelt long and much upon my
mind, which I cannot omit this opportunity of suggesting. It is
the compensation to our public officers, especially those in the
most important stations. Every man acquainted with the ex-
pense, even of the most frugal plan of living in our great cities,
must be sensible of their inadequateness. The impolicy of such
defective provisions seems not to have been sufficiently weighed.

No plan of governing is well founded, which does not regard
man as a compound of selfish and virtuous passions. To expect
him to be wholly guided by the latter, would be as great an
error as to suppose him wholly destitute of them. Hence the
necessity of adequate rewards for those services of which the

JEt. 39.] WASHINGTON'S SPEECH. G15

public stand in need. Without them, the affairs of a nation are
likely to get sooner or later into incompetent or unfaithful hands.
If their own private wealth is to supply in the candidates for
public office the deficiency of public liberality, then the sphere
of those who can be candidates, especially in a country like ours,
is much narrowed, and the chance of a choice of able as well as
upright men, much lessened. Besides that, it would be repug-
nant to the first principles of our government to exclude men
from the public trusts, because their talents and virtues, however
conspicuous, are unaccompanied by wealth. If the rewards of the
government are scanty, those who have talents without wealth,
and are too virtuous to abuse their stations, cannot accept public
offices without a sacrifice of interest ; which, in ordinary times,
may hardly be justified by their duty to themselves and their
families. If they have talents without virtue, they may, indeed,
accept offices to make a dishonest and improper use of them.
The tendency then is to transfer the management of public
affairs to wealthy, but incapable hands, or to hands which, if
capable, are as destitute of integrity as of wealth. For a time,
particular circumstances may prevent such a course of things, and
hitherto the inference has not been verified in our experience.
But it is not the less probable, that time will prove it to be well
founded. In some governments men have many allurements to
office, exclusive of pecuniary rewards — but from the nature of
our government, pecuniary reward is the only aliment to the
interested passions which public men who are not vicious can
expect. If, then, it be essential to the prosperous course of every
government, that it shall be able to command the services of its
most able and most virtuous citizens of every class, it follow?)
that the compensations which our government allows, ought to
be revised and materially increased. The character and success
of republican government appear absolutely to depend on this
policy.

Congress have repeatedly directed their attention to the
encouragement of manufactures, and have no doubt promoted
them in several branches. The object is of too much impor-
tance not to assure a continance of their efforts in every way

616 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEr. 40.

which shall appear proper, and conducive to the end. But in
the present state of our country, we cannot expect that our
progress, in some essential branches, will be as expeditious as the
public welfare demands, — particularly in reference to security and
defence in time of war. This reflection is the less pleasing when
it is remembered how large a proportion of our supply the
course of our trade derives from a single nation. It appears
very desirable, that at least, with a view to security and de-
fence, some measures more efficacious than have heretofore been
adopted, should be taken. As a general rule, manufactories
carried on upon public account are to be avoided. But every
general rule may admit of exceptions. Where the state of
things in our country leaves little expectation that certain
branches of manufacture will, for a great length time, be suffi-
ciently cultivated — when these are of a nature to be essential to
the furnishing and equipping of the troops and ships of war
of which we stand in need — are not establishments on the pub-
lic account, to the extent of the public demand for supply, recom-
mended by very strong considerations of national policy?
Ought our country to be dependent in such cases upon foreign
supply, precarious because liable to be interrupted ?

THE WARNING.

Jan. 27, 1797.
There are appearances too strong not to excite apprehension
that the affairs of this country are drawing fast to an eventful
crisis. Various circumstances, daily unfolding themselves,
authorize a conclusion that France has adopted a system of con-
duct towards the neutral maritime nations generally, which
amounts to little less than actual hostility. I mean the total in-

jEt. 40.] THE WARNING. 617

terruption of their trade with the ports of her enemies ; a preten-
sion so violent, and at the same time so oppressive, humiliating,
and ruinous to them, that thej cannot submit to it, without not only
the complete sacrifice of their commerce, but their absolute deg-
radation from the rank of sovereign and independent states.

It seems to have become latterly a primary object in the
policy of France to make the principal attack upon Great Bri-
tain through her commerce, in order, by extinguishing the
sources of her revenue and credit, to disable her from continu-
ing the war, and compel her to accept any conditions of peace
which her antagonist may think fit to prescribe. It is to this
plan we are to attribute the unjustifiable treatment of Tuscany,
in the seizure of Leghorn, and shutting her ports against the
English, contrary to the will of her own government. The
same plan has dictated the attempts which are understood to
have been made to oblige Naples to exclude Great Britain from
her ports during the present war. And there have been indi-
cations of a design to effect a similar restraint on all the Italian
states, and expel the British trade wholly from the Mediter-
ranean. The same object of wounding Great Britain through
her commerce, has been promoted by the war into which Spain
has been drawn, and may be considered as the principal advan-
tage expected from it ; while it is likewise alleged to be the
intention to force Portugal to suspend her commercial relations
with Great Britain. The late decree forbidding the impor-
tation of British manufactures into France, is a further
proof of the eagerness with which the policy of destroying the
British commerce is pursued; since it is presumable, from the
derangement of French manufactures by the war, that there
must have been a convenience in the supply which that impor-
tation has afforded.

It is obviously to the same origin that we are to trace the
decree lately communicated by the French minister to our gov-
ernment, with respect to the intended treatment of the trade of
neutrals, and the spoliations which ours has for some time past
suffered. While neutral nations were permitted to enjoy se-
curely their rights, besides the direct commerce between them

618 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. -10.

and the British dominions, the commerce of Great Britain would
be carried on in neutral bottoms, even with the countries where
it was denied access in British bottoms. It follows, that the
abridgment of neutral rights is essential to the scheme of de-
stroying the British commerce. And here we find the true
solution of those unfriendly proceedings, on the part of France
towards this country, which are hypocritically charged to the
account of the treaty with Great Britain, and other acts of pre-
tended infidelity in our government.

Did we need a confirmation of this truth, we should find it in
the intelligence lately received from Cadiz. We are informed,
through a respectable channel,* that Danish and Swedish, as well
as American vessels, carried into that port by French cruisers,
have, with their cargoes, been condemned and confiscated by the
French consul or tribunal there, on the declared principle of in-
tercepting the trade of neutrals with the ports of the enemies of
France. This indiscriminate spoliation of the commerce of neu-
tral powers is a clear proof that France is actuated, not by par-
ticular causes of discontent given by our government, but by a
general plan of policy.

The practice upon the decree is a comment much broader
than the text. The decree purports that France would observe
towards neutrals the same conduct which they permitted her
enemies to observe towards them. But the practice goes a great
deal further. None of the enemies of France, even at the height
of their power and presumption, ever pretended totally to cut off
the trade of neutrals with her ports. This is a pretension reserv-
ed for her, to increase the catalogue of extraordinary examples,
of which her revolution has been so fruitful.

The allegations of discontent with this country are evidently
a mere coloring to the intended violation of its rights, by treaty
as well as by the laws of nations. Some pretext was necessary,
and this has been seized. It will probably appear hereafter that
Denmark and Sweden have been mocked with a similar tale of

* Mr. Ignardi, our Consul at Cadiz, lately arrived, who mentioned the fact as here
stated, adding, without reserve, that the principle above mentioned is avowed in
the correspondence of the French Consul at Cadiz.

Mt.40.] the warning. 619

grievances. It is, indeed, already understood that Sweden, out-
raged in the person of her representative, has been obliged to go
the length of withdrawing her minister from Paris.

The complaints of France may be regarded principally as
weapons furnished to her adherents to defend her cause, not-
withstanding the blows she inflicts. Her aim has been, in every
instance, to seduce the people from their government, and, by
dividing, to conquer and oppress. Hitherto, happily, the potent
spells of this political sorcery have, in most countries, been coun-
teracted and dissipated by the sacred flame of patriotism ! One
melancholy exception serves as a warning to the rest of mankind,
to shun the fatal snare. It is, nevertheless, humiliating, that
there are men among us depraved enough to make use of the
arms she has furnished in her service, and to vindicate her ag-
gressions as the effects of a just resentment, provoked by the
ill conduct of our government. But the artifice will not suc-
ceed. The eyes of the people of this country are, every day,
more and more opened to the true character of the politics of
France ; and the period is fast approaching when it will be seen
in all its intrinsic deformity.

The desire of a power at war to destroy the commerce of its
enemy, is a natural effect of the state of war, and while exercised
within bounds, consistent with the rights of nations who are not
engaged in the contest, is entirely justifiable; but when it mani-
festly overleaps these bounds, and indulges in palpable violations
of neutral rights, without even the color of justification in the
usages of war, it becomes an intolerable tyranny, wounds the
sovereignty of nations, and calls them to resistance by every
motive of self-preservation and self'respect.

The conduct of France, from the commencement of her suc-
cesses, has, by gradual developments, betrayed a spirit of univer-
sal domination ; an opinion that she had a right to be the legis-
latrix of nations ; that they are all bound to submit to her
mandates, to take from her their moral, political, and religious
creeds ; that her plastic and regenerating hand is to mould them
into whatever shape she thinks fit ; and that her interest is to be
the sole measure of the rights of the rest of the world. The

620 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 40.

specious pretence of enlightening mankind, and reforming their
civil institutions, is the varnish to the real design of subju-
gating them. The vast projects of a Louis XIV. dwindle into
insignificance compared with the more gigantic schemes of his
republican successors.

Men, well informed and unprejudiced, early discovered the
symptoms of this spirit. Eeasoning from human nature, they
foresaw its growth with success ; that from the love of dominion,
inherent in the heart of man, the rulers of the most powerful
nation in the world, whether a Committee of Safety or a Direc-
tory, will for ever aim at an undue empire over other nations ;
and that this disposition, inflamed as it was by enthusiasm, if
encouraged by a continuation of success, would be apt to exhibit
itself, during the course of the French revolution, in excesses of
which there has been no example since the days of Eoman
greatness.

Every day confirms the justice of that anticipation. It is
now indispensable that the disagreeable and menacing truth
should be exposed in full day to the people of America ; that
they should contemplate it seriously, and prepare their minds for
extremities, which nothing short of abject submission may be
able to avert. This will serve them as an armor against the
machinations of traitorous men, who may wish to make them
instruments of the ambition of a foreign power, to persuade them
to concur in forging chains for mankind, and to accept, as their
award, the despicable privilege of wearing them a day later than
others.

Already in certain circles is heard the debasing doctrine, that
France is determined to reduce us to the alternative of war with
her enemies, or war with herself, and, that it is our interest and
safety to elect the former.

There was a time when it was believed that a similar alterna-
tive would be imposed by Great Britain. At this crisis there
was but one sentiment. The firmest friends of moderation and
peace, no less than the noisiest partisans of violence and war, re-
solved to elect war with that power which should drive us to
the election. This resolution was the dictate of morality and

Mt. 40.] THE WARNING. G21

honor, of a just regard to national dignity and independence. If
any consideration, in any situation, should degrade us into a
different resolution, we, that instant, shake hands with crime
and infamy : we descend from the high ground of an independent
people, and stoop to the ignominious level of vassals. I trust there
are few Americans who would not cheerfully encounter the worst
evils of a contest with any nation on earth, rather than subscribe
to so shameful an abdication of their rank as men and citizens.

A M ERIC US.

II.

February 7, 1797.

Independent of the commands of honor, the coolest calcula-
tions of interest forbid our becoming the instruments of the
ambition of France, by associating with her in the war. The
question is no longer the establishment of liberty on the basis of
republican government. This point the enemies of France have
ceased to dispute. The question now is whether she shall be
aggrandized by new acquisitions, and her enemies reduced by
dismemberments, to a degree which may render her the mistress
of Europe, and consequently in a great measure of America.
This is truly the remaining subject of contention.

They who understood the real strength and resources of France
before the present war, knew that she was intrinsically the most
powerful nation of Europe. The incidents of the war have dis-
played this fact in a manner which is the astonishment of the
world. If France can finally realize her present plan of aggran-
dizement, she will attain to a degree of greatness and power,
which if not counteracted by internal disorder, will tend to make
her the terror and the scourge of nations. The spirit of modera-
tion in a state of overbearing power is a phenomenon which has
not yet appeared, and which no wise man will expect ever to
see. It is certain that a very different spirit has hitherto marked
the career of the new republic ; and it is due to truth to add, that

622 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 40.

the ardent, impetuous, and military genius of the French, affords
perhaps less prospect of such a spirit in them than in any other
people.

'Twere therefore contrary to our true interest to assist in
building up this colossus to the enormous size at which she aims.
'Twere a policy as short-sighted as mean to seek safety in a sub-
serviency to her views as the price of her clemency. This at best
would be but a temporary respite from the rod ; if indeed that
can be called a respite, which is of itself the sacrifice of a real to
a nominal independence.

These reflections are not designed to rouse a spirit of hostility
against France, or to inculcate the idea that we ought of choice to
participate in the war against her. They are intended merely to
fortify the motives of honor, which forbid our stooping to be
compelled, either to submit without resistance to a virtual war on
her part, or to avert her blows by engaging in the war on her
side.

When it was the opinion, that France was defending the cause
of liberty, it was a decisive argument against embarking with
her in the contest, that it would expose us to hazards and evils
infinitely disproportioned to the assistance we could render.
Now that question plainly is, whether France shall give the law
to mankind. The addition of our opposition to her plan could
have too little influence upon the event to justify our willingly
encountering the certain dangers and mischiefs of the enterprise.
'Tis our true policy to remain at peace, if we can, to negotiate
our subjects of complaint as long as they shall be at all negotia-
ble to defer and

When the indiscriminate seizure of our vessels by British
cruisers, under the order of the sixth of November, 1793, had
brought our affairs with Great Britain to a crisis, which led to
the measure of sending a special envoy to that country to obtain
relief and reparation, it was well understood that the issue of
that mission was to determine the question of peace or war be-
tween the two nations. In like manner, it is to be expected that
our Executive will make a solemn and final appeal to the justice
and interest of France, will insist in mild, but explicit terms on

^Et. 40.] THE WARNING. fit 3

the renunciation of the pretension to intercept the lawful com-
merce of neutrals with the enemies of France, and the institution
of some equitable mode of ascertaining and retributing the losses
which the exercise of it has inflicted upon our merchants. If
the experiment shall fail, there will be nothing left but to repel
aggression and defend our commerce and independence. The
resolution to do this, will then be imposed on the government by
a painful but irresistible necessity, and it were an outrage to the
American name and character to doubt that the people of the
United States will approve the resolution, and will support it
with a constancy worthy of the justice of their cause, and of the
glory they have heretofore deserved and acquired.

No ! let this never be doubted ! the servile minions of France
— those who have no sensibility to injury but when it comes
from Great Britain, who are unconscious of any rights to be pro-
tected against France ; who, at a moment when the public safety
mcre than ever demands a strict union between the people and
their government, traitorously labor to detach them from it, and
to turn against the government, for pretended faults, the resent-
ment which the real oppressions of France ought to inspire ; —
these wretched men will discover in the end, that they are as insig-
nificant as they are unprincipled. They will find that they have
vainly flattered themselves with the co-operation of the great
body of those men with whom the spirit of party has hitherto
associated them. In such an extremity the adventitious discri-
minations of party will be lost in the patriotism and pride of the
American character. Good citizens of every political denomina-
tion will remember that they are Americans ; that when their
country is in danger, the merit or demerit of particular measures
is no longer a question — that it is the duty of all to unite their
efforts to guard the national rights, to avert national humiliation,
and to withstand the imposition of a foreign yoke. The true
and genuine spirit of 1776, not the vile counterfeits of it which
so often disgust our eyes and our ears, will warm every truly
American heart, and light up in it a noble emulation to maiutain
inviolate the rights and unsullied the honor of the American
nation. It will be proved, to the confusion of all false patriots,

624 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mi. 40

that we did not break the fetters of one foreign tyranny to put
on those of another. It will be again proved to the world that
we understand our rights, and have the courage to defend them.
But there is still ground to hope that we shall not be driven
to this disagreeable extremity. The more deliberate calculations
of France will probably rescue us from the present embarrass,
merit. If she perseveres in her plan, she must inevitably add all
the neutral powers to the number of her enemies. How will
this fulfil the purpose of destroying the commerce of Great
Britain ? The commerce of those powers with France will then
entirely cease, and be turned more extensively into the channels
of Great Britain, protected by her navy, with the co-operation of
the maritime force of those powers. The result will be the re-
verse of what is projected by the measure. The commerce and
revenue of Britain will, in all likelihood, be augmented rather
than diminished ; and her arms will receive an important rein-
forcement. Violent and unjust measures commonly defeat their
own purpose. The plan of starving France was of this descrip-
tion, and operated against the views of its projectors. The plan
now adopted by France, of cutting off the trade of neutrals with
her enemies, alike violent and unjust, will no doubt end in simi-
lar disappointment. Let us hope that it will be abandoned, and
that ultimate rupture will be avoided ; but let us also contem-
plate the possibility of the contrary, and prepare our minds
seriously for the unwelcome event.

Americus.

hi.

February 21, 1797.

The Paris accounts inform us, that France has lately exer-
cised towards Genoa an act of atrocious oppression, which is an
additional aud a striking indication of the domineering and pre-
datory spirit by which she is governed. This little republic,
whose territory scarcely extends beyond the walls of her metro-

jEt. 40.] THE WARNING. 625

polis, has been compelled, it seems, to ransom herself from the
talons of France by a contribution of nearly a million of dollars
a large sum for her contracted resources. For this boon, " the
French government engages on its part to renounce all claims
upon Genoa, to forget what has passed during the present war,
and to forbear any future demands." It would appear from this,
that France, to color the odious exaction, besides the pretence of
misconduct towards her in the present war, has not disdained to
resort to the stale and pitiful device of reviving some antiquated
claim upon the country itself. In vain did the signal hazards
encountered by Genoa, to preserve her neutrality, in defiance of
the host of enemies originally leagued against France — in vain
did the character and title of republic plead for a more generous
treatment. The attractions of plunder predominated. The
spirit of rapine, callous to the touch of justice, blind to the evi-
dence of truth, deaf to the voice of entreaty, had marked out,
and devoted the mark. There was no alternative but to com-
pound or perish.

If it be even supposed, though this has never appeared, that
at some period of the war, Genoa may be chargeable with acts
of questionable propriety in relation to France, it is manifest,
that it ought to be attributed to the necessity of a situation
which must have obliged her to temporize a very small and feeble
state, in the midst of so many great conflicting powers, parts of
her territories occupied by armies, which she was unable to op-
pose ; it were a miracle, indeed, if her conduct in every particu-
lar, will bear the test of rigorous scrutiny. But if at any time
the pressure of circumstances may have occasioned some slight
deviation, there is, nevertheless, full evidence of a constant
solicitude on the part of Genoa to maintain, to the utmost of her
ability, a sincere neutrality. It is impossible to forget the glo-
rious stand which she at one time made against the imperious
efforts of Great Britain to force her from her neutral position.
The magnanimous and exemplary fortitude, which she displayed
on that occasion, excited in this country universal admiration, and
must have made a deep impression. 'Tis only to recollect that
instance to be satisfied, that the treatment which she has just
g 40

626 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 40.

experienced from France, merits the indignant execration of
mankind. Unfortunate Genoa! how little didst thou imagine
that thou wert destined so soon to be compelled to purchase thy
safety from the crushing weight of that hand which ought to
have been the first to rise in thy defence !

How fruitful at the same time of instruction to us is this
painful example! The most infatuated partisans of France
cannot but see in it an unequivocal proof of the rapacious and
vindictive policy which dictates her measures. All men must
see in it, that the flagrant injuries which we are now suffering
from her, proceed from a general plan of domination and plun-
der ; from a disposition to prostrate nations at her feet ; to tram-
ple upon their necks; to ravish from them whatever her
avidity or convenience may think fit to dedicate to her own
use.

The last intelligence from France seems to dispel the doubt
whether the depredations in the West Indies may not have
resulted from misapprehension or abuse of the orders of the
French Government. It is now understood to be a fact, that the
cruisers of France every where are authorized to capture and
bring in all vessels bound to the ports of her enemies.

This plan is pregnant with the worst evils, which are to
be dreaded from the declared and unqualified hostility of any
foreign power. If France, after being properly called upon to
renounce it, shall persevere in the measure, there cannot be a
question, but that open war will be preferable to such a state.
By whatever name treachery or pusillanimity may attempt to
disguise it, 'tis in fact war, war of the worst kind, war on one
side. If we can be induced to submit to it longer than is neces-
sary to ascertain that it cannot be averted by negotiation, we
are undone as a people. Whether our determination shall be
to loop up our trade by embargoes, or to permit our commerce
to continue to float an unprotected prey to French cruisers, our
degradation and ruin will be equally complete. The destruction of
our navigation and commerce, the annihilation of our mercantile
capital, the dispersion and loss of our seamen, obliged to emi-
grate for subsistence, the extinction of our revenue, the fall of

.Ex. 40.] THE WARNING. 627

public credit, the stagnation of every species of industry, the
general impoverishment of our citizens, these will be minor evils
in the dreadful catalogue. Some years of security and exertion
might repair them. But the humiliation of the American mind
would be a lasting and a mortal disease jn our social habit.
Mental debasement is the greatest misfortune that can befall a
people. The most pernicious of conquests which a state can
experience is a conquest over that just and elevated sense of
its own rights which inspires a due sensibility to insult and
injury, over that virtuous and generous pride of character,
which prefers any peril or sacrifice to a final submission to op-
pression, and which regards national igaominy as the greatest of
national calamities.

The records of history contain numerous proofs of this
truth. But an appeal to them is unnecessary. Holland and
Italy present to our immediate observation, examples as deci-
sive as they are deplorable. The former within the last ten
years has undergone two revolutions by the intervention of
foreign powers, without even a serious struggle. Mutilated of
precious portions of its territory at home by pretended bene-
factors but real despoilers, its dominions abroad slide into the
possession of its enemies rather as derelicts than as the acqui-
sitions of victory. Its fleets surrender without a blow. Impor-
tant only by the spoils which it offers no less to its friends than
to its enemies, every symptom in its affairs is portentous of
national annihilation. With regard to Italy, 'tis sufficient to
say, that she is debased enough, not even to dare to take
part in a contest, on which, at this moment, her destiny is sus-
pended.

Moderation in every nation is a virtue. In weak or young
nations, it is often wise to take every chance by patience and
address to divert hostility, and in this view to hold parley with
insult and injury — but to capitulate with oppression, or rather
to surrender to it at discretion, is in any nation, that has any
power of resistance, at all times as foolish as it is contemptible.
The honor of a nation is its life. Deliberately to abandon it, is
to commit an act of political suicide. There is treason in the

(528 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 40.

sentiment, avowed in the language of some, and betrayed by
the conduct of others, that we ought to bear any thing from
France, rather than go to war with her. The nation, which
can prefer disgrace to danger is prepared for a Master and de-
serves one.

Americus.

IV.

February 27th, 1797.

The emissaries of France when driven to every other expedi-
ent for extenuating her depredations, have a last refuge in the
example of Great Britain. The treatment which we now receive
from France (say they) is not worse than that which we have re-
ceived from Great Britain. If this apology were founded in fact,
it would still be a miserable subterfuge. For what excuse is it
to France or what consolation to us, that she, our boasted friend
and benefactress, treats us only not worse than a power which is
stigmatized as an envious rival and an implacable foe?

The conduct of Great Britain, appealed to in justification of
France, was admitted by all to be inexcusable. For Gallic fac-
tion thought it so extreme as to call for immediate reprisals.
The real patriots differed from them only in thinking, that an
armed negotiation, to end in reprisals, if unattended with success,
was preferable to immediate hostility. How dare the men, who
at that period were the clamorous champions of our national
dignity, how dare they (I ask) now to stand forth the preachers
not of moderation (for in the propriety of this all unite) but of
tame submission, — of a servility abject enough to love and cherish
the hand which despoils us, to kiss the rod which stings us with
unprovoked lashes ? What logic, what magic, can render inno-
cent or venial in France that which was so criminal and odious in
Great Britain ?

The pretext (we know) of France is, that we have permitted
Great Britain to treat us in the same manner, and her deluded

t£t. 40.] the warning. a 629

or debauched adherents are mean or prostrate enough to re-echo
the excuse.

Let us grant, for argument sake, all that can be pretended on
this subject, namety, that through want of energy in our admin-
istration, or from the opinion which it entertained of the situation
of the country, there has been too much patience under the op-
pressions of Great Britain — Is this really a justification to France?
Is a defect of vigor in the government of one country, or an under-
estimate of its means for repelling injury, a sufficient cause for
another government, lavish in profession of friendship, to imitate
towards it the aggressions which it has suffered from an oppres-
sor? What in private life would be said of that man, who called
himself the friend of another, because the last had too passively
allowed a third, the enemy of both, to wrest from him a portion
of his property, should deduce from this a pretext to strip him of
the remainder ? Has language epithets too severe for such a
character? Is not the guilt of unjust violence in a case like this
aggravated by that of hypocrisy and perfidy ?

But this is not our only reply. The truth is (and a truth we
may boldly proclaim) that we never did tolerate the aggressions
of Great Britain ; that we have steadily resisted them, and re-
sisted them with success. In the respectable attitude of an armed
negotiation, seconded by the self-denying and very influential
measure of an embargo, we sent to demand a revocation of the
orders under which we suffered, and retribution for the losses
which we had sustained. The orders were revoked and the re-
tribution has been stipulated, and the stipulation is in a course of
honorable and liberal execution. The redress of ancient griev-
ances, on the ground of a reciprocity, demanded by every princi-
ple of rectitude, has been superadded to that of more recent ones.

Our flags at this moment proudly wave on the ramparts which
had been so long detained from us ; and Indian butcheries along
the whole extent of our vast frontier have been terminated,
More than this — the redress obtained from Great Britain was a
principal cause of the happy accommodation of our dispute with
Spain, of the recognition of our right to navigate the Mississippi,
and of the establishment of a Southern boundary equal to our

630 HAMILTON'S WORKS. |>Et. 40.

most sanguine wishes.* These are the fruits (and immense fruits
they are) of a vigorous though temperate resistance to the aggres-
sions of Great Britain.

'Tis therefore in every sense false, that our government has
permitted Great Britain to do as France is now doing. Except here
and there the accidental irregularity of the commander of a par-
ticular ship, there is not one clear right which the law of nations
entitle us to claim, that is not now respected by Great Britain,
and to a degree unusual in the history of the treatment of neutral
nations by great belligerent powers.

It follows that the suggestion on which France bottoms her
ill-treatment of us is a frivolous and a colorless pretext. 'Tis to
confound all just ideas, to consider a temporary forbearance as a
permission or acquiescence — to pretend, above all, to retaliate that
injury after it has passed, has ceased, and has been redressed.
We are bound then to conclude, that our real crime in the eyes
of France is, that we had the temerity to think and to act for our-
selves, and did not plunge headlong into war with Great Britain;
— that the principal streams of our commerce, from the natural
relations of demand and supply, flow through the channels of her
commerce, and that the booty which it offers to rapacity, exceeds
the organized means of protection.

But a country, containing five millions of people, the second
in the number of its seamen, that prime sinew of maritime force,
with a varied industry, and an export of sixty millions, understand-
ing its rights, not deficient in spirit to vindicate them, if compel-
led against its will to exert its strength and resources, will, under
the guidance of faithful and patriotic counsels, be at no loss to
convince its despoilers, that there is as much folly as wickedness
in such a calculation. This reflection ought at once to console
and to animate us; though the remembrance of former friend-

* This consequence was foreseen and foretold. And the prediction is confirmed
by that part of the declaration of war of Spain against Great Britain, which makes
it a charge against the latter, that in the treaty with the United States " she had
no respect or consideration for the known rights of Spain," and in the sudden dis-
appearance after that treaty, of the obstacles which had so long impeded our nego-
tiation with Spain.

jEt. 40.] the warning. 631

ship, and a spirit of virtuous moderation, will induce us still to
wish that there may be some error in appearances — that the views
of France are not as violent and as hostile as they seem to be —
that an amicable explanation may yet dispel the impending
clouds, and brighten the political horizon with a happy reconcil-
iation.

Americus.

V.

March 13th, 1797.

I have asserted, that the conduct of Great Britain towards us
and other neutral powers has been at no period so exceptionable,
as that of France at the present juncture. A more distinct view
of this truth may be useful, which will be assisted by a retro-
spect of the principal acts of violation on both sides.

Though the circumstances were cotemporarily disclosed in all
our newspapers, yet so blind and deaf were we rendered by our
partiality for France, that few among us, till very lately, have
been aware, that the first of those acts is fairly chargeable upon
her. Such, notwithstanding, is the fact. The first in order of
time is a decree of the National Convention of the 9th of May,
1793, which reciting that neutral flags are not respected by the
enemies of France, and enumerating some instances of alleged
violation, proceeds to authorize the vessels of war and cruisers
of France to arrest and conduct into her ports all neutral vessels
which are found laden in whole or in part with provisions belong-
ing to neutrals, or merchandises belonging to the enemies of France,
the latter to be confiscated as prize for the benefit of the captors,
the former to be detained, but paid for according to their value
at the places for which they were destined.

The instances enumerated as the pretext for so direct and
formal an attack upon the rights of neutral powers, except two,
turn upon the pretension to capture goods of an enemy in the
ships of a friend. Of the remaining two, one is the case of an

632 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 40.

American vessel going from Falmouth to St. Maloes with a cargo
of wheat, which the decree states was taken by an English frigate
and carried into Germany, where the agents of the English gov-
ernment detained the cargo, upon a promise to pay the value,
as not being for French account ; the other is the case of some
French passengers going in a Genoese vessel from Cadiz to Bayonne,
who were plundered on the passage by the crew of an English
privateer.

There is no question but that Great Britain, from the begin-
ning of the war, has claimed and exercised the right of capturing
the property of her enemies found in neutral bottoms, and it has
been unanswerably demonstrated, that for this she has the sanc-
tion of the general law of nations. But France, from the exer-
cise of that right by Great Britain, when not forbidden by any
treaty, can certainly derive no justification for the imitation of
the practice, in opposition to the precise and peremptory stipula-
tions of her treaties. Every treaty which established the rule of
i:free ships free goods," must have contemplated the unequal ope-
ration of that rule to the contracting parties, when one was at
peace, the other at war; looking for indemnification to the cor-
respondent of taking friends' property in enemies' ships, and to
the reciprocal effect of the rule when the state of peace and Avar
should be reversed. To make its unequal operation in an exist-
ing war an excuse for disregarding the rule, is therefore a sub-
terfuge for a breach of faith, which hardly seeks to save appear-
ances. France, as she once was, would have blushed to use it.
It is one, among many instances, of the attempts of revolution-
ary France to dogmatize mankind out of its reason, as if she
expected to work a change in the faculties as well as in the ha-
bits and opinions of men.

The case of the American vessel carried to Guernsey is that
of a clear infraction of neutral right. But standing singly, it
was insufficient evidence of a plan of the British government to
pursue the principle. It countenanced suspicion of a secret order
for the purpose; but it did not amount to proof of such an order.
There might have been misapprehension or misrepresentation;
or if neither was the case, the circumstance was resolvable into

JJt. 40.J THE WARNING. 633

the mere irregularity of particular agents — it is unjustifiable to
ascribe to a government, as the result of a premeditated plan,
and to use as the ground of reprisals, a single case of irregularity
happening in a detached portion of the dominions of that gov-
ernment. France was bound to have waited for more full evi-
dence. There was no warrant in a solitary precedent for general
retaliation; even if we could admit the detestable doctrine, that
the injustice of one belligerent power towards neutral nations is
a warrant for similar injustice in another.

The violation of the courtesy of war in the instance of the
French passengers, however brutal in itself, was truly a frivo-
lous pretext for the decree. The frequency of irregular conduct
in the commanders and crews of privateers, even in contempt of
the regulations of their own governments, naturally explains
such a transaction into the cupidity of individuals, and forbids
the imputation of it to their governments. There never was a
war in which similar outrages did not occur in spite of the most
sincere endeavors to prevent them.

The natural and plain conclusion is, that the decree in ques-
tion was a wanton proceeding in the French government, un-
countenanced by the previous conduct either of its enemies, or
of the neutral nations who were destined to punishment for their
faults.

For, the first order of the British government authorizing the
seizure of provisions is dated the sixth of June, 1793, nearly a
month posterior to the French decree. As there is not the least
vestige of any prior order, the presumption is that none ever ex-
isted. If any had existed, the course of things has been such as
to afford a moral certainty that it would have appeared. The
subsequent date of the British order is a strong confirmation of
the argument, that the affair of the vessel carried to Guernsey
was nothing more than a particular irregularity.

The publicity of all the proceedings of the French govern-
ment, and the celerity of commiiLication between Paris and Lon-
don, leave no doubt that the decree of May the 9th, was known
in London before the order of June the 6th. It follows, that
France herself furnished to Great Britain the example and the

634 t HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 40.

pretext for the most odious of the measures with which she is
chargeable ; and, that so far as precedent can justify crime, Great
Britain may find in the conduct of France the vindication of
her own.

An obvious reflection presents itself. How great was the in-
fatuation of France thus to set the example of an interruption of
neutral commerce in provisions, in the freedom of which she was
so much more interested than her adversaries. If the detention
of the cargo at Guernsey was a bait, we cannot but be astonish-
ed at the stupid levity with which it was swallowed.

"We are no less struck with the eager precipitancy with which
France seized the pretext for a formal and systematic invasion of
the rights of neutral powers; equally regardless of the obliga-
tions of treaty and of the injunctions of the laws of nations. The
presumption of the connivance of the neutral power in infrac-
tions of its rights is the only colorable ground for the French
idea of retaliation on the sufferers. Here the yet early stage of
the war and the recency of the facts alleged as motives to the
decree, preclude the supposition of connivance. The unjust
violence of France, consequently, in resorting to retaliation,
stands without the slightest veil. From this prominent trait we
may distinguish, without possibility of mistake, the real charac-
ter of her system.

Americus.

VI.

March 27, 1797.
It has been seen that the government of France has an in-
disputable title to the culpable pre-eminence of having taken
lead in the violation of neutral rights ; and that the first instance
on the part of the British government, is nearly a month pos-
terior to the commencement of the evil by France. But it was
not only posterior, it was also less comprehensive, that of

Mt. 40.] THE WARNING. G35

France extended to all provisions, that of Great Britain to cer-
tain kinds only, corn, flour, and meal.

The French decree, as to the United States, was repeatedly
suspended and revived. As to other neutral nations, it con-
tinued a permanent precedent to sanction the practice of Great
Britain.

This decretal versatility is alone complete evidence of want
of principle. It is the more censurable, because it is ascertained
that it proceeded, in part at least, from a corrupt source. The
sacred power of law-making became the minister and the ac-
complice of private rapine. Decrees exacted by the solemn
obligations of treaty, were sacrificed to sea rovers — to enable
them to enjoy the prey, for the seizure of which they ought
to have been condignly punished.*

The next and most injurious of the acts of Great Britain
is the order of the 6th of November, 1793, which instructs the
commanders of ships of war and privateers to stop, detain, and
carry in for adjudication all ships, laden with the produce of any
French colony, or carrying provisions or other supplies for the
use of such colony. It was under the cover of this order, that
were committed the numerous depredations on our commerce,
which were the immediate cause of sending an envoy to Great
Britain.

The terms of this order were ambiguous, warranting a sus-
picion that they were designed to admit of an oppressive in-
terpretation, and yet to leave room for a disavowal of it.
Whether this was really the case, or whether the order was in
fact misconstrued by the British officers and tribunals in the
West Indies, it is certain that the British government, almost
as soon as their construction was known in England, not only
disclaimed it, but issued a new order, dated the first of Janu-
ary, 1794, revoking that of the sixth of November, and ex-
pressly restraining the power to detain and carry in vessels for

* The report of the Secretary of State mentions (as was known at the time)
that one repeal was effected by the influence of the owners of a privateer, which
had captured the valuable American ship Laurens, to give effect to her condemna-
tion.

636 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEr. 40.

adjudication to such as were laden with the produce of a French
island going from a port in the island to a port in Europe, to
such as were laden with the like produce belonging to subjects of France
whithersoever bound, to such as were laden in whole or in part
with naval or military stores bound to a French island.

This last order obviated in a great measure the mischief of
the former ; and though its principles were in some respect such as
we ought never to recognize, yet were they conformable with
the practice of the principal maritime powers in antecedent
modern wars, especially of France and Great Britain.

These acts comprise the whole of those on which the British
the spoliations have been founded. Taken with all the latitude of
construction adopted by the British officers and courts in the
West Indies, they amount to this, and to no more, — " the seizure
and appropriations of our corn, flour, and meal, going to a French
port, on the condition of paying for them — the seizure and confiscation
of our vessels with their cargoes, when laden with the produce of
a Freyich colony, or in the act of carrying provisions or other
supplies for the use of such colony." Our trade with France
herself, except in corn, flour, and meal, and in contraband ar-
ticles, has in the worst of times remained unmolested, and has
even been allowed to be carried on directly from British ports.

Iniquitous and oppressive as were, the acts of Great Britain,
how very far short do they fall of the more iniquitous and op-
pressive decrees of France: as these have been construed and
acted upon, not only by the colonial administrations, but by
some of its tribunals in Europe ! The decree of the second of
July, 1796, purports in substance, that France will treat the
neutral powers as they have permitted her enemies to treat them.
But under this masked battery the whole of our trade with the
enemies of France has been assailed. The two edicts of her
proconsuls in the West Indies* proclaim the capture of all neu-
tral vessels bound to or coming from English ports, and the
uniform consequence is confiscation of vessel and cargo. We

* Sauthonax and Co., November 27th, 1796. Victor Hugues, 13th Pluviose, 5th
year of the Republic.

iET. 40.] THE WARNING. 637

are now likewise officially informed that a French consular
tribunal at Cadiz has condemned neutral vessels carried in there
on the same broad principle. The evil to us has been magnified
by various aggravations. Our vessels going from one neutral
port to another, even our vessels going from French ports, have
been the victims' of the piratical spirit which dictated those
edicts. Outrage, imprisonment, fetters,- disease and death, in-
flicted or brought upon the commanders and crews of our ves-
sels, cause the bitter cup of our sufferings to overflow, and
leave the imagination at a loss for a parallel without seeking for
it in the ferocious regions of Barbary.

The ambiguity of the British order of November was a
just subject of reproach to its authors. "What shall be said of
the perfidious ambiguity of the French decree of the 2d of July,
1796? When retaliation of the partial injuries which neutral
nations had suffered from the enemies of France was denounced,
who could have dreamt that an universal war on their trade was
meditated? WTho that has a spark of the American in his soul
can refuse his utmost indignation, as well at the manner as at
the matter of this atrocious proceeding? Not only the par-
tisans of France, the advocates for the honor of republican
government, but the friends of human nature, must desire that
the final explanation may reject, as a criminal abuse, the practice
upon that decree, and repair as far as possible the mischiefs
which it has occasioned.

But the treaty with Great Britain, (still exclaim the dupes or
hirelings of France,) that abominable instrument is the Pan-
dora's box from which all our misfortunes issue. When that
instrument was confirmed, who could have expected any thing-
better ?

Peace, ye seduced or seducing babblers ! Had Denmark or
Sweden any share in making that reprobated treaty ? Besides
the refutation of your flimsy pretence, by the ill-treatment in
other shapes of several of the neutral powers in Europe— by the
information from Cadiz of the indiscriminate seizure and con-
demnation of neutral vessels going to or coming from English
ports— do ye not read in the recent accounts from St. Bartholo-

638 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [At. 40

mews, a Swedish island, that not Americans only, that Danes,
that Swedes, that all the neutral nations partake in the common
calamity — alike the prey of a devouring rapacity ? Will ye
still then insist on the barefaced imposture of ascribing to the
treaty grievances which are the mere effects of a spirit of oppres-
sion and rapine ? Read the letter of Mr. Shipwith to Mr. Mon-
roe, dated at Paris, the third of October, 1794, prior to the sig-
nature of the treaty by Mr. Jay. Remember that he is an
American agent, acting under the eye of an American minister,
and that both the minister and the agent are distinguished by a
partiality for France, which exempts them from the suspicion of
exaggerating her misdeeds. What does that letter tell us?
Why, in express terms, that "innumerable embarrassments
and difficulties had for a long time oppressed our commerce in
different ports cf the republic — that if the French government did
not soon remedy the incessant abuses and vexations practised daily
upon our merchants, the trade of the United States with France
must cease." Hence may we learn, that long before our treaty
with Great Britain, the vexations of our trade in the ports of
France were so extreme, as to have become intolerable; — that
" the indiscriminate capture of our vessels at sea by the vessels
of war of the Republic, "* formed only one class of the injuries
which our commerce had sustained : in a word, that the preda-
tory system of France existed before the treaty, and has only of
late acquired greater activity from the cravings of an exhausted
treasury.

The man who, after this mass of evidence, shall be the apolo-
gist of France, and the calumniator of his own government, is
not an American. The choice for him lies between being deemed
a fool, a madman, or a traitor.

* This is also a passage verbatim from Mr. Shipwith's letter— and he produces
a long list of cases to support his assertions.

vEt. 41.] THE STAND. G39

THE STAND.

March 30, 1798.
The enlightened friends of America never saw greater occasion
of disquietude than at the present juncture. Our nation,
through its official organs, has been treated with studied con-
tempt and systematic insult : essential rights of the country are
perseveringly violated, and its independence and liberty event-
ually threatened, by the most flagitious, despotic, and vindictive
government that ever disgraced the annals of mankind; by a
government marchiug with hasty and colossal strides to universal
empire — and in the execution of this hideous project, wielding
with absolute authority the whole physical force of the most en-
thralled, but most powerful nation on earth. In a situation like
this, how great is the cause to lament, how afflicting to every
heart, alive to the honor and interests of its country, to observe,
that distracted and inefficient councils, that a palsied and uncon-
scious state of the public mind, afford too little assurance of
measures adequate either to the urgency of the evils which are
felt, or to the magnitude of the dangers which are in prospect.

When Great Britain attempted to wrest from us those rights,
without which we must have descended from the rank of free-
men, a keen and strong sense of injury and danger ran with
electric swiftness through the breasts of our citizens. The mass
and weight of talents, property, and character, hastened to con-
federate in the public cause. The great body of our community
every where burnt with a holy zeal to defend it, and were eager
to make sacrifices on the altar of their country.

If the nation with which we were called to contend was then
the preponderating power of Europe ; if by her great wealth and
the success of her arms she was in a condition to bias or to awe
the cabinets of princes ; if her fleets covered and domineered
over the ocean, facilitating depredation and invasion ; if the

640 HAMILTON'S WORKS. |>Et. 40.

penalties of rebellion bung over an unsuccessful contest; if
America was yet in tbe cradle of ber political existence; if ber
population little exceeded two millions; if sbe was without gov-
ernment, without fleets or armies, arsenals, or magazines, with-
out military knowledge ; still her citizens had a just and elevated
sense of her rights, were thoroughly awake to the violence and
injustice of the attack upon them ; saw the conduct of her adver-
sary without apology or extenuation ; and under the impulse of
these impressions and views, determined, with little short of unani-
mity, to brave every hazard in her defence.

This magnanimous spirit was the sure pledge that all the
energies of the country would be exerted to bring all its re-
sources into action ; that whatever was possible would be done
towards effectual opposition ; and this, combined with the im-
mense advantage of distance, warranted the expectation of ulti-
mate success. The event justified the expectation and rewarded
the glorious spirit from which it was derived.

Far different is the picture of our present situation ! The
five tyrants of France, after binding in chains their own country-
men, after prostrating surrounding nations, and vanquishing all
external resistance to the revolutionary despotism at home, with-
out the shadow of necessity, with no discernible motive, other
than to confirm their usurpation and extend the sphere of their
domination abroad — these implacable tyrants obstinately and re-
morselessly persist in prolonging the calamities of mankind, and
seem resolved, as far as they can, to multiply and perpetuate
them. Acting upon the pretension to universal empire, they
have at length in fact, though not in name, decreed war against
all nations not in league with themselves ; and towards this coun-
try in particular, they add to a long train of unprovoked aggres-
sions and affronts the insupportable outrage of refusing to receive
the extraordinary ambassadors whom we sent to endeavor to ap-
pease and conciliate. Thus have they, in regard to us, filled up
the measure of national insult and humiliation. 'Tis not in their
power, unless we are accomplices in the design, to sink us lower.
'Tis only in our own power to do this by an abject submission to
their will.

jEt. 41.] THE STAND. (Ul

But though a knowledge of the true character of the citizens
of this country will not permit it to be suspected that a majority
either in our public councils or in the community can be so
degraded or infatuated ; yet to the firm and independent lover
of his country, there are appearances at once mortifying and
alarming.

Among those who divide our legislative councils, we perceive
hitherto, on the one side, unremitting efforts to justify or excuse
the despots of France, to vilify and discredit our own govern-
ment, of course to destixrv its neces.sary vigor, and to distract the
opinions and to damp the zeal of our citizens — what is worse, to
divert their affections from their own to a foreign country ; on
the other side, we have as yet seen neither expanded views
of our situation, nor measures at all proportioned to the serious-
ness and extent of the danger. While our independence is me-
naced, little more is heard than of guarding our trade, and this
too in very feeble and tremulous accents.

In the community, though in a sounder state than its repre-
sentatives, we discover the vestiges of the same divisions which
enervate our councils. A few — happily, a contemptible few —
prostituted to a foreign enemy, seem willing that their country
should become a province to France. Some of these dare even
to insinuate the treasonable and parricidal sentiment, that in case
of invasion they would join the standard of France. Another
and a more considerable part are weak enough to appear dispos-
ed to sacrifice our commerce, to endure every indignity, and even
to become tributary, rather than to encounter war or to increase
the chances of it ; as if a nation could preserve any rights — could
even retain its freedom — which should conduct itself on the prin-
ciple of passive obedience to injury and outrage; as if the de-
basement of the public mind did not include the debasement of
the individual mind, and the dereliction of whatever adorns or
exalts human nature ; as if there could be any security in com-
pounding with tyranny and injustice by degrading compliances ;
as if submission to the existing violations of our sovereignty
would not invite still greater, and whet the appetite to devour
us by the allurement of an unresisting prey ; as if war was ever
G 41

642 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 41.

to be averted by betraying unequivocally a pusillanimous dread
of it as the greatest of all evils.

This country had doubtless powerful motives to cultivate
peace. It is its policy, for the sake of this object, to go a great
way in yielding secondary interests, and to meet injury with pa-
tience, as long as it could be done without the manifest abandon-
ment of essential rights — without absolute dishonor. But to do
more than this is suicide in any people who have the least
chance of contending with effect. The conduct of our govern-
ment has corresponded with the cogent inducements to a pacific
system. Towards Great Britain it displayed forbearance —
towards France it hath, shown humility. In the case of Great
Britain its moderation was attended with, success. But the inex-
orable arrogance and rapacity of the oppressors of unhappy
France bar all the avenues to reconciliation as well as to redress,
accumulating upon us injury and insult, till there is no choice left
but between resistance and infamy. My countrymen, can ye
hesitate which to prefer ? Can ye consent to taste the brutalizing
cup of disgrace ; to wear the livery of foreign masters ; to put
on the hateful fetters of foreign bondage ? Will it make auy
difference to you, that the badge of your servitude is a cap
rather than an epaulet f Will tyranny be less odious because
five instead of one inflict the rod ? What is there to deter you
from the manful vindication of your rights and your honor ?

With an immense ocean rolling between the United States
and France; with ample materials for ship-building, and a
body of hardy seamen more numerous and more expert than
France can boast ; with a population exceeding five millions,
spread over a wide extent of country, offering no one point, the
seizure of which, as of the great capitals of Europe, might decide
the issue ; with a soil liberal of all the productions that give
strength and resource ; with the rudiments of the most essential
manufactures, capable of being developed in proportion to our
want ; with a numerous, and, in many quarters, well appointed
militia ; with respectable revenues and a flourishing credit ; with
many of the principal sources of taxation yet untouched ; with
considerable arsenals, and the means of extending them ; with

jEt. 41.] THE STAND. G43

experienced officers ready to form an army under the command
of the same illustrious chief who before led them to victory and
glory, and who, if the occasion should require it, could not hesi-
tate to obey the summons of his country ; what a striking and
encouraging contrast does this situation in many respects pre-
sent, to that in which we defied the thunder of Britain ! What
is there in it to excuse or palliate the cowardice and baseness of
a tame surrender of our rights to France ?

The question is unnecessary. The people of America are
neither idiots nor dastards. They did not break one yoke to put
on another. Though a portion of them have been hitherto mis-
led ; yet not even these, still less the great body of the nation
can be long unaware of the true situation, or blind to the treach-
erous arts by which they are attempted to be hoodwinked. The
unfaithful and guilty leaders of a foreign faction, unmasked in all
their intrinsic deformity, must quickly shrink from the scene ap-
palled and confounded. The virtuous whom they have led
astray will renounce their exotic standard. Honest men of all
parties will unite to maintain and defend the honor and the
sovereignty of their country.

The crisis demands it. 'Tis folly to dissemble. The despots
of France are waging war against us. Intoxicated with success
and the inordinate love of power, they virtually threaten our in-
dependence. All amicable means have in vain been tried towards
accommodation. The problem now to be solved is whether we
will maintain or surrender our sovereignty. To maintain it with
firmness is the most sacred of duties, the most glorious of tasks.
The happiness of our country, the honor of the American name
demands it ; the genius of independence exhorts to it ; the se-
cret mourning voice of oppressed millions in the very country
whose despots menace us, admonish to it by their suffering ex-
ample ; the offended dignity of man commands us not to be
accessory to its further degradation ; reverence to the Supreme
Governor of the universe enjoins us not to bow the knee to the
modern Titans* who erect their impious crests against him and
vainly imagine they can subvert his eternal throne.

* A race of giants fabled of old to have made war on heaven.

644 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 41.

But 'tis not enough to resist. Tis requisite to resist with
energy. That will be a narrow view of our situation which does
not contemplate that we may be called, at our very doors, to
defend our independence and liberty, and which does not provide
against it by bringing into activity and completely organizing
all the resources of our country. A respectable naval force
ought to protect our commerce, and a respectable army ought
both to diminish the temptation to invasion, by lessening the ap-
parent chance of success, and to guarantee us not only against
the signal success of such an attempt, but against the serious
though partial calamities, which in that case would certainly await
us if we have to rely on militia alone against the enterprises of
veteran troops, drenched in blood and slaughter, and led by a
skilful and daring chief.

Titus Manlius.

ii.

April, 4, 1798.
The description of vice, by a celebrated poet, may aptly be
applied to the Revolutionary Government of France. It is

" A monster of such horrid mien
As to be hated needs but to be seen."

Unfortunately however for mankind, a species of moral pesti-
lence has so far disordered the mental eye of a considerable portion
of it, as to prevent a distinct view of the deformities of this prod-
igy of human wickedness and folly. It is the misfortune of this
country in particular, that too many among its citizens have seen
the monster, in all its dreadful transformations, with complacency
or toleration. Nor is it among the least of the contradictions of
the human mind, that a religious, moral, and sober people should
have regarded with indulgence so frightful a volcano of atheism,
depravity and absurdity ; that a gentle and humane people should

^ET. 41.] THE STAND. 645

have viewed without detestation, so hateful an instrument ot
cruelty and bloodshed ; that a people having an enlightened and
ardent attachment to genuine liberty, should have contemplated
without horror so tremendous an engine of despotism and slavery.
The film indeed begins to be removed, but the vision of many of
those who have been under its influence is not yet restored to the
necessary energy or clearness.

It is of the last importance to our national safety and welfare,
that the remaining obscurity should be speedily dispelled. Till
this shall be the case, we shall stand on the brink of a precipice.
To exhibit the hydra in all its horrible pre-eminence of guilt
and mischief, would require volumes. Slight sketches, chiefly to
portray its character in reference to other nations, are all that will
comport with the plan of these papers.

In retracing the progress of a war winch has immersed Europe
in blood and calamity, it is an error as common as it is strange to
acquit France of responsibility, and throw the whole blame upon
her adversaries. This is a principal source of the indulgence
which is shown to the extravagances and enormities of her revo-
lution. And yet the plainest facts demonstrate that the reverse
of this supposition is far more agreeable to truth. It required
all the bold imposing pretences of the demagogues of France,
all the docile partiality of a warm admiration for her revolu-
tion, to have secured a moment's success to so glaring a decep-
tion.

The origin of the war is usually charged to the treaty ot
Pilnitz and to the counter-revolutionary projects of the parties

to it.

To this day we are without authentic and accurate evidence
of the nature of that treaty. Taking its existence for granted
there is not the least proof that it comprehended any other powers
than Austria, Prussia, and Sardinia. Beyond these therefore un-
less suspicion be substituted for fact, it could not afford even a
pretext for hostility. It is likewise certain that, after the date
assigned to the treaty of Pilnitz, the emperor, who was the re-
puted head of the confederacy, gave strong proof of the renunci-
ation of its object, if hostile to the revolution, by signifying,

646 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 41.

through his ministers, to all the foreign Courts, his determination
to acquiesce in the Constitution of 1792, accepted by Louis
the XVI.

The diplomatic correspondence between France and Austria,
which preceded the rupture, evinces that the treaty of Pilnitz was
not the cause of the war, for it is not even mentioned. The im-
mediate ostensible cause, as it there appears, was the refusal of
Austria to disarm in compliance with the peremptory demand of
France: a demand to which this apparently very reasonable re-
ply was given — that France had previously armed to a greater
extent ; and that Austria could not safely reduce her force while
France remained in so disturbed and inflamed a state as to leave
her neighbors every moment exposed to the enterprises of her
revolutionary fervor. There is no absolute criterion by which it
can be pronounced whether this reply was merely a pretext or
the dictate of a serious apprehension. But it is certain that the
correspondence discovers great appearance of moderation and
candor, on the part of the imperial cabinet, and it is not to be de-
nied, that the state of effervescence of the French nation at this
juncture furnished real cause of alarm to the neighboring govern-
ments.

It is then, at best, problematical, whether France in declaring
war, as she did at the same time against Austria and Prussia,
was actuated by the conviction that it was necessary to antici-
pate and disconcert the unfriendly views of those powers; or
whether the war, as has been suggested with great probability,
was sought by the republican party as a mean of embarrassing
the executive government, and paving the way for the over-
throw of the royalty. Two things well established are instructive
on this point. The one, that the king was driven against his
wish, by a ministry forced upon him by the popular party, to
propose the declaration of war, which he considered as the tomb
of his family ; the other, that Brissot, the head of the then pre-
vailing faction, some time afterwards exultingly boasted that,
"but for this war, the revolution of the tenth of August would
never have taken place; that, but for this war, France would
never have been a republic."

&t. 41.] THE STAND. .47

Admitting nevertheless that the true source of the war with
Austria and Prussia is enveloped in some obscurity, there is
none as to the wars in which France became subsequently en-
gaged. It is clear as to them that she was the original ag-
gressor.

It appeared from cotemporary testimony that one of the first
acts of that assembly which dethroned the king, was in a parox-
ysm of revolutionary frenzy, to declare itself "A Committee of In-
surrection of the whole human race, for the purpose of overturn-
ing all existing government.'1 This extravagant declaration
surpasses any thing to be found in the ample record of human
madness. It amounted to an act of hostility against mankind.
The republic of America no less than the despotism of Turkey
was included in the anathema. It breathed that wild and ex-
cessive spirit of fanaticism which would scruple no means of es-
tablishing its favorite tenets; and which, in its avowed object,
threatening the disorganization of all governments, warranted a
universal combination to destroy the monstrous system of which
it was the soul.

The decrees of the 19th of November and the 15th of De-
cember, 1792, were modifications of the same spirit. The first
offered fraternity and assistance to every people who should
wish to recover their liberty, and charged the executive power
to send orders to their generals to give that assistance, and to de-
fend those citizens who had been or might be vexed for the cause
of liberty.

The last declared that the French nation would treat as ene-
mies any people who, refusing or renouncing liberty and equality,
were desirous of preserving, recalling, or entering into accommo-
dation with their prince and privileged castes.

The first was a general signal to insurrection and revolt. It
was an invitation to the seditious of every country, in pursuit of
chimerical schemes of more perfect liberty, to conspire under the
patronage of France against the established government, how-
ever free. To assist a people in a reasonable and virtuous strug-
gle for liberty, already begun, is both justifiable and laudable;
but to incite to revolution every where by indiscriminate offers

648 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 41.

of assistance beforehand, is to invade and endanger the founda-
tion of social tranquillity. There is no term of reproach or exe-
cration too strong for so flagitious an attempt.

The last of the two decrees is not merely in spirit — it is in
terms equivalent to a manifesto of war against every nation hav-
ing a prince or nobility. It declares explicitly and formally,
that the French nation will treat as enemies every people, who may
desire to preserve or restore a government of that character.

It is impossible not to feel the utmost indignation against so
presumptuous and so odious a measure. It was not only to scat-
ter the embers of a general conflagration in Europe ; it was to
interfere coercively in the interior arrangements of other nations ;
it was to dictate to them, under the penalty of the vengeance of
France, what form of government they should live under ; it was
to forbid them to pursue their political happiness in their own
way ; it was to set up the worst of all despotisms, a despotism
over opinion, not against one nation, but against almost all na-
tions. With what propriety is the interference of the powers ul-
timately coalesced against France, in her interior arrangements,
imputed to them as an unpardonable crime, when her leaders
had given so terrible an example, and had provoked retaliation
as a means of self-preservation ?*

These decrees preceded the transactions which immediately
led to a rupture between France and the other powers, Austria
and Prussia excepted.

It is idle to pretend, that they did not furnish to those pow-
ors just cause of war. There is no rule of public law better
established, or on better grounds, than that when one nation une-
quivocally avows maxims of conduct dangerous to the security
and tranquillity of others, they have a right to attack her and to
endeavor to disable her from carrying her schemes into effect.

* If it be true, as pretended, that Austria and Prussia first interfered in this
way with France, it was no plea for her to retaliate on all the rest of Europe.
Great Britain in particular, as far as appears, had observed a fair neutrality. Yet
the principle of the French decree was emphatically pointed against her. by the
open reception of deputations of malcontents, and public declarations to them, on
behalf of the French government, avowing the desire of seeing all thrones over-
turned, of a national convention, and a republican revolution in England.

Mt.4i.\ the stand. G49

They are not bound to wait till inimical designs are matured for
action, when it may be too late to defeat them.

How far it may have been wise in a particular government
to have taken up the gauntlet, or if, in its option, to have left
France to the fermentations of the pernicious principles by which
its leaders were actuated, is a question of mere expediency, dis-
tinct from the right. It is also a complicated and difficult ques-
tion, one which able and upright men might decide different
ways. But the right is still indisputable. The moment the con-
vention vomited forth these venomous decrees, all the govern-
ments threatened were justifiable in making war upon France.

Neither were they bound to be satisfied with after explana-
tions or qualifications of the principles which had been declared.
They had a right to judge conscientiously whether reliance could
be placed on any pretended change of system, and to act accord-
ingly. And while the power of France remained in the same
men, who had discovered such hostile views, and while the ef-
fervescence of the public mind continued at its height, there could
not have been, in the nature of things, any security in assurances
of greater moderation. Fanaticism is a spirit equally fraudulent
and intractable. Fanatics may dissemble the better to effect their
aims, but they seldom suddenly reform. No faith is due to the
reformation which they may effect, unless it has been the work
of time and experience.

But whether a wrong or right election, in point of expedien-
cy, may have been made by all or any of the powers which,
after the passing of those decrees, became engaged in hostility
with France, it is not the less true, that her government was the
first aggressor, and is primarily chargeable with the evils which
have followed. This conclusion is greatly aided by the striking
fact, that it was France which declared war, not only against
Austria and Prussia, but against England, Spain, Sardinia, and
Holland.

Two very important inferences result from the facts which
have been presented ; one, that in blowing up the dreadful flame
which has overwhelmed Europe in misfortune, France is the
party principally culpable ; the other, that the prominent original

650 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 41.

feature of her revolution is the spirit of proselytism, ©r the desire
of new modelling the political institutions of the rest of the world
according to her standard. The course of the revolution also
demonstrates that, whatever change of system may have been at
any time pretended, or however the system may in particular
instances have yielded to a temporary policy, it has continued
in the main to govern the conduct of the parties who have suc-
cessively triumphed and tyrannized.

Titus Manlius.

hi.

April 7th, 1798.

In reviewing the disgusting spectacle of the French revolution,
it is difficult to avert the eye entirely from those features of it
which betray a plan to disorganize the human mind itself, as
well as to undermine the venerable pillars that support the edi-
fice of civilized society. The attempt by the rulers of a nation
to destroy all religious opinion, and to pervert a whole nation to
atheism, is a phenomenon of profligacy reserved to consummate
the infamy of the unprincipled reformers of France. The*proofs
of this terrible design are numerous and convincing.

The animosity to the Christian system is demonstrated by
the single fact of the ridiculous and impolitic establishment of
the decades, with the evident object of supplanting the Christian
Sabbath. The inscriptions by public authority on the tombs of
the deceased, affirming death to be an eternal sleep, witness the
desire to discredit the belief of the immortality of the soul. The
open profession of atheism in the convention,* received with ac-
clamations; the honorable mention on its journals of a book
professing to prove the nothingness of all religion ;f the institu-
tion of a festival to offer public worship to a courtesan decorated

* By Dupont, Danton, &c.

f Written and presented by Anacharsis Clootz. calling himself orator of the
human race.

^Et.41.] THE STAND. 651

with the pompous title of " Goddess of Reason," the congratula-
tory reception of impious children appearing in the hall of the
convention to lisp blasphemy against the King of kings— are
among the dreadful proofs of a conspiracy to establish atheism
on the ruins of Christianity— to deprive mankind of its best
consolations and most animating hopes, and to make a gloomy
desert of the universe.

Latterly, the indications of this plan are not so frequent as
they were, but from time to time something still escapes which
discovers that it is not renounced. The late address of Buona-
parte to the Directory is an example. That unequalled conqueror,
from whom it is painful to detract, in whom one would wish to
find virtues worthy of his shining talents, profanely unites reli-
gion (not superstition) with royalty and the feudal system as the
scourges of Europe for centuries past. The decades likewise re-
main the catapulta which are to batter down Christianity.

Equal pains have been taken to deprave the morals as to ex-
tinguish the religion of the country, if indeed morality in a com-
munity can be separated from religion. It is among the singular
and fantastic vagaries of the French revolution, that while the
Duke of Brunswick was marching to Paris a new law of divorce
was passed, which makes it as easy for a husband to get rid of
his wife, and a wife of her husband, as to discard a worn-out
habit.* To complete the dissolution of those ties, which are the
chief links of domestic and ultimately of social attachment, the
journals of the convention record with guilty applause the accu-
sations preferred by children against their parents.

It is not necessary to heighten the picture by sketching the
horrid group of proscriptions and murders which have made
France a den of pillage and slaughter ; blackening with eternal
opprobrium the very name of man.

The pious and moral weep over these scenes as a sepulchre
destined to entomb all they revere and esteem. The politician

* This law, it was understood, had been lately modified in consequence of its
manifestly pernicious tendency: hut upon a plan which, according to the opinions
of the best men in the two councils lately banished, would leave the evil in full
force.

652 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 41.

who loves liberty, sees them with regret as a gulf that may
swallow up the liberty to which he is devoted. He knows that
morality overthrown (and morality must fall with religion), the
terrors of despotism can alone curb the impetuous passions of
man, and confine him within the bounds of social duty.

But let us return to the conduct of revolutionary France to-
wards other nations, as more immediately within our purpose.

It has been seen that she commenced her career as the cham-
pion of universal liberty ; and, proclaiming destruction to the gov-
ernments which she was pleased to denominate despotic, made a
tender of fraternity of and assistance to the nations whom they
oppressed. She at the same time disclaimed conquest and ag-
grandizement.

But it has since clearly appeared that at the very moment
she was making these professions, and while her diplomatic
agents were hypocritically amusing foreign courts* with concili-
atory explanations and promises of moderation, she was exerting
every faculty by force and fraud, to accomplish the very con-
quest and aggrandizement which she insidiously disavowed.
The people of Belgium, ensnared by fair pretences, believed that
in abandoning the defence of their country and the cause of their
ancient sovereign, they acquired a title to enjoy liberty under a
government of their own choice, protected by France. Contrary
to the hopes which were inspired — contrary to the known will
of a large majority of that people — contrary to all their religious
and national prejudices; they have been compelled to become
departments of France. And their violated temples have afforded
a rich plunder to aliment further conquest aud oppression. The
Dutch, seduced by the same arts to facilitate rather than obstruct
the entrance of a French army into their country, thought they
were only getting rid of their stadtholder and nobles, and were
to retain their territory and their wealth, secured by such a civil
establishment as they should freely choose. Their reward is the
dismemberment of their country and the loss of their wealth by
exhausting contributions ; and they are obliged to take a govern-

* England among the rest.

Mt. 41.] THE STAND. 653

ment, dictated by a faction openly countenanced and supported
by France. Completely a province of France, in imitation of
their frantic masters they are advancing with rapid strides to a
lawless tyranny at home." France, professing eternal hatred to
kings, was to be the tutelary genius of republics. Holland, Ge-
noa, Venice, the Swiss Canton, and the United States, are agon-
izing witnesses of her sincerity.

Of undone Holland no more need be said ; nothing remains
for us but to exercise tender sympathy in the unfortunate fate of
a country which generously lent its aid to establish our inde-
pendence, and to deduce from her melancholy example an in-
structive lesson to repel with determined vigor the mortal em.
brace of her seducer and destroyer.

Genoa, a speck on the globe, for having at every hazard re-
sisted the efforts of the enemies of France, to force her from a
neutral station, is recompensed with a subversion of her govern-
ment and the pillage of her wealth, by compulsory and burthen-
some contributions.

Venice is no more ! In vain had she preserved a faithful
neutrality, when perhaps her interposition might have inclined
the scale of victory in Italy against France. A few of her citi-
zensj- kill some French soldiers. Instant retaliation takes place.
Every atonement is offered. Nothing will suffice but the over-
throw of her government. "lis effected. Her own citizens, at-
tracted by the lure of democracy, become accessory to it, and
receive a popular government at the hand of France. What is
the sequel ? what the faith kept with them ? It suits France to
bribe the emperor to a surrender of the Netherlands and to
peace, that she may pursue her projects elsewhere with less ob-
stacle. It suits France to extend her power and commerce by
the acquisitions of portions of the Venitian territories. The
bribe is offered and accepted. Venice is divided. She disap-
pears from the map of nations. The tragedy of Poland is reacted
with circumstances of aggravated atrocity. France is perfidious

* By the last accounts, some of the most independent citizens have heen seized
and imprisoned merely for the constitutional exercise of their opinion,
t Were they not French agents employed to create the pretext 1

654 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jffli. 41'.

enough to sacrifice a people who, at her desire, had consented to
abrogate their privileged casts to the chief of those despots,
against whom she had vowed eternal hatred.

The Swiss Cantons — the boast of republicans — the model
to which they have been glad to appeal in proof that a republi-
can government may consist with the order and happiness of so-
ciety— the old and faithful allies of France, who are not even
pretended to have deviated from sincere neutrality — what are
they at this moment? Perhaps like Venice, a story told! The
despots of France had found pretences to quarrel with them ;
commotions were excited ; the legions of ^France were in march
to second the insurgents. Little other hope remains than that
the death of this respectable people will be as glorious as their
life : that they will sell their independence as dearly as they
bought it. But why despair of a brave and virtuous people who
appear determined to meet the impending danger with a counte-
nance emulous of their ancient renown ?

The United States — what is their situation? Their sov-
ereignty trampled in the dust, and their commerce bleeding at
every pore, speak in loud accents the spirit of oppression and
rapine which characterizes the usurpers of France. But of this
a distinct view is requisite, and will be taken.

In these transactions we discover ambition and fanaticism
marching hand in hand— bearing the ensigns of hypocrisy,
treachery, and rapine. The dogmas of a false and fatal creed
second the weapons of ambition. Like the prophet of Mecca,
the tyrants of France press forward with the alcoran of their
faith in one hand and the sword in the other. They proselyte,
subjugate, and debase — no distinction is made between republic
and monarchy— all must alike yield to the aggrandizement of
the " great nation;" the destinctive, the arrogant appellation
lately assumed by France to assert in the face of nations her
superiority and ascendency. Nor is it a mere title with which
vanity decorates itself ;— it is the substantial claim of dominion.
France, swelled to a gigantic size, and aping ancient Eome, ex-
cept in her virtues, plainly meditates the control of mankind,
and is actually giving the law to nations. Unless they quickly

;Et. 41.] THE STAND. 655

rouse and compel her to abdicate her insolent claim, they will
verify the truth of that philosophy, which makes man in his
natural state a quadruped, and it will only remain for the misera-
ble animal, converting his hands into paws in the attitude of
prone submission, to offer his patient and servile back to what-
ever burthens the lordly tyrants of France may think fit to
impose.

Titus Manlius.

IV.

April 12, 1798.

In the pursuit of her plan of universal empire, the two
objects which now seem to occupy the attention of France, are a
new organization of Germany, favorable to her influence, and the
demolition of Great Britain. The subversion and plunder —
first of Portugal, and next of Spain, will be merely collateral
instances in the great drama of iniquity.

In the new distribution of the territories, population, and
political power of the Germanic body, which has been announced
as in contemplation of the Directory, three characters are con-
spicuous— a despotism to build up rivals to the imperial chief,
strong enough to feel the sentiment of competition, but too
weak to hazard it alone, who will therefore stand in need of the
patronage of France ; and, as a consequence, will facilitate her
influence in the affairs of the empire — a generosity in making
compensation at the expense of others, for the spoils with which
she has aggrandized herself — a facility of transferring communi-
ties like herds of cattle from one master to another, without the
privilege of an option. In a project like this, it is impossible to
overlook the plain indications of a restless, overbearing ambition,
combined with a total disregard of the rights and wishes of na-
tions. The people are counted for nothing, their masters every
thing.

The conduct of France towards Great Britain, is the copy of

656 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 41.

that of Korae towards Carthage. Its manifest aim is to destroy
the principal obstacle to a domination over Europe. History
proves that Great Britain has repeatedly upheld the balance of
power there, in opposition to the grasping ambition of France.
She has no doubt occasionally employed the pretence of danger,
as the instrument of her own ambition ; but it is not the less
true that she has been more than once an essential and effectual
shield againt real danger. This was remarkably the case in the
reign of Louis the XlVth, when the security of Europe was
seriously threatened by the successful enterprises of that very
ambitious monarch.

The course of the last negotiation between France and Britain
leaves no doubt that the former was resolved against peace on
any practicable terms. This of itself indicates that the destruction
of the latter is the direct object in view. But this object is not
left to inference. It has been fastidiously proclaimed to the
world ; and the necessit}7 of crushing the tyrant of the sea, has
been trumpeted as a motive to other powers to acquiesce in the
execution of a plan, by which France endeavors to become the
tyrant both of sea and land. The understanding of mankind has,
at the same time, been mocked with the proposition that the
peace of Europe would be secured by the aggrandizement of
France on the ruins of her rivals; because then, it is said, having
nothing to fear, she would have no motive to attack ; as if mode-
ration was to be expected from a government or people having
the power to impose its own will without control. The peace of
Europe would in such a case be the peace of vassalage.

Towards the execution of the plan of destroying Great
Britain, the rights of other nations are daringly and openly
invaded. The confiscation is decreed of all vessels with their
cargoes, if composed in any part of articles of British fabric ;
and all nations are to be compelled to shut their ports against the
meditated victim. Hamburg is stated to have already reluc-
tantly yielded to this humiliating compulsion.

While the demolition of Great Britain is eagerly pursued as
a primary object, that of Portugal seems designed to form an
episode in the tragedy. Her fears had induced her to buy a

jEt. 41.] THE STAND. 657

peace. The money she had paid was the immediate instrument
of the revolution of September last. Yet no sooner had the
news of pacification with the emperor reached Paris, than pre-
tences were sought to elude the ratification of the purchased
treaty. A larger tribute was demanded — more probably than it
was expected Portugal would be able to pay, to serve as an ex-
cuse for marching an army to revolutionize and plunder.* The
blow may perhaps be suspended by further sacrifices, but it is
not likely to be finally averted.

Spain, too, was in a fair way of enjoying the fruits of her
weakness in putting on the yoke of France, and of furnishing
another proof of the general scheme of aggrandizement and op-
pression. The demand of the cession of Louisiana, long pressed
upon her, had at length become categoric. The alternative was
to comply or offend. The probability is that before this time the
cession has been made ; and Spain has learnt to her cost, that the
chief privilege of an ally of France is to be plundered at discre-
tion. With the acquisition of Louisiana, the foundation will be
laid for stripping her of South America and her mines ; and per-
haps for dismembering the United States. The magnitude of
this mighty mischief is not easily calculated.

Such vast projects and pretensions pursued by such unexam-
pled means, are full evidence of a plan to acquire an absolute
ascendant among nations. The difficulties in the final execution
of a plan of this kind are, with many decisive reasons, against its
existence.

But in the case of ancient Eome, did it not in fact exist, and
was it not substantially realized? Does the experience of the
past day warrant the opinion that men are not as capable of mad
and wicked projects as they were at any former period ? Does
not the conduct of the French government display a vastness
and sublimation of views, an enormity of ambition, and a desti-
tution of principle, which render the supposition of such a design
probable ? Has not a more rapid progress been made towards
its execution than was ever made by Eome in an equal period ?-

* Such is the account of the transaction received through authentic channels.

G 42

65S HAMILTON'S WORKS \JEt.U.

In their intercourse with foreign nations, do not the Directory
affect an ostentatious imitation of Roman pr/ide and superiority ?
Is it not natural to conclude that the same spirit points to the
same ends? The project is possible. The evidence of its exist-
ence is strong, and it will be the wisdom of every other State to
act upon the supposition of its reality.

Let it be understood, that the supposition does not imply the
intention to reduce all other nations formally to the condition of
provinces. This was not clone by Rome in the zenith of her
greatness. She had her provinces, and she had her allies. But
her allies were in fact her vassals. They obeyed her nod.
Their princes were deposed and created at pleasure.

Such is the proud pre-eminence to which the ambition of
France aspires ! After securing as much territory as she thinks
it expedient immediately to govern, after wresting from Great
Britain and attaching to herself the command of the sea, after
despoiling Spain of the riches of Mexico and Peru, after attaining
by all these means to a degree of strength sufficient to defy and
awe competition, she may be content, under the modest denomi-
nation of allies, to rule the rest of the world by her frown or her
smile.

The character of the actual Directory of France justifies the
imputation to them of any project the most extravagant and
criminal. Viewed internally as well as externally, their conduct
is alike detestable. They have overturned the Constitution, which
they were appointed to administer, with circumstances of bare-
faced guilt that disgrace a revolution, before so tarnished as seem-
ed scarcely to admit of greater degradation, and have erected in
its stead a military despotism, clothed but not disguised with
the mere garb of the Constitution which they have abolished.
In the accomplishment of this usurpation, they have assassinated
one of their colleagues* and seized and banished another, together
with all those members of the two councils, who were disposed
and able to combat their pernicious aims. They have done more ;

* Carnot, as was reported at the time, and as is confirmed by nothing having been
since heard of him. He had been too deeply in the secrets of the violent party.
It was necessary to silence him.

At. 41.] THE STAND. 659

not content with rendering themselves masters of the two coun-
cils, and converting them into the mere pageants of national
representation, they have thought it proper to secure their own
power by exiling or imprisoning such private citizens as they
feared might promote the future election of men hostile to their
views, on the futile pretence of a counter revolutionary plot, to
be effected by royalizing the elections. Thus have they not only
monopolized all the power for the present, but they have made
provisions for its perpetuation; so long at least as the Praetorian
bands will permit.

No impartial man can doubt that the plot charged upon the
exiled members is a forgery. The characters of several of the
accused belie it. Barthelemy and Pichegru are virtuous men.
The former has long merited and possessed this character. The
latter has given numerous proofs of a good title to it — his only
fault seems to have been that of enthusiasm in the worst of causes.
Neither of them, like Dumourier, had been, from his entrance on
public life, marked out as the votary of an irregular ambition.
The alleged object of the plot, as to such men, from the circum-
stances of the conjuncture, was wholly improbable ; nothing like
satisfactory proof has come to light. But the decisive argument
of their innocence is, that the usurpers did not dare to con-
front them with a fair legal accusation and trial. It was so clearly
their interest and policy to have justified themselves by establish-
ing the guilt of the accused, if in their power, that the omission
to attempt it is the demonstration of its impossibility. Having all
authority in their own hands, and the army at their devotion,
they had nothing to fear from the pursuit ; and they must have
foreseen that the banishment without trial, would finally marshal
public opinion against them. There can be little doubt that the
people of France at this moment regard with compassion and re-
gret the banished directors and deputies, and with horror and de-
testation the authors of their disgrace. But the people of France
internally are annihilated ; to their liberty and happiness, this last
usurpation gave a more fatal blow than any or all of the former.
It has more of system in it, and been less sanguinary, is less likely
to provoke resistance from despair.

660 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 41.

The inference from the transaction is evident. The real crime
of the banished was the desire of arresting the mad career of the
Directory, and of restoring peace to France, in the hope that
peace might tend to settle the government on the foundation of
order, security, and tranquillity. The majority of the Directory
foresaw that peace would not prove an element congenial with
the duration of their power ; or perhaps, under the guidance of
Sieyes, the conjurer of the scene, they judged it expedient to con-
tinue in motion the revolutionary wheel, till matters were better
prepared for creating a new dynasty and a new aristocracy* to
regenerate the exploded monarchy of France with due regard to
their own interest.

Thus we perceive that the interior conduct of the Directory
has the same characters with their exterior — the same irregular
ambition, the same contempt of principle, the same boldness of
design, the same temerity of execution. From such men what is
not to be expected ? The development of their recent conduct
towards the United States will no doubt confirm all the inferences
to be drawn from other parts of the portrait, and will contribute
to prove, that there is nothing too abandoned or too monstrous
for them to meditate or attempt.

Who that loves his country, or respects the dignity of his na-
ture, would not rather perish than subscribe to the prostration of
both before such men and such a system? What sacrifice, what
danger is too great to be incurred in opposition to both ? What
security in any compromise with such unprincipled men ? What
safety, but in union, in vigor, in preparation for every extremity ;
in a decisive and courageous stand for the rights and honor of
our injured and insulted country ?

Titus Manlius.

* There is good evidence that this, at bottom the real plan of the Abbe Sieyes
and some of the most influential in the executive department, are his creatures.

JEt. 41.] THE STAND. 661

V.

April 10th. 1798.

To estimate properly the conduct of revolutionary France
towards the United States, the circumstances which have recip-
rocally taken place, must be viewed together. It is a whole not
& part which is to be contemplated. A rapid summary, never-
theless, of the most material is all that can be presented.

Not only the unanimous good wishes of the citizens of this
country spontaneously attached themselves to the revolution of
France in its first stages, but no sooner was the change from
monarchy to a republic officially announced, than our govern-
ment, consulting the principles of our own revolution, and the
wishes of our citizens, hastened to acknowledge the new order of
things. This was done to the last minister sent by Louis the
XVIth, before the arrival of the first envoy from the republic.
Genet afterwards came — his reception by the government was
cordial — by the people, enthusiastic.

The government did not merely receive the minister of the
republic, in fact, and defer the obligation of treaties till the con-
test concerning its establishment had been terminated by success :
but giving the utmost latitude to the maxim that, real treaties
bind nations, notwithstanding revolutions of government, ours
did not hesitate to admit the immediate operation of the an-
tecedent treaties between the two countries, though the revolu-
tion could not be regarded as yet fully accomplished — though a
warrant for a contrary policy might have been found in the
conduct of France herself — and though the treaties contained
several stipulations which gave to her important preferences
relative to war, and which were likely to give umbrage to the
powers coalesced against her.

In acknowledging the republic, the United States preceded
every other nation. It was not till a long time after, that any of
the neutral powers followed the example. Ilad prudence been
exclusively consulted, our government might not have done all
that it did at this juncture, when the case was very nearly Eu-
rope in arms against France.

662 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 41.

But good faith and a regard to consistency of principle, pre-
vailed over the sense of danger. It was resolved to encounter it :
qualifying the step by the manifestation of a disposition to ob-
serve a sincere neutrality, as far as should consist with the
stipulations of treaty. Hence the proclamation of neutrality.

It ought to have no small merit in the eyes of France,
that at so critical a period of her affairs, we were willing to run
risks so imminent. The fact is, that it had nearly implicated
us in the war on her side, at a juncture when all calculations
were against her, and when it was certain she could have afforded
us no protection or assistance.

What was the return ? Genet came with neutrality on his
lips, but war in his heart. The instructions published by him-
self, and his practice upon them, demonstrate that it was the pre-
meditated plan to involve us in the contest; not by a candid
appeal to the judgment, friendship, or interest of our country,
but by alluring the avarice of bad citizens into acts of predatory
hostility, by instituting within our territory, military expeditions
against nations with whom we were at peace. And when it was
found that our Executive would not connive at this insidious
plan, bold attempts were made to create a schism between the
people and the government, and, consequently, to sow the seeds
of civil discord, insurrection, and revolution. Thus began the
republic.

It is true that the Girondist faction, having been subverted by
that of Robespierre, our complaint of the agent of the former was
attended with success. The spirit of vengeance came in aid of
the justice of our demand. The offending minister was recalled
with disgrace. But Robespierre did not fail in a public speech
to give a gentle hint of delinquency in the United States, suffi-
ciently indicating that the authors and the manner were more in
fault, in his opinion, than the thing. It was not the expedient
to quarrel with us. There was still a hope that a course of
things, or more dexterous management, might embark us in the
war, as an auxiliary to France.

The treaties were made by us the criterion of our duty ; but
as they did not require us to go to war, as France did never even

JEt. 41.] THE STAND. 663

pretend this to be the case, listening to the suggestions, not on
of interest, but of safety, we resolved to endeavor to preserve
peace. But we were equally resolved to fulfil our real obliga-
tions in every respect. We saw without murmur our property
seized in belligerent vessels — we allowed to French ships of war
and privateers, all the peculiar exclusive privileges in our ports
to which they were entitled by our treaties upon fair construc-
tion— upon a construction fully concurred in by the political had r*
of the adherents to France — we went further, and gratuitously
suffered her to sell her prizes in our country, in contravention,
perhaps, of the true principles of neutrality — we paid to her new
government the debt contracted by us with the old, not only as
fast as it became due, but by an anticipation, which did not give
pleasure to her enemies. While our government was faithful,
our citizens were zealous. Not content with good wishes, they
adventured their property in the furnishing of supplies to an
extent that showed, in many cases, the co-operation of zeal with
interest.

Our country, our merchants, and our ships, in the gloomy
periods of her revolution, have been the organs of succors to
France, to a degree which gives us an undoubted title to the
character of very useful friends.

Eeverse the medal. France from the beginning, has violated
essential points in the treaties between the two countries. The
"first formal unequivocal act by either of the belligerent parties,
interfering with the rule that "free ships make free goods," was a
decree of the French convention. This violation has been per-
sisted in, and successive violations added, till they amount to a
general war on our commerce.

First, the plea of necessity repelled our feeble and modest
complaints of infractions. Next, the plea of delinquencies on
our part was called in aid of the depredations which it was found
convenient to practise upon our trade. Our refusal to accord
privileges not granted by our treaties, but claimed by miscon-
structions destitute even of plausibility, privileges which would

* Mr. Jefferson.

664 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 41.

have put us at once in a state of war with the enemies of France —
the reciprocal application to them of principles originally esta-
blished against their remonstrances in favor of France, occa-
sional embarrassments to her privateers, arising from the esta-
blished forms of our courts, and the necessity of vigilance to
frustrate her efforts to entangle us against our will in the war —
delays in giving relief in a few instances, rendered unavoidable
by the nature of our government, and the great extent of our
territory— these were so many topics of bitter accusation against
our government, and of insult, as rude as it was unmerited.

Our citizens, in judging whether the accusation was captious
or well founded, ought to bear in mind, that most of the trans-
actions on which it was predicated, happened under the adminis-
tration of Jefferson and Eandolph, and, as is well ascertained,
with their full assent and co-operation. They will not readily
suppose that these very cunning men were the dupes of col-
leagues actuated by ill-will towards France ; but they will dis-
cover in this union of opinion, among men of very opposite
principles, a strong probability that our government acted with
propriety, and that the dissatisfaction of France, if more than a
color, was unreasonable.

Hitherto, the progress, no less than the origin of our contro-
versy with France, exhibits plain marks of a disposition on her
part to disregard those provisions in the treaties which it was
our interest should be observed by her — to exact from us a scru-
pulous performance of our engagements, and even the extension
of them beyond their true import — to embroil us with her ene-
mies, contrary to our inclination and interest, and without even
the allegation of a claim upon our faith — to make unreasonable
demands upon the grounds of complaints against us, and excuses
to violate our property and rights — to divide our nation, and to
disturb our government.

Many of the most determined advocates of France among us,
appear lately to admit, that previous to the treaty with Great
Britain, the complaints of France against the United States were
frivolous ; those of the United States against France, real and
serious.

Mt. 41.] THE STAND. GG5

But the treaty with Great Britain, it is affirmed, has changed
the ground. This, it is said, has given just cause of discontent to
France — this has brought us to the verge of war with our first
ally and best friend ; to this fatal instrument are we indebted for
the evils we feel, and the still greater which impend over our
heads.

These suggestions are without the shadow of foundation.
They prove the infatuated devotion to a foreign power of those
who invented them, and the easy credulity of those with whom
they have obtained currency. The evidence of a previous dispo-
sition in France, to complain without a cause, and to injure with-
out provocation, is a sufficient comment upon the resentment she
professes against the treaty. The partiality or indulgence with
which the ill treatment received from her prior to that event, was
viewed by her decided partisans is a proof of the facility with
which they credit her pretensions, and palliate her aggressions.

The most significant of the charges against the treaty, as it
respects France, are, that it abandons the rule of free ships
making free goods ; that it extended unduly the list of contra-
band articles, and gave color to the claim of a right to subject
provisions to seizure ; that a treaty of amity with the enemy of
France, in the midst of a war, was a mark of preference to that
enemy, and of ill-will to her.

The replies which have been given to these charges are con-
clusive.

As to the first point, the stipulation of two powers to observe
between themselves a particular rule in their respective wars, a
rule, too, innovating upon the general law of nations, can, on no
known or reasonable principle of interpretation, be construed to
intend that they will insist upon that rule with all other nations,
and will make no treaty with any, however beneficial in other
respects, which does not comprehend it. To tic up the will of a
nation, and its power of providing for its own interests, to so im-
mense an extent, required a stipulation in positive terms. In
vain shall we seek in the treaty for such a stipulation or its
equivalent. There is not even a single expression to imply it.
The idea is, consequently, no less ridiculous than it is novel.

666 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 41.

The cotemporarj proceedings, legislative and judiciary, of our
government, show that it was not so understood in this country.
Congress even declined to become a formal party to the armed
neutrality of which it was the basis ; unwilling to be pledged for
the coercive maintenance of a principle which they were only
disposed to promote by particular acts. It is equally futile to
seek to derive the obligation of the United States to adhere to
this rule from the supposition of a change in the law of nations
by the force of that league. Neither theory nor practice warrants
the attributing so important an effect to a military association,
springing up in the war and ending with it ; not having had the
universal consent of nations, nor a course of long practice to give
it a sanction.

Were it necessary to resort to an auxiliary argument, it might
be said with conclusive force that France, having before our
treaty with Great Britain violated in practice the rule in question,
absolved us from all obligations to observe it, if any did pre-
viously exist.

As to the second point, it has been repeatedly demonstrated
that the enumeration of contraband in the treaty with Great
Britain, is agreeable to the general law of nations. But this is a
matter from its nature liable to vary according to relative situa-
tion, and to be variously modified, not only between different
nations, but between one nation and different nations. Thus,
in our treaty, with Great Britain, some articles are enumerated
which are omitted in that with France ; in that with France,
some articles are inserted which are omitted in that with
Britain. But it is, perhaps, the first time that a diversity of this
sort has been deemed a ground of umbrage to a third party.

With regard to provisions — the treaty only decides that where
by the law of nations they are subject to seizure, they are to be
paid for. It does not define or admit any new case. As to its
giving color to abuse in this respect, this, if true, would amount
to nothing. For, till some abuse had actually happened, and
been tolerated to the prejudice of France, there was no cause of
complaint. The possibility of abuse from a doubtful construction
of a treaty between two powers, is no subject of offence to a

JEt. 41.] THE STAND. 667

third. It is the fact which must govern. According to this in-
disputable criterion, France has had no cause to complain on this
account ; for since the ratification of the treaty, no instance of the
seizure of provisions has occurred, and it is known that our
government protested against such a construction.

Further, the treaty has made no change whatever in the
actual antecedent state of things to the disadvantage of France.

Great Britain had, before the treaty, with the sanction of our
government, acted upon the principles as to free ships making
free goods, and generally, as to the affair of contraband which
the treaty recognizes. Nor was that sanction merely tacit, but
explicit and direct. It was even diplomatically communicated to
the agents of France. If there was any thing wrong, therefore,
in this matter, it was chargeable, not upon the treaty, but upon
the prior measures of the government, which had left these points
mere points of form in the treaty.

The remaining charge against that instrument, involves a
species of political metaphysics. Neither the theory of writers
nor the history of nations, will bear out the position, that a treaty
of amity between a neutral state and one belligerent party, not
granting either succors or new privileges relative to war, not
derogatory from any obligation of the neutral state to the other
belligerent party, is a cause of umbrage to the latter. There can
be no reason why a neutral power should not settle differences
or adjust a plan of intercourse, beneficial to itself with another
power, because this last happens to be at war with a third. All
this must be a mere question of courtesy ; and might be un-
courteous or otherwise according to circumstances, but never a
ground of quarrel. If there even might have been want of cour-
tesy in the United States to have entered into a treaty of this
sort with the enemy of France ; had they volunteered it without
cogent motives, there could be none in the particular situation.
They were led to the treaty by pre-existing differences, which
had nearly ripened to a rupture, and the amicable settlement of
which affected very important interests. No favorable con-
jucture for this settlement was to be lost. The settlement, by
the usual formulas in such cases, would amount to a treaty of
amity.

668 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 41.

Thus it is evident that the treaty, like all the rest, has been a
mere pretence for ill treatment. But admitting that this was not
the case, that it really afforded some cause of displeasure, was
this of a nature to admit of no atonement, or of none short of the
humiliation of our country ? If the contrary must be conceded,
it is certain that our government has done all that was possible
towards reconciliation, and enough to have satisfied any reasona-
ble or just government.

France, after the treaty, proceeded to inflict still deeper wounds
upon our commerce. She has endeavored to intercept and de-
stroy it with all the ports of her enemies. Nor was this the worst.
The spoliation has frequently attended our trade with her own
dominions — attended with unparalleled circumstances of rapacity
and violence.

The diplomatic representative of the French government to
the United States was ordered to deliver to our government a
most insulting manifesto, and then to withdraw.

Yet our government, notwithstanding this accumulation of
wrongs, after knowing that it had been repeatedly outraged in
the person of one minister, condescended to send another specially
charged to endeavor to conciliate. This minister was known to
unite fidelity to his country with principles friendly to France
and her revolution. It was hoped that the latter would make
him acceptable, and that he would be able, by amicable explana-
tions and overtures, to obviate misunderstanding and restore har-
mony. He was not received.

Though it was very problematical whether the honor of the
United States, after this, permitted a further advance, yet the
government, anxious if possible to preserve peace, concluded to
make another and more solemn experiment. A new mission,
confided to three extraordinary ministers, took place. They were
all three, in different degrees, men well affected to France and her
revolution. They were all men of high respectability, and among
the purest characters of our country. Their powers and instruc-
tions were so ample as to have extorted, from the most determined
opposers of the government in the two Houses of Congress, a
reluctant approbation in this instance of the President's conduct.

JEt. 41.] THE STAND. 669

In contempt of the established usage, and of the respect due to
us an independent people, with the deliberate design of humbling
and mortifying our government, these special and extraordinary
ministers have been refused to be received. Admitting all the
charges brought against us by France to be well founded, still
ministers of that description ought on every principle to have
been accredited and conferred with, till it was ascertained that
they were not ready to do as much as was expected. Not to
pursue this course was to deny us the rank of an independent
nation ; it was to treat us as Great Britain did while we were yet
contending with her for this character.

Instead of this, informal agents, probably panders and mistress-
es, are appointed to intrigue with our envoys. These, attending
only to the earnest wish of their constituents for peace, stoop to
the conference. What is the misshapen result?

Money, money, is the burden of the discordant song of these
foul birds of prey. Great indignation is at first professed against
expressions in the President's speech of May last. The reparation
of a disavowal is absolutely due to the honor of the Directory and
of the Eepublic, but it turns out that there is a practicable substitute
more valuable. The honor of both, being a marketable commod-
ity, is ready to be commuted for gold.

A douceur of 50,000 pounds sterling for the special benefit of
the Directory was to pave the way. Instead of reparation for the
spoliations on our commerce exceeding twenty millions of dollars,
a loan equal to the amount of them is to be made by us to the
French government. Then perhaps a mode might be settled for
the liquidation of the claims of our merchants, to be compensated
at some future period. The depredations nevertheless were to
continue till the treaty should be concluded, which, from the dis-
tance between the two countries, must at all events take a great
length of time, and might be procrastinated indefinitely at the
pleasure of the Directory.

In addition to all this we must purchase of the Directory at
par Dutch inscriptions to the amount of thirty millions of florins,
and look to the ability of the Batavian republic to redeem them.
Already are these assignats depreciated to half their nominal

670 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 41.

value, and in all probability will come to nothing, serving merely
as a flimsy veil to the extortion of a further and immense contri-
bution.* " Money, a great deal of money," is the cry from the
first to the last ; and our commissioners are assured that without
this they may stay in Paris six months without advancing a step.
To enforce the argument they are reminded of the fate of
Venice.

At so hideous a compound of corruption and extortion, at
demands so exorbitant and degrading, there is not a spark of
virtuous indignation in an American breast, which will not
kindle into a flame. And yet there are men, could it be believed,
vile and degenerate enough to run about the streets to contradict,
to palliate, to justify, to preach the expediency of compliance.
Such men merit all the detestation of all their fellow-citizens :
and there is no doubt that, with time and opportunity, they will
merit much more from the offended justice of the laws.

Titus Manlius.

VI.

April 19, 1798.

The inevitable conclusion, from the facts which have been
presented, is that revolutionary France has been and continues
to be governed by a spirit of proselytism, conquest, domination,
and rapine. The detail well justifies the position that we may
have to contend at our very doors for our independence and
liberty. When the wonders achieved by the arms of France
are duly considered, the possibility of the overthrow of Great
Britain seems not to be chimerical. If, by any of those ex-
traordinary coincidences of circumstances which occasionally
decide the fate of empires, the meditated expedition against
England shall succeed ; or if, by the immense expense to which
that country is driven, and the derangement of her commerce

* II faut de l'argent — il faut beaucoup de l'argent.

/Ex. 41. | THE STAND. 071

by the powerful means employed to that end, her affairs shall
be thrown into such disorder as may enable France to dictate
to her the terms of peace; in either of these unfortunate events
the probability is, that the United States will have to choose
between the surrender of their sovereignty, the new-modelling
of their government according to the fancy of the Directory,
the emptying of their wealth by contributions into the coffers
of the greedy and insatiable monster, and resistance to inva-
sion in order to compel submission to fhose ruinous conditions.

In opposition to this, it is suggested that the interest of
France, concurring with the difficulty of execution, is a safe-
guard against the enterprise. It is asked, what incentives suffi-
ciently potent can stimulate to so unpromising an attempt ? The
answer is, the strongest passions of bad hearts — inordinate am-
bition— the love of domination, that prime characteristic of the
despots of France — the spirit of vengeance, for the presumption
of having thought and acted for ourselves, a spirit which has
marked every step of the revolutionary leaders — the fanatical
egotism of obliging the rest of the world to adapt their political
system to the French standard of perfection — the desire of se-
curing the future control of our affairs by humbling and ruin-
ing the independent supporters of their country, and of elevat-
ing the partisans and tools of France — the desire of entangling
our commerce with preferences and restrictions which would
give to her the monopoly — these passions — the most imperious,
these motives, the most enticing to a crooked policy, are
sufficient persuasives to undertake the subjugation of this
country.

Added to these primary inducements, the desire of finding
an outlet for a part of the vast armies, which, on the termin-
ation of the European war, are likely to perplex and endanger
the men in power, would be an auxiliary motive of great force.
The total loss of the troops sent would be no loss to France.
Their cupidity would be readily excited to the undertaking, by
the prospect of dividing among themselves the fertile lands of
this country. Great Britain once silenced, there would be no
insuperable obstacle to the transportation. The divisions among

672 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 41.

us which have been urged to our commissioners as one motive
to a compliance with the unreasonable demands of the Directory,
would be equally an encouragement to invasion. It would be
believed that a sufficient number would flock to the standard of
France, to render it easy to quell the resistance of the rest.
Drunk with success, nothing would be thought too arduous
to be accomplished.

It is too much a part of our temper to indulge an overween-
ing security. At the close of our revolution war, the phantom
of perpetual peace danced before the eyes of every body. We
see at this early period with how much difficulty war has been
parried, and that with all our efforts to preserve peace, we are
now in a state of partial hostility. Untaught by this experience,
we now seem inclined to regard the idea of invasion as incredi-
ble, and to regulate our conduct by the belief of its improbabili-
ty. Who would have thought, eighteen months ago, that Great
Britain would at this time have been in serious danger of an in-
vasion from France? Is it not now more probable that such a
danger may overtake us, than it was then that it would so soon
Great Britain ?

There are currents in human affairs when events, at other
times little less than miraculous, are to be considered as natural
and simple. Such were the eras of Macedonian, of Koman, of
Gothic, of Saracen inundation. Such is the present era of
French fanaticism. Wise men, when they discover symptoms of
a similar era, look for prodigies, and prepare for them with
foresight and energy.

Admit that in our case invasion is upon the whole improba-
ble ; yet, if there are any circumstances which pronounce that
the apprehension of it is not absolutely chimerical, it is the part
of wisdom to act as if it were likely to happen. What are the
inconveniences of preparation compared with the infinite magni-
tude of the evil if it shall surprise us unprepared? They are
lighter than air, weighed against the smallest probability of so
disastrous a result.

But what is to be done ? Is it not wiser to compound on
any terms than to provoke the consequences of resistance ?

.Et. 41.] THE STAND. 673

To do this is dishonor— it is ruin— it is death. Waiving
other considerations, there can be no reliance on its efficacy. The
example of Portugal teaches us that it is to purchase disgrace
not safety. The cravings of despotic rapacity may be appeased
but they are not to be satisfied. They will quickly renew their
force, and call for new sacrifices in proportion to the facility
with which the first were made. The situation of France is
likely to make plunder for a considerable time to come, an in-
dispensable expedient of government. Excluding the great
considerations of public policy, and bringing the matter to the
simple test of pecuniary calculation, resistance is to be preferred
to submission. The surrender of our whole wealth would only
procure respite, not safety. The disbursements for war will
chiefly be at home. They will not necessarily carry away our
riches, and they will preserve our honor and give us security.

But, in the event supposed, can we oppose with success?
There is no event in which we may not look with confidence
to a successful resistance. Though Great Britain should be
impolitic or wicked enough (which is hoped to be impossible)
to compromise her difficulties with France, to divide the United
States according to the insulting threat of the agents of France,
still it is in our power to maintain our independence and baffle
every enemy. The people of the United States, from their num-
ber, situation, and resources, are invincible, if they are provident
and faithful to themselves.

The question returns, "What is to be done ? Shall we declare
war ? No ; there are still chances to avoid a rupture, which
ought to be taken. Want of success must bring the present
despots to reason. Every day may produce a revolution which
may substitute better men in their place, and lead to honorable
accommodation.

Our true policy is, in the attitude of calm defiance, to meet the
aggressions upon us by proportionate resistance, and to prepare
vigorously for further resistance. To this end, the chief meas-
ures requisite are — to invigorate our treasury by calling into ac-
tivity the principal untouched resources of revenue — to fortify
in earnest our chief seaports — to establish founderies, and increase
G 43

674 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 41.

our arsenals — to create a respectable naval force, and to raise
with the utmost diligence a considerable army. Our merchant
vessels ought to be permitted not only to arm themselves but
to sink or capture their assailants. Our vessels of war ought
to cruise on our coast and serve as convoys to our trade. In
doing this, they ought also to be authorized not only to sink or
capture assailants, but likewise to capture and bring in privateers
found hovering within twenty leagues of our coast. For this
last measure, precedent, if requisite, is to be found in the conduct
of neutral powers on other occasions.

This course, it will be objected, implies a state of war. Let
it be so. But it will be a limited, a mitigated state of war, to
grow into a general war or not at the election of France. What
may be that election will probably depend on future and incalcula-
ble events. The continuation of success on the part of France
would insure war. The want of it might facilitate accommoda-
tion. There are examples in which states have been for a long
time in a state of partial hostility without proceeding to general
rupture. The duration of this course of conduct on our part
may be restricted to the continuance of the two last decrees of
France ; that by which the trade of neutrals with the ports of
her enemies has been intercepted, and that by which vessels and
their cargoes composed in whole or in part of British fabrics,
are liable to seizure and condemnation.

The declared suspension of our treaties with France, is a
measure of evident justice and necessity. It is the natural con-
sequence of a total violation on one side. It would be preposte-
rous to be fettered by treaties, which are wholly disregarded by
the other party. It is essentially our interest to get rid of the
guarantee in the treaty of alliance which, on the part of France,
is likely to be henceforth nugatory : on the part of the United
States, is a substantial and dangerous stipulation, obliging them
in good faith to take part with France in any future defensive
war in which her "West India colonies may be attacked. The
consular convention is likewise a mischievous instrument, devised
by France in the spirit of extending her influence into other
countries, and producing to a certain extent imperium in imjperio.

^Et. 41.] THE STAND. 675

It may be happy for the United States that an occasion has
been furnished by France in which with good faith they may
break through these trammels; re-adjusting when reconciliation
shall take place, a basis of connection or intercourse more con-
venient and more eligible.

The resolution to raise an army, it is to be feared, is that one
of the measures suggested which will meet with the greatest
obstacle — and yet it is the one which ought to unite opinion.
Being merely a precaution for internal security, it can in no
sense tend to provoke war ; and looking to eventual security in
a case which, if it should happen, would threaten our very exist-
ence as a nation, it is the most important.

The history of our revolution war is a serious admonition to
it. The American cause had nearly been lost for want of creat-
ing, in the first instance, a solid force commensurate in duration
with the war. Immense additional expense and waste, and a
variety of other evils were incurred, which might have been
avoided.

Suppose an invasion, and that we are left to depend on militia
alone, can it be doubted that a rapid and formidable progress
would, in the first instance, be made by the invaders ? Who can
answer what dismay this might inspire, how far it might go to
create general panic, to rally under the banners of the enemy the
false and the timid? The imagination cannot, without alarm,
anticipate the consequences. Prudence commands that they
shall be guarded against. To have a good army on foot will be
the best of all precautions to prevent, as well as to repel, inva-
sion.

The propriety of the measure is so palpable that it will argue
treachery or incapacity in our councils, if it be not adopted.
The friends of the government owe it to their own characters to
press it : its opposers can give no better proof that they are not
abandoned to a foreign power than to concur in it. The public
safety will be more indebted to its advocates than to the advo-
cates of any other measure, in proportion as our independence
and liberty are of more consequence than our trade.

It is the fervent wish of patriotism that our councils and na-

676 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 41.

tion may be united and resolute. The dearest interests call for it.
A great public danger commands it. Every good man will
rejoice to embrace the adversary of his former opinions, if he will
now by candor and energy evince his attachment to his country.
Whoever does not do this, consigns himself to irrevocable dis-
honor. But it is not the triumph over a political rival which the
true lover of his country desires — it is the safety and the welfare of
that country — and he will gladly share with his bitterest opponent
the glory of defending and preserving her. Americans rouse —
be unanimous, be virtuous, be firm, exert your courage, trust in
Heaven, and nobly defy the enemies both of God and man!

Titus Manlitjs.

vii.

April 21, 1798.

The dispatches from our envoys have at length made their
appearance. They present a picture of the French government
exceeding in turpitude whatever was anticipated from the pre-
vious intimations of their contents. It was natural to expect that
the perusal of them would have inspired a universal sentiment
of indignation and disgust ; and that no man calling himself an
American, would have had the hardihood to defend or even to
palliate a conduct so atrocious. But it is already apparent that
an expectation of this kind would not have been well founded.

There are strong symptoms that men in power in France un-
derstand better than ourselves the true character of their faction
in this country, at least of its leaders ; and that as to these, the
agents who conferred with our envoys were not mistaken in pre-
dicting that the unreasonableness of the demands upon us, would
not serve to detach the party from France, or to reunite them to
}heir own country. The high-priest of this sect, with a tender
regard for the honor of the immaculate Directory, has already
imagined several ingenious distinctions to rescue them from the
odium and corruption unfolded by the dispatches. Among these

Mt. 41.] THE STAND. 677

is the suggestion that there is no proof of the privity of the
Directory — all may have been the mere contrivance of the minis-
ter for foreign relations.

The presumption from so miserable a subterfuge is, that had
the propositions proceeded immediately from the Directory, the
cry from the same quarter would have been — there is no evidence
the council or nation approved of them ; they, at least, are not
implicated ; the friendship of the two republics ought not to be dis-
turbed on account of the villany of the transitory and fugitive
organs of one of them. The inventor of the subterfuge, how-
ever, well knew that the executive organ of a nation never
comes forward in person to negotiate with foreign ministers ; and
that unless it be presumed to direct and adopt what is done by
its agents, it may always be sheltered from responsibility or blame.
The recourse to so pitiful an evasion, betrays in its author a
systematic design to excuse France at all events — to soften a
spirit of submission to every violence she may commit — and to
prepare the way for implicit subjection to her will. To be the
proconsul of a despotic Directory over the United States, de-
graded to the condition of a province, can alone be the criminal,
the ignoble aim of so seditious, so prostitute a character.

The subaltern mercenaries go still farther. Publications have
appeared, endeavoring to justify or extenuate the demands upon
our envoys, and to inculcate the slavish doctrine of compliance.
The United States, it is said, are the aggressors, and ought to
make atonement. France assisted them in their revolution with
loans, and they ought to reciprocate the benefit : peace is a boon
worth the price required for it, and it ought to be paid. In tins
motley form our country is urged to sink voluntarily and with-
out a struggle, to a state of tributary vassalage. Americans are
found audacious and mean enough to join in the chorus of a
foreign nation, which calls upon us to barter our independence
for a respite from the lash.

The charge of aggression upon the United States is false ;
and if true, the reparation, from the nature of the case, ought not
to be pecuniary. This species of indemnification between na-
tions, is only proper where there has been pecuniary injury.

678 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 41.

The loans received by us from France were asked as a favor,
on condition of reimbursement by the United States; and were
freely granted for a purpose of mutual advantage. The ad-
vances to be made by us were exacted as the price of peace.
Though in name loans, they would be in fact contributions, by
the coercion of a power which has already wrested from our citi-
zens an immense property, for which it owes to them compensa-
tion.

To pay such a price for peace, is to prefer peace to indepen-
dence. The nation which becomes tributary takes a master.*
Peace is doubtless precious, but it is a bauble compared with na.
tional independence, which includes national liberty. The evils
of war to resist such a precedent, are insignificant, compared
with the evils of the precedent. Besides that, there could be no
possible security for the enjoyment of the object for which the
disgraceful sacrifice was made. To disguise the poison, misrep-
resentation is combined with sophistry. It is alleged that finally
no more was asked than that the United States should purchase
sixteen millions of Dutch inscriptions, and that by doing this,
they would have secured compensation to their citizens for dep-
redations on their trade to four times the amount, with an in-
termission of the depredations; that no hazard of ultimate loss
could have attended the operation, because the United States
owed the Dutch a much larger sum, which would be a pledge for
payment or discount.

This is a palpable attempt to deceive. The first propositions
were such as have been represented in a former paper ; but it
appears in the sequel that the French agents, seeing the inflexi-
ble opposition of our envoys to their plan, and hoping to extort
finally a considerable sum, though less than at first contem-
plated, relaxed so far in their demands, as to narrow them down

* The argument of what has been done in the cases of Algerines and Indians,
has nothing pertinent but in the comparison of relative ferocity. In this view the
claim of the Directory is indisputable; but in every other it is preposterous. It
is the general practice of civilized nations to pay barbarians ; there is no point of
honor to the contrary. But between civilized nations, the payment of tribute by
one to another, is, by the common opinion of mankind, a badge of servitude.

JEt. 41.] THE STAND. 679

to the payment of a douceur of twelve hundred thousand livres
with a positive engagement to advance to the French govern-
ment a sum equal to the amount of the spoliations of our trade,
and a farther engagement to send to our government for power
to purchase of France thirty-two millions of the inscriptions
(12,800,000 dollars) ; in return for all which, our envoys were to
be permitted to remain six months in Paris, depredations on our
trade during that time were to be suspended, and a commission
of five persons was to be appointed to liquidate the claims for
past depredations which were to be satisfied " in a time and man-
ner to be agreed upon." The substance of these demands is to
pay absolutely twenty millions of dollars more than the estimated
amount of the spoliations ; for what ? Barely for the acknowledg
ment of a debt due to our citizens, which, without it, is not the
less due, and for the suspension of hostilities* for six months.

Afterwards, in a conversation between the French minister
himself and one of our envoys, the propositions assumed another
form. The United States were required to purchase of France
at par sixteen millions of inscriptions, and to promise further aid
when in their power. This arrangement being first made, and not
before, France was to take measures for reimbursing the equita-
ble demands of our citizens on account of captures.

The purchase of the inscriptions was to be a preliminary.
The arrangement for reimbursing our merchants was to follow.
The nature of it was not explained ; but it is to be inferred from
all that preceded, that the expedient of the advance of an equal
sum by the United States would have been pressed as the basis
of the promised arrangement. This last proposal was in its prin-
ciple as bad as either of the former ; its tendency worse. The
promise of future assistance would have carried with it the privi-
lege to repeat at pleasure the demand of money, and to dispute
with us about our ability to supply ; and it would have embark-
ed us as an associate with France in the war. It was to promise
her the most effectual aid in our power, and that of which she
stood most in need.

* It is observable that the French give themselves the denomination of hostili-
ties to their depredations upon us. Our Jacobins would have us consider them as
gentle caresses.

6S0 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt 41.

The scheme of concealment was a trick. The interest of
France to engage us in the war against Great Britain, as a mean
of wounding her commerce, is too strong to have permitted the
secret to be kept by her. By the ratification of the treaty, in
which the Senate must have concurred, too many would have
obtained possession of the secret to allow it to remain one.
While it did, the apprehension of discovery would have enabled
France to use it as an engine of unlimited extortion. But a still
greater objection is, that it would have been infamous in the
United States, thus covertly to relinquish their neutrality, and
with equal cowardice and hypocricy to wear the mask of it,
when they had renounced the reality.

The idea of securing our advances, by means of the debt
which we owe to the Dutch, is without foundation. The credi-
tors of the United States are the private citizens of the Batavian
republic. Their demands could not be opposed by a claim of our
government upon their government. The only shape in which
it could be attempted, must be in that of reprisals for the de-
linquency of the government. But this would not only be a
gross violation of the principle, it would be contrary to express
stipulations in the contracts for the loans.*

In the same spirit of deception it has also been alleged that
our envoys, by giving the douceur of twelve hundred thou-
sand livres, and agreeing to send for powers to make a loan}
might have obtained a suspension of depredations for six months
There is not a syllable in the dispatches to countenance this as-
sertion. A large advance in addition, either on the basis of the
spoliations, or by way of purchase of the inscriptions, is uniformly
made the condition of suspending hostilities.

Glosses so false and insidious as these, in a crisis of such im-
minent public danger, to mislead the opinion of our nation con-
cerning the conduct and views of a foreign enemy, are shoots
from a pernicious trunk.

Opportunity alone is wanting to unveil the treason which
lurks at the core.

What signifies the quantum of the contribution had it been

* They all provide against seizure or sequestration by way of reprisals, &c.

JEt. 41.]

THE STAND. 681

really as unimportant as it is represented? Tis the principle
which is to be resisted at every hazard. 'Tis the pretention to
make us tributary, in opposition to which every American ought
to resign the last drop of his blood.

The pratings of the Gallic faction at this time remind us of
those of the British faction at the commencement of our revolu-
tion.

The insignificance of a duty of three pence per pound on tea
was echoed and re-echoed as the bait to an admission of the right
to bind us in all cases whatsoever.

The tools of France incessantly clamor against the treaty
with Britain as the just cause of the resentment of France. It is
curious to remark, that in the conferences with our envoys this
treaty was never once mentioned by the French agents. Parti-
cular passages in the speech of the President are alone specified
as a ground of dissatisfaction. This is at once a specimen of the
fruitful versatility with which causes of complaint are contrived,
and of the very slight foundations on which they are adopted.
A temperate expression of sensibility at an outrageous indignity,
offered to our government by a member of the Directory, is con-
verted into a mortal offence. The tyrants will not endure a
murmur at the blows they inflict. But the dispatches of our
envoys, while they do not sanction the charge preferred by the
Gallic faction against the treaty, confirm a very serious charge
which the friends of the government bring against that faction.
They prove by the unreserved confession of her agents, that France
places absolute dependence on this party in every event, and
counts upon their devotion to her as an encouragement to the
hard conditions which they attempt to impose. The people ot
this country must be infatuated indeed, if after this plain confes-
sion they are at a loss for the true source of the evils they suffer-
ed, or may hereafter suffer from the despots of France. 'Tis the
unnatural league of a portion of our citizens with the oppressors
of their country.

Titus Manlius.

682 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Ex. 41.

A FBENCH FACTION.

1798.

There is a set of men whose mouths are always full of the
phrases, British faction — British agents — British influence. Feel-
ing that they themselves are interested in a foreign faction, they
imagine that it must be so with every one else — and that who-
ever will not join with them in sacrificing the interests of their
country to another country, must be engaged in an opposite
foreign faction — Frenchmen in all their feelings and wishes, they
can see in their opponents nothing but Englishmen. Every true
American — every really independent man, becomes in their eyes,
a British agent — a British emissary.

The truth is, that there is in this country a decided French
faction, but no other foreign faction. I speak as to those who
have a share in the public councils, or in the political influence
of the country — those who adhered to Great Britain during the
revolution may be presumed, generally, to have still a partiality
for her. But the number of those who have at this time any
agency in public affairs, is very insignificant. They are neither
numerous nor weighty enough to form in the public councils a
distinct faction. Nor is it to this description of men that the
passage is applied.

The satellites of France have the audacity to bestow it upon
men who have risked more in opposition to Great Britain, than
but few of them ever did — to men who have given every possible
proof of their exclusive devotion to the interests of their own
country. Let facts speak. The leaders of the French faction
during the war managed to place the minister of the country
abroad in a servile dependence on the ministry of France, and
but for the virtuous independence of those men, which led them
to break their instructions, it is very problematical we should
have had as early, or as good a peace as that we obtained. The
same men, during the same period, effected the revocation of a
commission which had been given for making a commercial

JEt. 42.] THE WAR IN EUROPE. 683

treaty with. Great Britain, and again, on the approach of peace,
defeated an attempt to produce a renewal of that commission,
and thus lost an opportunity known to have been favorable for
establishing a beneficial treaty of commerce with that country —
though they have since made the obtaining of such a treaty, a
pretext for reiterated attempts to renew hostilities with her. The
same men have been constantly laboring, from the first institution
of the present government, to render it subservient, not to the
advancement of our own manufactures, but to the advancement
of the navigation and manufactures of France.

In a proposal which aims at fostering our own navigation
and elevating our own manufactures, by giving them advantages
over those of all foreign nations, a thousand obstacles occur — a
thousand alarms are sounded — usurpation of ungranted powers —
designs to promote the interests of particular parts of the Union
at the expense of other parts of it, and innumerable other spectres
are conjured up to terrify us from the pursuit. Is the project to
confer particular favors upon the navigation and manufactures of
France, even at the expense of the United States — then all diffi-
culties vanish. This is the true and only object of the Constitu-
tion— for this it was framed — by this alone it can live and have
a being. To this precious end, we are assured, the States who
may particularly suffer, will be willing to sacrifice. In this holy
cause we are to risk every thing — our trade, our navigation — our
manufactures — our agriculture — our revenues — our peace. Not
to consent is to want spirit — to want honor — to want patriotism.
Thus does Gallicism assume the honorable part of patriotism.

THE WAK IN EUKOPE.

1799.
Every step of the progress of the present war in Europe has
been marked with horrors. If the perpetration of them was
confined to those who are the acknowledged instruments of des-

684 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 42.

potic power, it would excite less surprise — but when they are
acted upon by those who profess themselves to be the champions
of the rights of man, they naturally occasion both wonder and
regret. Passing by the extreme severities which the French
have exercised in Italy, what shall we think of the following
declarations of Jourdan to the inhabitants of Germany.

■& * * -Jr « -5f

Good God ! is it then a crime for men to defend their own
government and country ? Is it a punishable offence in the Ger-
mans that they will not accept from the French what they offer
as liberty at the point of the bayonet ? This is to confound all
ideas of morality and humanity — it is to trample upon all the
rights of man and nations — it is to restore the ages of barbarism,
according to the laws and practice of modern war ; the peasantry
of a country, if they remain peaceably at home, are protected
from other harm than a contribution to the necessities of the
invading army. Those who join the armies of their country and
fight with them, are considered and treated as other soldiers. But
the present French doctrine is, that they are to be treated as
rebels and criminals.

German patriotism is a heinous offence in the eyes of French
patriots. How are we to solve this otherwise than by observ-
ing that the French are influenced by the same spirit of domina-
tion which governed the ancient Romans. They considered
themselves as having a right to be the masters of the world, and
to treat the rest of mankind as their vassals. How clearly is it
proved by this that the praise of a world is justly due to

Christianity ; — war, by the influence of the humane principles
of that religion, had been stripped of half its horrors. The
French renounce Christianity, and they relapse into barbarism —
war resumes the same hideous and savage form which it wore in
the ages of Gothic and Roman violence.

Mt. 42.] ALLEGORICAL DEVICE. 685

ALLEGORICAL DEVICE.

1799.

A globe, with Europe and part of Africa on one side, Amer-
ica on the other, the Atlantic between. The portion occupied
by America to be larger than that occupied by Europe. A
Colossus to be placed on this globe, with one foot on Europe, the
other extending partly over the Atlantic towards America,
having on his head a quintuple crown, in his right hand an
iron sceptre, projecting but broken in the middle ; in his left
hand a pileus (cap of liberty) reversed — the staff entwined by a
snake with its head downward, having the staff of the pileus
in its mouth, and folding in its tail (as if in the act of strangling)
a label with the words " Rights of Man." Upon a base sup-
ported by fifteen columns erected on the continent of America,
the genius of America to be placed, represented by the figure
of Pallas — a female in armor, with a firm, composed counten-
ance, a golden breast-plate, a spear in her right hand, and an
aegis or shield in her left, having upon it the scales of justice
(instead of the Medusa's head) ; her helmet encircled with wreaths
of olive, her spear striking upon the sceptre of the Colossus and
breaking it asunder ; over her head a radiated crown of glory.
It would improve the allegory to represent the Atlantic in a
tempest, as indicative of rage, and Neptune in the position of
aiming a blow at the Colossus with his trident.

Explanation. — It is known that the globe is an ancient sym-
bol of universal dominion. This, with the Colossus, alluding
to the French Directory, will denote the project of acquiring
such dominion — the position of the Colossus signifying the in-
tent to extend it to America. The Colossus will represent the
American States ; and Pallas, as the genius of America, will in-
timate that though loving peace as a primary object (of which the
olive -wreath is the symbol), yet, guided by wisdom and justice,
America successfully exerts her valor to break the sceptre of
the tyrant.

686 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 42.

MEASUKES OP DEFENCE.

1799.

Further measures advisable to be taken without delay.

I. to authorize the President to proceed forthwith to raise
the 10,000 men already ordered.

II. To establish an academy for military and naval instruc-
tion. This is a very important measure and ought to be perma-
nent.

III. To provide for the immediate raising of a corps of non-
commissioned officers, viz., sergeants and corporals, sufficient
with the present establishment for an army of 50,000 men.
The having these men prepared and disciplined, will accelerate
extremely the disciplining of an additional force.

IV. To provide before Congress rise, that in case it shall
appear that an invasion of this country by a large army is ac-
tually on foot, there shall be a draft from the militia to be class-
ed, of a number sufficient to complete the army of 30,000 men.
Provision for volunteers in lieu of drafts. A bounty to be
given.

V. To authorize the President to provide a further naval
force of six ships of the line, and twelve frigates, with twenty
small vessels not exceeding sixteen guns. It is possible the ships
of the line and frigates may be purchased of Great Britain to be
paid for in stock. We ought to be ready to cut up all the small
privateers and gun-boats in the West Indies, so as at the same
time to distress the French Islands as much as possible and pro-
tect our trade.

VI. Is not the Independence of the French Colonies under
the guarantee of the United States to be aimed at? If it is,
there cannot be too much promptness in opening negotiations
for the purpose. Victor Hughes is probably an excellent sub-
ject. This idea however deserves mature consideration.

VII. It is essential the Executive should have half a million
of secret service money. If the measure cannot be carried

JEt. 43.]

JOHN ADAMS.
Probable produce
500.000.

100.000.

without it, the expenditure may be with the approbation of
three members of each House of Congress. But it were better
without this incumbrance.

VIII. Eevenue in addition to the $2,000,000 of land tax
say:— #

A stamp duty on hats, as well manufactured at
home as imported, distributed into three classes —
10, 15, 25 cents.

Saddle horses one dollar each, excluding those
engaged in agriculture.

Salt so a3 to raise the present duty to 25 cents
per bushel.

Male servants of the capacities by whatever
name: — MaStre d'hotel, house steward, valet de
chambre, butler, under-butler, confectioner, cook,
house porter, waiter, footman, coachman, groom,
postillions, stable boy — for one such servant $1 ;
for two such servants, and not more, $2 each ; for
three such servants, $3 each ; above three, $4 each ;
one dollar additional by bachelors.

New modification with greater diversity of
licenses for sale of wines.

500,000. ' fj? <

100,000.

100,000.

One per cent, on all successions by descent or
devise.

IX. A loan of $10,000,000. The interest to be such as will
insure the loan at par. "lis better to give high interest, redeema-
ble at pleasure, than low interest with accumulation of capital,
as in England.

THE PUBLIC CONDUCT AND CHARACTER OF JOHN
ADAMS, Esq., PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES.

1800.

Sir:

Some of the warm personal friends of Mr. Adams are taking
unwearied pains to disparage the motives of those federalists
who advocate the equal support of General Pinckney, at the ap-

688 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 43

proaching election of President and Vice-President. They are
exhibited under a variety of aspects equally derogatory. Some-
times they are versatile, factious spirits, who cannot be long sat-
isfied with any chief, however meritorious ; sometimes they are
ambitious spirits, who can be contented with no man that will
not submit to be governed by them ; sometimes they are intrigu-
ing partisans of Great Britain, who, devoted to the advancement
of her views, are incensed against Mr. Adams for the independ-
ent impartiality of his conduct.

In addition to a full share of the obloquy vented against this
description of persons collectively, peculiar accusations have
been devised, to swell the catalogue of my demerits. Among
these, the resentment of disappointed ambition, forms a promi-
nent feature. It is pretended, that had the President, upon the
demise of General Washington, appointed me Commander-in-
Chief, he would have been, in my estimation, all that is wise,
and good, and great.

It is necessary, for the public cause, to repel these slanders,
by stating the real views of the persons who are calumniated,
and the reasons of their conduct.

In executing this task, with particular reference to myself, I
ought to premise, that the ground upon which I stand, is different
from that of most of those who are confounded with me in pur-
suit of the same plan. While our object is common, our mo-
tives are variously dissimilar. A part, well affected to Mr.
Adams, have no other wish than to take a double chance against
Mr. Jefferson. Another part, feeling a diminution of confidence
in him, still hope that the general tenor of his conduct will be
essentially right. Few go as far in their objections as I do.
Not denying to Mr. Adams patriotism and integrity, and even
talents of a certain kind, I should be deficient in candor, were
I to conceal the conviction, that he does not possess the talents |
adapted to the administration of government, and that there are
great and intrinsic defects in his character, which unfit him for
the office of chief magistrate.

To give a correct idea of the circumstances which have gra-
dually produced this conviction, it may be useful to retrospect
to an early period.

J3t,43.] JOHN ADAMS. 689

I was one of that numerous class who had conceived a high
veneration for Mr. Adams, on account of the part he acted in
the first stages of our revolution. My imagination had exalted
him to a high eminence, as a man of patriotic, bold, profound, and
comprehensive mind. But in the progress of the war, opinions
were ascribed to him, which brought into question with me, the
solidity of his understanding.

He was represented to be of the number of those who favored
the enlistment of our troops annually, or for short periods, rather
than for the term of the war; a blind and infatuated policy, di-
rectly contrary to the urgent recommendation of General Wash-
ington, and which had nearly proved the ruin of our cause. He
was also said to have advocated the project of appointing yearly
a new commander of the army; a project which, in any service,
is likely to be attended with more evils than benefits ; but which in
ours, at the period in question, was chimerical, from the want of
persons qualified to succeed, and pernicious, from the peculiar
fitness of the officer first appointed, to strengthen, by personal
influence, the too feeble cords which bound to the service an ill-
paid, ill-clothed, and undisciplined soldiery.

It is impossible for me to assert, at this distant day, that these
suggestions were brought home to Mr. Adams in such a manner
as to ascertain their genuineness ; but I distinctly remember their
existence, and my conclusion from them; which was, that, if
true, they proved this gentleman to be infected with some vision-
ary notions, and that he was far less able in the practice, than in
the theory, of politics. I remember, also, that they had the ef-
fect of inducing me to qualify the admiration which I had once
entertained for him, and to reserve for opportunities of future
scrutiny, a definitive opinion of the true standard of his character.

In this disposition I was, when, just before the close of the
war, I became a member of Congress.

The situation in which I found myself there, was far from
being inauspicious to a favorable estimate of Mr. Adams.

Upon my first going into Congress, I discovered symptoms
of a party already formed, too well disposed to subject the inter-
ests of the United States to the management of France. Though
g 44

6(J0 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 43.

I felt, in common with those who had participated in our revo-
lution, a lively sentiment of good will towards a power, whose
co-operation, however it was and ought to have been dictated
by its own interest, had been extremely useful to us, and had
been afforded in a liberal and handsome manner; yet, tenacious
of the real independence of our country, and dreading the pre-
ponderance of foreign influence, as the natural disease of popu-
lar government, I was struck with disgust at the appearance, in
the very cradle of our republic, of a party actuated by an undue
complaisance to a foreign power ; and I resolved at once to resist
this bias in our affairs : a resolution, which has been the chief
cause of the persecution I have endured in the subsequent stages
of my political life.

Among the fruits of the bias I have mentioned, were the
celebrated instructions to our commissioners, for treating of
peace with Great Britain ; which, not only as to final measures,
but also as to preliminary and intermediate negotiations, placed
them in a state of dependence on the French ministry, humiliat-
ing to themselves, and unsafe for the interests-of the country.
This was the more exceptionable, as there was cause to suspect,
that in regard to the two cardinal points of the fisheries and the
navigation of the Mississippi, the policy of the cabinet of Ver-
sailles did not accord with the wishes of the United States.

The commissioners, of whom Mr. Adams was one, had the
fortitude to break through, the fetters which were laid upon them
by those instructions; and there is reason to believe, that by
doing it, they both accelerated the peace with Great Britain, and
improved the terms, while they preserved our faith with France.

Yet a serious attempt was made to obtain from Congress a
formal censure of their conduct. The attempt failed, and instead
of censure, the praise was bestowed which was justly due to the
accomplishment of a treaty advantageous to this country, be-
yond the most sanguine expectation. In this result, my efforts
were heartily united.

The principal merit of the negotiation with Great Britain, in
some quarters, has been bestowed upon Mr. Adams ; but it is cer-
tainly the right of Mr. Jay, who took a lead in the several steps

.Et. 43.] JOHN ADAMS. 691

of the transaction, no less honorable to his talents than to his
firmness. The merit, nevertheless, of a full and decisive co-opera-
tion, is justly due to Mr. Adams.

It will readily be seen, that such a course of things was cal-
culated to impress me with a disposition friendly to Mr. Adams.
I certainly felt it, and gave him much of my consideration and
esteem.

But this did not hinder me from making careful observations
upon his several communications, and endeavoring to derive from
them an accurate idea of his talents and character. This scrutiny
enhanced my esteem in the main for his moral qualifications, but
lessened my respect for his intellectual endowments. I then
adopted an opinion, which all my subsequent experience has
confirmed, that he is a man of an imagination sublimated and
eccentric ; propitious neither to the regular display of sound
judgment, nor to steady preseverance in a systematic plan of con-
duct ; and I began to perceive what has been since too manifest,
that to this defect are added the unfortunate foibles of a vanity
without bounds, and a jealousy capable of discoloring every ob-
ject.

Strong evidence of some traits of this character, is to be found
in a journal of Mr. Adams, which was sent by the then Secretary
of Foreign Affairs to Congress. The reading of this journal ex-
tremely embarrassed his friends, especially the delegates of Mas-
sachusetts; who, more than once, interrupted it, and at last,
succeeded in putting a stop to it, on the suggestion that it bore
the marks of a private and confidential paper, which, by some
mistake, had gotten into its present situation, and never could
have been designed as a public document for the inspection of
Congress. The good humor of that body yielded to the sugges-
tion.

The particulars of this journal cannot be expected to have
remained in my memory — but I recollect one which may serve
as a sample. Being among the guests invited to dine with the
Count de Vergennes, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr. Adams
thought fit to give a specimen of American politeness, by conduct,
ing Madame de Vergennes to dinner ; on the way, she was pleas-

692 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 43

ed to make retribution in the current coin of French politeness —
by saying to him, " Monsieur Adams, vous etes le Washington de
negotiation."* Stating the incident, he makes this comment upon
it : " These people have a very pretty knack of paying compli-
ments." He might have added, they have also a very dexterous
knack of disguising a sarcasm.

The opinion, however, which I have avowed, did not prevent
my entering cordially into the plan of supporting Mr. Adams for
the office of Vice-President, under the new Constitution. I still
thought that he had high claims upon the public gratitude, and pos-
sessed a substantial worth of character, which might atone for
some great defects. In addition to this, it was well known, that
he was a favorite of New England, and it was obvious that his
union with General Washington would tend to give the govern-
ment, in its outset, all the strength which it could derive from
the character of the two principal magistrates.

But it was deemed an essential point of caution to take care,
that accident or an intrigue of the opposers of the government,
should not raise Mr. Adams, instead of General Washington, to
the first place. This, every friend of the government would have
considered as a disastrous event ; as well because it would have
displayed a capricious operation of the system in elevating to the
first station, a man intended for the second ; as because it was
conceived that the incomparably superior weight and transcendent
popularity of General Washington, rendered his presence at the
head of the government, in its first organization, a matter of
primary and indispensable importance. It was therefore agreed
that a few votes should be diverted from Mr. Adams to other
persons, so as to insure to General Washington a plurality.

Great was my astonishment, and equally great my regret,
when, afterwards, I learned from persons of unquestionable veraci-
ty, that Mr. Adams had complained of unfair treatment, in not
having been permitted to take an equal chance with General
Washington, by leaving the votes to an uninfluenced current.

The extreme egotism of the temper, which could blind a man

* Mr. Adams, you are the Washington of negotiation.

JEt. 43.] JOHN ADAMS. 698

to considerations so obvious as those that had recommended the
course pursued, cannot be enforced by my comment. It exceeded
all that I had imagined, and showed, in too strong a light, that
the vanity which I have ascribed to him, existed to a degree that
rendered it more than a harmless foible.

Mr. Adams was elected Vice-President. His public conduct,
in that station, was satisfactory to the friends of the government,
though they were now and then alarmed by appearances of some
eccentric tendencies.

It is, in particular, a tribute due from me to acknowledge,
that Mr. Adams being, in quality of Vice-President, ex officio
one of the trustees of the sinking fund, I experienced from him
the most complete support; which was the more gratifying to
me, as I had to struggle against the systematic opposition of Mr.
Jefferson, seconded occasionally by Mr. Randolph. Though it
would be an ill compliment to Mr. Adams, not to presume that
the support which he gave me, was the dictate of his sense of the
public interest ; yet, so cordial and useful a co-operation, at a
moment when I was assailed with all the weapons of party rancor,
won from me an unfeigned return of the most amicable senti-
ments.

I lost no opportunity of combating the prejudices industriously
propagated against him by his political enemies ; and, for a con-
siderable time, went quite as far as candor would permit, to ex-
tenuate the failings which more and more alarmed and dissatisfied
his friends.

The epoch at length arrived, when the retreat of General
Washington made it necessary to fix upon a successor. By this
time, men of principal influence in the federal party, whose sit-
uation had led them to an intimate acquaintance with Mr. Adams's
character, began to entertain serious doubts about his fitness for
the station ; yet, his pretensions, in several respects, were so
strong, that after mature reflection, they thought it better to in-
dulge their hopes than to listen to their fears. To this conclusion,
the desire of preserving harmony in the federal party, was a
weighty inducement. Accordingly it was determined to support
Mr. Adams for the Chief Magistracy.

694 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 43.

It was evidently of much consequence to endeavor to have an
eminent federalist Vice-President. Mr. Thomas Pinckney, of
South Carolina, was selected for this purpose. This gentleman,
too little known in the North, had been all his lifetime distin-
guished in the South, for the mildness and amiableness of his
manners, the rectitude and purity of his morals, and the sound-
ness and correctness of his understanding, accompanied by an
habitual discretion and self-command, which has often occasioned
a parallel to be drawn between him and the venerated Washing-
ton. In addition to these recommendations, he had been, during
a critical period, our minister at the court of London, and recently
envoy extraordinary to the court of Spain ; and in both these
trusts, he had acquitted himself to the satisfaction of all parties.
With the court of Spain he had effected a treaty, which removed
all the thorny subjects of contention, that had so long threatened
the peace of the two countries, and stipulated for the United
States, on their Southern frontier, and on the Mississippi, advan-
tages of real magnitude and importance.

Well-informed men knew that the event of the election was
extremely problematical ; and while the friends of Mr. Jefferson
predicted his success with sanguine confidence, his opposers
feared that he might have at least an equal chance with any
federal candidate.

To exclude him, was deemed, by the federalists, a primary
object. Those of them who possessed the best means of judg-
ing, were of opinion that it was far less important, whether
Mr. Adams or Mr. Pinckney was the successful candidate, than
that Mr. Jefferson should not be the person ; and on this princi-
ple, it was understood among them, that the two first-mentioned
gentlemen should be equally supported ; leaving to casual acces-
sions of votes in favor of the one or the other, to turn the scale
between them.

In this plan I united with good faith; in the resolution, to
which I scrupulously adhered, of giving to each candidate an
equal support. This was done, wherever my influence extend-
ed ; as was more particularly manifested in the State of New-
York, where all the electors were my warm personal or political

JEr. 43.] JOHN ADAMS. 695

friends, and all gave a concurrent vote for the two federal can-
didates.

It is true that a faithful execution of this plan would have
given Mr. Pinckney a somewhat better chance than Mr. Adams ;
nor shall it be concealed, that an issue favorable to the former
would not have been disagreeable to me ; as indeed I declared
at the time, in the circles of my confidential friends.* My po-
sition was, that if chance should decide in favor of Mr. Pinckney,
it probably would not be a misfortune ; since he, to every es-
sential qualification for the office, added a temper far more dis-
creet and conciliatory than that of Mr. Adams.

This disposition, on my part, at that juncture, proves, at
least, that my disapprobation of Mr. Adams has not originated
in the disappointment, to which it has been uncandidly attributed.
No private motive could then have entered into it. Not the
least collision or misunderstanding had ever happened between
that gentleman and myself — on the contrary, as I have already
stated, I had reason individually to be pleased with him.

No: The considerations which had reconciled me to the suc-
cess of Mr. Pinckney, were of a nature exclusively public.
They resulted from the disgusting egotism, the distempered jeal-
ousy, and the ungovernable indiscretion of Mr. Adams's temper,
joined to some doubts of the correctness of his maxims of ad-
ministration. Though in matters of finance he had acted with
the federal party; yet he had, more than once, broached the-
ories at variance with his practice. And in conversation, he
repeatedly made excursions in the field of foreign politics, which
alarmed the friends of the prevailing system.

The plan of giving equal support to the two federal candi-
dates, was not pursued. Personal attachment for Mr. Adams,
especially in the New England States, caused a number of the
votes to be withheld from Mr. Pinckney, and thrown away.
The result was, that Mr. Adams was elected President by a
majority of two votes, and Mr. Jefferson Vice-President.

This issue demonstrated the wisdom of the plan which had

* I appeal particularly to Lt. Governor Van Rensselaer and R. Troup, Esq.
HAMILTON'S WORKS. T^Et. 43.

been abandoned, and how greatly, in departing from it, the
cause had been sacrificed to the man. But for a sort of mir-
acle, the departure would have made Mr. Jefferson President.
In each of the States of Pennsylvania, Virginia, and North-
Carolina, Mr. Adams had one vote. In the two latter States,
the one vote was as much against the stream of popular pre-
judice, as it was against the opinions of the other electors.
The firmness of the individuals who separated from their col-
leagues, was so extraordinary, as to have been contrary to all
probable calculation. Had only one of them thrown his vote
into the other scale, there would have been an equality, and no
election. Had two done it, the choice would have fallen upon
Mr. Jefferson.

No one, sincere in the opinion that this gentleman was an
ineligible and dangerous candidate, can hesitate in pronouncing,
that in dropping Mr. Pinckney, too much was put at hazard ;'
and that those who promoted the other course, acted with pru-
dence and propriety.

It is a fact, which ought not to be forgotten, that Mr. Adams,
who had evinced discontent, because he had not been permitted
to take an equal chance with General Washington, was enraged
with all those who had thought that Mr. Pinckney oughtTto
have had an equal chance with him. But in this there is per-
fect consistency. The same turn of temper is the solution of
the displeasure in both cases.

It is to this circumstance of the equal support of Mr. Pinck-
ney, that we are in a great measure to refer the serious schism
which has since grown up in the federal party.

Mr. Adams never could forgive the men who had been
engaged in the plan ; though it embraced some of his most par-
tial admirers. He has discovered bitter animosity against sev-
eral of them. Against me, his rage has been so vehement, as
to have caused him, more than once, to forget the decorum
which, in his situation, ought to have been an inviolable law.
It will not appear an exaggeration to those who have studied
his character, to suppose that he is capable of being alienated
from a system to which he has been attached, because it is up-

At. 43.]

JOHN ADAMS. 697

held by men whom he hates. How large a share this may
have had in some recent aberrations, cannot easily be deter-
mined.

Occurrences which have either happened or come to light
since the election of Mr. Adams to the Presidency, confirming
my unfavorable forebodings of his character, have given new
and decisive energy, in my mind, to the sentiment of his unfit-
ness for the station.

The letter which has just appeared in the public prints, writ-
ten by him, while Yice-President, to Tench Coxe, is of itself
conclusive evidence of the justness of this sentiment. It is
impossible to speak of this transaction in terms suited to its
nature, without losing sight that Mr. Adams is President of the
United States.

This letter avows the suspicion, that the appointment of Mr.
Pinckney to the court of London, had been procured or promot-
ed by British influence. And considering the parade with
which the story of the Duke of Leeds is told, it is fair to consid-
er that circumstance as the principal, if not the sole, ground of
the odious and degrading suspicion.

Let any man of candor or knowledge of the world, pronounce
on this species of evidence.

It happened unfortunately for the Pinckneys, that, while
boys, and long before our revolution, they went to school with a
British duke, who was afterwards minister of the British govern-
ment for the foreign department. This indiscreet duke, perhaps
for no better reason than the desire of saying something to a
parting American minister, and the want of something better to
say, divulges to him the dangerous secret, that the two Pinck-
neys had been his class-mates, and goes the alarming length of
making inquiry about their health. From this, it is sagaciously
inferred, that these gentlemen have " many powerful old friends in
England;" and from this again, that the Duke of Leeds (of course
of the number of these old friends) had procured by intrigue the
appointment of one of his class-mates to the court of London ; or,
in the language of the letter, that much British influence had
been exerted in the appointment.

698 HAMILTON'S WORKS. \Mt. 43.

In the school of jealousy, stimulated by ill-will, logic like this
may pass for substantial ; but what is it in the school of reason
and justice ?

Though this contaminating connection of the Pinekneys with
the Duke of Leeds, in their juvenile years, did not hinder them
from fighting for the independence of their native country
throughout our revolution ; yet, the supposition is, that the in-
stant the war was terminated, it transformed them from the
soldiers of liberty into the tools of the British monarchy.

But the hostility of the Pinekneys to Mr. Adams, evidenced
by their " long intrigue " against him, of which he speaks in the
letter, is perhaps intended as a still stronger proof of their devo-
tion to Great Britain — the argument may be thus understood.
Mr. Adams is the bulwark of his country against foreign in-
fluence. The batteries of every foreign power, desirous of ac-
quiring an ascendant in our affairs, are of consequence always
open against him — and, the presumption, therefore, must be, that
every citizen who is his enemy, is the confederate of one or
another of those foreign powers.

Let us, without contesting this argument of self-love, examine
into the facts upon which its applicability must depend.

The evidence of the "long intrigue" seems to be, that the
family of the Pinekneys contributed to limit the duration of Mr.
Adams's commission to the court of London to the term of three
years, in order to make way for some of themselves to succeed
him. This, it must be confessed, was a long-sighted calculation
in a government like ours.

A summary of the transaction will be the best comment on
the inference which has been drawn.

The resolution of Congress by which Mr. Adams's commission
was limited, was a general one, applying to the commissions of
all ministers to foreign courts. When it was proposed and
adopted, it is certain that neither of the two Pinekneys was a
member of Congress ; and it is believed that they were both at
Charleston, in South Carolina, their usual place of abode, more
than eight hundred miles distant from the seat of government.

But they had, it seems, a cousin, Mr. Charles Pinckney, who

JEt.43.} JOHN ADAMS. 699

was in Congress ; and this cousin it was who moved the re-
strictive resolution. Let us inquire who seconded and who
voted for it.

It was seconded by Mr. Howell, a member from Khode Island,
the very person who nominated Mr. Adams as minister to Great
Britain, and was voted for by the four Eastern States, with New-
York, New Jersey, Maryland and South Carolina. Mr. Gerry,
always a zealous partisan of Mr. Adams, was among the sup-
porters of the resolution. To make out this to be a machination
of the two Pinckneys, many things must be affirmed : — First,
that their cousin Charles is always subservient to their views
(which would equally prove that they have long been, and still
are, opposers of the Federal Administration :) — Second, that this
cunning wight had been able to draw the four Eastern /States into
his plot, as well as New-York, New Jersey, Maryland, and South
Carolina : — Third, that the Pinckneys could foresee, at the dis-
tance of three years, the existence of a state of things which
would enable them to reap the fruit of their contrivance.

Would not the circumstances better warrant the suspicion
that the resolution was a contrivance of the friends of Mr. Adams
to facilitate in some way his election, and that Mr. Pinckney was
their coadjutor, rather than their prompter?

But the truth most probably is, that the measure was a mere
precaution to bring under frequent review the propriety of con-
tinuing a minister at a particular court, and to facilitate the re-
moval of a disagreeable one, without the harshness of formally
displacing him. In a policy of this sort, the cautious maxims of
New England would very naturally have taken a lead.

Thus, in the very grounds of the suspicion, as far as they
appear, we find its refutation. The complete futility of it will
now be illustrated by additional circumstances.

It is a fact, that the rigor with which the war was prosecuted
by the British armies in our Southern quarter, had produced
among the friends of our revolution there, more animosity against
the British government, than in the other parts of the United
States : and it is a matter of notoriety, in the same quarter, that
this disposition was conspicuous among the Pinckneys, and their

^00 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JBx. *&

connections. It may be added, that they were likewise known
to have been attached to the French revolution, and to have con-
tinued so, till long after the appointment of Mr. Thomas Pinck-
ney to the court of London.

These propensities of the gentlemen, were certainly not such
as to make them favorites of Great Britain, or the appointment
of one of them to that court, an object of particular solicitude.

As far as appeared at the time, the idea of nominating Mr.
Thomas Pinckney, originated with the then President himself:
but whatever may have been its source, it is certain that it met
the approbation of the whole administration, Mr. Jefferson in-
cluded. This fact alone, will go far to refute the surmise of a
British agency in the appointment.

Supposing that, contrary to all probability, Great Britain had
really taken some unaccountable fancy for Mr. Pinckney, upon
whom was her influence exerted ?

Had the virtuous, circumspect Washington been ensnared in
her insidious toils ? Had she found means for once to soften the
stern, inflexible hostility of Jefferson ? Had Eandolph been won
by her meretricious caresses ? Had Knox, the uniform friend of
Mr. Adams, been corrupted by her seducing wiles ? Or was it
all the dark work of the alien Secretary of the Treasury ? Was
it this arch juggler, who debauched the principles, or transformed
the prejudices of Mr. Pinckney; who persuaded the British
government to adopt him as a pliant instrument ; who artfully
induced the President to propose him as of his own selection ;
who lulled the zealous vigilance of Jefferson and Randolph, and
surprised the unsuspecting frankness of Knox ?

But when the tiling had been accomplished, no matter by
what means, it was surely to have been expected that the man of
its choice would have been treated at the court of London with
distinguished regard, and that his conduct towards that court
would have been marked, if not by some improper compliances,
at least by some displays of extraordinary complaisance.

Yet, strange as it may appear, upon Mr. Adams's hypothesis,
it might be proved, if requisite, that neither the one nor the
other took place. It might be proved that, far from Mr. Pinck-

;Et. 43.]

JOHN ADAMS. 701

ney's having experienced any flattering distinctions, incidents not
pleasant to his feelings had occurred, and that in the discharge
of his official functions he had advanced pretensions in favor of
the United States, from which, with the approbation of the then
Secretary of State, Mr. Jefferson, he was instructed to desist.

"What will Mr. Adams or his friends reply to all these facts?
How will he be excused for indulging and declaring, on grounds
so frivolous, a suspicion so derogatory of a man so meritorious —
of a man who has acted in a manner so unexceptionable ?

But a more serious question remains : How will Mr. Adams
answer to the government and to his country, for having thus
wantonly given the sanction of his opinion to the worst of the
aspersions which the enemies of the administration have impu-
dently thrown upon it ? Can we be surprised that such a tor-
rent of slander was poured out against it, when a man, the second
in official rank, the second in the favor of the friends of the gov-
ernment, stooped to become himself one of its calumniators?
It is peculiarly unlucky for Mr. Adams in this affair, that he is
known to have desired, at the time, the appointment which was
given to Mr. Pinckney. The President declined the measure,
thinking that it was compatible neither with the spirit of the
Constitution nor with the dignity of the Government, to designate
the Vice-President to such a station.

This letter, better than volumes, developes the true, the un-
fortunate character of Mr. Adams.

The remaining causes of dissatisfaction Avith him respect his
conduct in the office of President, which, in my opinion, has
been a heterogeneous compound of right and wrong, of wisdom
and error.

The outset was distinguished by a speech which his friends
lamented as temporizing. It had the air of a lure for the favor
of his opponents at the expense of his sincerit}^ ; but being of an
equivocal complexion, to which no precise design can be an-
nexed, it is barely mentioned as a circumstance, which, in con-
junction with others of a more positive tint, may serve to explain
character.

It is in regard to our foreign relations, that the public
measures of Mr. Adams first attract criticism.

702 HAMILTON'S WORKS [Mr.- 43.

It will be recollected that General Pinckney, the brother of
Thomas, and the gentleman now supported together with Mr.
Adams, had been deputed by President Washington as successor
to Mr. Monroe, and had been refused to be received by the
French government in his quality of minister plenipotentiary.

This, among those of the well informed, who felt a just sensi-
bility for the honor of their country, excited much disgust and
resentment. But the opposition party, ever too ready to justify
the French government at the expense of their own, vindicated
or apologized for the ill treatment : and the mass of the commu-
nity, though displeased with it, did not appear to feel the full
force of the indignity.

As a final effort for accommodation, and as a mean, in case of
failure, of enlightening and combining public opinion, it was re-
solved to make another, and a more solemn, experiment, in the
form of a commission of three.

This measure (with some objections to the detail) was ap-
proved by all parties ; by the anti-federalists, because they
thought no evil so great as the rupture with France ; by the
federalists, because it was their system to avoid war with every
power, if it could be done without the sacrifice of essential in-
terests or absolute humiliation.

Even such of them who conceived that the insults of the
French government, and the manifestation of its ill-will, had
already gone far enough to call for measures of vigor, perceiving
that the nation was not generally penetrated with the same con-
viction, and would not support with zeal measures of that nature,
unless their necessity was rendered still more apparent, acquiesced
in the expediency of another mission. They hoped that it would
serve either to compose the differences which existed, or to make
the necessity of resistance to the violence of France, palpable to
every good citizen.

The expediency of the step was suggested to Mr. Adams,
through a federal channel, a considerable time before he deter-
mined to take it. He hesitated whether it could be done after
the rejection of General Pinckney, without national debasement.
The doubt was an honorable one ; it was afterwards very pro-

^T. 43.]

JOHN ADAMS. 703

perly surrendered to the cogent reasons which pleaded for a
further experiment.

The event of this experiment is fresh in our recollection.
Our envoys, like our minister, were rejected. Tribute was de-
manded as a preliminary to negotiation. To their immortal
honor, though France at the time was proudly triumphant, they
repelled the disgraceful pretension. Americans will never forget
that General Pinckney was a member, and an efficient member,
of this commission.

This conduct of the French government, in which it is diffi-
cult to say, whether despotic insolence or unblushing corruption
was most prominent, electrified the American people with a be-
coming indignation. In vain the partisans of France attempted
to extenuate. The public voice was distinct and audible. The
nation, disdaining so foul an overture, was ready to encounter
the worst consequences of resistance.

Without imitating the flatterers of Mr. Adams, who, in dero-
gation from the intrinsic force of circumstances, and from the
magnanimity of the nation, ascribe to him the whole merits of
producing the spirit which appeared in the community, it shall
with cheerfulness be acknowledged that he took upon the occa-
sion a manly and courageous lead — that he did all in his power
to rouse the pride of the nation — to inspire it with a just sense
of the injuries and outrages which it had experienced, and to
dispose it to a firm and magnanimous resistance ; and that his
efforts contributed materially to the end.

The friends of the government were not agreed as to ulterior
measures. Some were for immediate and unqualified war; oth-
ers for a more mitigated course; the dissolution of treaties, pre-
paration of force by land and sea, partial hostilities of a defensive
tendency ; leaving to France the option of seeking accommoda-
tion, or proceeding to open war. The latter course prevailed.

Though not as bold and energetic as the other, yet, consider-
ing the prosperous state of French affairs when it was adopted,
and how many nations had been appalled and prostrated by the
French power, the conduct pursued bore sufficiently the marks
of courage and elevation to raise the national character to an ex-
alted height throughout Europe.

704 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mi. 43.

Much is it to be deplored that we should have been precipi-
tated from this proud eminence without necessity, without temp-
tation.

The latter conduct of the President forms a painful contrast
to his commencement. Its effects have been directly the reverse.
It has sunk the tone of the public mind — it has impaired the
confidence of the friends of the government in the executive
chief — it has distracted public opinion — it has unnerved the pub-
lic councils — it has sown the seeds of discord at home, and low-
ered the reputation of the government abroad. The circum-
stances which preceded, aggravate the disagreeableness of the
results. They prove that the injudicious things which have been
acted, were not the effects of any regular plan, but the fortuitous
emanations of momentary impulses.

The session, which ensued the promulgation of the dispatches
of our commissioners, was about to commence. Mr. Adams ar-
rived at Philadelphia from his seat at Quincy. The tone of his
mind seemed to have been raised, rather than depressed.

It was suggested to him, that it might be expedient to insert
in his speech to Congress, a sentiment of this import: That after
the repeatedly rejected advances of this country, its dignity re-
quired that it should be left with France in future to make the
first overture; that if, desirous of reconciliation, she should
evince the disposition by sending a minister to this government,
he would be received with the respect due to his character, and
treated with in the frankness of a sincere desire of accommo-
dation.

The suggestion was received in a manner both indignant and
intemperate.

Mr. Adams declared, as a sentiment which he had adopted on
mature reflection: — That if France should send a minister to-mor-
row, he icould order him back the day after.

So imprudent an idea was easily refuted. Little argument
was requisite to show that, by a similar sj^stem of retaliation,
when one government in a particular instance had refused the
envoy of another, nations might entail upon each other perpetual
hostility, mutually barring the avenues of explanation.

jEt. 43.J JOHN ADAMS. 705

In less than forty-eight hours from this extraordinary sally,
the mind of Mr. Adams underwent a total revolution — he resolv-
ed not only to insert in his speech the sentiment which had been
proposed to him, but to go farther, and to declare, that if France
would give explicit assurances of receiving a minister from this
country, with due respect, he would send one.

In vain was this extension of the sentiment opposed by all his
ministers, as being equally incompatible with good policy, and
with the dignity of the nation — he obstinately persisted, and the
pernicious declaration was introduced.

I call it pernicious, because it was the groundwork of the
false steps which have succeeded.

The declaration recommended to the President was a prudent
one.

The measures of Congress, by their mitigated form, showed
that an eye had been still kept upon pacification. A numerous
party were averse from war with France at any rate. In the rest
of the community, a strong preference of honorable accommodation
to final rupture was discernible, even amidst the effusions of re-
sentment.

The charges which we had exhibited in the face of the world
against the French government, were of a high and disgraceful
complexion; they had been urged with much point and em-
phasis.

To give an opening to France to make conciliatory proposi-
tions, some salve for her pride was necessary. It was also
necessary she should be assured that she would not expose herself
to an affront by a refusal to receive the agent whom she might
employ for that purpose. The declaration proposed fulfilled both
objects.

It was likely to have another important advantage. It would
be a new proof to the American people of the moderate and
pacific temper of their government ; which would tend to pre-
serve their confidence, and to dispose them more and more to
meet inevitable extremities with fortitude and without murmurs.

But the supplement to the declaration was a blamable excess.
It was more than sufficient for the ends to be answered. It waived
G 45
HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 43.

the point of honor, which, after two rejections of our ministers,
required that the next mission between the two countries should
proceed from France. After the mortifying humiliations we had
endured, the national dignity demanded that this point should
not be departed from without necessity. No such necessity
could be pretended to exist : moreover, another mission by us
would naturally be regarded as evidence of a disposition on our
part to purchase the friendship of revolutionary France, even at
the expense of honor ; an impression which could hardly fail to
injure our interests with other countries : and the measure would
involve the further inconvenience of transferring the negotiation
from this country, where our government could regulate it accord-
ing to its own view of exigencies, to France, where that advantage
would be enjoyed by her government, and where the power of
judging for us must be delegated to commissioners ; who, acting
under immense individual responsibility, at a distance too great
for consultation, would be apt to act with hesitancy and irresolu-
tion, whether the policy of the case required concession or firm-
ness. This was to place it too much in the power of France to
manage the progress of the negotiation according to events.

It has been said that Paris was wisely preferred as the place
of negotiation, because it served to avoid the caballings of a
French minister in this country. But there is not enough in
this argument to counterbalance the weighty considerations on
the other side. The intrigues of Genet and his successors were
perplexing to the government, chiefly because they were too well
seconded by the prepossessions of the people. The great altera-
tion in public opinion, had put it completely in the power of our
executive to control the machinations of any future public agent
of France. It ought also to be remembered, that if France has
not known agents, she never will be without secret ones, and
that her partisans among our citizens can much better promote
her cause than any agents she can send. In fact, her agents, by
their blunders, were in the event rather useful than pernicious to
our affairs.

But is it likely that France would have sent a minister to this
country ? When we find, that from calculations of policy she

jEt. 43."j JOHN ADAMS. 707

could brook the ignominy which the publication of the dispatches
of our commissioners was calculated to bring upon her ; and
stifling her resentment, could invite the renewal of negotiation ;
what room can there be to doubt, that the same calculations would
have induced her to send a minister to this country when an
opening was given for it ?

The French minister for foreign relations, through the French
diplomatic agent at the Hague, had opened a communication with
Mr. Murray, our resident there, for the purpose of reviving nego-
tiation between the two countries. In this manner, assurances
were given that France was disposed to treat, and that a minister
from us would be received and accredited. But they were ac-
companied with intimations of the characters proper to be employ-
ed, and who would be likely to succeed ; which was exceptionable,
both as it savored of the pretension (justly censured by the
President himself) of prescribing to other governments how they
were to manage their own affairs ; and as it might, according to
circumstances, be construed into a tacit condition of the promise
to receive a minister. Overtures so circuitous and informal,
through a person who was not the regular organ of the French
government for making them, to a person who was not the regu-
lar organ of the American government for receiving them, might
be a very fit mode of preparing the way for the like overtures in
a more authentic and obligatory shape. But they were a very
inadequate basis for the institution of a new mission.

When the President pledged himself in his speech to send a
minister, if satisfactory assurances of a proper reception were
given, he must have been understood to mean such as were direct
and official, not such as were both informal and destitute of a
competent sanction.

Yet upon this loose and vague foundation, Mr. Adams pre-
cipitately nominated Mr. Murray as envoy to the French Kepublic,
without previous consultation with any of his ministers. The
nomination itself was to each of them, even to the Secretary of
State, his constitutional counsellor in similar affairs, the first
notice of the project.

Thus was the measure wrong, both as to mode and substance.

708 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 43.

A President is not bound to conform to the advice of his
ministers. He is even under no positive injunction to ask or re-
quire it. But the Constitution presumes that he will consult them ;
and the genius of our government and the public good recommend
the practice.

As the President nominates his ministers, and may displace
them when he pleases, it must be his own fault if he be not sur-
rounded by men, who for ability and integrity deserve his con-
fidence. And if his ministers are of this character, the consult-
ing of them will always be likely to be useful to himself and to
the state. Let it even be supposed that he is a man of talents
superior to the collected talents of all his ministers (which can
seldom happen, as the world has seen but few Fredericks), he
may, nevertheless, often assist his judgment by a comparison
and collision of ideas. The greatest genius, hurried away by the
rapidity of its own conceptions, will occasionally overlook obsta-
cles which ordinary and more phlegmatic men will discover, and
which, when presented to his consideration, will be thought by
himself decisive objections to his plans.

When, unhappily, an ordinary man dreams himself to be a
Frederick, and through vanity refrains from counselling with
his constitutional advisers, he is very apt to fall into the hands
of miserable intriguers, with whom his self-love is more at ease,
and who without difficulty slide into his confidence, and by flat-
tery govern him.

The ablest men may profit by advice. Inferior men cannot
dispense with it ; and if they do not get it through legitimate
channels, it will find its way to them, through such as are clan-
destine and impure.

Very different from the practice of Mr. Adams was that of
the modest and sage Washington. He consulted much, ponder-
ed much, resolved slowly, resolved surely.

And as surely, Mr. Adams might have benefited by the ad-
vice of his ministers.

The stately system of not consulting ministers is likely to
have a further disadvantage. It will tend to exclude from
places of primary trust the men most fit to occupy them.

jEt. 43.]

JOHN ADAMS. 709

Few and feeble are the interested inducements to accept a
place in our administration. Far from being lucrative, there is
not one which will not involve pecuniary sacrifice to every honest
man of pre-eminent talents. And has not experience shown,
that he must be fortunate indeed, if even the successful execu-
tion of his task can secure to him consideration and fame? Of
a large harvest of obloquy he is sure.

If excluded from the counsels of the Executive Chief, his
office must become truly insignificant. What able and virtuous
man will long consent to be so miserable a pageant?

Every thing that tends to banish from the Administration
able men, tends to diminish the chances of able counsels. The
probable operation of a system of this kind, must be to consign
places of the highest trust to incapable honest men, whose in-
ducement will be a livelihood, or to capable dishonest men, who
will seek indirect indemnifications for the deficiency of direct
and fair inducements.

The precipitate nomination of Mr. Murray, brought Mr.
Adams into an awkward predicament.

He found it necessary to change his plan in its progress, and
instead of one, to nominate three envoys, and to superadd a pro-
mise, that, though appointed, they should not leave the United
States till further and more perfect assurances were given by the
French government.

This remodification of the measure was a virtual acknow-
ledgment that it had been premature. How unseemly was this
fluctuation in the Executive Chief. It argued either instability
of views, or want of sufficient consideration beforehand. The
one or the other, in an affair of so great moment, is a serious
reproach.

Additional and more competent assurances were received;
but before the envoys departed, intelligence arrived of a new re-
volution in the French government ; which, in violation of the
Constitution, had expelled two of the Directory.

Another revolution : another Constitution overthrown. Sure-
ly here was reason for a pause, at least till it was ascertained
that the new Directory would adhere to the engagement of i+'

flO HAMILTON'S WORKS,

[Mr. 43.

predecessors, and would not send back our envoys with dis-
grace.

In the then posture of French affairs, which externally as
well as internally were unprosperous, a pause was every way
prudent. The recent revolution was a valid motive for it.

Definitive compacts between nations, called real treaties, are
binding, notwithstanding revolutions of governments. But to
apply the maxim to ministerial acts, preparatory only to nego-
tiation, is to extend it too far ; to apply it to such acts of an
unstable revolutionary government (like that of France at that
time) is to abuse it.

Had any policy of the moment demanded it, it would have
been not at all surprising to have seen the new Directory disa-
vowing the assurance which had been given, and imputing it as
a crime to the ex-directors, on the pretence that they had pros-
trated the dignity of the republic by courting the renewal of ne-
gotiation with a government which had so grossly insulted it.

Yet our envoys were dispatched without a ratification of the
assurance by the new Directory, at the hazard of the interests
and the honor of the country.

Again, the dangerous and degrading system of not consult-
ing ministers, was acted upon.

When the news of the revolution in the Directory arrived,
Mr. Adams was at his seat in Massachusetts. His ministers ad-
dressed to him a joint letter, communicating the intelligence, and
submitting to his consideration, whether that event ought not to
suspend the projected mission. In a letter which he afterwards
wrote from the same place, he directed the preparation of a draft
of instructions for the envoys, and intimated that their departure
would be suspended for some time.

Shortly after he came to Trenton, where he adjusted with his
ministers the tenor of the instructions to be given ; but he ob-
served a profound silence on the question, whether it was expe-
dient that the mission should proceed. The morning after the
instructions were settled, he signified to the Secretary of State
that the envoys were immediately to depart.

He is reported to have assigned as the reason of his silence,

JEt. 43.] JOHN ADAMS. T 1 1

that he knew the opinions of his ministers from their letter ; that
he had irrevocably adopted an opposite one ; and that he deem-
ed it most delicate not to embarrass them by a useless dis-
cussion.

But would it not have been more prudent to have kept his
judgment in some degree of suspense, till after an interview and
discussion with his ministers? Ought he to have taken it for
granted that the grounds of his opinion were so infallible, that
there was no possibility of arguments being used which were
sufficient to shake them ? Ought he not to have recollected the
sudden revolution which his judgment had undergone in the be-
ginning of the business, and to have inferred from this, that it
might have yielded in another instance to better lights? Was
it necessary for him, if he had had a conference with his minis-
ters, to have alarmed their delicacy, by prefacing the discussion
with a declaration that he had fixed an unalterable opinion?
Did not the intimation respecting a suspension of the departure
of the envoys, imply that this would continue till there was a
change of circumstances ? Was it not a circumstance to strength-
en expectation in the ministers, when consulted about the in-
structions, that they would be heard as to the principal point,
previous to a definitive resolution ?

Giving Mr. Adams credit for sincerity, the desultoriness of
his mind is evinced by the very different grounds upon which, at
different times, he has defended the propriety of the mission.

Sometimes he has treated with ridicule the idea of its being
a measure which would terminate in peace ; asserting that France
would not accommodate, on terms admissible by the United
States, and that the effect to be expected from the mission, was
the demonstration of this truth, and the union of public opinion
on the necessity of war.

Sometimes, and most frequently, he has vindicated the
measure as one conformable with the general and strong wish of
the country for peace, and as likely to promote that desirable
object.

It is now earnestly to be hoped, that the final issue of the
mission, in an honorable accommodation, may compensate for the

712 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mi. 43.

sacrifice of consistency, dignity, harmony, and reputation, at
which it has been undertaken.

But even in relation to the adjustment of differences with the
French Republic, the measure was injudicious. It was probable
that it would delay, rather than accelerate, such an adjustment.

The situation of French affairs, at the time of the overtures
for renewing the negotiation, coincides with the solicitude which
was manifested for that object, to render it likely that, at this
juncture, France really desired accommodation. If this was so,
it is presumable (as observed in another place) that, had not the
declaration about sending a minister to her intervened, she would
have sent one to us, with adequate powers and instructions.
Towards a minister here, our government might have acted such
a part as would have hastened a conclusion ; and the minister,
conforming to the impressions of his government when he was
sent, it is not improbable that a desirable arrangement might
some time since have been effected.

Instead of this, the mode pursued naturally tended to delay.
A lapse of time, by changing the circumstances, is very apt to
change the views of governments. The French agents, charged
with the negotiation at Pans, could find little difficulty in pro-
tracting it till events (such as the fate of a campaign) should be
ascertained, as a guide to rise or fall in their pretensions. And
in this way, obstacles might supervene, which would not have
existed in the beginning, and which might render accommodation
impracticable — or practicable only on terms injurious to our in-
terests.

Thus, on every just calculation, whatever may be the issue,
the measure, in reference either to our internal or foreign affairs,
even to our concerns with France herself, was alike impolitic.

It is sometimes defended by the argument, that when our
commissioners departed, there were circumstances in the position
of Europe which made a general peace during the succeeding
winter probable, and that it would have been dangerous for this
country, remote as it is from Europe, to have been without agents
on the spot authorized to settle its controversy with France, at
the same epoch. The country, it is said, might otherwise have

Mr. 43.] JOHN ADAMS. 713

been left in the perilous situation of having a subsisting quarrel
with France, after she had disembarrassed herself of all her
European enemies.

The idea that a general peace was likely to happen during
that winter, was, I know, entertained by Mr. Adams himself;
for, in a casual conversation at Trenton, he expressed it to me,
and I supported a different opinion. But waiving now a discus-
sion of the point, and admitting that the expectation was enter-
tained on substantial grounds, though it has not been verified by
experience, still the argument deduced from it is not valid.

The expediency of the measure must be tested by the state of
things when it had its inception. At the time the foundation
was laid for it by the speech, when even the nomination of Mr.
Murray took place, the affairs of France and of her enemies
portended a result very inauspicious to her, and very different
from that of a general peace, on conditions which would leave
her the inclination or the power to prosecute hostilities against
this country.

But even on the supposition of other prospects, Mr. Adams
had the option of a substitute far preferable to the expedient
which he chose.

He might secretly and confidentially have nominated one or
more of our ministers actually abroad for the purpose of treating
with France ; with eventual instructions predicated upon appear-
ances of an approaching peace.

An expedient of this sort, merely provisory, could have had
none of the bad effects of the other. If the secret was kept, it
could have had no inconvenient consequences ; if divulged, it
would have been deemed here and elsewhere, a prudent precau-
tion only, recommended by the distant situation of the country,
to meet future casualties, with which we might otherwise not
have been able to keep pace. To the enemies of France, it
could have given no ill impression of us ; to France, no motive
to forbear other conciliatory means, for one and the same reason,
namely, because the operation was to be eventual.

There are some collateral incidents connected with this busi-
ness of the mission, which it may not be useless to mention, as

T14 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 43.

they will serve still farther to illustrate the extreme propensity
of Mr. Adams's temper to jealousy.

It happened that I arrived at Trenton a short time before the
President — Chief Justice Elsworth a short time after him. This
was considered as evidence of a combination between the heads
of departments, the Chief Justice and myself, to endeavor to in-
fluence or counteract him in the affair of the mission.

The truth, nevertheless, most certainly is, that I went to
Trenton with General Wilkinson, pursuant to a preconcert with
him of some weeks' standing, to accelerate, by personal confer-
ences with the Secretary of War, the adoption and execution of
arrangements which had been planned between that general and
myself, for the future disposition of the western army ; that
when I left New-York upon this journey, I had no expectation
whatever that the President would come to Trenton, and that I
did not stay at this place a day longer than was indispensable to
the object 1 have stated. General Wilkinson, if necessary, might
be appealed to, not only as knowing that this was a real and sincere
purpose of my journey, but as possessing satisfactory evidence,
that in all probability I had no anticipation of the movement of
the President.

As to Chief Justice Elsworth, the design of his journey was
understood to be to meet his colleague, Governor Davy, at the
seat of the government, where they would be at the fountain
head of information, and would obtain any lights or explanations
which they might suppose useful. This was manifestly a very
natural and innocent solution of the Chief Justice's visit, and I
believe the true one.

Yet these simple occurrences were to the jealous mind of Mr.
Adams, "confirmation strong," of some mischievous plot against
his independence.

The circumstance, which next presents itself to examination,
is the dismission of the two secretaries, Pickering and M 'Henry.
This circumstance, it is known, occasioned much surprise, and a
strong sensation to the disadvantage of Mr. Adams.

It happened at a peculiar juncture, immediately after the un-
favorable turn of the election in New-York, and had much the

^t.43.J JOHN ADAMS. ?15

air of an explosion of combustible materials which had been
long prepared, but which had been kept down by prudential cal-
culations respecting the effect of an explosion upon the friends
of those ministers in the State of New-York. Perhaps, when
it was supposed that nothing could be lost in this quarter, and
that something might be gained elsewhere by an atoning sacrifice
of those ministers, especially Mr. Pickering, who had been for
some time particularly odious to the opposition party, it was de-
termined to proceed to extremities. This, as a mere conjecture,
is offered for as much as it may be worth.

One fact, however, is understood to be admitted, namely,
that neither 'of the dismissed ministers had given any new or re-
cent cause for their dismission.

A primary cause of the state of things which led to this
event, is to be traced to the ungovernable temper of Mr. Adams.
It is a fact that he is often liable to paroxysms of anger, which
deprive him of self-command, and produce very outrageous be-
havior to those who approach him. Most, if not all his minis-
ters, and several distinguished members of the two Houses of
Congress, have been humiliated by the effects of these gusts of

passion.

This violence, and the little consideration for them which
was implied in declining to consult them, had occasioned great
dryness between the President and his ministers, except, I be-
lieve, the Secretary of the Navy.

The neglect was, of course, most poignant to Mr. Pickering,
because it had repeatedly operated in matters appertaining to his
ofhce. Nor was it in the disposition of this respectable man,
justly tenacious of his own dignity and independence, to practise
condescentions towards an imperious chief. Hence the breach
constantly grew wider and wider, till a separation took place.

The manner of the dismission was abrupt and uncourteous ;
ill suited to a man, who, in different stations, had merited so much
from his country.

Admitting that when the President and his minister had got-
ten into a situation thus unpleasant, a seperation was unavoid-
able ; still, as there was no surmise of misconduct, the case re-
quired a frank politeness, not an uncouth austerity.

Y16 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 43.

But the remark most interesting in this particular to the
character of the President, is, that it was by his own fault
that he was brought into a situation which might oblige him
to displace a minister, whose moral worth has his own suf-
frage, and whose abilities and services have that of the
public.

The dismission of this minister was preceded by a very cu-
rious circumstance. It was, without doubt, announced as a thing
shortly to happen in an opposition circle, before any friend of
the government had the slightest suspicion of it. This circum-
stance, taken in connection with the period at which it happen-
ed, naturally provokes the conjecture that there may have been
some collateral inducements to the step.

The dismission of the Secretary at War took place about the
same time. It was declared in the sequel of a long conversation
between the President and him, of a nature to excite alter-
nately pain and laughter ; pain, for the weak and excessive in-
discretions of a Chief Magistrate of the United States ; laughter
at the ludicrous topics which constituted charges against this
officer.

A prominent charge was, that the Secretary, in a report to
the House of Representatives, had eulogized General Washington,
and had attempted to eulogize General Hamilton, which was
adduced as one proof of a combination, in which the Secretary
was engaged, to depreciate and injure him, the President.

Wonderful ! passing wonderful ! that an eulogy of the dead
patriot and hero, of the admired and beloved Washington, con-
secrated in the affections and reverence of his country, should,
in any shape, be irksome to the ears of his successor !

Singular, also, that an encomium on the officer, first in rank
in the armies of the United States, appointed and continued by
Mr. Adams, should in his eyes have been a crime in the head of
the War Department, and that it should be necessary, in order to
avert his displeasure, to obliterate a compliment to that officer
from an official report.

Another principal topic of accusation was, that the Secretary
had, with the other ministers, signed the joint letter, which had

JEt. 43.] JOHN ADAMS. 71 f

been addressed to the President respecting a suspension of the
mission to France. It was ostentatiously asked, how he or they
should pretend to know any thing of diplomatic affairs; and it
was plainly intimated that it was presumption in them to have
intermeddled in such affairs.

A variety of things equally frivolous and outre passed. By
way of episode, it fell to my lot to be distinguished by a torrent
of gross personal abuse ; and I was accused of having contrib-
uted to the loss of the election in New-York, out of ill will to
Mr. Adams : a notable expedient truly for giving vent to my ill
will. Who is so blind as not to see, that if actuated by such a
motive, I should have preferred by the success of the election,
to have secured the choice of electors for the State of New- York,
who would have been likely to co-operate in the views by which
I was governed?

To those who have not had opportunities of closely inspect-
ing the weaknesses of Mr. Adams's character, the details of this
extraordinary interview Avould appear incredible ; but to those
who have had these opportunities, they would not even furnish
an occasion of surprise. But they would be, to all who knew
their truth, irrefragable proofs of his unfitness for the station of
Chief Magistrate.

Ill treatment of Mr. M 'Henry cannot fail to awaken the
sympathy of every person well acquainted with him. Sensible,
judicious, well-informed, of an integrity never questioned, of a
temper, which, though firm in the support of principles, has too
much moderation and amenity to offend by the manner of doing
it — I dare pronounce that he never gave Mr. Adams cause to
treat him, as he did, with unkindness. If Mr. Adams thought
that his execution of his office indicated a want of the peculiar
qualifications required for it, he might have said so with gentle-
ness, and he would have only exercised a prerogative intrusted
to him by the Constitution, to which no blame could have at-
tached; but it was unjustifiable to aggravate the deprivation of
ofiice by humiliating censures and bitter reproaches.

The last material occurrence in the administration of Mr.
Adams, of which I shall take notice, is the pardon of Fries,

718 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 43.

and other principals in the late insurrection in Pennsyl-
vania.-

It is a fact that a very refractory spirit has long existed in the
western counties of that State. Repeatedly have its own laws
been opposed with violence, and as often, according to my in-
formation, with impunity.

It is also a fact, which every body knows, that the laws of
the Union, in the vital article of revenue, have been twice re-
sisted in the same State by combinations so extensive, and un-
der circumstances so violent, as to have called for the employ-
ment of military force ; once under the former President, and
once under the actual President ; which together cost the United
States nearly a million and a half of dollars.

In the first instance it happened, that by the early submis-
sion of most of the leaders, upon an invitation of the govern-
ment, few offenders of any consequence remained subject to
prosecution. Of these, either from the humanity of the
juries or some deficiency in the evidence, not one was capi-
tally convicted. Two poor wretches only were sentenced
to die, one of them little short of an idiot, the other a miser-
able follower in the hindmost train of rebellion, both being so
insignificant in all respects, that after the lenity shown to the
chiefs, justice would have worn the mien of ferocity, if she
had raised her arm against them. The sentiment that their
punishment ought to be remitted was universal ; and the Pres-
ident, yielding to the special considerations, granted them par-
dons.

In the last instance, some of the most important of the of-
fenders were capitally convicted — one of them by the verdicts of
two successive juries. The general opinion of the friends of
the government demanded an example, as indispensable to its
security.

The opinion was well founded. Two insurrections in the
same State, the one upon the heels of the other, demonstrated a
spirit of insubordination or disaffection which required a strong-
corrective. It is a disagreeable fact, forming a weighty argu-
ment in the question, that a large part of the population of Penn-

Ms. 43.] JOHN ADAMS. 719

sylvania is of a composition which peculiarly fits it for the
intrigues of factious men, who may desire to disturb or over-
throw the government. And it is an equally disagreeable fact,
that disaffection to the national government is in no other State
more general, more deeply rooted, or more envenomed.

The late Governor Mifflin himself informed me, that in the
first case, insurrection had been organized down to the very
liberties of Philadelphia, and that had not the government anti-
cipated it, a general explosion would speedily have ensued.

It ought to be added, that the impunity so often experienced,
had made it an article in the creed of those who were actuated by
the insurgent spirit, that neither the General nor the State govern-
ment dared to inflict capital punishment.

To destroy this persuasion, to repress this dangerous spirit, it
was essential that a salutary rigor should have been exerted, and
that those who were under the influence of the one and the other
should be taught that they were the dupes of a fatal illusion.

Of this, Mr. Adams appeared so sensible, that while the trials
were pending, he more than once imprudently threw out, that
the accused must found their hopes of escape either in their
innocence or in the lenity of the juries ; since from him, in case
of conviction, they would have nothing to expect. And a very
short time before he pardoned them, he declared (b) with no
small ostentation, that the mistaken clemency of Washington on
the former occasion, had been the cause of the second insurrec-
tion, and that he would take care there should not be a third,
by giving the laws their full course against the convicted offend-
ers.

Yet he thought proper, as if distrusting the courts and officers
of the United States, to resort through the Attorney-General to
the counsel of the culprits, for a statement of their cases ; (c) in
which was found, besides some objections of form, the novel
doctrine, disavowed by every page of our law books, that treason
does not consist of resistance by force to a public law ; unless it
be an act relative to the militia, or other military force.

(b) (c) Of these two facts, my evidence is inferior to that which supports the
other allegations of this letter ; yet it is so strong that I feel myself warranted to
state them.

720 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [At. 43.

And upon this, or upon some other ground, not easy to be
comprehended, he of a sudden departed from all his former
declarations, and, against the unanimous advice of his ministers,
with the Attorney-General, came to the resolution, which he
executed, of pardoning all those who had received sentence of
death.

No wonder that the public was thunderstruck at such a result
— that the friends of the government regarded it as a virtual
dereliction — it was impossible to commit a greater error. The
particular situation of Pennsylvania, the singular posture of
human affairs, in which there is so strong a tendency to the dis-
organization of government — the turbulent and malignant humors
which exist, and are so industriously nourished throughout the
United States ; every thing loudly demanded that the Executive
should have acted with exemplary vigor, and should have given
a striking demonstration, that condign punishment would be the
lot of the violent opposers of the laws.

The contrary course, which was pursued, is the most inex-
plicable part of Mr. Adams's conduct. It shows him so much at
variance with himself, as well as with sound policy, that we are
driven to seek a solution for it in some system of concession to
his political enemies ; a system the most fatal for himself, and
for the cause of public order, of any that he could possibly devise.
It is by temporizings like these, that men at the head of affairs,
lose the respect both of friends and foes— it is by temporizings
like these, that in times of fermentation and commotion, govern-
ments are prostrated, which might easily have been upheld by
an erect and imposing attitude.

I have now gone through the principal circumstances in Mr.
Adams's conduct, which have served to produce my disapproba-
tion of him as Chief Magistrate. I pledge my veracity and honor,
that I have stated none which are not either derived from my
own knowledge, or from sources of information, in the highest
degree, worthy of credit.

I freely submit it, sir, to your judgment, whether the grounds
of the opinion I have expressed, are not weighty ; and whether
they are not sufficient to exculpate those federalists, who favor

Mr. 43.] JOHN ADAMS. T21

the equal support of Mr. Pinckney, from all blame, and myself
in particular, from the unworthy imputation of being influenced
by private resentment.

At the same time, I will admit, though it should detract from
the force of my representations, that I have causes of personal
dissatisfaction with Mr. Adams. It is not my practice to trouble
others with my individual concerns; nor should I do it at
present, but for the suggestions which have been made. Even
with this incentive, I shall do it as little as possible.

The circumstances of my late military situation, have much
less to do with my personal discontent than some others. In
respect to them, I shall only say, that I owed my appointment to
the station and rank I held, to the express stipulation of General
Washington, when he accepted the command of the army, after-
wards peremptorily insisted upon by him, in opposition to the strong
wishes of the President ; and that, though second in rank, I was
not promoted to the first place, when it became vacant, by the
death of the commander-in-chief. As to the former, I should
have had no cause to complain, if there had not been an apparent
inconsistency in the measures of the President ; if he had not
nominated me first on the list of Major-Generals, and attempted
afterwards to place me third in rank. As to the latter, the chief
command, not being a matter of routine, the not promoting me to
it, cannot be deemed a wrong or injury ; yet certainly I could not
see, in the omission, any proof of good will or confidence — or of
a disposition to console me for the persecutions which I had inces-
santly endured. But I dismiss the subject, leaving to others to
judge of my pretensions to the promotion, and of the weight, if
any, which they ought to have had with the President.

On other topics, my sensations are far less neutral. If, as I
have been assured from respectable authorities, Mr. Adams has
repeatedly indulged himself in virulent and indecent abuse of
me ; if he has denominated me a man destitute of every moral
principle ; if he has stigmatized me as the leader of a British
faction; then, certainly, I have a right to think that I have been
most cruelly and wickedly traduced; then have I a right to
appeal to all those who have been spectators of my public
g 46

722 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 43.

actions ; to all who are acquainted with my private character, in
its various relations, whether such treatment of me, by Mr.
Adams, is of a nature to weaken or to strengthen his claim to
the approbation of wise and good men ; then will I so far yield
to the consciousness of what I am, as to declare, that in the
cardinal points of public and private rectitude, above all, in pure
and disinterested zeal for the interests and service of this country
— I shrink not from a comparison with any arrogant pretender
to superior and exclusive merit.

Having been repeatedly informed, that Mr. Adams had de-
lineated me as the leader of a British faction, and having under-
stood that his partisans, to counteract the influence of my opinion,
were pressing the same charge against me, I wrote him a letter
on the subject, dated the first of August last. No reply having
been given by him to this letter, I, on the first of the present
month, wrote him another ; of both which letters I send you
copies.

Of the purity of my public conduct in this, as in other par-
ticulars, I may defy the severest investigation.

Not only is it impossible- for any man to give color to this
absurd charge, by a particle of proof, or by any reasonable pre-
sumption ; but I am able to show, that my conduct has uniformly
given the lie to it.

I never advised any connection* with Great Britain, other
than a commercial one ; and in this I never advocated the giving
to her any privilege or advantage which was not to be imparted
to other nations. With regard to her pretensions as a belligerent
power in relation to neutrals, my opinions, while in the Adminis-
tration, to the best of my recollection, coincided with those of
Mr. Jefferson. When, in the year 1793, her depredations on
our commerce discovered a hostile spirit, I recommended one
definitive effort to terminate differences by negotiation, to be

* I mean a lasting connection. From what I recollect of the train of my ideas,
it is possible I may at some time have suggested a temporary connection for the
purpose of co-operating against France, in the event of a definitive rupture ; but of
this I am not certain, as I well remember that the expediency of the measure was
always problematical in my mind, and that I have occasionally discouraged it.

jEt. 43.] JOHN ADAMS. 723

followed, if unsuccessful, by a declaration of war. I urged, in
the most earnest manner, the friends of the Administration, in
both Houses of Congress, to prepare by sea and land for the
alternative, to the utmost extent of our resources ; and to an
extent far exceeding what any member of either party was found
willing to go. For this alternative, I became so firmly pledged
to the friends and enemies of the Administration, and especially
to the President of the United States, in writing as well as
verbally, that I could not afterwards have retracted without a
glaring and disgraceful inconsistency. And being thus pledged,
I explicitly gave it as my opinion to Mr. Jay, Envoy to Great
Britain, that " unless an adjustment of the differences with her could
be effected on solid terms) it would be better to do nothing.1,1 When the
treaty arrived, it was not without full deliberation and some
hesitation, that I resolved to support it. The articles relative to
the settlement of differences were upon the whole satisfactory ;
but there were a few of the others which appeared to me of a
different character. The article respecting contraband, though
conformable with the general law of nations, was not in all its
features such as could have been wished. The XXVth article,
which gave asylum in our ports, under certain exceptions, to
privateers with their prizes, was in itself an ineligible one, being
of a nature to excite the discontent of nations against whom it
should operate, and deriving its justification from the example
before set of an equivalent stipulation in our treaty with France.
The Xllth article, was in my view inadmissible. The en-
lightened negotiator, not unconscious that some parts of the
treat}7 were less well arranged than was to be desired, had him-
self hesitated to sign : but he had resigned his scruples to the
conviction that nothing better could be effected, and that aggre-
gately considered, the instrument would be advantageous to the
United States. On my part, the result of mature reflection was,
that as the subjects of controversy which had threatened the
peace of the two nations, and which implicated great interests of
this country, were in the essential points well adjusted, and as
the other articles would expire in twelve years after the ratifica-
tion of the treaty, it would be wise and right to confirm the com-

724 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 43.

pact, with the exception of the Xllth article. Nevertheless,
when an account was received that the British cruisers had
seized provisions going to ports of the French dominions, not
in fact blockaded or besieged, I advised the President to ratify
the treaty conditionally only, that is, with express instructions
not to exchange ratifications, unless the British government
would disavow a construction of the instrument authorizing the
practice, and would discontinue it.

After the rejection of Mr. Pinckney by the government of
France, immediately after the instalment of Mr. Adams as Pre-
sident, and long before the measure was taken, I urged a member
of Congress, then high in the confidence of the President, to pro-
pose to him the immediate appointment of three commissioners,
of whom Mr. Jefferson or Mr. Madison to be one, to make another
attempt to negotiate. And when afterwards commissioners were
appointed, I expressly gave it as my opinion, that indemnification
for spoliations, should not be a sine qua non of accommodation.
In fine, I have been disposed to go greater lengths to avoid rup-
ture with France than with Great Britain ; to make greater
sacrifices for reconciliation with the former than with the latter.

In making this avowal, I owe it to my own character to say,
that the disposition I have confessed, did not proceed from pre-
dilection for France (revolutionary France, after her early begin-
nings, has been always to me an object of horror), nor from the
supposition that more was to be feared from France, as an enemy,
than from Great Britain (I thought that the maritime power of
the latter, could do us most mischief), but from the persuasion that
the sentiments and prejudices of our country, would render war
with France a more unmanageable business, than war with Great
Britain.

Let any fair man pronounce, whether the circumstances which
have been disclosed, bespeak the partisan of Great Britain, or the
man exclusively devoted to the interests of this country. Let
any delicate man decide, whether it must not be shocking to an
ingenuous mind, to have to combat a slander so vile, after having
sacrificed the interests of his family, and devoted the best part of
his life to the service of that country, in counsel and in the field.

m. 43.| JOHN ADAMS. 725

It is time to conclude. — The statement, which has been made,
shows that Mr. Adams has committed some positive and serious
errors of administration ; that in addition to these, he has certain
fixed points of character which tend naturally to the detriment of
any cause of which he is the chief, of any administration of which
he is the head ; that by his ill humors and jealousies he has
already divided and distracted the supporters of the government;
that he has furnished deadly weapons to its enemies by unfounded
accusations, and has weakened the force of its friends by decrying
some of the most influential of them to the utmost of his power ;
and let it be added, as the necessary effect of such conduct, that
he has made great progress in undermining the ground which
was gained for the government by his predecessor, and that there
is real cause to apprehend, it might totter, if not fall, under his
future auspices. A new government, constructed on free princi-
ples, is always weak, and must stand in need of the props of a
firm and good administration ; till time shall have rendered its
authority venerable, and fortified it by habits of obedience.

Yet with this opinion of Mr. Adams, I have finally resolved
not to advise the withholding from him a single vote. The body
of federalists, for want of sufficient knowledge of facts, are not
convinced of the expediency of relinquishing him. It is even
apparent, that a large proportion still retain the attachment which
was once a common sentiment. — Those of them, therefore, who
are dissatisfied, as far as my information goes, are, generally
speaking, willing to forbear opposition, and to acquiesce in the
equal support of Mr. Adams with Mr. Pinckney, whom they
prefer. Have they not a claim to equal deference from those
who continue attached to the former ? Ought not these, in can-
dor, to admit the possibility that the friends who differ from them,
act not only from pure motives, but from cogent reasons? Ought
they not, by a co-operation in General Pinckney, to give a chance
for what will be a safe issue, supposing that they are right in their
preference, and the best issue, should they happen to be mistaken?
Especially, since by doing this they will increase the probability
of excluding a third candidate, of whose unfitness all sincere
federalists are convinced. If they do not pursue this course, they

726 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEr.'AZ.

will certainly incur an immense responsibility to their friends and
to the government.

To promote this co-operation, to defend my own character,
to vindicate those friends, who with myself have been unkindly
aspersed, are the inducements for writing this letter. Accord-
ingly, it will be my endeavor to regulate the communication of
it in such a manner as will not be likely to deprive Mr. Adams
of a single vote. Indeed, it is much my wish that its circulation
could for ever be confined within narrow limits. I am sensible of
the inconveniences of giving publicity to a similar development
of the character of the Chief Magistrate of our country ; and I
lament the necessity of taking a step which will involve that re-
sult. Yet to suppress truths, the disclosure of which is so inter-
esting to the public welfare as well as to the vindication of my
friends and myself, did not appear to me justifiable.

The restraints, to which I submit, are a proof of my disposition
to sacrifice to the prepossessions of those, with whom I have
heretofore thought and acted, and from whom in the present
question I am compelled to differ. To refrain from a decided
opposition to Mr. Adams's re-election has been reluctantly sanc-
tioned by my judgment ; which has been not a little perplexed
between the unqualified conviction of his unfitness for the station
contemplated, and a sense of the great importance of cultivating
harmony among the supporters of the government ; on whose
firm union hereafter will probably depend the preservation of
order, tranquillity, liberty, property ; the security of every social
and domestic blessing.

New-York, August 1, 1800.

Sir:

It has been repeatedly mentioned to me, that you have, on
different occasions, asserted the existence of a British faction in
this country ; embracing a number of leading or influential cha-
racters of the federal party (as usually denominated), and that
you have sometimes named me, at others, plainly alluded to me,
as one of this description of persons. And I have likewise been

JEi. 43-] JOHN ADAMS. 727

assured, that of late some of your warm adherents, for electioneer-
ing purposes, have employed a corresponding language.

I must, sir, take it for granted, that you cannot have made
such assertions or insinuations, without being willing to avow
them, and to assign, the reasons to a party who may conceive him-
self injured by them. I therefore trust, that you will not deem
it improper, that I apply directly to yourself to ascertain from
you, in reference to your own declarations, whether the informa-
tion I have received, has been correct or not ; and if correct,
what are the grounds upon which you have founded the sugges-
tion.

With respect, I have the honor to be,

Sir, your obedient servant,

A. H.

To John Adams, Esa. President of the United States.

New-York, October 1, 1800.

Sir:

The time which has elapsed since my letter of the 1st of Au-
gust was delivered to you, precludes the further expectation of an

answer.

From this silence, I will draw no inference ; nor will I pre-
sume to judge of the fitness of silence on such an occasion on the
part of the Chief Magistrate of a republic, towards a citizen, who,
without a stain, has discharged so many important public trusts.
But thus much I will affirm, that by whomsoever a charge of
the kind mentioned in my former letter, may, at any time, have
been made or insinuated against me, it is a base, wicked and cruel
calumny ; destitute even of a plausible pretext, to excuse the
folly, or mask the depravity which must have dictated it.
With due respect, I have the honor to be,

Sir, vour obedient servant,

A. H.

To John Adams, Esq.. President of the United States.

28 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEr. 44.

ADDRESS, TO THE ELECTORS OF THE STATE OF

NEW- YORK.

1801.

Fellow-Citizens :

We lately addressed you on the subject of the ensuing elec-
tion for Governor and Lieutenant-Governor — recommending to
your support Stephen Van Rensselaer and James Watson. Since
that, we have seen the address of our opponents, urging your
preference of George Clinton and Jeremiah Van Rensselaer.

The whole tenor of our address carries with it the evidence
of a disposition to be temperate and liberal ; to avoid giving oc-
casion to mutual recrimination. It would have been agreeable
to us to have seen a like disposition in our adversaries.; but we
think it cannot be denied that their address manifests a different
one. It arraigns the principles of the federalists with extreme
acrimon}', and by the allusion to Great Britain, in the preposter-
ous figure of the mantle, attributes to them a principle of action,
which every signer of the address knows to have no existence,
and which for its falsehood and malice merits indignation and
disdain.

So violent an attack upon our principles justifies and calls for
an exhibition of those of our opponents. To your good sense,
to your love of country, to your regard for the welfare of your-
selves and families, the comment is submitted.

The pernicious spirit which has actuated many of the leaders
of the party denominated anti-federal, from the moment when our
national Constitution was first proposed down to the present pe-
riod, has not ceased to display itself in a variety of disgusting-
forms. In proportion to the prospect of success it has increased
in temerity. Emboldened by a momentary triumph in the
choice of our national Chief Magistrate, it seems now to have
laid aside all reserve, and begins to avow projects of disorgani-
zation, with the sanction of the most respectable names of the

Jjr. 44.] ADDRESS. 729

party, which before were merely the anonymous ravings of in-
cendiary newspapers.

This precipitation in throwing aside the mask will, we trust,
be productive of happy effects. It will serve to show that the
mischievous designs ascribed to the party have not been the effu-
sions of malevolence, the inventions of political rivalship, or the
visionary forebodings of an over-anxious zeal ; but that they
have been just and correct inferences from an accurate estimate
of characters and principles. It will serve to show, that moder-
ate men, who have seen in our political struggles nothing more
than a competition for power and place, have been deceived ;
that in reality the foundations of society, the essential interests
of our nation, the dearest concerns of individuals, are staked
upon the eventful contest, And, by promoting this important
discovery, it may be expected to rally the virtuous and the pru-
dent of every description round a common standard ; to endeavor,
by joint efforts, to oppose mounds to that destructive torrent,
which in its distant murmuring seemed harmless, but in the por-
tentous roaring of its nearer approach, menaces our country with
all the horrors of revolutionary frenzy.

To what end, fellow-citizens, has your attention been carried
across the Atlantic, to the revolution of France, and to that fatal
war of which it has been the source ? To what end are you
told, that this is the most interesting conflict man ever witnessed
that it is a war of principles— a war between equal and une-
qual rights— between republicanism and monarchy— between lib-
erty and tyranny ?

What is there in that terrific picture which you are to admire
or imitate? Is it the subversion of the throne of the Bourbons,
to make way for the throne of the Buonapartes f Is it the un-
distinguishing massacre in prisons and dungeons, of men, wo-
men, and children? Is it the sanguinary justice of revolution-
ary tribunals, or the awful terrors of a guillotine ? Is it the
rapid succession of revolution upon revolution, erecting the tran-
sient power of one set of men upon the tombs of another ? Is
it the assassinations which have been perpetrated, or the new
ones which are projected ? Is it the open profession of impiety

T30 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. &

in the public assemblies, or the ridiculous worship of a Goddess
of Reason, or the still continued substitution of decades to the
Christian Sabbath ? Is it the dstruction of commerce, the ruin of
manufactures, the oppression of agriculture ? Or, is it the pomp
of war, the dazzling glare of splendid victories, the bloodstained
fields of Europe, the smoking cinders of desolated cities, the af-
flicting spectacle of millions precipitated from plenty and com
fort to beggary and misery ? If it be none of these things, what
is it?

Perhaps it is the existing government of France, of which
your admiration is solicited ?

Here, fellow-citizens, let us on our part invite you to a solemn
pause. Mark, we beseech you, carefully mark, in this result,
the fruit of those extravagant and noxious principles which it is
desired to transplant into our happy soil.

Behold a consul for ten years elected, not by the people, but by
a conservatory Senate, self-orated, and self-continued for life; a
magistrate who, to the plenitude of executive authority, adds the
peculiar and vast prerogative of an exclusive right to originate
every law of the republic.

Behold a legistature elected, not by the people, but by the same
conservative Senate, one branch for fourteen, the other for ten
years ; one branch with a right to debate the law proposed by the
consul but not to propose ; another branch with a right neither
to debate nor propose ; but merely to assent or dissent, leaving to
the people nothing more than the phantom of representation, or
the useless privilege of designating one tenth of their whole mass
as candidates indiscriminately for the offices of the state accord-
ing to the option of the conservatory Senate.

Behold this magic lantern of republicanism ; the odious form
of real despotism ; garnished and defended by the bayonets of
more than five hundred thousand men in disciplined array.

Do you desire an illustration of the practical effect of this
despotic sj^stem, read it in the last advices from France. Read
it in the exercise of a power by the chief consul, recognized to
belong to him by the conservatory Senate, to banish indefinitely
the citizens of France without trial, without the formality of a

jEt.44.] ADDRESS. ^31

legislative act. Then say, where can you find a more hideous
despotism ? Or, what ought ye to think of those men, who dare
to recommend to you as the bible of your political creed, the
principles of a revolution, which in its commencement, m its pro-
gress in its termination, (if termination it can have, before it
has overthrown the civilized world,) is only fitted to serve as a
beacon to warn you to shun the gulfs, the quicksands, and the
rocks of those enormous principles ?

Surely ye will applaud neither the wisdom nor the patriotism
of men, who can wish you to exchange the fair fabric of repub-
licanism which you now enjoy, modelled and decorated by the
hand of federalism, for that tremendous form of despotism which
has sprung up amidst the volcanic eruptions of principles at war
with all past and present experience, at war with the nature of

man.

Or, was the allusion to France and her revolution, to the war
of principles of which you have heard, intended to familiarize
your ears to a war of arms, as one of the blessings of the new
order of things ? Facts, which cannot be mistaken, demonstrate
that in the early period of the French revolution, it was the plan
of our opponents to engage us in the war as associates of France.
But at this late hour, when even the pretence of supporting the
cause of liberty has vanished, when acquisition and aggrandize-
ment have manifestly become the only, the exclusive objects of
this war, it was surely to have been expected that we should
have been left to retain the advantage of a pacific policy.

If there are men who hope to gratify their ambition, their
avarice, or their vengeance, by adding this country to the league
of northern powers, in the fantastic purpose of an extension of
neutral rights, the great body of the people will hardly, we ima-
gine, see in this project benefits sufficiently solid and durable to
counterbalance the certain sacrifices of present advantages, and
the certain sufferings of positive evils inseparable from a state

of war.

Let us now attend to some other parts of this extraordinary

address.

You are told, that there are many in the bosom of our coun-

732 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 44.

try, who have long aimed at unequal privileges, and who have
too well succeeded ; by arrogating to themselves the right to be
considered as the only friends of the Constitution, the guardians
of order and religion, by the lavish abuse of their opponents,
and by representing opposition to particular plans of administra-
tion, as hostility to the government itself.

What is meant by this aiming at unequal privileges?

If we are to judge of the end by the means stated to have
been used, the charge amounts to this, that the federalists have
sought to retain in their own hands, by the suffrages of the peo-
ple, the exercise of the powers of the government.

Admitting the charge to be true, have not the anti-federal-
ists pursued exactly the same course ?• Have they not labored
incessantly to monopolize the power of our National and State
governments? Whenever they have had it, have they not
strained every nerve to keep it? Why is it a greater crime in
the federalists than in their rivals to aim at an ascendant in the
councils of our country ?

It is true, as alleged, that the federalists insisted upon their
superior claim to be considered as the friends of our Constitution,
and have imputed to their adversaries improper and dangerous
designs ; but it is equally true, that these have asserted a similar
claim, have advanced the pretension of being the only republi-
cans and patriots, have charged their opponents with being in
league with Great Britain to establish monarchy, have imputed
to men of unblemished characters for probity in high public of-
fices, corruption and peculation, and have persisted in the foul
charge after its falsity had been ascertained by solemn public
inquiry ; and in their wanton and distempered rage for calumny
have not scrupled to brand even a Washington as a tyrant, a con-
spirator, & peculator.

It is also true, that the federalists have represented the lead-
ers of the other party as hostile to our national Constitution ;
but it is not true that it was because they have been unfriendly
to particular plans of its administration.

It is because, as a party, and with few exceptions, they were
violent opposers of the adoption of the Constitution itself; predict-

Mt. 44.] ADDRESS. 733

ed from it every possible evil, and painted it in the blackest
colors, as a monster of political deformity.

It is because the amendments subsequently made, meeting
scarcely any of the important objections which were urged, leav-
ing the structure of the government, and the mass and distribu-
tion of its powers where they were, are too insignificant to be
with any sensible man a reason for being reconciled to the sys-
tem if he thought it originally bad.

It is because they have opposed not particular plans of the
administration, but the general course of it, and almost ail the
measures of material consequence, and this too, not under one
man or set of men, but under all the successions of men.

It is because, as there have been no alterations of the Consti-
tution sufficient to change the opinion of its merits, and as the
practice under it has met with the severest reprobation of the
party, there is no circumstance from which to infer that they can
really have been reconciled to it.

It is because the newspapers under their direction have from
time to time continued to decry the Constitution itself.

It is because they have openly avowed their attachment to
the excessive principles of the French revolution, and to leading
features in the crude forms of government which have appeared
only to disappear; utterly inconsistent with the sober maxims
upon which our federal edifice was reared, and with essential
parts; in its structure. As specimens of this, it is sufficient to ob-
serve that they have approved the unity of the legislative power
in one branch, and have been loud in their.praises of an executive
directory — that five-headed monster of faction and anarchy.

It is because they have repeatedly shown, and in their pre-
sent address again show, that they contemplate innovations in
our public affairs, which, without doubt, would disgrace and
prostrate the government.

On these various and strong grounds have the federalists im-
puted to their opponents disaffection to the national Constitu-
tion. As yet they have no reason to retract the charge. To
future proofs of repentance and reconciliation must an exculpation
be referred. The anti-federalists have acquired the administra-

1M HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 44.

tion of the national government. Let them show by a wise and
virtuous management that they are its friends ; and they shall
then have all the credit of so happy a reformation ; but till then
their assertions cannot be received as proofs.

And if the views which the signers of the address now boldly
avow should unfortunately be those which should regulate the
future administration of the government, the tokens of their
amity would be as pernicious as could possibly be the tokens of
their most deadly hatred.

They enumerate, as the crimes of the federalists, the funding
system, the national debt, the taxes which constitute the public
revenue, the British treaty, the federal city, the mint, a mauso-
leum, the sedition law, and a standing army ; and they tell us in
plain terms that these are "abuses no longer to be suffered."

Let it be observed in the first place, that these crying sins of
our government are not to be placed exclusively to the account
of the federalists ; that for some of them the other party are
chiefly responsible, and that in others they have participated.

As to the federal city, it is not to be denied that this was
a favorite of the illustrious Washington. But it is no less cer-
tain, that it was warmly patronized by Mr. Jefferson, Mr. Madi-
son, and the great majority of the members, who at the time
composed the opposition in Congress, and who are now in-
fluential in the anti-federal party. It is also certain that the
measure has never been a favorite of a majority of the federal
party.

As to the Hint, it was not at all a measure of party. With
slight diversities of opinion about some of the details, it was
approved by both parties.

As to the Mausoleum, it has not taken place at all. The bill
for erecting it, was lost in the Senate, where the federalists have
a decided majority ; and, instead of it, an appropriation of fifty
thousand dollars was made for erecting an equestrian statue,
agreeably to a resolution of Congress, passed under the old confedera-
tion. Is there an American, who would refuse this memorial of
gratitude to the man, who is the boast of his country, the honoi
of his age ?

JEt. 44. j ADDRESS. 735

As to the Funding System, it was thus far a measure of both
parties, that both agreed there should be a Funding System. In
the formation of it the chief points of difference were, 1st, a
discrimination between original holders and transferees of the
public debt; 2d, a provision for the general debt of the Union,
leaving to each State to make separate provision for its particular
debt.

Happily for our country, by the rejection of the first, which
would have been an express violation of contracts, the faith of
the government was preserved, its credit maintained and estab-
lished.

Happily for our country, by not pursuing the last, unity, sim-
plicity, and energy were secured to our fiscal system. The
entanglements of fourteen conflicting systems of finance were
avoided. The same mass of debt was included in one general
provision, instead of being referred to fourteen separate provi-
sions— more comprehensive justice was done, the States which
had made extraordinary exertions for the support of the common
cause, were relieved from the unequal pressure of burthens which
must have crushed them, and the people were saved from the
immense difference of expense between a collection of the neces-
sary revenues by one set of officers or by fourteen different sets.

The truth, then, fellow-citizens, is this : — Both parties agreed
that there should be a funding system ; and the particular plan
which prevailed was most agreeable to the contract of the gov-
ernment, most conducive to general and equal justice among the
States and individuals, to order and efficiency in the finances —
to economy in the collection.

Ought not these ideas to have governed? What is meant by
holding up the funding system as an abuse no longer to be tole-
rated ?

What is this funding system? It is nothing more nor less
than the pledging of adequate funds or revenues for paying the interest
and for the gradual redemption of the principal of that very debt
which was the sacred price of independence. The country
being unable to pay off the principal, what better could have
been done?

736 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 44.

It is recollected, that long before our revolution, most of the
States had their funding systems. They emitted their paper
money, which is only another phrase for certificates of debt ; and
they pledged funds for its redemption, which is but another
phrase for funding it. What, then, is there so terrible in the
idea of a funding system? Those who may have been accus-
tomed under some of the State governments to gamble in the
floating paper, and when they had monopolized a good quantity
of it among themselves at low prices, to make partial legislative
provisions for the payment^of the particular kinds, would very
naturally be displeased with a fixed and permanent system,
which would give to the evidences of debt a stable value, and
lop off the opportunities for gambling speculations; but men
who are sensible of the pernicious tendency of such a state of
things, will rejoice in a plan which was designed to produce, and
has •produced a contrary result.

What have been the effects of this system? An extension of
commerce and manufactures, the rapid growth of our cities and
towns, the consequent prosperity of agriculture, and the advance-
ment of the farming interest. All this was effected by giving
life and activity to a capital in the public obligations, which was
before dead, and by converting it into a powerful instrument of
mercantile and other industrious enterprise.

We make these assertions boldly, because the fact is exempli-
fied by experience, and is obvious to all discerning men. Our
opponents in their hearts know it to be so.

As to the public debt ; the great mass of it was not created
by the federalists peculiarly. It was contracted by all who were
engaged in our councils during our revolutionary war. The
federalists have only had a principal agency in providing for it.
No man can impute that to them as a crime who is not ready to
avow the fraudulent and base doctrine, that it is wiser and better
to cheat, than to pay the creditors of a nation.

It is a fact certain and notorious, that under the administra-
tion of the first Secretary of the Treasury, ample provision was
made, not only for paying the interest of this debt, but for ex-
tinguishing the principal in a moderate term of years.

Mt. 44.] ADDRESS. 737

But it is alleged that this debt has been increased, and is in-
creasing.

On this point we know that malcontent individuals make the
assertion and exhibit statements intended to prove it. But this
we also know, that a Committee of the House of Representatives,
particularly charged with the inquiry, have stated and reported
the contrary ; and we think that more credit is due to their
representation than to that of individuals, especially as nothing
is easier than in a matter of this sort to make plausible state-
ments, which, though utterly false, cannot be detected except by
those who possess all the materials of a complex calculation,
who are qualified, and who will take the pains to make it.

We know likewise that extraordinary events have compelled
our government to extraordinary expenditures — an Indian war,
for some time disastrous, but terminated on principles likely to
give durable tranquillity to our frontier; two insurrections
fomented by the opposition to the government; the hostilities of
a foreign power, encouraged by the undissembled sympathies of
the same opposition, which obliged the government to arm for
defence and security. These things have retarded the success of
the efficacious measures which have been adopted for the dis-
charge of our debt; measures which, with a peaceable and
orderly course of things, accelerated by the rapid growth of our
country, are sufficient in a few years, without any new expedient,
to exonerate it from the whole of its present debt.

These, fellow-citizens, are serious truths, well known to most
of our opponents, but what they shamefully endeavor to disfigure
and disguise.

As to Taxes, they are evidently inseparable from government.
It is impossible without them to pay the debts of the nation, to
protect it from foreign danger, or to secure individuals from
lawless violence and rapine. It is always easy to assert that they
are heavier than they ought to be, always difficult to refute the
assertion, which cannot ever be attempted without a critical
review of the whole course of public measures. This gives an
immense advantage to those who make a trade of complaint and
censure.

G 47

738 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 44.

But, fellow-citizens, it is in our power to state to you in rela-
tion to this subject and upon good information, one material
fact.

There is, perhaps, no item in the catalogue of our taxes which
has been more unpopular than that which is called the Direct
Tax.

This tax may emphatically be placed to the account of the
opposite party ; it was always insisted upon by them as prefera-
ble to taxes of the indirect kind. And it is a truth capable of
full proof, that Mr. Madison, second in the confidence of the
anti-federal party, the confidential friend of Mr. Jefferson, and
now Secretary of State by his nomination, was the proposer of
this tax. This was done in a Committee of the last House of
Eepresentatives, of which he was a member, was approved by
that Committee, and referred to the late Secretary of the Treasury,
Mr. Wolcott, with instructions to prepare a plan as to the mode.
Let it be added, that it was a principle of the federal party, never
to resort to this species of tax but in time of war or hostility
with a foreign power; that it was in such a time when they did
resort to it, and that the occasion ceasing by the prospect of an
accommodation, it has been resolved by them not to renew the
tax.

As to the British treaty, it is sufficient to remind you of the
extravagant predictions of evil persons of its ratification, and to
ask you in what have they been realized ? You have seen our
peace preserved, you have seen our western posts surrendered,
our commerce proceed with success in its wonted channels, and
our agriculture flourish to the extent of every reasonable wish ;
and you have been witnesses to none of the mischiefs which
were foretold. You will, then, conclude with us that the
clamors against this treaty are the mere ebullitions of ignorance,
of prejudice, and of faction.

As to the Sedition Laiv, we refer you to the debates in Con-
gress for the motives and nature of it. More would prolong too
much this reply, already longer than we could wish.

We will barely say that the most essential object of this Act
is to declare the Courts of the United States competent to the

JEt. 44.] ADDRESS. 739

cognizance of those slanders against the principal officers and
departments of the federal government, which at common law are
punishable as libels ; with the liberal and important mitigation
of allowing the truth of an accusation to be given in evidence in
exoneration of the accuser. What do you see in this to merit
the execrations which have been bestowed on the measure ?

As to a standing army, there is none, except four small regi-
ments of infantry, insufficient for the service of guards in the
numerous posts of our immense frontiers stretching from Niagara
to the borders of Florida, and two regiments of artillery, which
occupy in the same capacity the numerous fortifications along our
widely extended sea-coast. What is there in this to affright or
disgust? If these corps are to be abolished, substitutes must be
found in the militia. If the experiment shall be made, it is easy
to foretell that it will prove not a measure of economy, but a
heavy bill of additional cost, and like all other visionary schemes
will be productive only of repentance and a return to a plan
injudiciously renounced.

This exposition of the measures which have been represented
to you as abuses no longer to be suffered (mark the strength of the
phrase) will, we trust, serve to satisfy you of the violence and
absurdity of those crude notions which govern our opposers, if
we believe them to be sincere. Happily for our country, how-
ever, there has just beamed a ray of hope that these violent and
absurd notions will not form the rule of conduct of the person
whom the party have recently elevated to the head of our na-
tional affairs.

In the speech of the new President upon assuming the exer-
cise of his office, we find among the articles of his creed, — " the
honest payment of our debt, and sacred preservation of the public

FAITH."

The funding system, the national debt, the British treaty, are
not therefore in his conception abuses, which, if no longer to be
tolerated, would be of course to be abolished.

But we think ourselves warranted to derive from the same
source, a condemnation still more extensive of the opinions of
our adversaries. The speech characterizes our present govern-

740 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 44.

raent "as a republican in the full tide of successful experiment."
Success in the experiment of a government, is success in the
practice of it, and this is but another phrase for an administration,
in the main, wise and good. That administration has been
hitherto in the hands of the federalists.

Here then, fellow-citizens, is an open and solemn protest
against the principles and opinions of our opponents, from a
quarter which as yet they dare not arraign.

In referring to this speech, we think it proper to make a
public declaration of our approbation of its contents. We view
it as virtually a candid retraction of past misapprehensions, and
a pledge to the community, that the new President will not lend
himself to dangerous innovations, but in essential points will
tread in the steps of his predecessors.

In doing this, he prudently anticipates the loss of a great
portion of that favor which has elevated him to his present sta-
tion. Doubtless, it is a just foresight. Adhering to the pro-
fessions he has made, it will not be long before the body of the
anti-federalists will raise their croaking and ill-omened voices
against him. But in the talents, the patriotism, and the firmness
of the federalists, he will find more than an equivalent for all that
he shall lose.

All those of whatever party who may desire to support the
moderate views exhibited in the Presidential Speech, will unite
against the violent projects of the men who have addressed you
in favor of Mr. Clinton, and against a candidate, who, in all past
experience, has evinced that he is likely to be a fit instrument of
these projects.

Fellow-citizens, we beseech you to consult your experience and
not listen to tales of evil, which exist only in the language, not
even in the imaginations of those who deal them out. This ex-
perience will tell you, that our opposers have been uniformly
mistaken in their views of our Constitution, of its administration,
in all the judgments which they have pronounced of our public
affairs ; and consequently, that they are unfaithful or incapable
advisers. It will teach you that you have eminently prospered
under the system of public measures pursued and supported by

jEt. 44.] ADDRESS. 741

the federalists. In vain are you told that you owe your pros-
perity to your own industry, and to the blessings of Providence.
To the latter, doubtless, you are primarily indebted. You owe
to it, among other benefits, the Constitution you enjoy, and the
wise administration of it by virtuous men as its instruments.
You are likewise indebted to your own industry. But has not
your industry found aliment and incitement in the salutary
operation of your government — in the preservation of order at
home — in the cultivation of peace abroad — in the invigoration of
confidence in pecuniary dealings — in the increased energies of
credit and commerce — in the extension of enterprise, ever incident
to a good government, well administered? Remember what your
situation was immediately before the establishment of the present
Constitution. Were you then deficient in industry more than
now ? If not, why were you not equally prosperous ? Plainly,
because your industry had not at that time the vivifying in-
fluences of an efficient and well conducted government.

There is one more particular in the address which we cannot
pass over in silence, though, to avoid being tedious, we must do
little more than mention it. It is a comparison between the ad-
ministration of the former and present governors of this State, on
the point of economy, accompanied with the observation, that the
former had shown an anxious solicitude to exempt you from
taxation.

The answer to this is, that under the administration of Mr.
Clinton, the State possessed large resources, which were the sub-
stitute for taxation — the duties of impost, the proceeds of con-
fiscated property, and immense tracts of new land, which, if they
had been providently disposed of, would have long deferred the
necessity of taxation. That this was not done, Mr. Clinton, as
one of the commissioners of the land office, is in a principal
degree responsible.

Under the administration of Mr. Jay, the natural increase of
the State has unavoidably augmented the expense of the govern-
ment, and the appropriations of large sums, in most of which all
parties have concurred, to a variety of objects of public utility
and necessity, have so far diminished the funds of the State, as in
the opinion of all parties to have required a resort to taxes.

742^ HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt 44.

The principal of these objects have been : 1. The erection of
fortifications, and the purchase of cannon, arms, and other war-
like implements for the purpose of defence. 2. The building and
maintenance of the State prisons, in the laudable experiment of
an amelioration of our penal code. 3. The purchase from Indians
of lands which, though resold, have not yet been productive of
revenue. 4. The payment of dower to the widows of persons
whose estates have been confiscated. 5. Large appropriations
for the benefit of common schools, roads, and bridges. 6. The
erection of an arsenal and public offices in the city of Albany.

Hence it is evident that the difference which has been re-
marked to you in respect to taxation, has proceeded from a dif-
ference of circumstances, not from the superior providence or
economy of the former, or from the improvidence or profusion
of the existing administration. Our opponents may be chal-
lenged to bring home to Mr. Jay the proofs of prodigality, and
they may be told that the purity and integrity of his conduct in
relation to the public property, have never for a moment been
drawn into question.

We forbear to canvass minutely the personalities in which
our adversaries have indulged. 'Tis enough for us, that they
acknowledge our candidate to possess the good qualities which
we have ascribed to him. If he has inherited a large estate, 'tis
certainly no crime.

'Tis to his honor that his benevolence is as large as his estate.
Let his numerous tenants be his witnesses : — attached as they
are to him, not by the ties of dependence (for the greater part of
them hold their lands in fee simple and upon easy rents), but by
the ties of affection, by those gentle and precious cords which
link gratitude to kindness. Let the many indigent and distressed
who have been gladdened by the benign influence of his bounty,
be his witnesses. And let every reflecting man well consider,
whether the people are likely to suffer because the ample fortune
of a virtuous and generous Chief Magistrate places him beyond
the temptation of a job, for the accumulation of wealth.

We shall not inquire how ample may be the domains, how
productive the revenues, how numerous the dependents of Mr.

Mt. 44.] ADDRESS. *743

Clinton, nor how his ample domains may have been acquired.
'Tis enough for us to say, that if Mr Van Rensselaer is rich, Mr.
Clinton is not poor, and that it is at least as innocent in the
former to have been born to opulence, as in the latter to have
attained to it by means of the advantages of the first office of the
State, long, very long enjoyed, for three years at least too long,
because, by an unlawful tenure contrary to a known majority of
suffrages.

"We shall not examine how likely it is that a man considerably
past the meridian of life, and debilitated by infirmities of body,
will be a more useful and efficient governor, and more inde-
pendent of the aid of friends and relations, than a man of ac-
knowledged good sense, of mature years, in the full vigor of life,
and in the full energy of his faculties.

We shall not discuss how far it is probable that the radical
antipathy of Mr. Clinton to the vital parts of our National Con-
stitution, has given way to the little formal amendments which
have since been adopted. We are glad to be assured that it has.
It gives us pleasure to see proselytes to the truth ; nor shall we
be over curious to inquire how men get right if we can but dis-
cover that they are right. If happily the possession of the power
of our once detested government, shall be a talisman to work the
conversion of all its enemies, we shall be ready to rejoice that
good has come out of evil.

But we dare not too far indulge this pleasing hope. We
know that the adverse party has its Dantons, its Robespierres, as
well as its Brissots, and its Rolands ; and we look forward to the
time when the sects of the former will endeavor to confound the
latter and their adherents, together with the federalists, in pro-
miscuous ruin.

In regard to these sects, which compose the pith and essence
of the anti-federal party, we believe it to be true that the contest
between us, is indeed a war of principles, — a war between
tyranny and liberty, but not between monarchy and republican-
ism. It is a contest between the tyranny of Jacobinism, which
confounds and levels every thing, and the mild reign of rational
liberty, which rests on the basis of an efficient and well balanced

744 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEi. 44.

government, and through the medium of stable laws, shelters and
protects the life, the reputation, the civil and religious rights of
every member of the community.

'Tis against these sects that all good men should form an in-
dissoluble league. To resist and frustrate their machinations is
alike essential to every prudent and faithful administration of
our government, whoever may be the depositories of the power.

EXAMINATION OF JEFFERSON'S MESSAGE TO CON-
GRESS OF DECEMBER 7, 1801.

NO I.

December 17, 1801.

Instead of delivering a speech to the Houses of Congress, at
the opening of the present session, the President has thought fit
to transmit a Message. Whether this has proceeded from pride
or from humility, from a temperate love of reform, or from a
wild spirit of innovation, is submitted to the conjectures of the
curious. A single observation shall be indulged — since all
agree, that he is unlike his predecessors in essential points,
it is a mark of consistency to differ from them in matters of
form.

Whoever considers the temper of the day, must be satisfied
that this Message is likely to add much to the popularity of
our chief magistrate. It conforms, as far as would be toler-
ated at this early stage of our progress in political perfection,
to the bewitching tenets of that illuminated doctrine, which
promises man, ere long, an emancipation from the burdens and
restraints of government ; giving a foretaste of that pure feli-
city which the apostles of this doctrine have predicted. After
having, with infinite pains and assiduity, formed the public taste
for this species of fare, it is certainly right, in those whom the

Mi. 44.] THE EXAMINATION. 745

people have chosen for their caterers, to be attentive to the grat-
ification of that taste. And should the viands, which they may
offer, prove baneful poisons instead of wholesome aliments, the
justification is both plain and easy — Good patriots must at all
events please the peoph. But those whose patriotism is of the old
school, who differ so widely from the disciples of the new
creed, that they would rather risk incurring the displeasure of
the people by speaking unpalatable truths, than betray their
interest by fostering their prejudices, will never be deterred by
an impure tide of popular opinion from honestly pointing out
the mistakes or the faults of weak or wicked men, who may
€have been selected as guardians of the public weal.

The Message of the President, by whatever motives it may
have been dictated, is a performance which ought to alarm all
who are anxious for the safety of our government, for the re-
spectability and welfare of our nation. It makes, or aims at
making, a most prodigal sacrifice of constitutional energy, of
sound principle, and of public interest, to the popularity of one
man.

The first thing in it, which excites our surprise, is the very
extraordinary position, that though Tripoli had declared ivar in
form against the United States, and had enforced it by actual
hostility, yet that there was not power, for want of the sanction
of Congress, to capture and detain her cruisers with their crews.

When the newspapers informed us that one of these cruisers,
after being subdued in a bloody conflict, had been liberated and
permitted quietly to return home, the imagination was perplex-
ed to divine the reason. The conjecture naturally was, that pur-
suing a policy too refined perhaps for barbarians, it was intend-
ed, by that measure, to give the enemy a strong impression of
our magnanimity and humanity. No one dreamt of a scruple
as to the right to seize and detain the armed vessel of an open
and avowed foe, vanquished in battle. The enigma is now solv-
ed, and we are presented with one of the most singular para-
doxes ever advanced by a man claiming the character of a
statesman. When analyzed, it amounts to nothing less than this,
that between two nations there may exist a state of complete war
on the one side — of peace on the other.
HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 44.

War, of itself, gives to the parties a mutual right to kill in
battle, and to capture the persons and property of each other.
This is a rule of natural law ; a necessary and inevitable conse-
quence of the state of war. This state between two nations is
completely produced by the act of one— it requires no concur-
rent act of the other. It is impossible to conceive the idea, that
one nation can be in fall war with another, and this other not in
the same state with respect to its adversary. The moment that
two nations are, in an absolute sense, at war, the public force of
each may exercise every act of hostility, which the general laws
of war authorize, against the persons and property of the other.
As it respects this conclusion, the distinction between offensive
and defensive war makes no difference. That distinction is
only material to discriminate the aggressing nation from that
which defends itself against attack.— The war is offensive on the
part of the state which makes it ; on the opposite side it is de-
fensive : but the rights of both, as to the measure of hostility,
are equal.

It will be readily allowed, that the constitution of a particu-
lar country may limit the organ, charged with the direction of
the public force, in the use or application of that force, even in
time of actual war : but nothing short of the strongest negative
words, of the most express prohibitions, can be admitted to re-
strain that organ from so employing it, as to derive the fruits
of actual victory, by making prisoners of the persons and de-
taining the property of a vanquished enemy. Our Constitution,
happily, is not chargeable with so great an absurdity. The
framers of it would have blushed at a provision, so repugnant
to good sense, so inconsistent with national safety and inconve-
nience. That instrument has only provided affirmatively, that,
" The Congress shall have power to declare War ;" the plain
meaning of which is, that it is the peculiar and exclusive prov-
ince of Congress, when the nation is at peace to change that state
into a state of war ; whether from calculations of policy, or
from provocations, or injuries received: in other words, it be-
longs to Congress only, to go to War. But when a foreign nation
declares, or openly and avowedly makes war upon the United

jEt. 44.]

THE EXAMINATION. 747

States, they are then by the very fact already at war, and any
declaration on the part of Congress is nugatory ; it is at least
unnecessary. This inference is clear in principle, and has the
sanction of established practice. It is clear in principle, be-
cause it is self-evident, that a declaration by one nation against
another, produces at once a complete state of war between both ;
and that no declaration on the other side can at all vary their
relative situation ; and in practice, it is well known, that noth-
ing is more common than when war is declared by one party, to
prosecute mutual hostilities without a declaration by the other.

The doctrine of the Message includes the strange absurdity,
that without a declaration of war by Congress, our public force may
destroy the life, but may not restrain the liberty, or seize the prop-
erty of an enemy. This was exemplified in the very instance of
the Tripolitan corsair. A number of her crew were slaughtered
in the combat, and after she was subdued, she was set free with
the remainder. But it may perhaps be said, that she was the
assailant, and that resistance was an act of mere defence and self-
preservation. Let us then pursue the matter a step further. Our
ships had blockaded the Tripolitan Admiral in the Bay of Gib-
raltar ; suppose he had attempted to make his way out, without
first firing upon them ; if permitted to do it, the blockade was a
farce ; if hindered by force, this would have amounted to more
than a mere act of defence : and if a combat had ensued, we
should then have seen a perfect illustration of the unintelligible
right, to take the life but not to abridge the liberty, or capture
the property of an enemy. Let us suppose an invasion of our
territory, previous to a declaration of war by Congress. The
principle avowed in the Message, would authorize our troops to
kill those of the invader, if they should come within the reach of
their bayonets, perhaps to drive them into the sea, and drown
them ; but not to disable them from doing harm, by the milder
process of making them prisoners, and sending them into confine-
ment. Perhaps it may be replied, that the same end would be
answered by disarming, and leaving them to starve. The merit
of such an argument would be complete by adding, that should
they not be famished, before the arrival of their ships with a

748 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Jffir. 44.

fresh supply of arms, we might then, if able, disarm them a
second time, and send them on board their fleet, to return safely
home.

The inconvenience of the doctrine in practice, is not less pal-
pable than its folly in theory. In every case it presents a most
unequal warfare. In the instance which has occurred, the van-
quished barbarian got off with the loss of his guns. ILid he been
victorious, those Americans, whose lives might have been spared,
would have been doomed to wear out a miserable existence in
slavery and chains. Substantial benefits would have rewarded
his success ; while on our side, life, liberty, and property, were
put in jeopardy for an empty triumph. This, however, presents
a partial inconvenience — cases may arise in which evils of a more
serious and comprehensive nature would be the fruits of this
visionary and fantastical principle. — Suppose that, in the recess
of Congress, a foreign maritime power should unexpectedly declare
war against the United States, and send a fleet and army to seize
Ehode Island, in order from thence to annoy our trade and our
sea-port towns. Till the Congress should assemble and declare
war, which would require time, our ships might, according to the
hypothesis of the message, be sent by the President to fight those
of the enemy as often as they should be attacked, but not to
capture and detain them ; if beaten, both vessels and crews would
be lost to the United States ; if successful, they could only disarm
those they had overcome, and must suffer them to return to the
place of common rendezvous, there to equip anew, for the pur-
pose of resuming their depredations on our towns and our trade.

Who could restrain the laugh of derision at positions so pre-
posterous, were it not for the reflection that in the first magistrate
of our country, they cast a blemish on our national character ?
What will the world think of the fold when such is the shep-
herd ?

Lucius Crassus.

jEt. 44.] THE EXAMINATION. 749

NO. II.

December 21, 1801.
The next most prominent feature in the message, is the pro-
posal to abandon at once, all the internal revenue of the country.
The motives avowed for this astonishing scheme are, that " there
is reasonable ground of confidence that this part of the revenue may
now be safely dispensed with — that the remaining sources will
be sufficient to provide for the support of government, to pay the
interest of the public debt, and to discharge the principal in shorter
periods than the laivs or the general expectation had contemplated —
and that though wars and untoward events might change this
prospect of things, and call for expenses which, the impost could
not meet — yet that sound principles would not justify our taxing
the industry of our fellow-citizens to accumulate treasure for wars
to happen we know not when, and which might not perhaps
happen but from the temptations offered by that treasure."

If we allow these to be more than ostensible motives, we shall
be driven to ascribe this conduct to a deficiency of intellect, and
to an ignorance of our financial arrangements, greater than could
have been suspected ; if but ostensible, it is then impossible to
trace the suggestion to any other source than the culpable desire
of gaining or securing popularity at an immediate expense of
public utility, equivalent, on a pecuniary scale, to a million* of
dollars annually ; and at the greater expense of a very serious
invasion of our system of public credit.

That these at least are the certain consequences of the meas-
ure, shall be demonstrated by arguments, which are believed to
be unanswerable.

To do this the more effectually, it is necessary to premise,
that some of the revenues now proposed to be relinquished, are,
with every solemnity of law, pledged for paying the interest and

* This is taken as a round number. The present hett product, including the
duties on stamps, seems to be between eight and nine hundred thousand. Very
speedily, by the natural progress of the country, they would amount to a million,
and soon after exceed it. A million therefore is a moderate ratio.

?'50 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 44.

redeeming the principal of our public debt, foreign and domestic.
As to the interest, and such parts of the principal as by the origi-
nal constitution of the debt are payable by annual instalments
the appropriation is absolute. As to the residue, it is qualified.
On the 3d of March, 1795, was passed an act of Cdhgress which
forms a main pillar in the fabric of our public debt — which
maturing and perfecting the establishment of a sinking fund,
endeavors, with peculiar solicitude, to render it adequate, effectual
and inviolable : by the 8th section of this act it is provided
" That all surpluses of the revenue, which shall remain at the end
of any year, and which at the next session of Congress shall not
be otherwise appropriated or reserved by law, shall ipso facto be-
come a part of the " Sinking Fund." This fund, by other provi-
sions of the same act, is vested in commissioners in trust, to be
applied to the redemption of the debt, by reimbursement or by
purchase, until the whole shall be extinguished: and the faith of
the United States is expressly engaged, that the moneys which
are to constitute the fund, shall inviolably remain so appropriated
and vested, until the redemption of the debt shall be completely
effected.

The simple statement of these provisions goes far to confirm
the character which we have given to the proposition. But a
distinct examination of the reasons by which it is supported, will
when taken in connection with those provisions, place beyond
doubt its absurd and pernicious tendency.

The first inducement offered for relinquishing the internal
revenue, is a reasonable ground of confidence that it may safely be
dispensed with.

When it is considered that we are in the very crisis of an
important change of situation ; passing from a state in which
neutrality had procured to our commerce, and to the revenues
depending on it, a great artificial increase— with good reason
to look for a diminution, and without satisfactory data to enable
us to fix the extent of this diminution : can any thing be more
rash, more empirical, than voluntarily to abandon a valuable and
growing branch of income of which we are already in possession?
Can it be said, that merely " a reasonable ground of confidence,"

jEt. 44. J THE EXAMINATION. 751

is a sufficient warrant for so important a surrender ? Surely we
ought to have been told that there was at least a moral certainty
of the fact. But even this would not have been deemed enough
by a prudent statesman. Nothing less than experimental certainty
ought to have been relied upon. — There was no pressure of cir-
cumstances making it proper to precipitate the measure. — It would
have been ridiculous to pretend that the burden is so heavy, as
to demand immediate relief; and without this incentive to re-
linquishment, experience ought undoubtedly to have been taken
as the only fit and sure guide.

Not only is it problematical what the present duties on imports
will for succeeding years produce ; but it is in a degree question-
able, whether it may not be found necessary to reduce the rates.
That they are now high, when compared with the commercial
capital of our country, is not to be denied, and whether they may
not be found too high for a beneficial course of our trade, is yet
to be decided by experiment. The latter augmentations of the
rates of duty were made at times and under circumstances in the
situations of this and of other countries, which forbid us to regard
past experience as conclusive on the point.

Should it be said in answer, that the revenues can hereafter
be renewed, if on trial it shall be found that they have been pre-
maturely abandoned, the decisive reply is, that this is to invert
the natural order of just reasoning. Were it now the question,
whether such revenues should be created, in anticipation of a
possible deficiency, the correct answer would be, let experiment
first ascertain the necessity : as they already exist, on a question
to abolish them, the answer equally ought to be, let experience
first show them to be unnecessary.

But how can they be unnecessary ? Let us grant that the
remaining sources will be equal to the purposes enumerated in
the message, does it follow that it will not still be wise to retain
the internal revenue ? Is it not desirable that government should
have it in its power to discharge the debt faster than may have
been contemplated? Is not this a felicity in our situation which
ought to be improved ? A precious item in the public fortune
which ought not rashly to be squandered ? But it is not even

752 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [,Et. 44.

true that the laws have exclusively contemplated a definite period
for the ultimate redemption of the entire debt. They have only
made a determinate provision for its extinguishment, at all events,
within a given term of years : but, anxious to shorten the period,
they, in the clause which has been quoted respecting the surpluses
of revenue, have made an auxiliary provision for the purpose of
abridging that term. The message, while it goes to impair the
efficacy of the principal provision, proposes formally to renounce
the auxiliary, and thus to disappoint the provident care of the
laws to accelerate the discharge of the debt.

How is this reconcilable with the wanton and unjust clamors
heretofore vented against those who projected and established
our present system of public credit ; charging them with a design
to perpetuate the debt, under the pretext that a public debt was a
public blessing ? It is not to be forgotten, that in these clamors
Mr. Jefferson liberally participated ! Now, it seems, the tone is
entirely changed. The past administrations, who had so long
been calumniated by the imputation of that pernicious design,
are of a sudden discovered to have done too much for the speedy
discharge of the debt, and its duration is to be prolonged, by
throwing away a part of the fund destined for its prompt redemp-
tion. Wonderful union of consistency and wisdom !

Before we yield our approbation to the proposal, we ought to
have a guarantee for the continuance of our peace, long enough
to give effect to the leisurely operation of that residue of the fund
which it is intended to retain : else war, which never fails to
bring with it an accumulation of debt, may intervene, and we
may then rapidly hasten to that period when the exigencies of
government may render it necessary to appropriate too large a
portion of the earnings of labor. To guard against so unfortunate
a result, towards which there is always too great a tendency in
the affairs of nations, our past administrations have evinced a
deep foresight, and exercised a truly patriotic care. Unhappy
will it be, if any succeeding projector shall be permitted to frus-
trate their salutary plan.

It has been seen, that the message anticipates and attempts to
answer objections to the dereliction of revenue : it is said, that

JEt.U.] the examination. 753

" sound principles will not permit us to tax the industry of our
citizens to accumulate treasure for wars to happen we know not
when, and which might not perhaps happen but for the tempta-
tions offered by that treasure." Unless, however, the accumula-
tion of treasure be the necessary consequence of retaining the
revenue, this argument is evidently futile. But the President
had only to open our statute book to learn, that this consequence
is chimerical. All future surpluses of revenue, being already
eventually appropriated to the discharge of the public debt, it
follows that till the whole debt shall have been extinguished,
there could be no accumulation of treasure — no spoil from that
source to tempt the rapacity of a greedy invader. Here we fix
the charge of ignorance of our financial arrangements : to which
there can be no alternative but a deliberate design to delude the
people. Between the two, let the worshippers of the idol make
their option.

Lucius Crassus.

no. III.

December 24th, 1801.

Had our laws been less provident than they have been, yet
must it give us a very humble idea of the talents of our President
as a statesman, to find him embarrassed between an absolute
abandonment of revenue, and an inconvenient accumulation of
treasure. Pursuing the doctrine professed by his sect, that our
public debt is a national curse, which cannot too promptly be
removed, and adhering to the assurance which he has virtually
given,* that a sponge, the favorite instrument, shall not be em-
ployed for the purpose, how has it happened that he should have
overlooked the simple and obvious expedient of using the sup-
posed excess of income as a remedy for so great a mischief?

* One of the essential principles of government is, " the honest payment of ou
debts and the sacred preservation of the public faith." — Inaugural Speech.

g 48

?54 HAMILTON'S WORKS.

[Mt. 44.

After all we have heard in times past, it would ill become
either the head, or any member, of the orthodox sect to contend,
that a too rapid reimbursement of the debt might be attended
with evils. In courtesy, however, this shall be supposed to be
urged by some new convert, who has not entirely shaken off the
prejudices of former modes of thinking ; and it shall be examined,
whether this argument will afford a justification of the measure
recommended.

It shall not be denied, that the immediate payment of our
whole debt, if practicable, would be likely to be injurious in
various ways. It would, in the first instance, produce a money-
plethora (if the phrase may be allowed), which experience has
shown to be inauspicious to the energies, and especially to the
morality and industry of a nation. The quick efflux of this
money to pay a considerable part of the debt in the hands of
foreigners, and to procure from abroad the means of gratifying
an increased extravagance, would, after some time, substitute a
too great vacuity to a too great fulness ; leaving us to struggle
with the bad habits incident to the latter state, and with the em-
barrassments of a defective circulation. To these, other reasons
might be added, which, though equally just and solid, are
omitted as being more liable to dispute.

Though an extreme case is here presented, the immediate
reimbursement of the entire debt ; yet it must be admitted, that
the same considerations are applicable in a less degree to a sum-
mary, or very rapid repayment by large instalments. But the
answer to all this is, that it would have been full time to adopt
precautionary measures against evils from such a source, when
experience had realized the danger. Till such time it is certainly
the highest wisdom to continue the employment of a fund which
is already provided, and without overburdening the people, for
the all-important purpose of exonerating our nation from debt,
and of placing it in a condition, with competent resources to meet
future contingencies which may threaten its safety. On the
other hand, is it not a mark of the highest improvidence and
folly, to throw away an important part of this fund, on the mere
speculation that it may possibly be superfluous ?

.Et. 44.]

THE EXAMINATION. 755

But admitting it to be clearly ascertained, that the fund is
greater than is requisite to extinguish the debt, with convenient
celerity ; does it follow that the excess, if retained, must be suf-
fered to accumulate, and that no different method could have
been found to employ it which would have been productive of
adequate utility ?

Whatever diversity of opinion there may be with regard to
military and naval preparations, for the defence and security of
the country, there are some things in which all well-informed
and reflecting men unite. In order that upon the breaking out
of a war there may be a sufficient supply of warlike implements,
together with the means of speedily creating a navy ; — arsenals,
foundries, dock-yards, magazines (especially of materials for the
construction and equipment of ships), are by all deemed eligible
objects of public care. To provide for these objects upon a com-
petent, though moderate scale, will be attended with expense so
considerable, as to leave nothing to spare from the amount of our
present income. To persons unacquainted with the subject, the
quantities of several articles on hand may appear ample ; but to
good judges there is hardly any one class of supplies, which will
not be thought to require much augmentation. As far as a navy
is concerned, the deficiency is palpable.

If dock-yards are to be established in earnest, they ought
certainly to be well protected. For this purpose, fortifications of
a substantial and durable nature, very different from the tem-
porary shifts hitherto adopted, ought to be erected. And if the
President will inquire into the cost of even these trifling con-
structions, in the instances where they have been managed with
all practicable economy, he will become convinced that the
erection of proper works would call for an expenditure for-
bidding the supposition of a superfluity of revenue.

In addition to objects of national security, there are many
purposes of great public utility to which the revenues in question
might be applied. The improvement of the communications
between the different parts of our country is an object well
wortliy of the national purse, and one which would abundantly
repay to labor the portion of its earnings, which may have been

756 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 44.

borrowed for that purpose. To provide roads and bridges is
within the direct purview of the Constitution. In many parts of
the country, especially in the Western Territory, a matter in
which the Atlantic States are equally interested, aqueducts and
canals would also be fit subjects of pecuniary aid, from the gene-
ral government. In France, England, and other parts of Europe,
institutions exist supported by public contributions, which emi-
nently promote agriculture and the arts ; such institutions merit
imitation by our government ; they are of the number of those
which directly and sensibly recompense labor for what it lends to
their agency.

To suggestions of the last kind, the adepts of the new school
have a ready answer : Industry will succeed and prosper in propor-
tion as it is left to the exertions of individual enterprise. This favor-
ite dogma, when taken as a general rule, is true ; but as an ex-
clusive one, it is false, and leads to error in the administration of
public affairs. In matters of industry, human enterprise ought,
doubtless, to be left free in the main ; not fettered by too much
regulation ; but practical politicians know that it may be bene-
ficially stimulated by prudent aids and encouragements on the
part of the government. This is proved by numerous examples
too tedious to be cited; examples which will be neglected only
by indolent and temporizing rulers, who love to loll in the lap of
epicurean ease, and seem to imagine that to govern well, is to
amuse the wondering multitude with sagacious aphorisms and
oracular sayings.

What has been observed, is sufficient to render it manifest,
that, independent of the extinguishment of the debt, the revenues
proposed to be yielded up, would find ample and very useful
employment for a variety of public purposes. Already in pos-
session of so valuable a resource ; having surmounted the diffi-
culties, which, from the opinions and habits of our citizens,
obstruct, in this, more than in any other country, every new
provision for adding to our public income ; certainly without a
colorable pretence of their being a grievous or undue pressure
on the community — how foolish will it be to resign the boon,
perhaps in a short time to be compelled again to resort to it ;

JEt. 44.]

THE EXAMINATION. 757

and for that purpose to hazard a repetition of the obstacles which
have been before encountered and overcome; obstacles which
gave birth to one insurrection, and may give birth to another !
Infatuated must be the councils from which so injurious a project
has proceeded !

But admitting the position, that there is an excess of income
which ought to be relinquished, still the proposal to surrender the
internal revenue is impolitic. It ought to be carefully preserved,
as not being exposed to the casualties, incident to our intercourse
with foreign nations, and therefore the most certain. It ought to
be preserved, as reaching to descriptions of persons who are not
proportionably affected by the impost, and as tending, for this
reason, to distribute the public burden more equitably. It ought
to be preserved, because if revenue can really be spared, it is
best to do it in such a manner as will conduce to the relief or ad-
vancement of our navigation and commerce. Rather let the
tonnage duty on American vessels be abolished, and let the du-
ties be lessened on some particular articles on which they may
press with inconvenient weight. Let not the merchant be pro-
voked to attempt to evade the duties, by the sentiment that his
ease or interest is disregarded, and that his capital alone is to be
clogged and incumbered by the demands of the Treasury.

But who and what are the merchants, when compared with
the patriotic votaries of whisky in Pennsylvania and Virginia ?

Lucius Crassus.

IV.

December 26, 1801.
It is matter of surprise to observe a proposition to diminish
the revenue, associated with intimations which appear to con
template war. The suggestions in the message respecting the
Barbary States, plainly enough imply, that treaties are found to
be too feeble cords to bind them ; and that a resort to coercive
means will probably be requisite to enforce a greater sense of

758 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 44.

justice towards us. Accordingly, as a comment on this hint, we
have seen a resolution brought into the House of Representa-
tives, authorizing the President to take measures effectually to
protect our commerce against those States. Believing it to be a
sound position, that these predatory nations will never be brought
to respect sufficiently the rights of this country, whether derived
from nature or from compact, without first being made to feel
its power ; there is no disposition to condemn the efficacious em-
ployment of force. Yet, considering the maxims by which
those states are governed, and the obstinacy which they have
evinced upon other occasions, it is likely that a policy of this
sort will be attended with considerable, and with no very tem-
porary expense. This alone is conceived to be a conclusive rea-
son against parting with any portion of our present income :
nothing could be less advisable, at a moment when there is the
prospect, if not the project of a general rupture with those pow-
ers.

Hitherto the proposal for sacrificing the internal revenue, has
been tried almost wholly by the test of expediency ; — it is time to
put it to a severer test ; — that of right. Can the proposed abolition
take effect without impairing the PUBLIC FAITH ?

This is a question of infinite moment to the character of our
government — to the prosperity of our nation. If it is to be an-
swered in the negative, it must be matter of profound regret,
that a proposal which could give rise to it, should have come
from the first magistrate of the United States.

It is hardly necessary to premise, by way of explanation, that
to pledge or appropriate funds for a public debt, is, in effect, to
mortgage them to the public creditors for their security. Retracing
our financial system to its commencement, we find the impost
and the excise on distilled spirits, repeatedly and positively
pledged, first, for the payment and interest of the debt, next, for
the reimbursement of certain instalments of the principal. It is
true, the appropriation is qualified by the words, " so much as
may be necessary," but the public faith is engaged in express
terms, that both the funds shall continue to be levied and collected,
until the whole debt shall be discharged ; with the single re-

jEt.44.] the examination. 759

serve, that the government shall be at liberty to substitute other
funds of equal amount. It follows that these two items of revenue
constitute & joint fund for the security of the public creditor, co-
extensive in duration with the existence of any portion of the
debt : and it is to be inferred, that the government, contemplat-
ing the possibility of a deficiency in one, intended that the other
should serve as an auxiliary, and that the co-operation of the two
should effectually guard the creditor against the fluctuations and
casualties to which either singly might be exposed. Anticipating,
however, the possibility that the one or the other, in whole or in
part, might in practice be found inconvenient, a right was re-
served to exchange either for an adequate substitute. But it is
conceived, that this does not imply the right to exchange the one
for the other. The effect would be essentially different in the two
cases: in the first there would always be two funds, aggregately
of the same or similar force and value, to secure the creditor ;
in the last there would be only one: from being double, the se-
curity would become single.

This mode of reasoning is the only one, upon which the rights
and the interests of the creditors can safely rest : it is plain and
intelligible, and avoids the danger of erroneous speculations about
the separate sufficiency of the respective funds. Admitting, how-
ever, for the sake of the argument, that this is too rigid a con-
struction of the contract, and that when one of the two funds should
have acquired a stable increase, which would render it equal to
the purpose of the pledge, it might then be made to stand in the
place of both : yet, surely, neither the purity of the public faith,
nor the safety of the creditor, will endure the application of this
principle to any other, than to an ascertained result. Neither,
certainly, will tolerate, that merely a reasonable ground of confi-
dence shall authorize so material an alteration in the essence of
the security which protects the debt.

The foregoing reasoning as to the question of right, may be
further elucidated by a particular provision in the act* which
introduced the excise on distilled spirits. After & permanent ap-

* Passed March 3d, 1791.

760 HAMILTON'S WORKS fiEi. 44.

propriation of the proceeds of the tax to the interest of the debt,
it provides that the surplus, if any there shall be, at the end of
each year shall be applied to the reduction of the principal ; un-
less the surplus or any part of it should be required for public
exigencies of the United States, and should be so appropriated
by special " acts of Congress." While at this early period of our
finances it was not thought expedient to appropriate this surplus
absolutely to the sinking fund, it was contemplated that it should
not be diverted, except for public exigencies. Gratuitously to re-
linquish it, is therefore contrary to the letter as well as to the
spirit of the original institution of the fund. The like observa-
tions, though with less force, apply to the provision noticed in
another number, respecting the surpluses of the revenue gener-
ally, which, as we have seen, are all appropriated to the sinking
fund. At the session of Congress immediately succeeding any
year in which such surpluses may accrue, they may be specially
appropriated or reserved by law, for other purposes ; but, if this
be not done, they are then to go of course to the sinking fund.
To appropriate or to reserve, plainly, can never mean to relin-
quish. The true meaning of the provision appears, therefore, to
be, that though Congress, under the restriction expressed as to
time, may appropriate or reserve these surpluses for other objects
of the public service, yet if not wanted for such other objects,
they shall continue to enure to the fund for the reduction of the
debt, so long as, by the laws regulating their duration, they are
continued to be levied.

Thus, on whatever side it is viewed, there is a temerity and
a levity in the proposition which confounds and amazes. If, un-
happily, it shall receive the sanction of Congress, there will re-
main nothing in principle of our system of public credit — nothing
on which the confidence of the creditor can safely repose. The
precedent of a fatal innovation will have been established, and
its extension to a total annihilation of the security, would be a
step not much more violent than that by which the inroad had
commenced. But it is devoutly to be hoped, that the delirium
of party spirit will not so far transport the legislative representa-
tives of the nation, as to induce them to put the seal to a mea-

JEt. 44.] THE EXAMINATION. 761

sure, as motiveless — as precipitate — as impolitic — as faithless — as
could have been dictated, even by a deliberate hostility to the
vital principles of our national credit. Peculiarly the guardians
of the public faith, and of the public purse, they surely will not
consent to betray the one, and impoverish the other, through an
abject and criminal complaisance.

It is a fact not unknown to himself, that abroad, as well as at
home, a diffidence has been entertained of the opinions and
views of the person now at the head of our government, with re-
gard to our system of public credit. This undoubtedly ought to
have been with him a strong reason for caution, especially at so
early a stage of his administration, as to any step which might
strengthen that diffidence, which might be in the least equivocal in
its tendency. Nor ought it to have been overlooked, that the in-
terest of the state, and a regard for his own reputation demanded
this caution. The appearance of instability in the plans of a
government, particularly respecting its finances, can never fail to
make injurious impressions. To a government, the character of
which has not yet been established by time, the example of sud-
den and questionable innovations, may be expected to be in the
highest degree detrimental. Prudent men every where are apt
to take the alarm at great changes not manifestly beneficial and
proper — a disposition which has been much increased by the ter-
rible events of the present revolutionary era. Yet, disregarding
these salutary and obvious reflections, the President has ven-
tured, in the very infancy of his administration, upon the bold
and unjustifiable step of recommending to the legislative body, a
renunciation of the whole internal revenue of the country ; though
the nation is at this moment incumbered with a considerable pub-
lic debt ; and though that very revenue is, by the existing laws,
an established fund for its discharge.

What, then, are we to think of the ostentatious assurance in
the Inaugural Speech as to the preservation of Public Faith?
Was it given merely to amuse with agreeable, but deceptive
sounds ? Is it possible that it could have been intended to con-
ceal the insidious design of aiming a deadly blow at a system
which was opposed in its origin, and has been calumniated in
every stage of its progress ?

762 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 44.

Alas ! how deplorable will it be, should it ever become pro-
verbial, that a President of the United States, like the Wierd
Sisters in Macbeth, " Keeps his promise to the ear, but breaks it to the
sense/"

Lucius Crassus.

no. v.

December 29, 1801.

In the rage for change, or under the stimulus of a deep-rooted
animosity against the former administrations, or for the sake of
gaining popular favor by a profuse display of extraordinary zeal
for economy, even our judiciary system has not passed unas-
sailed. The attack here is not so open as that on the revenue ;
but when we are told that the States individually have "principal
care of our persons, our property and our reputation, constitut-
ing the great field of human concerns ; and that therefore we may
well doubt lohether our organization is not too complicated, too expen-
sive ; whether offices and officers have not been multiplied un-
necessarily, and sometimes injuriously to the service they were
meant to promote ;" when afterwards it is observed that " the
judiciary system will, of course, present itself to the contempla-
tion of Congress ;" and when it appears that pains had been
taken to form and communicate a numerical list of all the causes
decided since the first establishment of the courts, in order that
Congress might be able to judge of the proportion which the in-
stitution bears to the business — with all these indications, it is
not to be misunderstood that the intention was unequivocally to
recommend material alterations in the system.

No bad thermometer of the capacity of our Chief Magistrate
for government is furnished by the rule which he offers for
judging of the utility of the Federal Courts ; namely, the exact
number of causes which have been by them decided. There is
hardly any stronger symptom of a pigmy mind, than a propen-

JEt. 44.] THE EXAMINATION. 763

sity to allow greater weight to secondary than to primary consi-
derations.

It ought, at least, to have been adverted to, that if this cir-
cumstance were a perfect criterion, it is yet too early to apply it,
especially to the courts recently erected : and it might have me-
rited reflection, that it would have been prudent to wait for a
more advanced period of the presidential term, to ascertain what
influence the great change which has lately happened in our
public functionaries may have on the confidence, which in many
parts of the Union has heretofore been reposed in the State
Courts, so as to prevent a preference of those of the United
States.

But, to enable us duly to appreciate the wisdom of the pro-
jected innovation, it is necessary to review the objects which
were designed to be accomplished by the arrangement of the
judiciary power, as it is seen in the Constitution, and to examine
the organization which has been adopted, to give effect to those
objects.

It is well known to all who were acquainted with the situation
of our public affairs when the Constitution was framed, and it is to
be inferred from the provisions of the instrument itself, that the
objects contemplated, were, 1st. To provide a faithful and effi-
cient organ for carrying into execution the laws of the United
States, which otherwise would be a dead letter. 2d. To secure
the fair interpretation and execution of our treaties with foreign
nations. 3d. To maintain harmony between the individual
States ; not only by an independent and impartial mode of deter-
mining controversies between them, but by frustrating the effects
of partial laws in any one, injurious to the rights of the citizens
of another. 4th. To guard generally against invasions of pro-
perty and right, by fraudulent and oppressive laws of particular
States, enforced by their own tribunals. 5th. To guard the
rights and conciliate the confidence of foreigners, by giving them
the option of tribunals created by, and responsible to, the gene-
ral government; which, having the immediate charge of our
external relations, including the care of our national peace,
might be expected to be more tenacious of such an administra-

<T64 HAMILTON'S WORKS.

[JEt. 44.

tion of justice as would leave to the citizens of other countries
no real cause of complaint. 6th. To protect reciprocally the
rights and inspire mutually the confidence of the citizens of dif-
ferent States in their intercourse with each other, by enabling
them to resort to tribunals so constituted, as to be essentially
free from local bias or partiality. 7th. To give the citizens of
each State a fair chance of impartial justice through the medium
of those tribunals, in cases in which the titles to property might
depend, on the conflicting grants of different States. These
were the immensely important objects to be attained by the insti-
tution of an adequate judiciary power, in the government of the
United States. Nor did its institution depend upon mere specu-
lative opinion, though, indeed, even that would have been sufficient
to indicate the expediency of the measure : but experience had
actually, in a variety of ways, demonstrated its necessity.

The treaties of the United States had been infracted by State
laws, put in execution by State judicatories. The rights of pro-
perty had been invaded by the same means, in numerous in-
stances, as well with respect to foreigners as to citizens ; as well
between citizens of different States as between citizens of the
same State. There were many cases in which lands were held
or claimed under adverse grants of different States, having rival
pretensions ; and in respect to which, the local tribunals, even if
not fettered by the local laws, could hardly be expected to be
impartial. In several of the States the courts were so constituted
as not to afford sufficient assurance of a pure, enlightened, and
independent administration of justice ; an evil which in some of
them still continues. From these different sources serious mis-
chiefs had been felt. The interests of the United States, in their
foreign concerns, had suffered ; their reputation had been tar-
nished; their peace endangered; their mutual harmony had
been disturbed or menaced ; creditors in numerous instances had
been ruined or very much injured: confidence in pecuniary
transactions had been destroyed, and the springs of industry had
been proportionably relaxed. To these circumstances, as much,
perhaps, as any other that accompanied a defective social organi-
zation, are we to attribute that miserable and prostrate situation

jEt. 44.] THE EXAMINATION. Y65

of our affairs which, immediately before the establishment of our
present National Constitution, tilled every intelligent lover of his
country with affliction and mortification. To the institution of
a competent judiciary, little less than to any one provision in
that Constitution, is to be ascribed the rapid and salutary reno-
vation of our affairs, which succeeded.

The enumeration* of the component parts of the judicial
power, in the Constitution, has an evident eye to the several ob-
jects which have been stated. And considering their vast mag-
nitude, no sound politician will doubt that the principal question,
with the administration, ought to be, how to give the greatest
efficacy to this essential part of the system ; in comparison with
which the more or less of expense, must be a matter of trivial
moment. The difference of expense between an enlarged and a
contracted plan, may be deemed an atom in the great scale of
national expenditure. The fulfilment of the important ends of
this part of our constitutional plan, though with but a small de-
gree of additional energy, facility, or convenience, must infinitely
overbalance the consideration of such difference of expense.

The number of causes which have been tried in these courts,
as already intimated, can furnish but a very imperfect test, by
which to decide upon their utility or necessity. Their existence
alone has a powerful and salutary effect. The liberty to use
them, even where it is not often exercised, inspires confidence in
the intercourse of business. They are viewed as beneficent
guardians, whose protection may be claimed when necessary.
They induce caution in the State Courts, and promote in them a
more attentive, if not a more able administration of justice.
Though in some districts of the Union, the Federal Courts are

* " Sec. II. The judicial power shall extend to all cases in law and equity,
arising under this Constitution ; the laws of the United States, and treaties made,
or which shall be made, under their authority ; to all cases affecting ambassadors,
other public ministers and consuls ; to all cases of admiralty and maritime juris-
diction ; to controversies to which the United States shall be a party ; to contro-
versies between two or more States ; between a State and citizens of another State ;
between citizens of different States ; between citizens of the same State claiming
lands under grants of different States, and between a State, or the citizens thereof,
and foreign States, citizens or subjects."

I
HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 45.

seldom resorted to. in others they are used in an extensive degree,
particularly as between foreigners and citizens, and between
citizens of different States.

That their organization throughout the United States ought
to be uniform, will not be denied, and it is evident that it ought
to be regulated by the situation of those parts in which a greater
degree of employment denotes the courts to be most necessary.
Of consequence, if the quantity of business were at all a guide,
the scenes in which there is the greatest employment for the
Federal Courts, ought to furnish the rule of computation ; it ought
not to be sought for in the aggregate of business, throughout the
Union. In reference to this point, it is likewise material to ob-
serve that, from the manner in which the Federal Courts were
constituted, previous to the last arrangement, the organization of
the State Courts was so much better adapted to expedition, as to
afford a strong motive for giving them a preference. The estab-
lishment of Circuit Courts, as now modified, will vary that cir-
cumstance, and thus attract more business ; but it is evident that
it must require a course of years fully to exemplify its operation.
To attempt, therefore, to draw important inferences from the
short experience hitherto had, is worse than puerile.

Lucius Crassus.

no VI.

January, 1802.

In answer to the observations in the last number, it may per-
haps be said, that the message meant nothing more than to con-
demn the recent multiplication of Federal Courts, and to bring
them back to their original organization: considering that as
adequate to all the purposes of the Constitution ; to all the ends
of justice and policy.

Towards forming a right judgment on this point, it may be
of service to those who are not familiar with the subject, to state

Mt. 45.] THE EXAMINATION. 767

briefly what was the former, and what is the present establish-
ment.

The former consisted of one Supreme Court with six judges,
who twice a year made the tour of the United States, distribut-
ed into three circuits, for the trial of causes arising in the re-
spective districts of each circuit ; and of fifteen District Courts,
each having a single judge. The present consists of one Su-
preme Court with the like number of judges, to be reduced on
the first vacancy happening, to five; of six Circuit Courts, hav-
ing three distinct judges each, excepting one circuit, which has
only a single circuit judge ; and of twenty-two District Courts,
with a judge for each as before : In both plans, the Supreme
Court is to hold two terms at the seat of government, and the
Circuit Courts are to be holden twice a year in each district :
The material difference in the two, as it respects the organs by
which they are executed, is reducible to the creation of twenty-
three additional judges; sixteen for the six Circuit Courts, seven
for the superadded District Courts, and the addition of the ne-
cessary clerks, marshals, and subordinate officers of Seven Courts.
This shows at a single view, that the difference of expense, as
applied to the United States, is of trifling consideration.

But here an inquiry naturally presents itself; why was the
latter plan substituted to the former more economical one ? The
solution is easy and satisfactory. The first was inadequate to its
object, and incapable of being carried into execution. The ex-
tent of the United States is manifestly too large for the due at-
tendance of the six judges in the Circuit Courts. The immense
journeys they were obliged to perform, kept them from their
families for several successive months in the year ; this rendered
the office a grievous burden, and had a strong tendency to ban-
ish or exclude men of the best talents and characters from these
important stations. It is known to have been no light induce-
ment with one Chief Justice, whose health was delicate, to quit
that office for another attended with less bodily fatigue ; and it
is well understood that other important members of the Supreme
Court were prepared to resign their situations, if there had not
been some alteration of the kind which has taken place. It was
HAMILTON'S WORKS. |>Et. 45.

also no uncommon circumstance for temporary interruption in
the health of particular judges, of whom only one was attached
to a circuit, to occasion a failure in the sessions of the courts ■
to the no small disappointment, vexation and loss of the suitor.
At any rate the necessity of visiting, within a given time, the
numerous parts of an extensive circuit, unavoidably rendered
the sessions of each court so short, that, where suits were in any
degree multiplied, or intricate, there was not time to get through
the business with due deliberation. Besides all this, the inces-
sant fatigues of the judges of the Supreme Court, and their long
and frequent absences from home, prevented that continued at-
tention to their studies, which even the most learned will confess
to be necessary for those, intrusted in the last resort with ques-
tions frequently novel, always of magnitude, affecting not only
the property of individuals, but the rights of foreign nations,
and the Constitution of the country.

For these reasons, it became necessary either to renounce the
Circuit Courts, or to constitute them differently : the latter was
preferred. The United States were divided into six circuits, with
a proper number of judges to preside over each. No man of
discernment will pretend that the number of circuits is too great.
Surely three States, forming an area of territory equal to that
possessed by some of the first powers of Europe, must afford a
quantity of business sufficient to employ three judges on a cir-
cuit, twice a year; and certainly not less than three will suffice
for the dispatch of business, whether the number of causes be
small or great. The inconsiderable addition made to the number
of the District Courts will hardly excite criticism, and does not,
therefore, claim a particular discussion, nor will their necessity
be generally questioned. They are almost continually occupied
with revenue and admiralty causes, besides the great employ-
ment collaterally given to the judges, in the execution of the
Bankrupt Act, which probably must increase instead of being
diminished.

Perhaps it may be contended, that the Circuit Courts ought
to be abolished altogether, and the business for which they are
designed, left to the State Courts, with a right of appeal to the

jEt.45.1 the examination. 769

Supreme Courts of the United States. Indeed, it is probable
that this was the true design of the intimation in the Message :
A disposition to magnify the importance of the particular States, in
derogation from that of the United States, is a feature in that com-
munication, not to be mistaken. But to such a scheme there
are insuperable objections. The right of appeal is by no means
equivalent to the right of applying, in the first instance, to a
tribunal agreeable to the suitor. The desideratum is to have
impartial justice, at a moderate expense, administered " prompt-
ly and without delay ;" not to be obliged to seek it through
the long, and tedious, and expensive process of an appeal. It is
true, that in causes of sufficient magnitude, an appeal ought to
be open ; which includes the possibility of going through that
process; but when the courts of original jurisdiction are so con-
stituted as not only to deserve, but to inspire confidence, appeals,
from the inevitable inconvenience attached to them, are excep-
tions to the general rule of redress ; where the contrary is the
situation, they become the general rule itself. Appeals will then
be multiplied to a pernicious extent ; while the difficulties to
which they are liable, operate in numerous instances as a pre
ventive of justice, because they fall with most weight on the
least wealthy suitor. It is to be remembered, that the cases in
which the Federal Courts would be perferred, are those, where
there would exist some distrust of the State Courts ; and this
distrust would be a fruitful source of appeals. To Fay that there
could be no good cause for this distrust, and that the danger of
it is imaginary, is to be wiser than experience, and wiser than
the Constitution. The first officer of the government, when
speaking in his official capacity, has no right to attempt to be
thus wise. His duty exacts of him that he should respectfully
acquiesce in the spirit and ideas of that instrument under which
he is appointed.

The detail would be invidious, perhaps injurious; else it
would be easy to show, that however great the confidence to
which the tribunals in some of the States are entitled, there is
just cause for suspicion as to those of others ; and that in respect
to a still greater number, it would be inexpedient to delegate
G 49

^° HAMILTON'S WORKS. [iEi. 45.

to them the care of interests which are specially and properly
confided to the government of the United States.

The plan of using the State Courts as substitutes for the Circuit
Courts of the Union, is objectionable in another view The citi-
zens of the United States have a right to except from those who
administer our government, the efficacious enjoyment of those
privileges, as suitors, for which the Constitution has provided
To turn them round, from the enjoyment of those privileges in
originating their causes, to the eventual and dilatory resource of
an appeal, is in a great degree to defeat the object contemplated
1 his is a consideration of much real weight, especially to the
merchants in our commercial States.

In the investigation of our subject, it is not to be forgotten
that the right to employ the agency of the State Courts, for exe-
cuting the laws of the Union, is liable to question, and has, in
tact, been seriously questioned. This circumstance renders it
the more indispensable, that the permanent organization of the
federal Judiciary should be adapted to the prompt and vi-orous
execution of those laws.

The right of Congress to discontinue judges once appointed,
by the abrogation of the courts for which they were appointed
especially as it relates to their emoluments, offers matter for a
toucheT Si°n' but Which Sha11 now be onlJ superficially

On the one hand, it is not easy to maintain that Congress can-
not abolish courts which, having been once instituted, are found
in practice, to be inconvenient and unnecessary. On the other
if it may be done, so as to include the annihilation of existing
judges, it is evident that the measure may be used to defeat that
clause of the Constitution, which renders the duration and the
emoluments of the judicial office coextensive with the good be-
havior of the officer ; an object essential to the independence of
the judges, the security of the citizen, and the preservation of the
government.

As a medium which may reconcile opposite ideas, and obviate
opposite inconveniences, it would, perhaps, be the best and safest

MT.m THE EXAMINATION. V71

practical construction to say, that though Congress may abolish
the courts, yet shall the actual judges retain their character and
their emoluments, with the authorities of office, so far as they can
be exercised elsewhere than in the courts. For this construction,
a precedent exists in the last arrangement of the Judiciary.
Though the number of the judges of the Supreme Court is re-
duced from six to five, yet the actual reduction is wisely deferred
I to the happening of a vacancg. The expense of continuing the
salaries of the existing incumbents, cannot prudently be put in
competition with the advantage of guarding from invasion one
of the most precious provisions in the Constitution Nor ought
it to be without its weight, that this modification will best com-
port with good faith, on the part of government, towards those
who had been invited to accept offices, to be held, not by an un-
certain tenure, but during good behavior.

Weighing maturely all the very important and very delicate
considerations which appertain to the subject would a wise or
prudent statesman hazard the consequences of immediately un-
making, at one session, courts and judges, which had only been
called into being at the one preceding ? Delectable indeed must
be the work of disorganization, to a mind which can thus rashly
advance in its prosecution '.-Infatuated must that people be who
do not open their eyes to projects so intemperate-so mischiev-
ous ,__Who does not see what is the ultimate object Delenda
est Carthago-lW-Med Constitution, which Americans had fondly
hoped would continue for ages, the guardian of public liberty,
the source of national prosperity ! ^^ ^^^

NO. VII.

January 7, 1802.

The next most exceptionable feature in the Message, is the
proposal to abolish all restriction on naturalization, arising from

772 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 45.

a previous residence. In this the President is not more at va-
riance with the concurrent maxims of all commentators on popular
governments, than he is with himself. The Notes on Virginia
are in direct contradiction to the Message, and furnish us with
strong reasons against the policy now recommended. The passage
alluded to is here presented. Speaking of the population of
America, Mr. Jefferson says, " Here I will beg leave to propose
a doubt. The present desire of America, is to produce rapid
population, by as great importations of foreigners as possible. But
is this founded in good policy?" "Are there no inconveniences
to be thrown into the scale, against the advantage expected from
a multiplication of numbers, by the importation of foreigners ? It
is for the happiness of those united in society, to harmonize as
much as possible, in matters which they must of necessity transact
together. Civil government being the sole object of forming
societies, its administration must be conducted by common consent.
Every species of government has its specific principles. Ours,
perhaps, are more peculiar than those of any other in the universe.
It is a composition of the freest principles of the English Constitution,
with others, derived from natural right and reason. To these,
nothing can be more opposed than the maxims of absolute monar-
chies. Yet from such, we are to expect the greatest number of
emigrants. They will bring with them the principles of the govern-
ments they leave, imbibed in their early youth ; or if able to throw
them off, itwillbein exchange for an unbounded licentiousness, passing
as is usual, from one extreme to another. It would be a miracle were
they to stop precisely at the point of temperate liberty. Their principles
with their language, they will transmit to their children. In propor-
tion to their numbers, they will share with us in the legislation.
They will infuse into it their spirit, warp and bias its direction, and
render it a heterogeneous, incoherent, distracted mass. I may appeal
to experience, during the present contest, for a verification of
these conjectures ; but if they be not certain in event, are they
not possible, are they not probable ? Is it not safer to wait with
patience for the attainment of any degree of population desired or ex-
pected ? May not our government be more homogeneous, more
peaceable, more durable? Suppose twenty millions of republican

JEt. 45.] THE EXAMINATION. 773

Americans, thrown all of a sndden into France, what would be
the condition of that kingdom? If it would be more turbulent,
less happy, less strong, we may believe that the addition of half
a million of foreigners, to our present numbers, would produce
a similar effect here." Thus wrote Mr. Jefferson in 1781 — Behold
the reverse of the medal. The Message of the President contains
the following sentiments : " A denial of citizenship under a resi-
dence of fourteen years, is a denial to a great proportion of those
who ask it, and controls a policy pursued from their first settle-
ment, by many of these States, and still believed of consequence to
their prosperity. And shall we refuse to the unhappy fugitives
from distress, that hospitality which the savages of the wilderness ex-
tended to our fathers arriving in this land f Shall oppressed humani-
ty find no asylum on this globe ? Might not the general charac-
ter and capabilities of a citizen, be safely communicated to every
one manifesting a bona fide purpose of embarking his life and
fortune permanently with us?"

But if gratitude can be allowed to form an excuse for incon-
sistency in a public character — in the man of the people ; a strong
plea of this sort may be urged in behalf of our President. It is
certain, that had the late election been decided entirely by native
citizens ; had foreign auxiliaries been rejected on both sides, the
man who ostentatiously vaunts that the doors of public honor and
confidence have been burst open to him, would not now have been at
the head of the American nation. Such a proof then of virtuous
discernment in the oppressed fugitives, had an imperious claim on
him to a grateful return, and without supposing any very uncom-
mon share of self-love, would naturally be a strong reason for a
revolution in his opinions.

The pathetic and plaintive exclamations by which the senti-
ment is enforced, might be liable to much criticism, if we are to
consider it in any other light, than as a flourish of rhetoric. It
might be asked in return, does the right to asylum or hospitality
carry with it the right to suffrage and sovereignty ? And what
indeed was the courteous reception which was given to our fore-
fathers, by the savages of the wilderness? When did these
humane and philanthropic savages exercise the policy of incor-

774 HAMILTON'S WORKS. |>Et. 45.

porating strangers among themselves, on their first arrival in the
country ? When did they admit them into their huts, to make
part of their families? and when did they distinguish them by
making them their sachems ? Our histories and traditions have
been more than apocryphal, if any thing like this kind and gen-
tle treatment was really lavished by the much-belied savages
upon our thankless forefathers. But the remark obtrudes itself,
had it all been true, prudence requires us to trace the history
farther, and ask what has become of the nations of savages who
exercised this policy? And who now occupies the territory
which they then inhabited ? Perhaps a lesson is here taught
which ought not to be despised.

But we may venture to ask what does the President really
mean, by insinuating that we treat aliens coming to this country
with inhospitality ? Do we not permit them quietly to land on
our shores ? Do we not protect them equally with our own citi-
zens, in their persons and reputation ; in the acquisition and en-
joyment of property? Are not our courts of justice open for
them to seek redress of injuries? And are they not permitted
peaceably to return to their own country whenever they please,
and to carry with them all their effects ? What then means this
worse than idle declamation ?

The impolicy of admitting foreigners to an immediate and
unreserved participation in the right of suffrage, or in the sove-
reignty of a republic, is as much a received axiom as any thing
in the science of politics, and is verified by the experience of all
ages. Among other instances, it is known, that hardly any thing
contributed more to the downfall of Rome, than her precipitate
communication of the privileges of citizenship to the inhabitants
of Italy at large. And how terribly was Syracuse scourged by
perpetual seditions, when, after the overthrow of the tyrants, a
great number of foreigners were suddenly admitted to the rights
of citizenship? Not only does ancient, but modern, and even
domestic story, furnish evidence of what may be expected from
the dispositions of foreigners, when they get too early a footing
in a country. Who wields the sceptre of France, and has erected
a despotism on the ruins of her former government ? A foreigner.

jEt.45.] the examination. 775

Who rules the councils of our own ill-fated, unhappy country ?
And who stimulates persecution on the heads of its citizens, for
daring to maintain an opinion, and for daring to exercise the
rights of suffrage ? A foreigner ! — Where then is the virtuous
pride that once distinguished Americans ? — Where the indignant
spirit which in defence of principle, hazarded a revolution to
attain that independence now insidiously attacked ?

Lucius Crassus.

no. VIII.

January 12th, 1802.

Eesuming the subject of our last paper, we proceed to trace
still farther, the consequences that must result from a too unqua-
lified admission of foreigners to an equal participation in our civil
and political rights.

The safety of a republic depends essentially on the energy of
a common national sentiment ; on a uniformity of principles and
habits ; on the exemption of the citizens from foreign bias, and
prejudice ; and on that love of country which will almost in-
variably be found to be closely connected with birth, education,
and family.

The opinion advanced in the Notes on Virginia is undoubtedly
correct, that foreigners will generally be apt to bring with them
attachments to the persons they have left behind ; to the country
of their nativity, and to its particular customs and manners.
They will also entertain opinions on government congenial with
those under which they have lived ; or if they should be led
hither from a preference to ours, how extremely unlikely is it
that they will bring with them that temperate love of liberty, so
essential to real republicanism ? There may, as to particular
individuals, and at particular times, be occasional exceptions to
these remarks, yet such is the general rule. The influx of
foreigners must, therefore, tend to produce a heterogeneous com-
pound ; to change and corrupt the national spirit ; to complicate

776 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 45.

and confound public opinion ; to introduce foreign propensities.
In the composition of society, the harmony of the ingredients is
all-important, and whatever tends to a discordant intermixture
must have an injurious tendency.

The United States have already felt the evils of incorporating
a large number of foreigners into their national mass ; by pro-
moting in different classes different predilections in favor of par-
ticular foreign nations, and antipathies against others, it has
served very much to divide the community and to distract our
councils. It has been often likely to compromit the interests of
our own country in favor of another. The permanent effect of
such a policy will be, that in times of great public danger there
will be always a numerous body of men, of whom there may be
just grounds of distrust; the suspicion alone will weaken the
strength of the nation, but their force may be actually employed
in assisting an invader.

In the infancy of the country, with a boundless waste to peo-
ple, it was politic to give a facility to naturalization ; but our
situation is now changed. It appears from the last census, that
we have increased about one-third in ten years ; after allowing
for what we have gained from abroad, it will be quite apparent
that the natural progress of our own population is sufficiently
rapid for strength, security, and settlement. By what has been
said, it is not meant to contend for a total prohibition of the right
of citizenship to strangers, nor even for the very long residence
which is now a prerequisite to naturalization, and which of itself
goes far towards a denial of that privilege. The present law was
merely a temporary measure adopted under peculiar circum-
stances, and perhaps demands revision. But there is a wide
difference between closing the door altogether and throwing it
entirely open ; between a postponement of fourteen years, and an
immediate admission to all the rights of citizenship. Some rea-
sonable term ought to be allowed to enable aliens to get rid of
foreign and acquire American attachments ; to learn the prin-
ciples and imbibe the spirit of our government ; and to admit of
a probability at least, of their feeling a real interest in our affairs.
A residence of not less than five years ought to be required.

Mi. 45.] THE EXAMINATION. 711

If the rights of naturalization may be communicated by parts,
and it is not perceived why they may not, those peculiar to the
conducting of business and the acquisition of property, might
with propriety be at once conferred, upon receiving proof, by
certain prescribed solemnities, of the intention of the candidates
to become citizens; postponing all political privileges to the ulti-
mate term. To admit foreigners indiscriminately to the rights of
citizens, the moment they put foot in our country, as recom-
mended in the message, would be nothing less than to admit the
Grecian horse into the citadel of our liberty and sovereignty.

Lucius Crassus.

NO. IX.

January 18, 1802.
The leading points of the message have been sufficiently can-
vassed, and it is believed to have been fully demonstrated, that
this communication is chargeable with all the faults which were
imputed to it on the outset of the examination. We have shown
that it has made, or attempted to make, prodigal sacrifices of
constitutional energy, of sound principle, and of public interest.
In the doctrine respecting war, there is a senseless abandonment
of the just and necessary authority of the executive department,
in a point material to our national safety. In the proposal to
relinquish the internal revenue, there is an attempt to establish a
precedent ruinous to our public credit ; calculated to prolong the
burthen of the debt, and to enfeeble and sink the government, by
depriving it of resources of great importance to its respectability,
to the accomplishment of its most salutary plans, to the power of
being useful. In the attack upon the judiciary establishment,
there is a plain effort to impair that organ of the government :
one on which its efficiency and success absolutely depend. In
the recommendation to admit indiscriminately foreign emigrants
to the privileges of American citizens, on their first entrance into
our country, there is an attempt to break down every pale which

778 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 45.

has been erected for the preservation of a national spirit and a
national character, and to let in the most powerful means of per-
verting and corrupting both the one and the other.

This is more than the moderate opponents of Mr. Jefferson's
elevation ever feared from his administration ; much more than
the most wrong-headed of his own sect dared to hope ; infinitely
more than any one who had read the fair professions in his In-
augural speech could have suspected. Reflecting men must be
dismayed at the prospect before us. If such rapid strides have
been hazarded in the very gristle of his administration, what may
be expected when it shall arrive at manhood ? In vain was the
collected wisdom of America convened at Philadelphia, — In vain
were the anxious labors of a Washington bestowed. — Their works
are regarded as nothing better than empty bubbles, destined to
be blown away by the mere breath of a disciple of Turgot ; of a
pupil of Condorcet.

Though the most prominent features of the message have been
portrayed, and their deformity exhibited in true colors ; there
remain many less important traits not yet touched, which, how-
ever, will materially assist us in determining its true character.
To particularize them with minuteness would employ more time
and labor than the object deserves ; yet to pass them by, wholly
without remark, would be to forego valuable materials for illus-
trating the true nature of the performance under examination.

There remains to be cursorily noticed, a disposition in our
Chief Magistrate, far more partial to the State governments, than
to our National government ; to pull down rather than to
build up our federal edifice — to villify the past administrations of
the latter — to court for himself popular favor by artifices not to be
approved, either for their dignity, their candor or their patriotism.
Why are we emphatically and fastidiously told, that " the
States individually have the principal care of our persons, o\xvp)rop-
erty and our reputation, constituting the great field of human concerns V
Was it to render the State governments more dear to us, more
the objects of affectionate solicitude ? Nothing surely was neces-
sary on this head ; they are already the favorites of the people,
and if they do not forfeit the advantage by a most gross abuse of

jEt. 45.] THE EXAMINATION.
trust, must, by the very nature of the objects confided to them,
continue always to be so. Was it to prevent too large a portion
of affection from being bestowed on the general government?
No pains on this score were requisite ; not only for the reason
just assigned, but for the further reason that the more peculiar
objects of this government, though no less essential to our pros-
perity than those of the State governments, oblige it often to act
upon the community in a manner more likely to produce aversion
than fondness. Accordingly every day furnishes proof, that it
is not the spoiled child of the many. On this point the high exam-
ple of the President himself is pregnant with instruction. Was
it to indicate the supreme importance of the State governments
over that of the United States? This was as little useful as it
was correct. Considering the vast variety of humors, preposses-
sions and localities which, in the much diversified composition of
these States, militate against the weight and authority of the
.general government, if union under that government is necessary,
it can answer no valuable purpose to depreciate its importance in
the eyes of the people. It is not correct ; because to the care of
the federal government are confided directly, those great, general
interests on which all particular interests materially depend : our
safety in respect to foreign nations ; our tranquillity in respect to
each other ; the foreign and mutual commerce of the States ; the
establishment and regulation of the money of the country ; the
management of our national finances ; indirectly, the security of
liberty by the guaranty of a republican form of government to
each State ; the security of property by interdicting any State from
emitting paper money or from passing laws impairing the obliga-
tion of contracts (from both of which causes the rights of property
had experienced serious injury) ; the prosperity of agriculture
and manufactures, as intimately connected with that of commerce,
and as depending in a variety of ways upon the agency of the
general government. In fine, it is the province of the general
government to manage the greatest number of those concerns in
which the provident activity and exertion of government are of
most importance to the people ; and we have only to compare the
state of our country antecedent to the establishment of the federal

V80 HAMILTON'S WORKS,

[/Et. 45.

Constitution, with what it has been since, to be convinced that
the most operative causes of public prosperity depend upon that
Constitution. It is not meant, by what has been said, to insin-
uate that the State governments are not extremely useful in their
proper spheres ; but the object is to guard against the mischiefs
of exaggerating their importance, in derogation from that of the
general right. Every attempt to do this, is, remotely, a stab at
the union of these States ; a blow to our collective existence as
one people — and to all the blessings which are interwoven with
that sacred fraternity.

If it be true, as insinuated, that, " our organization is too com-
plicated— too expensive," let it be simplified ; let this, however,
be done in such a manner as not to mutilate, weaken, and even-
tually destroy our present system, but to increase the energy, and
insure the duration of our national government — the Rock of
our Political Salvation.

In this insinuation, and in the suggestion that " offices and
officers have been unnecessarily multiplied ;" in the intimation
that appropriations have not been sufficiently specific, and that the
system of accountability to a single department has been disturb-
ed ; in this, and in other things, too minute to be particularized,
we discover new proofs of the disposition of the present executive,
unjustly and indecorously to arraign his predecessors.

As far as the message undertakes to specify any instance of the
* improper complexity of our organization, namely, in the instance
of the judiciary establishment, the late administration has been
already vindicated.

As to the " undue multiplication of offices and officers," it is
substantially a misrepresentation. It would be nothing less than
a miracle if, in a small number of instances, it had not happened
that particular offices and officers might have been dispensed with.
For, in the early essays of a new government, in making the va-
rious establishments relative to the affairs of a nation, some mis-
takes iu this respect will arise, notwithstanding the greatest
caution. It must happen to every government that, in the hurry
of a new plan, some agents will occasionally be employed, who
may not be absolutely necessary ; and this, where there is every

JEt. 45.] THE EXAMINATION. 7S1

inclination to economy. Similar things may have happened un-
der our past administrations ; but any competent judge, who will
take the trouble to examine, will be convinced, that there is no
just cause for blame in this particular.

The President has not pointed out the cases to which he ap-
plies the charge ; but he has communicated information of some
retrenchments which he has made, and probably intends that
from these the truth of the accusation shall be inferred.

Three instances are particularly presented ; these shall be
briefly examined; it will be seen that they do not justify the
imputation. They respect certain ministers at foreign courts;
some navy agents at particular ports; and some inspectors of the
revenue in particular States.

As to the first, it is believed to be a pretty just idea, that we
ought not greatly to multiply diplomatic agencies. Three per-
manent ones may, perhaps, be found sufficient in the future pro-
gress of our affairs: for France, Spain, and England. The ex-
pediency of having three, is recognized by the conduct of our
present Chief Magistrate. But others must be employed, and
during particular seasons it may be wise to do it for a considera-
ble length of time. Indeed there is strong ground for an opin-
ion entertained by very sensible men, that there ought to be a
permanent minister at every court with which we have exten-
sive commercial relations.

Two other ministers were employed by both the former ad-
ministrations, one with Portugal, the other with Holland; and
it is asserted without fear of denial, that when this was done by
the first President, it was with the approbation of Mr. Jefferson
himself. One other minister was employed by the late President
at the court of Berlin.

A commercial treaty with Portugal is admitted, on all hands,
to be particularly desirable ; as very interesting branches of our
commerce are carried on in the Portuguese dominions. We are
still without any such treaty : to send to that court a diplomatic
agent to endeavor to effect one, was a measure of evident pro-
priety ; to recall him before a treaty had been effected, must be
of questionable expediency. The views and circumstances of

7S2 HAMILTON'S WQRKS. [Mr. 45.

nations change ; and an opportunity may occur, at some particu-
lar conjuncture, for effecting what was not before possible, which
may be lost by the want of a fit agent on the spot to embrace it.
But admitting the experiment has now been sufficiently tried to
justify its abandonment, still it does not follow that it was un-
wise to have continued it as long as it was ; and as this must at
least rest in opinion, the continuance, if upon an erroneous cal-
culation in this particular, is no proof of a " disposition to multi-
ply offices or officers." And those who consider the nature and
extent of our commercial relations with Portugal, will not cease
to think it problematical, whether the expense of a diplomatic
agent, especially in a situation in which nothing has been de-
fined by treaty, ought to stand in competition with the benefits
which may result from the presence of a minister at the court of
that kingdom. This consideration alone is sufficient to repel
the charge.

Lucius Crassus.

NO. X.

Jauuary 19th, 1802.
As to Holland — being the second power which acknowledged
our independence, and made a treaty with us, a step which in-
volved her in war with Great Britain, it was deemed proper to
treat her with a marked respect. Besides this, from the time of
our revolution to the present, we have had large money concerns
with her people. A trusty and skilful public agent was for a
long time necessary to superintend those concerns ; and by the
annexation of a diplomatic character, a double purpose was an-
swered. The honorable nature of the station enabled the gov-
ernment to find a competent agent at a less expense than would
have been requisite to procure one merely for the money object.
It is not meant to deny, that the great change which has lately
happened in the affairs of that country, making it in effect a de-
pendency on France, rendered a removal of the minister proper :

JEt. 45.] THE EXAMINATION. 783

but it does not follow that it ought to have been done sooner.
It is also known, that Mr. Murray, the late envoy, has been for
a considerable time past employed in onr negotiations with
France, which probably was a collateral reason for not recalling
him sooner. In respect to one, if not to both these agents, it
may be observed, that a time of war was not the most eligible
moment for the removal of a minister.

As to Berlin, the inducements for keeping a minister there,
have never been fully explained. It is only known, that our
commercial treaty with Prussia had expired, and that a renewal
has been effected by the envoy sent thither ; but influential as
was the court of Prussia in the affairs of Europe, during the late
dreadful storm, it may have been conceived that a cultivation of
the good will of the Prussian monarch was not a matter of indif-
ference to the peace and security of this country. If this was
the object of the mission, though there may have been too far-
fetched a policy in the case, it offers a defence of the measure,
which exculpates the executive, at least from the charge of a de-
sire to multiply officers improvidently.

On the most unfavorable supposition, then, here was one di-
plomatic agent too many, and two others were continued longer
than was absolutely necessary. This surely is not of magnitude
sufficient to constitute a serious charge, where malevolence does
not inspire a spirit of accusation. In considering this question,
it ought to be remembered, that it is the prevailing policy of
governments to keep diplomatic agents at all courts where they
have important relations.

As to the navy agents, it is sufficient to say, that they were
temporary persons who grew up out of our rupture with France ;
who, when they were appointed, were useful to accelerate naval
preparations at as many points as could be advantageously occu-
pied, and that it was only proper to discontinue them when an ac-
commodation had been effected, and after they had had time enough
to wind up the affairs of their agency. This was not the case
previous to Mr. Jefferson's administration. Accordingly, in some
early instances of removal, it was only done to substitute mem.
bers of his own sect. And though several of the navy agents

7K4 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 45

were afterwards discontinued, spleen itself cannot imagine any
color of blame, either as to the appointment or continuance of them.

As to the inspectors of the revenue, the case in brief stands
thus: When the excise on distilled spirits was established,
three different descriptions of officers were instituted to carry it
into effect — supervisors, inspectors, and collectors, distributed
to districts, surveys and divisions, one to each. A district com-
prehending an entire State ; a survey some large portions of
it or a number of counties ; a division for the most part a
single county. In some of the small States there were no dis-
tinct officers for the surveys — the duties of inspectors being an-
nexed to those of supervisor ; in larger ones there were inspec-
tors; more or less numerous, according to their extent. As
other internal revenues were established, they were put under
the management of the same officers. The bare statement of the
fact shows the necessity of these officers. The revenues of no gov-
ernment were perhaps ever collected under a more simple organ-
ization, or through a smaller number of channels. It is not al-
leged that the first and last classes of officers were unnecessary.
It is only to the middle class that any specious objection can be
made. Let us conjecture the reasons for employing them.

In some of the States great opposition was expected, and was
actually experienced. In such States especially, it was evidently
useful to have the exertions of some men of weight and charac-
ter in spheres of moderate extent, to reconcile the discontented ;
to arrange the details of business, and to give energy to the mea-
sures for collection. In others, similar officers were probably
useful in the early stages, for the purpose of establishing the de-
tails simply. The subdivision was in all cases favorable to an
active and vigilant superintendence. Nor does it require extra-
ordinary penetration to discern that the policy was wise at the
time when the measure was adopted. It is possible that upon
the complete establishment of the plan, when all opposition had
been vanquished, and when the collection had become an affair
of mere routine, that this intermediate class may have ceased to
be essential. But till this had become perfectly evident, it would
have been premature to alter the original plan. Though it be

/Et. 45.] THE EXAMINATION. 785

true, that some years have elapsed since the excise law was pass-
ed, it is not very long since it has been in full and uninterrupted
operation. Other laws, introducing other branches of internal
revenue, have been subsequently passed from time to time, and
the agency of the same officers has probably been found useful
on their first introduction and execution. Hence it is easily ac-
counted for, that the inspectors were not before discontinued, if
indeed experience has shown that they are not still necessary,
which is itself problematical. Nothing is more easy than to re-
duce the number of agents employed in any business, and yet
for the business to go on with the reduced number. But before
the reduction is applauded, it ought to be ascertained that the
business is as well done as it was before. There is a wide differ-
ence between merely getting along with business and doing it
well and effectually.

These observations sufficiently show, that in the instances
which have been cited there is no evidence of a disposition, in
the preceding administrations, improperly to multiply offices and
officers. Acting under different circumstances, they conducted
as those circumstances dictated, and in all probability in a man-
ner the best adapted to the advancement of the public service.
A change of circumstances may, in some instances, have render-
ed a continuance of some of the agents thus employed unneces-
sary ; and the present Chief Magistrate may even be right in
discontinuing them ; but it is not therefore right to attempt to
derive from this any plea of peculiar merit with the people ; and
it is very far from right to make it a topic of slander on prede
cessors. Perhaps, however, this is too rigorous a construction,
and that nothing more was intended than to set off to the best
advantage, the petty services of petty talents.

If this was the true aim, it is to be regretted that it was not
so managed as to avoid the appearance of a design to depreciate
in the public estimation, those who went before. Had this deli-
cacy been observed, the attempt would have attracted neither
notice nor comment. At most it would have been said,

" Commas and points he sets exactly right,
And 'twere a sin to rob him of his mite."

Lucius Crassus.
g 50

786 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mi. 45.

NO. XI.

February 3, 1802.

The Message observes, "that in our care of the public con-
tributions intrusted to our direction, it would be prudent to
multiply barriers against the dissipation of public money, by
appropriating specific sums to every specific purpose, susceptible
of definition ; by disallowing all applications of money varying
from the appropriation in object, or transcending it in amount,
by reducing the undefined field of contingencies, and thereby
circumscribing discretionary powers over money, and by bringing
back to a single department all accountabilities for money where
the examination may be prompt, efficacious, and uniform." In
this recommendation we can be at no loss to discover additional
proof of a deliberate design in the present Chief Magistrate, to
arraign the former administrations. All these suggestions imply,
on their part, either a neglect of, or a defective attention to, the
objects recommended ; some of them go farther, and insinuate
that there had been a departure from correct plans, which had
before been adopted. The censure intended to be conveyed is as
unjust, as the conceptions which have dictated it are crude and
chimerical. In all matters of this nature, the question turns
upon the proper boundaries of the precautions to be observed ;
how far they ought to go ; where they should stop ; how much
is necessary for security and order ; what qualifications of gene-
ral rules are to be admitted to adapt them to practice, and to at-
tain the ends of the public service. It is certainly possible to do
too much as well as too little ; to embarrass, if not defeat the
end intended, by attempting more than is practicable; or to
overbalance the good, by evils accruing from an excess of regu-
lation. Men of business know this to be the case in the ordinary
affairs of life : how much more must it be so, in the extensive
and complicated concerns of an empire ? To reach and not to
pass the salutary medium is the province of sound judgment.
To miss the point, will ever be the lot of those, who, enveloped
all their lives in the mist of theory, are constantly seeking for

jEt. 45.] THE EXAMINATION. 787

an ideal perfection, which never was and never will be attainable
in reality. It is about this medium, not about general principles
that those in power in our government have differed ; and to ex-
perience, not to the malevolent insinuations of rivals, must be the
appeal, whether the one or the other description of persons have
judged most accurately. Yet discerning men may form no imper-
fect opinion of the merits of the controversy between them, by
even a cursory view of the distinctions on which it has turned.

Nothing, for instance, is more just or proper than the position
that the legislature ought to appropriate specific sums, for specific
purposes ; but nothing is more wild or of more inconvenient
tendency, than to attempt to appropriate "a specific sum for
each specific purpose, susceptible of definition" as the Message
preposterously recommends. Thus (to take a familiar example)
in providing for the transportation of an army ; oats and hay for
the subsistence of horses, are each susceptible of a definition,
and an estimate, and a precise sum may be appropriated for each
separately ; yet in the operations of an army, it will often hap-
pen that more than a sufficient quantity of the one article may
be obtained, and not a sufficient quantity of the other : if the
appropriations be distinct, and the officer who is to make the
provision, be not at liberty to divert the fund from one of these
objects to the other (as the doctrine of the Message implies), the
horses of the army may in such a case starve ; and its move-
ments be arrested — in some situations, even the army itself may
likewise be starved, by a failure of the means of transportation.

If it be said, that the inconvenience here suggested may be
avoided, by making the appropriations for forage generally, and
not for the items which compose it separately — the answer is,
first, that this, by uniting and blending different things, suscepti-
ble each of a precise definition, is an abandonment of the princi-
ple of the Message ; secondly, that it would be only a partial
cure for the mischiefs incident to that rigorous principle. It
might happen that the badness of roads would injure the wagons
of the army more than was anticipated, and so much more, as to
exhaust the specific fund appropriated for their repairs ; it might
also have happened, from various causes, that at an earlier period

788 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 45-

of the campaign, the consumption of forage had been less than
was calculated, so that there would be a surplus of the fund des-
tined for this object ; if, in such a case, the public agent could
not transfer that surplus to the repairs of the wagons, the motions
of the army might, in this way, be suspended, and in the event,
famine and ruin produced.

This analysis might be pursued, so as to prove that similar
evils are inseparable from a much more qualified application of
the principle in the Message, and to demonstrate that nothing
more can safely or reasonably be attempted, than to distribute
the public expenses, into a certain number of convenient sub-
divisions or departments ; to require from the proper officers,
estimates of the items, which are to compose each head of ex-
pense; and after examining these with due care, to adapt the
appropriations to the respective aggregates ; applying a specific
sum to the amount of each great subdivision : — the pay of the
army ; military stores ; quartermaster stores, &c, &c. This, with
even more detail than could be well executed, has been uni-
formly done, under the past administrations of the present gov-
ernment from the very beginning of its proceedings. More will,
in the experiment, be found impracticable and injurious ; espe-
cially in seasons and situations when the public service demands
activity and exertion.

In like manner, the former practice of the government has
corresponded with the rule, taken in its true and just sense, of
" disallowing all applications of money, varying from the appro-
priation in object, or transcending it in amount." It is confi-
dently believed, that whoever shall allege or insinuate to the
contrary, may be challenged to point out the instance in which
money has been issued from the Treasury for any purpose which
was not sanctioned by a regular appropriation, or which exceeded
the appropriated amount ; or where there was an expenditure of
money allowed, that was not strictly within the limits of such an
appropriation; except, indeed, upon the impracticable idea of
minutely separating, and distinguishing the items, which form the
aggregate of some general head of expenditure.

It is likewise material to have it well understood that, gene-

MtA5.] THE EXAMINATION. 78i>

rally speaking, the distinction between the appropriations for
different objects can only be strictly observed at the Treasury
itself; which can easily take care that more money shall not go
out for any purpose than is authorized by law ; and can see that
this money is fairly expended by the proper officer, in conformity
with the general spirit of the appropriation prescribed by the
law. But it is in most cases impossible for the officer, charged
with a particular branch of the public service, to separate nicely
in the details of expenditure, the differents funds which may
have been placed in his hands. Thus (still drawing our exam-
ples from the military department, where the danger of misap-
plication is always the greatest) if several sums be placed in the
hands of the Quartermaster-General, for different objects, he must,
of necessity, distribute a large proportion of them among his
principal deputies, and these again among subordinate agents
Unless this distribution be pursued through the remotest ramifi-
cations, down to the moment of final expenditure, it is evident
that it must fail throughout ; and it is no less evident that it can-
not be so far pursued. But to this, the accountantship only
would be an insuperable obstacle ; it would require in every the
most inferior agent, a profound knowledge of accounts, and
would impose, both on principals and subordinates, the duty of
keeping such a multiplicity of them, as, if even practicable, would
exhaust the funds issued for the public service, in mere clerkship.
Another most mischievous consequence would ensue. The exi-
genciesof the public service are often so variable, that a public
agent would frequently find himself full-handed for one purpose,
empty-handed for another, and if forbidden to make a transfer,
not only the service would suffer, but an opportunity, with very
strong temptation, would be given, to traffic with the public
money for private gain ; while the business of the government
would be stagnated by the injudicious and absurd impediments
of an over-driven caution. Happily, it is not very material that
the principle of distinct appropriations for separate objects,
should be carried through all the details. The essential ends of
it are answered, if it be strictly pursued, in the issuing of money
from the Treasury, and if this department be careful that the
principal lines of discrimination are not transgressed.

790 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 45.

The theory of the Message plainly contemplates, that in no
case shall the actual money appertaining to one fund, be expended
for the purpose of another ; though each fund may be sufficient
for its object, and though there may be an appropriation for each
object. This is another excess of theory ; which, with a full
treasury, would often disable the government from fulfilling its
engagements, and from carrying on the public business. To
execute this plan, consistently with the exigencies of national
expenditure, would probably require, in ordinary, a triplication
of the revenues, or a capital necessary for the whole amount of
that expenditure, and would very often lock up from circulation
large sums, which might be of great importance to the activity
of trade and industry. Such are the endless blessings to be ex-
pected from the notable schemes of a philosophic projector I Strict
to a fault, where relaxation is necessary ; lax to a vice, where
strictness is essential !

As to "reducing the undefined field of contingencies, and
circumscribing discretionary powers over money," observations
similar to those which have been already made, occur. The
term reducing, implies, that the thing must exist in a degree ; and
indeed it is manifest, that all the minute casualties of expenditure,
especially in the naval and military departments, cannot be fore-
seen and defined. The question then must be, have not the
limits been sufficiently narrow for the situation of the govern-
ment, in the scenes through which it has passed ; comprehending
for a great part of the time Indian wars and foreign hostilities ?
Certainly, if viewed on a proportionable scale, the extent appears
to have been as moderate as could have been desired; and no
blame can justly attach to the administration, on this account.

As to " bringing back to a single department all accounta-
bilities for money," there never has been a deviation from that
system. The department of the Treasury has uniformly preserv-
ed a vigilant superintendence over all accountabilities for public
money. A particular accountant, indeed, has been appointed in
the War and Navy departments, but he has been subordinate to
the Treasury department, which has prescribed regulations for
his conduct, and has constantly revised his proceedings. It is

Mn. 45.] THE EXAMINATION. 791

true, that by his connection with the particular department for
which he is accountant, there are cases in which he is to be
guided by the directions of the head of that department ; but
though these directions, if not plainly contrary to the rules pre-
scribed by the Treasury, would exempt him from responsibility,
the directions themselves pass under the review of the Treasury,
as a check upon the head of the department to which he is at-
tached ; and in case of abuse, they would serve to establish a
responsibility of the principal. To say that this interferes with
a prompt examination of accounts, is to affirm that a division
of labor is injurious to dispatch ; a position contrary to all ex-
perience. The fact, without doubt, is, that it essentially contrib-
utes to dispatch ; and that whatever new modification may be
adopted, either the accounts of the other departments will never
keep pace with the current of business in times of activity, or
that modification must adhere to the principle of employing dis-
tinct organs.

If it be the design to exclude, in every case, the intervention
of the head of the particular department, some or all of these
evils will follow : The service of that department will suffer by
unduly restricting its head, in cases in which he must be the
most competent judge; and by obliging him, in order to avoid
eventual difficulties, to resort, in the first instance, to another de-
partment, less alive than himself to the exigencies of his own,
for a cautious and slow, perhaps a reluctant acquiescence in ar-
rangements which require promptness ; if in the spirit of con-
fidence and accommodation, the officers of the Treasury yield a
ready compliance with the wishes of the head of such depart-
meut, they may inadvertently co-operate in measures which they
would have disapproved and corrected on a deliberate and im-
partial revision. If this spirit be not shown, not only the im-
mediate service of the department may be improperly impeded,
but sensations unfriendly to the due harmony of the different
members of the administration may be engendered. On one
side of the dilemma stands collusion, on the other discord.

The existing plan steers a middle and a prudent course ;
neither fettering too much the heads of the other departments

792 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 45.

nor relinquishing too far the requisite control of the Treasury.
Its opposite supposes all trust may be placed in one department
— none in the others. The extravagant jealousy of the over-
bearing influence of the Treasury department, which was so con-
spicuous in the times of the two former secretaries, has of a sud-
den given way to unlimited confidence ! The intention seems
to be to surround the brow of their immaculate successor with
the collected rays of legislative and executive favor. But vain
will be the attempt to add lustre to the dim luminary of a be-
nighted administration !

Lucius Crassus.

NO. XII.

February 23, 1302.
From the manner in which the subject was treated in the
fifth and sixth numbers of the Examination, it has been doubted,,
whether the writer did or did not entertain a decided opinion
as to the power of Congress to abolish the offices and compensa-
tions of judges, once instituted and appointed, pursuant to a law
of the United States. In a matter of such high constitutional
moment, it is a sacred duty to be explicit. The progress of a
bill lately brought into the Senate for repealing the law of the
last session, entitled, " an Act to provide for the more conveni-
ent organization of the courts of the United States," with the
avowed design of superseding the judges who were appointed
under it, has rendered the question far more serious than it was
while it rested merely on the obscure suggestion in the Presiden-
tial Message. Till the experiment had proved the fact, it was
hardly to have been imagined, that a majority of either House of
Congress, whether from design or error, would have lent its
sanction to a glaring violation of our national compact, in that
article which, of all others, is the most essential to the efficiency
and stability of the government ; to the security of property ;
to the safety and liberty of person. This portentous and fright-

At. 45.] THE EXAMINATION. 793

ful phenomenon has, nevertheless, appeared. It frowns with
malignant and deadly aspect upon our Constitution. Probably
before these remarks shall be read, that Constitution will be no
more ! It will be numbered among the numerous victims of
Democratic frenzy ; and will have given another and an awful
lesson to mankind — the prelude perhaps of calamities to this
country, at the contemplation of which imagination shudders !

With such prospect before us, nothing ought to be left un-
essayecl, to open the eyes of thinking men to the destructive
projects of those mountebank politicians, who have been too
successful in perverting public opinion, and in cheating the peo-
ple out of their confidence ; who are advancing with rapid
strides in the work of disorganization — the sure forerunner of
tyranny ; and who, if they are not arrested in their mad career,
will, ere long, precipitate our nation into all the horrors of an-
archy.

It would be vanity to expect to throw much additional light
upon a subject, which has already exhausted the logic and elo-
quence of some of the ablest men of our country ; yet it often
happens, that the same arguments placed in a new attitude, and
accompanied with illustrations, which may have escaped the
ardor of a first research, serve both to fortify and to extend
conviction. In the hope that this may be the case, the discus-
sion shall be pursued with as much perspicuity and brevity, as
can be attained.

The words of the Constitution are, " The judges both of the
supreme and inferior courts shall hold their offices during good
behavior, and shall at stated times receive for their services a
compensation which shall not be diminished during their continu-
ance in office.'11

Taking the literal import of the terms as the criterion of
their true meaning, it is clear, that the tenure or duration of the
office is limited by no other condition than the good behavior
of the incumbent. The words are imperative, simple and un-
qualified: "The judges shall hold their offices during good behav-
ior.'1'1 Independent therefore of any artificial reasoning to vary
the natural and obvious sense of the words, the provision must

794 HAMILTON'S WORKS.

[JEt. 45.

be understood to vest in the judge a right to the office, indefea-
sible but by his own misconduct.

It is, consequently, the duty of those who deny this right, to
show, either that there are certain presumptions of intention,
deducible from other parts of the constitutional instrument, or
certain general principles of constitutional law or policy, which
ought to control the literal and substitute a different meaning.

As to presumptions of intention, different from the import of
the terms, there is not a syllable in the instrument from which
they can be inferred ; on the contrary, the latter member of the
clause cited affords a very strong presumption the other way.

From the injunction, that the compensation of the judges
shall not be diminished, it is manifest that the Constitution intends
to guard the independence of those officers against the legislative
department ; because, to this department alone would have be-
longed the power of diminishing their compensations.

When the constitution is thus careful to tie up the legislature
from taking away part of the compensation, is it possible to sup-
pose that it can mean to leave that body at full liberty to take away
the whole ? The affirmative imputes to the Constitution the man-
ifest absurdity of holding to the legislature this language : " You
shall not weaken the independence of the judicial character, by
exercising the power of lessening his emolument, but you may
destroy it altogether, by exercising the greater power of annihi-
lating the recompense with the office." No mortal can be so
blind as not to see that, by such a construction, the restraint in-
tended to be laid upon the legislature by the injunction not to
lessen the compensation, becomes absolutely nugatory.

In vain is a justification sought in that part of the article
which provides that "the judicial power of the United States
shall be vested in one supreme court, and in such inferior courts
as the Congress may from time to time ordain and establish."
The position that a discretionary power to institute inferior courts
includes virtually a power to abolish them, if true, is nothing to
the purpose. The abolition of a court does not necessarily imply
that of its judges. In contemplation of law, the court and the
judge are distinct things. The court may have a legal existence,

jE-r.45.] the examination. ?95

though there may be no judge to exercise its powers. This may
be the case, either at the original creation of a court, previous to
the appointment of a judge, or subsequently, by his death, resig-
nation, or removal. In the last case, it could not be pretended
that the court had become extinct by the event. In like manner,
the office of the judge may subsist, though the court in which he
is to officiate may be suspended or destroyed. The duties of a
judge, as the office is denned in our jurisprudence, are twofold-
judicial and ministerial. The latter may be performed out of
court, and often without reference to it. As conservator of the
peace, which every judge is, ex officio, many things are done, not
connected with a judicial controversy, or to speak technically,
with a lis pendens. This serves to illustrate the idea, that the office
is something different from the court: which is the place or situ-
ation for its principal action, yet not altogether essential to its
activity. Besides, a judge is not the less a judge when out of
court than when in court. The law does not suppose him to be
always in court, yet it does suppose him to be always in office ;
in vacation as well as in term. He has also a property or inter-
est in his office, which entitles him to civil actions and recom-
pense in damages, for injuries that affect him in relation to his
office ; but he cannot be said to have a property or interest in
the court of which he is a member. All these considerations
confirm the hypothesis, that the court and the judge are distinct
legal entities, and therefore may exist, the one independently of

the other.

If it be replied, that the office is an incident to the court, and
that the abolition of the principal includes that of the incidents—
the answer to this is, that the argument may be well founded as
to all subsequent appointments ; but not as to those previously
made. Though there be no office to be filled in future, it will
not follow that one already vested in an individual, by a regular
appointment and commission, is thereby vacated and divested.
Whether this shall or shall not happen, must depend on what
the Constitution or the law has declared with regard to the
tenure of the office. Having pronounced that this shall be during
good behavior, it will preserve the office, to give effect to that

796 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mi. &.

tenure for the benefit of the possessor. To be consistent with
itself, it will require and prescribe such a modification and con-
struction of its own acts, as will reconcile its power over the
future, with the rights which have been conferred as to the past
Let it not be said, that an office is a mere trust for public
benefit, and excludes the idea of a property or a vested interest
in the individual. The first part of the proposition is true-the
last false. Every office combines the two ingredients of an inter-
est in the possessor, and a trust for the public. Hence it is that
the law allows the officer redress, by a civil action, for an iniurv
m relation to his office, which presupposes property or interest.
I his interest may be defeasible at the pleasure of the government
or it may have a fixed duration, according to the constitution of
the office. The idea of a vested interest holden even by a per-
manent tenure, so far from being incompatible with the principle
that the primary and essential end of every office is the public
good, may be conducive to that very end, by promoting a dili-
gent, faithful, energetic, and independent execution of the office
But admitting, as seems to have been admitted by the speak-
ers on both sides of the question, that the judge must fall with
the court, then the only consequence will be, that Confess can-
not abolish a court once established. There is no rule°of inter-
pretation better settled, than that different provisions in the same
instrument, on the same subject, ought to be so construed, as if
possible, to comport with each other, and give a reasonable effect
to all.

The provision that "The judiciary power shall be vested in
one supreme court, and in such inferior courts as the Congress
may from time to time ordain and establish," is immediately fol-
lowed by this other provision, "The judges both of the supreme
and inferior courts shall hold their offices during good beha-

vior

The proposition, that a power to do, includes, virtually a
power to undo, as applied to a legislative body, is generally but
not universally true. All vested rights form an exception to the
rule. In strict theory, there is no lawful or moral power to divest
by a subsequent statute, a right vested in an individual, by a

Mr. 45.]

THE EXAMINATION. 797

prior. And accordingly it is familiar to persons conversant with
legal studies, that the repeal of a law does not always work the
revocation or divestiture of such rights.

If it be replied, that though a legislature might act immorally
and wickedly, in abrogating a vested right, yet the legal validity
of its act for such a purpose could not be disputed ; it may be
answered, that this odious position, in any application of it, is
liable to question in every limited Constitution ; (that is, in every
Constitution, which, in its theory, does not suppose the whole
power of the nation to be lodged in the legislative body ;*)—
and that it is certainly false, in its application to a legislature, the
authorities of which are defined by a positive written Constitution,
as to every thing which is contrary to the actual provisions of
that Constitution. To deny this, is to affirm that the delegated is
paramount to the constituent power. It is in fact to affirm there
are no constitutional limits to the legislative authority.

The inquiry then must be, whether the power to abolish infe-
rior courts, if implied in that of creating them, is not abridged
by the clause which regulates the tenure of judicial office.

The first thing which occurs in this investigation, is, that the
power to abolish is, at most, an implied or incidental power, and
as such, will the more readily yield to any express provision with
which it may be inconsistent.

The circumstance of giving to Congress a discretionary power
to establish inferior courts, instead of establishing them specifically
in the Constitution, has, with great reason, been ascribed to the
impracticability of ascertaining beforehand the number and
variety of courts, which the development of our national affairs
might indicate to be proper ; especially in relation to the progress
of new settlements, and the creation of new States. This render-
ed a discretionary power to institute courts indispensable ; but it
did not alike render indispensable a power to abolish those which
were once instituted. It was conceivable that with intelligence,
caution, and care, a plan might be pursued in the institution of
courts, which would render abolitions unnecessary. Indeed, it is

* As in the parliament of Great Britain.

798 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 45.

not presumable with regard to establishments of such solemnity
and importance, making part of the organization of a principal
dapartment of the government, that a fluctuation of plans was
anticipated. It is therefore not essential to suppose, that the
power to destroy was intended to be included in the power to
create. Thus the words " to ordain and establish," may be
satisfied by attributing to them only the latter effect. — Conse-
quently when the grant of the power to institute courts, is imme-
diately succeeded by the declaration that the judges of those
courts shall hold their offices during good behavior ; if the exer-
cise of the power to abolish the courts, cannot be reconciled with
the actual holding or enjoyment of the office, according to the
prescribed tenure, it will follow that the power to abolish is
interdicted. The implied or hypothetical power, to destroy the
office, must give way to the express and positive right of holding
it during good behavior. This is agreeable to the soundest rules
of construction ; the contrary is in subversion of them.

Equally in vain is a justification of the construction, adopted
by the advocates of the repeal, attempted to be derived from a
distinction between the supreme and inferior courts. The argu-
ment, that as the former is established by the Constitution, it
cannot be annulled by a legislative act, though the latter which
must owe their existence to such an act may by the same author-
ity be extinguished, can afford no greater stability to the office
of a judge of the supreme court than to that of a judge of an inferior
court. The Constitution does indeed establish the supreme
court ; but it is altogether silent as to the number of judges.
This is as fully left to legislative discretion as the institution of
inferior courts ; and the rule that a power to undo is implied in
the power to do, is therefore no less applicable to the reduction
of the number of the judges of the supreme court, than to the
abolition of the inferior courts. If the former are not protect-
ed by the clause, which fixes the tenure of office, they are no
less at the mercy of the legislature than the latter. And if that
clause does protect them, its protection must be equally effectual
for the judges of the inferior courts. Its efficacy, in either case
must be founded on the principle that it operates as a restraint

jEt. 45.] the examination. T99

upon the legislative discretion ; and if so, there is the like restraint
in both cases, because the very same words in the very same
sentence, define conjunctly the tenure of office of the two classes
of judges. No sophistry can elude this conclusion. •

It is therefore plain to a demonstration, that the doctrine which
affirms the right of Congress to abolish the judges of the inferior
courts, is absolutely fatal to the independence of the judicairy
department. The observation that so gross an abuse of power,
as would be implied in the abolition of the judges of the supreme
court, ought not to be supposed, can afford no consolation against
the extreme danger of the doctrine. The terrible examples before
us, forbid our placing the least confidence in that delusive obser-
vation. Experience, sad experience, warns us to dread every
extremity — to be prepared for the worst catastrophe that can
happen.

Lucius Crassus.

NO. XIII.

February 27, 1802.

The advocates of the power of Congress to abolish the judges,
endeavor to deduce a presumption of intention favorable to their
doctrine, from this argument. The provision concerning the
tenure of office (say they) ought to be viewed as a restraint upon
the executive department, because, to this department belongs the
power of removal ; in like manner as the provision concerning
the diminution of compensation, ought to be regarded as a re-
straint upon the legislative department, because, to this department
belongs the power of regulating compensations. The different
members of the clause ought to be taken distributive!?, in confor-
mity with the distribution of power to the respective depart-
ments.

This is certainly the most specious of the arguments which
have been used on that side. It has received several pertinent
and forcible answers. But it is believed to be susceptible of one

800 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 45.

still more direct and satisfactory ; which is not recollected to have
been yet given.

If, in the theory of the Constitution, there was but one way
of c/Qkating the tenure of office, and that exclusively appertaining
to the executive authority, it would be a natural and correct
inference that this authority was solely contemplated, in a con-
stitutional provision upon the subject. But the fact is clearly
otherwise. There are two modes known to the Constitution, in
which the tenure of office may be affected — one,t he abolition of
the office ; the other, the removal of the officer. The first is a
legislative act, and operates by removing the office from the per-
son— the last is an executive act, and operates by removing the
person from the office. Both equally cause the tenure, enjoyment,
or holding of the office to cease.

This being the case, the inference which has been drawn,
fails. There is no ground for the presumption, that the Con-
stitution, in establishing the tenure of an office, had an exclusive
eye to one only of the two modes in which it might be effected.
The more rational supposition is, that it intended to reach and
exclude both ; because, this alone can fulfil the purpose which it
appears to have in view : and it ought neither to be understood
to aim at less than its language imports, nor to employ inade-
quate means for accomplishing the end which it professes. Or,
the better to elucidate the idea, by placing it in another form,
it may be said, that, since in the nature of things the legislative,
equally with the executive organ, may by different modes of
action affect the tenure of office ; when the Constitution under-
takes to prescribe what that tenure shall be, it ought to be pre-
sumed to intend to guard that which shall have been prescribed,
against the interference of either department.

In an instrument, abounding with examples of restrictions on
the legislative discretion, there is no difficulty in supposing that
one was intended, in every case in which it may be fairly
inferred, either from the words used, or from the object to be
effected.

While the reason which has been stated, refers the provision
respecting the tenure of judicial officers as well to the execu-

Mr. 45.] THE EXAMINATION. 801

tive as to the Legislative Department, were it necessary to ex-
amine to which, if to either of them, it ought to be deemed most
appropriate, there could be no difficulty in selecting the latter,
rather than the former. The tenure of an office is one of its
essential qualities. A provision, therefore, which is destined to
prescribe or define this quality, may be supposed to have a more
peculiar reference to that Department, which is empowered to
constitute the office ; either as directory to it, in the exercise of
its power, or as fixing what otherwise would be left to its dis-
cretion.

It is constantly to be recollected, that the terms of the pro-
vision do not look particularly to either Department. They are
general, "the judges shall hold their offices during good be-
havior." 'Tis not from the terms, therefore, that an exclusive
applicability to the executive organ can be inferred. On the
contrary, they must be narrowed, to give them only this effect.

It is different as to the provision concerning compensations.
Though equally general in the terms, this can have no relation
but to the Legislative Department ; because, as before observed,
that department alone would have had power to diminish the
compensations. But this reason for confining that provision to
one department, namely, the power of affecting the compensa-
tions, so far from dictating a similar appropriation of the other
provision, looks a different way, and requires by analogy that
the latter should be applied to both the departments, each hav-
ing a power of affecting the tenure of office, in a way peculiar
to itself. Nor can it be too often repeated, because it is a con-
sideration of great force, that the design, so conspicuous in the
former of these two provisions, to secure the independence of
the judges against legislative influence, is a powerful reason
for understanding the latter in a sense calculated to advance the
same important end, rather than in one which must entirely
frustrate it.

A rule of constitutional law opposed to our construction, is

attempted to be derived, from the maxim, that the power of

legislation is always equal ; and that a preceding can never bind

or control a succeeding legislature, by its acts, which therefore

G 51

802 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 45.

must always be liable to repeal at the discretion of the succes-
sor.

The misapplication, or too extensive application of general
maxims or propositions, true in their genuine sense, is one of
the most common and fruitful sources of false reasoning. This
is strongly exemplified in the present instance. The maxim re-
lied upon, can mean nothing more, than, that as to all those mat-
ters which a preceding legislature was free to establish and re-
voke, a succeeding legislature will be equally free. The latter
may do what the former could have done, or it may undo what
the former could have undone. But unless it can be maintained,
that the power of ordinary legislation is in itself illimitable, in-
controllable, incapable of being bound either by its own acts,
or by the injunctions or prohibitions of a Constitution, it will
follow, that the body invested with that power, may bind itself,
and may bind its successor ; so that neither itself nor its succes-
sor can, of right, revoke acts which may have been once done.
To say that a legislature may bind itself, but not its successor,
is to affirm that the latter has not merely an equal, but a greater
power than the former, else it could not do what the former was
unable to do. Equality of power only will not suffice for the
argument. On the other hand, to affirm that a legislature can-
not bind itself, is to assert, that there can be no valid pledge of
the public faith, that no right can be vested in an individual
or collection of individuals, whether of property, or of any
other description, which may not be resumed at pleasure.

Without doubt, a legislature binds itself, by all those acts
which engage the public faith ; which confer on individuals per-
manent rights, either gratuitously or for valuable consideration ;
and in all these instances a succeeding one is not less bound. As
to a right which may have been conferred by an express pro-
vision of the Constitution defining the condition of the enjoy-
ment ; or as to an institution or matter in its nature permanent,
which the Constitution may have confided to an act of the legis-
lature ; its authority terminates with the act that vests the right
or makes the establishment. A case of the first sort is exem-
plified in the office of a judge ; of the last, in the creation of a new

Mt. 45.] THE EXAMINATION. 803

state, which has been very pertinently mentioned as a decisive
instance of power in a legislature, to do a thing which beiuo-
done is irrevocable.

But whatever may be the latitude we assign to the power of
a legislature over the acts of a predecessor, it is nothing to the
purpose, so long as it shall be admitted that the Constitution
may bind and control the legislature. With this admission,
the simple inquiry must always be — has or has not the Constitu-
tion, in the particular instance, bound the legislature? And
the solution must be sought in the language, nature, and end of
the provision. If these warrant the conclusion, that the legis-
lature was intended to be bound, it is perfect nonsense to reply,
that this cannot be so because a legislature cannot bind itself by
its own acts ; or because the power of one legislature is equal to
that of another. What signifies this proposition, if the Constitu-
tion has power to bind the legislature, and has in fact bound it
in a given case ? Can a general rule disprove the fact of an ex-
ception which it is admitted may exist ? If so, the argument
is always ready, and equally valid to disprove any limitation of
the legislative discretion.

Compelled, as they must be, to desist from the use of the
argument in the extensive sense in which it has been employed, if
its inventors should content themselves with saying, that at least,
the principle adduced by them ought to have so much of force,
as to make the exception to it depend on an express provision —
it may be answered, that in the case under consideration, there
is an express provision. No language can be more precise or
peremptory than this, " The judges, both of the Supreme and
Inferior Courts, shall hold their offices during good behavior."
If this be not an express provision, it is impossible to devise
one. But the position, that an express provision is necessary
to form an exception, is itself unfounded. Wherever it is clear,
whether by a circumstance expressed, or by one so implied as
to leave no reasonable doubt, that a limitation of the authority
of the legislature was designed by the Constitution, the inten-
tion ought to prevail.

A very strong confirmation of the true intent of the provision

S04 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 45.

respecting the tenure of Judicial office, results from an argument
by analogy. In each of the articles which establishes any branch
of the government, the duration of office is a prominent feature.
Two years for the House of Eepresentatives, six for the Senate,
four for the President and Vice-President, are the respective
terms of duration ; and for the Judges, the term of good beha-
vior is allotted. It is presumable, that each was established in
the same spirit, as a point material in the organization of the
government and of a nature to be properly fundamental. It will
not be pretended that the duration of office prescribed as to any
other department, is within the reach of legislative discretion.
And why shall that of Judicial officers form an exception ? Why
shall the Constitution be supposed less tenacious of securing to
this organ of the sovereign power a fixed duration than to any
other ? If there be any thing which ought to be supposed to be
peculiarly excepted out of the power of the ordinary Legislature,
it is emphatically the organization of the several constituent de-
partments of the government ; which in our system are the Le-
gislative, Executive, and Judiciary. Eeasons of the most cogent
nature recommend, that the stability and independence of the
last of these three branches, should be guarded with particular
circumspection and care.

Lucius Ceassus.

NO. XIV.

March 2d, 1802.
In the course of the debate in the Senate, much verbal criti-
cism has been indulged : many important inferences have been
attempted to be drawn from distinctions between the words shall
and may. This species of discussion will not be imitated, because
it is seldom very instructive or satisfactory. These terms, in
particular cases, are frequently synonymous, and are imperative
or permissive, directing or enabling, according to the relations in
which they stand to other words. It is, however, certain, that

Mi. 45.] THE EXAMINATION. 805

the arguments even from this source, greatly preponderate against
the right of Congress to abolish the Judges.

But there has been one argument, rather of a verbal nature,
upon which some stress has been laid, which shall be analyzed ;
principally to furnish a specimen of the wretched expedients to
which the supporters of the repeal are driven. It is this, " The
tenure of an office is not synonymous with its existence. Though
Congress may not annul the tenure of a Judicial office, while the
office itself continues ; yet it does not follow that they may not
destroy its existence."

The constituent parts of an office are its authorities, duties, and
duration. These may be denominated the elements of which it
is composed. Together they form its essence or existence* It is
impossible to separate even in idea the duration from the exist-
ence : the office must cease to exist when it ceases to have dura-
tion. Hence let it be observed, that the word tenure is not used
in the Constitution, and that in the debate it has been the substi-
tute for duration. The words, " The judges shall hold their of-
fices during good behavior," are equivalent to these other words ;
The offices of the judges shall endure or last so long as they be-
have well.

The conclusions from these principles are, that existence is a
whole, which includes tenure and duration as a part ; that it is
impossible to annul the existence of an office without destroying
its tenure ; and consequently that a prohibition to destroy the
tenure is virtually and substantially a prohibition to abolish the
office. How contemptible then the sophism that Congress may
not destroy the tenure, but may annihilate the office !

It has now been seen, that this power of annihilation is not
reconcilable with the language of the constitutional instrument,
and that no rule of constitutional law, which has been relied up-
on, will afford it support. Can it be better defended by any
principle of constitutional policy ?

To establish the affirmative of this question, it has been ar-

* The remuneration or recompense is not added, because it is most properly
an accessory.

806 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 45.

gued, that if the judges hold their offices by a title absolutely
independent of the legislative will, the judicial department be-
comes a colossal and overbearing power, capable of degenerating
into a permanent tyranny ; at liberty, if audacious and corrupt
enough, to render the authority of the legislature nugatory, by
expounding away the laws, and to assume a despotic control
over the rights of person and property.

To this argument (which supposes the case of a palpable abuse
of power) a plain and conclusive answer is, that the Constitution
has provided a complete safeguard in the authority of the House
of Representatives to impeach ; of the Senate to condemn. The
judges are in this way amenable to public justice for misconduct ;
and upon conviction, removable from office. In the hands of
the legislature itself, is placed the weapon by which they may
be put down and the other branches of the government protect-
ed. The pretended danger, therefore, is evidently imaginary —
the security perfect.

Eeverse the medal. Concede to the legislature a legal dis-
cretion to abolish the judges; where is the defence? where
the security for the judicial department? There is absolutely
none. This most valuable member of the government, when
rightly constituted the surest guardian of person and property,
of which stability is a prime characteristic ; losing at once its
most essential attributes, and doomed to fluctuate with the vari-
able tide of faction, degenerates into a disgusting mirror of all
the various, malignant, and turbulent humors of party spirit.

Let us not be deceived. The real danger is on the side of
that foul and fatal doctrine, which emboldens its votaries, with
daring front and unhallowed step, to enter the holy temple of
justice, and pluck from their seats the venerable personages,
who, under the solemn sanction of the Constitution, are commis-
sioned to officiate there — to guard that sacred compact with jea-
lous vigilance : to dispense the laws with a steady and impartial
hand — unmoved by the storms of faction, unawed by its powers,
unseduced by its favors — shielding right and innocence from
every attack — resisting and repressing violence from every quar-
ter. 'Tis from the triumph of that execrable doctrine, that we

Mt. 45.] THE EXAMINATION. 807

may have to date the downfall of our government, and with it,
of the whole fabric of republican liberty. Who will have the
folly to deny that the definition of despotism is the concentration
of all the powers of government in one person or in one body?
Who is so blind as not to see, that the right of the legislature to
abolish the judges at pleasure, destroys the independence of the
judicial department, and swallows it up in the impetuous vortex
of legislative influence? Who is so weak as to hope that the ex-
ecutive, deprived of so powerful an auxiliary, will long survive ?
What dispassionate man can withstand the conviction that the
boundaries between the departments will be thenceforth nomi-
nal; and that there will be no longer more than one active and
efficient department?

It is a fundamental maxim of free government, that the three
great departments of power, legislative, executive, and judiciary,
shall be essentially distinct and independent, the one of the
other. This principle, very influential in most of our State con-
stitutions, has been particularly attended to in the Constitution
of the United States ; which, in order to give effect to it, has
adopted a precaution peculiar to itself, in the provisions that for-
bid the legislature to vary in any way the compensation of the
President, to diminish that of a, judge.

It is a principle equally sound, that though in a government
like that of Great Britain, having an hereditary chief with vast
prerogatives, the danger to liberty, by the predominance of one
department over the other, is on the side of the executive ; yet
in popular forms of government, this danger is chiefly to be ap-
prehended from the legislative branch.

The power of legislation is, in its own nature, the most compre-
hensive and potent of the three great subdivisions of sovereignty.
It is the will of the government ; it prescribes universally the
rule of action, and the sanctions which are to enforce it. It cre-
ates and regulates the public force, and it commands the public
purse. If deposited in an elective representative of the people, it
has, in most cases, the body of the nation for its auxiliary, and
generally acts with all the momentum of popular favor. In
every such government it is consequently an organ of immense

808 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 45.

strength. But when there is an hereditary chief magistrate,
clothed with dazzling prerogatives and a great patronage, there
is a powerful counterpoise, which, in most cases, is sufficient to
preserve the equilibrium of the government ; in some cases, to
incline the scale too much to its own side.

In governments wholly popular or representative, there is
no adequate counterpoise. Confidence in the most numerous,
or legislative department, and jealousy of the executive chief,
form the genius of every such government. That jealousy, op-
erating in the constitution of the executive, causes this organ to
be intrinsically feeble ; and, withholding in the course of admin-
istration accessory means of force and influence, is for the most
part vigilant to continue it in a state of impotence. The result
is that the legislative body, in this species of government, pos-
sesses additional resources of power and weight ; while the exe-
cutive is rendered much too weak for competition ; almost too
weak for self-defence.

A third principle, not less well founded than the other two,
is that the judiciary department is naturally the weakest of the
three. The sources of strength to the legislative branches have
been briefly delineated. The Executive, by means of its several
active powers, of the dispensation of honors and emoluments,
and of the direction of the public force, is evidently the second in
strength. The judiciary, on the other hand, can ordain nothing.
It commands neither the purse nor the sword. It has scarcely
any patronage. Its functions are not active but deliberative. Its
main province is to declare the meaning of the laws ; and in ex-
traordinary cases, it must even look up to the Executive aid
for the execution of its decisions. Its chief strength is in the
veneration which it is able to inspire by the wisdom and recti-
tude of its judgments.

This character of the judiciary clearly indicates that it is not
only the weakest of the three departments of power, but, also, as
it regards the security and preservation of civil liberty, by far
the safest. In a conflict with the other departments, it will be
happy if it can defend itself — to annoy them is beyond its power.
In vain would it singly attempt enterprises against the rights of

JEt. 45.] THE EXAMINATION. 809

the citizen. The other departments could quickly arrest its arm,
and punish its temerity. It can only then become an effectual
instrument of oppression, when it is combined with one of the
more active and powerful organs ; and against a combination of
this sort, the true and best guard is a complete independence of
each and both of them. Its dependence on either will imply and
involve a subserviency to the views of the department on which
it shall depend. Its independence of both will render it a pow-
ful check upon the others, and a precious shield to the rights of
persons and property. Safety, liberty, are therefore inseparably
connected with the real and substantial independence of the
courts and judges.

It is plainly to be inferred from the instrument itself, that
these were governing principles in the formation of our Consti-
tution : that they were in fact so, will hereafter be proved by
the cotemporary exposition of persons who, having been them-
selves members of the body that framed it, must be supposed
to have understood the views with which it was framed.
Those principles suggest the highest motives of constitutional
policy against that construction which places the existence
of the judges at the mercy of the legislature. They instruct
us, that to prevent a concentration of powers, the essence of despot-
ism, it is essential, that the departments among which they shall
be distributed, should be effectually independent of each other;
and that, it being impossible to reconcile this independence with
a right in any one or two of them to annihilate at discretion the
organs of the other, it is contrary to all just reasoning to imply
or infer such a right. So far from its being correct, that an
express interdiction is requisite to deprive the legislature of
the power to abolish the judges, the very reverse is the true
position. It would require a more express provision susceptible
of no other interpretation, to confer on that branch of the gov-
ernment an authority, so dangerous to the others, in opposition
to the strong presumptions, which arise from the care taken in
the Constitution, in conformity with the fundamental maxims of
free governments, to establish and preserve the reciprocal and
complete independence of the respective branches, first by a sep-
HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 45.

ni-

arate organization of the departments ; next by a precise defi_.
tion of the powers of each ; lastly by precautions to secure to
each a permanent support. -.

Lucius Crassus.

NO. XV.

March, 1802.
It is generally understood that the Essays under the title of
the Federalist, which were published at New-York, while the
plan of our present federal Constitution was under the consider-
ation of the people, were principally written by two persons*
who had been members of the convention which devised that
plan, and whose names are subscribed to the instrument con-
taining it. In these essaysf the principles advanced in the last
number of this examination are particularly stated and strongly
relied upon, in defence of the proposed Constitution ; from which
it is a natural inference that they had influenced the views
with which the plan was digested. The full force of this obser-
vation will be best perceived by a recurrence to the work itself;
but it will appear clearly enough from the following detached
passages.

" One of the principal objections inculcated by the more re-
spectable adversaries to the Constitution, is its supposed viola-
tion of the political maxim, that the legislative, executive, and
judiciary departments ought to be separate and distinct. No po-
litical truth is certainly of greater intrinsic value, or is stamped
with the authority of more enlightened patrons of 'liberty,
than that on which the objection is founded. The accumulation
of all power, legislative, executive, and judiciary, in the same
hands, whether of one, a few, or many ; whether hereditary,
self-appointed or elective, may justly be pronounced the very de-

* James Madison, now Secretary of State. Alexander Hamilton, formerly Se-
cretary of the Treasury.

t Particularly Nos. xlvii. to li. inclusive, and Nos. lxxviii. to lxxxii. inclusive.

JEt. 45.] THE EXAMINATION. 811

finition of tyranny* Neither of the three departments ought to
possess directly or indirectly an overriding influence over the others
in the administration of thdl respective powers." " But the
most difficult task is to provide some practical security for each,
against the invasion of the others. Experience assures us that the
efficacy of 'parchment harriers has been greatly overrated, and
that some more adequate defence is indispensably necessary for the
more feeble against the more powerful members of the govern-
ment. The legislative department is every where extending the
sphere of its activity, and drawing all power into its impetuous
vortex." " In a representative republic, where the executive
magistracy is carefully limited, both in the extent and the dura-
tion of its power ; and where the legislative power is exercised
by an assembly, which is inspired by a supposed influence over
the people with an intrepid confidence in its own strength ;
which is sufficiently numerous to feel all the passions which ac-
tuate a multitude ; yet not so numerous as to be incapable of
pursuing the objects of its passions by means which reason pre-
scribes ; it is against the enterprising ambition of this department,
that the people ought to indulge cdl their jealousy and exhaust all their
precaution.'1'1 Again, "The tendency of republican governments
is to an aggrandizement of the legislative at the expense of the other
departments"

These passages recognize, as a fundamental maxim of free
government, that the three departments of power ought to be
separate and distinct- consequently that neither of them ought
to be able to exercise, either directly or indirectly, an overruling
influence over any other. They also recognize as a truth, indi-
cated by the nature of the system and verified by experience,
that in a representative republic, the legislative department is
the " Aaron's rod " most likely to swallow up the rest, and there-
fore to be guarded against with particular care and caution : and
they inculcate that parchment barriers (or the formal provisions
of a Constitution designating the respective boundaries of authori-
ty), having been found ineffectual for protecting the more feeble,

* No. xlvii.

812 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 45.

against the more powerful members of the government, some
more adequate defence, some practical security, is necessary.
What this was intended to be, %rill appear from subsequent
passages.

" To what expedient shall we finally resort for maintaining in
practice the necessary partition of power among the several
departments as laid down in the Constitution ?" " As all exterior
provisions are found to be inadequate, the defect must be supplied
by so contriving the interior structure of the government, as that
its several constituent departments may, by their mutual re-
lations, be the means of keeping each other in their proper
places."*

These passages intimate the "practical security" which ought
to be adopted for the preservation of the weaker against the
stronger members of the government. It is so to be contrived in
its interior structure that the constituent organs may be able to
keep each other in their proper places ; an idea essentially incom-
patible with that of making the existence of one dependent on
the will of another. It will be seen afterwards, how this struc-
ture is to be so contrived.

" In order to lay a foundation for that separate and distinct
exercise of the different powers of government, which, to a certain
extent, is admitted on all hands to be essential to the preservation
of liberty, it is evident that each department should have a will
of its own ; and consequently should be so constituted, that the
members of each should have as little agency as possible in the
appointment of the members of the others. This principle rig-
orously adhered to, would require that all the appointments for
the several departments should be drawn from the same fountain
of authority, the people." But in the constitution of the judiciary
department, it might be inexpedient to insist rigorously on the
principle ; first, because peculiar qualifications being essential in
the members, the primary consideration ought to be to select that
mode of choice, which best secures these qualifications ; secondly,
because the permanent tenure by which the appointments are held

* No. li.

jEt. 45.] THE EXAMINATION. 813

in that department, must soon destroy all sense of dependence on
the authority conferring them.

" It is equally evident, that the members of each department
should be as little dependent as possible on those of the others,
for the emoluments annexed to their offices. Were the Executive
Magistrate or the judges not independent of the legislature in this
particular, their independence in every other would be merely nomi-
nal." " The great security against a concentration of the several
powers in the same department, consists in giving to those who
administer each department the necessary constitutional means and
personal motives to resist encroachments of the others." "But it
is not possible to give to each department an equal power of self-
defence. In republican governments the legislative authority
necessarily predominates."

The means held out as proper to be employed, for enabling
the several departments to keep each other in their proper places,
are : 1. To give to each such an organization as will render them
essentially independent of one another. 2. To secure to each a
support which shall not be at the discretionary disposal of any
other. 8. To establish between them such mutual relations of
authority, as will make one a check upon another, and enable them
reciprocally to resist encroachments, and confine one another
within their proper spheres.

To accomplish the first end, it is deemed material that they
should have as little agency as possible in the appointment of one
another, and should all emanate directly from the same fountain
of authority — the people. And that it being expedient to relax
the principle, in respect to the judiciary department, with a view
to a more select choice of its organs — this defect in the creation
ought to be remedied by a permanent tenure of office ; which cer-
tainly becomes nominal and nugatory, if the existence of the
office rests on the pleasure of the legislature. The principle that
the several organs should have as little agency as possible in the
appointment of each other, is directly opposed to the claim in
favor of one of a discretionary agency to destroy another. The
second of the proposed ends is designed to be effected by the
provisions for fixing the compensations of the executive and

814 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 45.

judicial departments. The third, by the qualified negative of the
executive on the acts of the two houses of Congress ; by the
right of one of these houses to accuse ; of the other to try and
punish the executive and judicial officers; and lastly, by the
right of the judges, as interpreters of the laws, to pronounce un-
constitutional acts void.

These are the means contemplated by the Constitution for
maintaining the limits assigned to itself, and for enabling the re-
spective organs of the government to keep each other in their
proper places, so that they may not have it in their power to
domineer the one over the other, and thereby in effect, though
not in form, to concentrate the powers in one department, over-
turn the government, and establish a tyranny. Unfortunate, if
these powerful precautions shall prove insufficient to accomplish
the end, and stem the torrent of the impostor Innovation, dis-
guised in the specious garb of patriotism !

The views which prevailed in the formation of the Constitution
are further illustrated by these additional comments from the
same source.*

" As liberty can have nothing to fear from the judiciary alone,
but would have every thing to fear from its union with either of
the other departments ; as all the effects of such a union must
ensue from a dependence of the former on the latter, notwithstand-
ing a nominal and apparent separation ; as from the natural
feebleness of the judiciary, it is in continual jeopardy of being
overpowered, awed or influenced by its co-ordinate branches ; and
as nothing can contribute so much to its firmness and indepen-
dence as permanency in office, this quality may therefore be justly
regarded as an indispensable ingredient in its Constitution ; and
in a great measure as the citadel of the public justice and the pub-
lic security."

" The complete independence of the courts of justice is pecu-
liarly essential in a limited Constitution. Limitations can be
preserved in practice no other way, than through the medium of
the courts of justice, whose duty it must be to declare all acts
contrary to the manifest tenor of the Constitution void."

* No. lsxviii.

Mi. 45.] THE EXAMINATION. 815

Then follows a particular discussion of the position, that it is
the right and the duty of the courts to exercise such an autho-
rity : to repeat which, would swell this number to an improper
size.

The essence of the argument is, that every act of a delegated
authority, contrary to the tenor of the commission under which
it is exercised, is void ; consequently that no legislative act, in-
consistent with the Constitution, can be valid. That it is not a
natural presumption that the Constitution intended to make the
legislative body the final and exclusive judges of their own
powers; but more rational to suppose that the courts were
designed to be an intermediate body between the people and the
legislature, in order, among other things, to keep the latter
within the bounds assigned to its authority : that the interpreta-
tion of the laws being the peculiar province of the courts, and a
Constitution being in fact a fundamental law, superior in obligation
to a statute, if the Constitution and the statute are at variance, the
former ought to prevail against the latter ; the will of the people
against the will of the agents; and the judges ought in their
quality of interpreters of the laws, to pronounce and adjudge the
truth, namely, that the unauthorized statute is a nullity.

"Nor (continues the commentator) does this conclusion by
any means suppose a superiority of the judicial to the legislative
power. It only supposes that the power of the people is supe-
rior to both ; and that where the will of the legislature declared
in its statute, stands in opposition to that of the people declared in
the Constitution, the judges ought to be governed by the latter,
rather than the former. They ought to regulate their decisions
by the fundamental laws, rather than by those which are not funda-
mental."

"If, then, the courts of justice are to be considered as the
bulwarks of a limited Constitution against legislative encroachments,
this consideration will afford a strong argument for the permanent
tenure of judicial offices."

But no proposition can be more manifest than that this perma-
nency of tenure must be nominal, if made defeasible at the
pleasure of the legislature ; and that it is ridiculous to consider

81(3 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 45.

it as an obstacle to encroachments of the legislative department,
if this department has a discretion to vacate or abolish it directly
or indirectly.

In recurring to the comments which have been cited, it is not
meant to consider them as evidence of any thing but of the
views with which the Constitution was framed. After all, the
Instrument must speak for itself. Yet, to candid minds, the co-
temporary explanation of it, by men, who had had a perfect op-
portunity of knowing the views of its framers, must operate as
a weighty collateral reason for believing the construction agree-
ing with this explanation to be right, rather than the opposite
one. It is too cardinal a point, to admit readily the supposition
that there was misapprehension; and whatever motives may
have subsequently occurred to bias the impressions of the one or
the other of the persons alluded to, the situation in which they
wrote, exempts both from the suspicion of an intention to misre-
present in this particular. Indeed a course of argument more
accommodating to the objections of the adversaries of the Con-
stitution would probably have been preferred as most politic, if
the truth, as conceived at the time, would have permitted a
modification. Much trouble would have been avoided by say-
ing, "The legislature will have a complete control over the
judges, by the discretionary power of reducing the number of
those of the Supreme Court, and of abolishing the existing
judges of the inferior courts, by the abolition of the courts
themselves." But this pretension is a novelty reserved for the
crooked ingenuity of after discoveries.

Lucius Crassus.

NO. XVI.

March 19, 1802.
The President, as a politician, is in one sense particularly un-
fortunate. He. furnishes frequent opportunities of arraying him

Mt. 45.] THE EXAMINATION. 817

against himself — of combating his opinions at one period, by his
opinions at another. Without doubt, a wise and good man may,
on proper grounds, relinquish an opinion which he has once en-
tertained, and the change may even serve as a proof of candor
and integrity. But with such a man, changes of this sort, espe-
cially in matters of high public importance, must be rare. The
contrary is always a mark, either of a weak and versatile mind,
or of an artificial and designing character ; which, accommodating
its creed to circumstances, takes up or lays down an article of
faith, just as may suit a present convenience.

The question in agitation, respecting the Judiciary Depart-
ment, calls up another instance of opposition between the former
ideas of Mr. Jefferson, and his recent conduct. The leading
positions which have been advanced, as explanatory of the
policy of the Constitution in the structure of the different de-
partments, and as proper to direct the interpretation of the pro-
visions, which were contrived to secure the independence and
firmness of the judges, are to be seen in a very emphatical and
distinct form, in the Notes on Virginia. The passage in which
they appear, deserves to be cited at length, as well for its intrin-
sic merit, as by way of comment upon the true character of its
author ; presenting an interesting contrast between the maxims,
which experience had taught him while Governor of Virginia,
and those which now guide him as the official head of a great
party in the United States. It is in these words : —

" All the powers of government, legislative, executive, and
judiciary, result to the legislative body. The concentrating these
in the same hands, is precisely the definition of despotic govern-
ment, It will be no alleviation that these powers will be exer-
cised by a plurality of hands, and not by a single one. One
hundred and seventy-three despots would surely be as oppressive as
one. Let those who doubt it, turn their eyes on the Eepublic of
Venice. As little will it avail us that they are chosen by our-
selves. An elective despotism was not the government we fought
for; but one which should not only be founded on free principles,
but in which the powers of government should be so divided and
balanced among several bodies of magistracy, as that no one
g 52

818 HAMILTON'S WORKS. ' [&t. 45.

could transcend their legal limits without being effectually checked
and restrained by the others. For this reason, that Convention
which passed the ordinance of government, laid its foundation
on this basis, that the legislative, executive, and judiciary de-
partments, should be separate and distinct, so that no person
should exercise the powers of more than one of them at the same
time. But no barrier was provided between these several powers.
The judiciary and executive members were left dependent on the
legislative for their subsistence in office, and some of them for
their continuance in it. If, therefore, the legislature assumes
executive and judiciary powers, no opposition is likely to be
made, — nor if made, can be effectual ; because in that case, they
may put their proceedings into the form of an act of assembly,
which will render them obligatory on the other branches. They
have accordingly in many instances decided rights which should
have been left to judiciary controversy ; and the direction of the
Executive, during the whole time of their session, is becoming habitual
and familiar?

This passage fully recognizes these several important truths :
that the tendency of our governments is towards a concentra-
tion of the powers of the different departments in the legisla-
tive body ; that such a concentration, is precisely the defini-
tion of despotism, and that an effectual barrier between the re-
spective departments ought to exist. It also, by a strong impli-
cation, admits that officers during good behavior are independent
of their legislature for their continuance in office. This implica-
tion seems to be contained in the following sentence : " The
judiciary and executive members were left dependent on the
legislature for their subsistence in office, and some of them for
their continuance in it." The word "some" implies that others
were not left thus dependent ; and to what description of officers
can the exception be better applied than to the judges, the tenure
of whose offices was during good behavior ?

The sentiments of the President, delivered at a period when he
can be supposed to have been under no improper bias, must be
regarded by all those who respect his judgment, as no light evi-
dence of the truth of the doctrine for which we contend. Let

,Et. 45.] THE EXAMINATION. 819

us, however, resume and pursue the subject on its merits, without
relying upon the aid of so variable and fallible an authority.

At an early part of the discussion in this examination, a con-
struction of the Constitution was suggested, to which it may not
be amiss to return. It amounts to this, that Congress have
power to new-model, or even to abrogate an Inferior Court, but
not to abolish the office or emoluments of a judge of such court
previously appointed. In the Congressional debates, some of the
speakers against the repealing law, appear to have taken it for
granted, that the abrogation of the court must draw with it the aboli-
tion of the judges, and therefore have denied in totality, the power
of abrogation. In the course of these papers, too, it has been
admitted, that if the preservation of the judges cannot be recon-
ciled with the power to annul the court, then the existence of
this power is rightly denied. But in an affair of such vast mag-
nitude, it is all-important to survey with the utmost caution, the
ground to be taken, and then to take and maintain it with in-
flexible fortitude and perseverance. Truth will be most likely
to prevail, when the arguments which support it, stop at a tem-
perate mean, consistent with practical convenience. Excess is
always error. There is hardly any theoretic hypothesis, which,
carried to a certain extreme, does not become practically false.
In construing a Constitution, it is wise, as far as possible to pur-
sue a course, which will reconcile essential principles with con-
venient modifications. If guided by this spirit, in the great
question which seems destined to decide the fate of our govern-
ment, it is believed that the result will accord with the construc-
tion, that Congress have a right to change or abolish inferior courts,
but not to abolish the actual judges.

Towards the support of this construction, it has been shown
in another place, that the courts and the judges are distinct legal
entities, which, in contemplation of law, may exist, independently
the one of the other— mutually related, but not inseparable.
The act proposed to be repealed exemplifies this idea in practice.
It abolishes the District Courts of Tennessee and Kentucky, and
transfers their judges to one of the Circuit Courts. Though the
authorities and jurisdiction of those courts are vested in the Cir-

820 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEi. 45.

cuit Court, to Avbich the judges are transferred; yet the identity
of the courts ceases. It cannot be maintained that courts, so dif-
ferent in their organization and jurisdiction, are the same ; nor
could a legislative transfer of the judges have been constitutional,
but upon the hypothesis, that the office of a judge may survive
the court of which he is a member. A new appointment by the
Executive, of two additional judges for the Circuit Court, would
othenvise have been necessary.

This precedent in all its points, is correct, and exhibits a
rational operation of the construction, which regards the office
of the judge, as distinct from the court ; as one of the elements,
or constituent parts, of which it is composed ; not as a mere in-
cident that must perish with its principal.

It will not be disputed, that the Constitution might have pro-
vided in terms, and with effect, that an Inferior Court which had
been established by law, might by law be abolished, so, neverthe-
less, that the judges of such court should retain the offices of
judges of the United States with the emoluments before attach-
ed to their offices. The operation of such a provision would be,
that when the court was abolished, all the functions to be ex-
ecuted in that court would be suspended, and the judge could
only continue to exert the authorities and perform the duties,
which might before have been performed, without reference to
causes pending in court; but he would have the capacity to be an-
nexed to another court, without the intervention of a new ap-
pointment, and by that annexation, simply to renew the exercise
of the authorities and duties which had been suspended.

If this might have been the effect of positive and explicit
provision, why may it not likewise be the result of provisions,
which, presenting opposite considerations, point to the same con-
clusion : as a compromise calculated to reconcile those considera-
tions with each other and to unite different objects of public
utility? Surely the affirmative infringes no principle of legal
construction ; transgresses no rule of good sense.

Let us then inquire, whether there are not in this case op-
posite and conflicting considerations, demanding a compromise of
this nature ? On the one hand, it is evident, that if an inferior

/Ex. 45.] THE EXAMINATION. 821

court once instituted, though found inconvenient, cannot be
abolished, this is to entail upon the community the mischief, be
it more or less, of a first error in the administration of the gov-
ernment: on the other hand, it is no less evident, that if the
judges hold their offices at the discretion of the legislature, they
cease to be a co-ordinate, and become a dependent branch of the
government; from which dependence, mischiefs infinitely greater
are to be expected.

All these mischiefs, the lesser as well as the greater, are
avoided by saying, " Congress may abolish the courts, but the judges
shall retain their offices with the appertinent emoluments." The only
remaining inconvenience then, will be one too insignificant to
weiffh in a national scale, that is, the expense of the compensa-
tion's of the incumbents during their lives. The future and
permanent expense will be done away.

But will this construction secure the benefits intended by
the Constitution to be derived from the independent tenure
of judicial office?— Substantially it will.— The mam object is
to preserve the judges from being influenced by an apprehension
of the loss of the advantages of office. As this loss could not be
incurred, that influence would not exist. Their firmness could not
be assailed by the danger of being superseded, and perhaps con-
signed to want. Let it be added, that when it was once understood
not to be in the power of the legislature to deprive the judges
of their offices and emoluments, it would be a great restraint
upon ihe factious motives, which might induce the abolition of a
court This would be much less likely to happen unless for gen-
uine reasons of public utility; and of course there would be a
much better prospect of the stability of judiciary establish-
ments. _.

Lucius Crassus.

822 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 45.

NO. XVII.

March 20, 1802.

It was intended to have concluded the argument respecting
the Judiciary Department with the last number. But a speech*
lately delivered in the House of Eepresentatives, having since
appeared, which brings forward one new position, and reiterates
some others in a form well calculated to excite prejudice, it may
not be useless to devote some further attention to the subject.

The new position is, that the clause of the Constitution, en-
abling the judges to hold their offices during good behavior,
ought to be understood to have reference to the Executive only,

BECAUSE ALL OFFICES ARE HOLDEN OF THE PRESIDENT ! !

This is the second example of a doctrine contrary to every
republican idea, broached in the course of this debate by the
advocates of the repealing law.f Had a federalist uttered the
sentiment, the cry of monarchy would have resounded from one
extremity of the United States to the other. It would have been
loudly proclaimed that the mask was thrown aside, by a glaring
attempt to transform the servants of the people into the supple
tools of Presidential ambition. But now, to justify a plain vio-
lation of the Constitution, and serve a party purpose, this bold
and dangerous position is avowed without hesitation or scruple,
from a quarter remarkable, chiefly, for the noisy promulgation
of popular tenets.

The position is not correct ; and it is of a nature to demand
the indignant reprobation of every real republican. In the
theory of all the American Constitutions, offices are h olden of
the Government, in other words, of the People through the
Government. The appointment is indeed confided to a partic-
ular organ, and in instances in which it is not otherwise provid-
ed by the Constitution or the laws, the removal of the officer is

* By Mr. Giles.

f The other is the denial of the right of the courts to keep the Legislature
within its constitutional bounds by pronouncing laws which transgress them, in-
operative.

jEt.45.] the examination. 823

left to the pleasure or discretion of that organ. But both these
acts suppose merely an instrumentality of the organ, from the
necessity or expediency of the people's acting in such case by an
agent.— They do not suppose the substitution of the agent to the
people, as the object of the fealty or allegiance of the officer

It is said that the word holden is a technical term denoting
tenure, and implying that there is one who holds ; another of
whom the thing is holden. This assertion is indeed agreeable to
the common use of the word in our law books. But it is hardly
to be presumed that it was employed in the Constitution in so
artificial a sense. It is more likely that it was designed to be
the equivalent of the words possess, enjoy. Yet let the assertion be
supposed correct.— In this case, it must also be remembered that
the term in this technical sense includes two things, the quantity
of interest in the subject holden, and the meritorious considera-
tion upon which the grant is made; which in many cases in-
cludes service or rent, in all fealty ; this last forming emphati-
cally the link or tie between the lord and the tenant, the sov-
ereign and the officer. Will any one dare to say that fealty or
allegiance, as applied to the government of the United States,
is due from the officer to the President? Certainly it is not.
It is due to the people in their political capacity. If so, it will
follow that the office is holden not of the President, but of the
Nation, State or Government.

It is remarkable that the Constitution has every where used
the language " Officers of the United States," as if to denote the
relation between the officer and the sovereignty; as if to exclude
the dangerous pretension that he is the mere creature of the
executive ; acccordingly, he is to take an oath to support the
Constitution," that is, an oath of fidelity to the government; but
no oath of any kind to the President.

In the theory of the British government, it is entirely differ-
ent ; there the majesty of the nation is understood to reside in the
prince. He is deemed the real sovereign. He is, emphatically,
the fountain of honor. Allegiance is due to him; and conse-
quently, public offices are, in the true notion of tenure, holden of
him. But in our Constitution the President is not the sovereign ;

824 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mv.m.

the sovereignty is vested in the government, collectively ; and it
is of the sovereignty, strictly and technically speaking, that a
public officer holds his office.

If this view of the matter be just, the basis of the argument,
in point of fact, fails ; and the principle of it suggests an opposite
conclusion, namely, that the condition of good behavior is obliga-
tory on the whole government, and ought to operate as a barrier
against any authority by which the displacement of the judges
may be directly or indirectly effected.

In the same speech, much stress has been laid on the words
" during their continuance in office," as implying that the com:
pensation of the judge was liable to cease by a legislative discon-
tinuance of the office. If the words had been, during the continu-
ance of the office, the argument would have been pertinent — but as
they stand, a different inference, if any, is to be drawn from them.
They seem rather to relate to the continuance of the officer than
to that of the office. But in truth, an inference either way — is a
pitiful subtilty. The clause is neutral ; its plain and simple
meaning being, that the compensation shall not be diminished
while the judge retains the office. It throws no light whatever
on the question how he may lawfully cease to possess it.

Another point is pressed with great earnestness, and with
greater plausibility. It is this, that the Constitution must have
intended to attach recompense to service, and cannot be supposed
to have meant to bestow compensation, where, in the opinion of
the legislature, no service was necessary. Without doubt, the
Constitution does contemplate service as the ground of compensa-
tion ; but it likewise takes it for granted, that the legislature will
be circumspect in the institution of offices ; and especially, that
it will be careful to establish none of a permanent nature, which
will not be permanently useful. With this general presumption,
the Constitution anticipates no material inconvenience from the
permanency of judicial offices connected with permanent emolu-
ments. And though it should have foreseen that cases might
happen in which the service was not needed, yet there is no diffi-
culty whatever in the supposition, that it was willing to encounter
the trivial contingent evil of having to maintain a few superflu-

Ms. 4S.J THE EXAMINATION. 825

ous officers, in order to obtain the immense good, of establishing
and securing the independence of the courts of justice. The
readiness of the officer to render service at the will of the govern-
ment is the consideration, as to him, for continuing the compen-
sation. But the essential inducement is the public utility incident
to the independency of the judicial character. As to the suppo-
sition of an enormous abuse of power, by creating a long list of
sinecures, and a numerous host of pensioners ; whenever such a
thing shall happen, it will constitute one of those extreme cases,
which, on the principle of necessity, may authorize extra-consti-
tutional remedies. But these are cases which can never be ap-
pealed to for the interpretation of a Constitution, which, in met-
ing out the powers of the government, must be supposed to adjust
them on the presumption of a fair execution.

A further topic of argument is, that our doctrine would equally
restrain the legislature from abolishing offices held during pleas-
ure. But this is not true. The two things stand on different
ground. First, the executive lias such an agency in the enacting
of laws, that, as a general rule, the displacement of the officer
cannot happen against his pleasure. Second, the pleasure of the
President, in all cases not particularly excepted, is understood to
be subject to the direction of the law. Third, an officer during
pleasure, having merely a revocable interest, the abolition of his
office is no infringement of his right. In substance, he is a tenant
at the will of the government, liable to be discontinued by the exe-
cutive organ, in the form of a removal ; by the legislative, in the
form of an abolition of the office. These different considerations
reconcile the legislative authority to abolish, with the prerogative
of the Chief Magistrate to remove, and with the temporary right
of individuals to hold. — And therefore, there is no reason against
the exercise of such an authority ; nothing to form an exception
to the general competency of the legislative power to provide for the
public welfare. Very different is the case as to the judges. The
most persuasive motives of public policy, the safety of liberty
itself, require that the judges shall be independent of the legisla-
tive body ; in order to maintain effectually the separation between
the several departments. The provision that their compensation

826 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 45.

shall not be diminished, is a clear constitutional indication, that
their independence was intended to be guarded against the legis-
lature. The express declaration that they shall hold their offices
during good behavior, that is, upon a condition dependent on them-
selves, is repugnant to the hypothesis that they shall hold at the
mere pleasure of others. Provisions which profess to confer rights
on individuals, are always entitled to a liberal interpretation in
support of the rights, and ought not, without necessity, to receive
an interpretation subversive of them. Provisions which respect
the organization of a co ordinate branch of the government, ought
to be construed in such a manner, as to procure for it stability
and efficiency, rather than in such a manner as to render it weak,
precarious, and dependent. These various and weighty reasons
serve to establish strong lines of discrimination between judicial
and other officers ; and to prove, that no inference can be drawn
from the power of the legislature as to the latter, which will be
applicable to the former.

One more defence of this formidable claim is attempted to
be drawn from the example of the judiciary establishment of
Great Britain. It is observed, that this establishment, the theme
of copious eulogy on account of the independence of the judges,
places those officers upon a footing far less firm than will be that
of the judges of the United States, even admitting the right of
Congress to abolish their offices by abolishing the courts of which
they are members. And as one proof of the assertion, it is men-
tioned, that the English judges are removable by the king, on
the address of the two houses of parliament.

All this might be very true, and yet would prove nothing as
to what is or ought to be the construction of our Constitution on
this point. It is plain from the provision respecting compensation,
that the framers of that Constitution intended to prop the inde-
pendence of our judges, beyond the precautions which have been
adopted in England in respect to the judges of that country ; and
the intention apparent in this particular, is an argument, that the
same spirit may have governed other provisions. Cogent reasons
have been assigned, applicable to our system, and not applicable
to the British system, for securing the independence of our judges
against the legislative, as well as against the executive power.

jEt. 45.] THE EXAMINATION. 827

It is alleged that the statute of Great Britain of the 13 of Wil-
liam III. was the model from which the framers of our Constitu-
tion copied the provisions for the independence of our judiciary.
It is certainly true, that the idea of the tenure of office during
good behavior, found in several of our Constitutions, is borrowed
from that source. But it is evident that the framers of our
federal system did not mean to confine themselves to that model. —
Hence the restraint of the legislative discretion, as to compensa-
tion ; hence the omission of the provision for the removal of the
judges by the executive, on the application of the two branches
of the legislature; a provision which has been imitated in some
of the State governments.

This very omission affords no light inference, that it was the
intention to depart from the principle of making the judges re-
movable from office, by the co-operation or interposition of the
legislative body. "Why else was this qualification of the perma-
nent tenure of the office, which forms a conspicuous feature in the
British statute, and in some of the State Constitutions, dropped in
the plan of the federal government?

The insertion of it in the British statute, may also be supposed
to have been dictated by the opinion, that without a special reser-
vation, the words during good behavior would have imported an
irrevocable tenure. If so, the precaution will serve to fortify our
construction.

But, however it may seem in theory, in fact, the difference in
the genius of the two governments would tend to render the
independence of the judges more secure under the British statute,
than it would be in this country, upon the construction which
allows to Congress the right to abolish. The reason is this. —
From the Constitution of the British monarchy, the thing chiefly
to be apprehended is, an overbearing influence of the crown upon
the judges. The jealousy of executive influence resting upon
more powerful motives in that country, than in this, it may be
expected to operate as a stronger obstacle there than here, to an
improper combination between the executive and legislative
departments to invade the judiciary. Moreover, the British exe-
cutive has greater means of resisting parliamentary control, than

828 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 45.

an American executive has of resisting the control of an American
legislature ; consequently, the former would be in less danger
than the latter, of being driven to a concurrence in measures hos-
tile to the independence of the judges. And in both these ways,
there would be greater security for the British than for the Ameri-
can judges.

Thus is it manifest, that in every attitude in which the subject
has been placed, the argument is victorious against the power of
Congress to abolish the judges. But what, alas! avails the
demonstration of this important truth ? The fatal blow has been
struck! It is no longer possible to arrest the rash and daring
arm of power ! Can the proof that it has acted without right,
without warrant — can this heal the wound ? — Can this renovate
the perishing Constitution? Yes, let us hope that this will be
the case. Let us trust that the monitory voice of true patriotism
will at length reach the ears of a considerate people, and will
rouse them to a united and vigorous exertion for the restoration
of their violated chaeter ; not by means, , either disorderly
or guilty, but by means which the Constitution will sanction and
reason approve. Surely this will be so. — A people, who, descry-
ing tyranny at a distance, and guided only by the light of just
principles, before they had yet felt the scourge of oppression,
could nobly hazard all in the defence of their rights ; a people,
who, sacrificing their prejudices on the altar of experience, and
spurning the artifices of insidious demagogues, could, as a delibe-
rate act of national reason, adopt and establish for themselves
a Constitution, which bid fair to immortalize their glory and their
happiness: such a people, though misled for a period, will not be
the final victims of a delusion, alike inauspicious to their reputa-
tion and to their welfare. They will not long forget the fame
they have so justly merited, nor give the world occasion to as-
cribe to accident, what has hitherto been imputed to wisdom.
They will disdain to herd with the too long list of degraded na-
tions, who have bowed their necks to unworthy idols of their own
creating — who, immolating their best friends, at the shrine of
falsehood, have sunk under the yoke of sycophants and betrayers.
They will open their eyes and see the precipice on which they

JEt. 45.] THE EXAMINATION. 829

stand ! They will look around and select from among tbe throng,
the men who have heretofore established a claim to their confi-
dence on the solid basis of able and faithful service ; and they
will, with indignation and scorn, banish from their favor the
wretched impostors, who, with honeyed lips and guileful hearts,
are luring them to destruction ! Admonished by the past, and
listening again to the counsels of real friends, they will make a
timely retreat from the danger which threatens — they will once
more arrange themselves under the banners of the Constitution —
with anxious care will repair the breaches that have been made,
and will raise new mounds against the future assaults of open or
secret enemies!

Lucius Crassus.

NO. XVIII.

April 8th, 1802.

In order to cajole the people, the message abounds with all
the commonplace of popular harangue, and prefers claims of
merit, for circumstances of equivocal or of trivial value. With
pompous absurdity are we told of the "multiplication of men, sus-
ceptible of happiness" (as if this susceptibility were a privilege
peculiar to our climate,) " habituated to self-government, and valu-
ing its blessings above all price. ," Fortunate will it be, if the pre-
sent favorites of the people do not, before their reign is at an
end, transform those blessings into curses, so serious and heavy,
as to make even despotism a desirable refuge from the elysium
of democracy.

In a country, the propensities of which are opposed even to
necessary burdens, an alarm is attempted to be excited about the
general tendency of government, " to leave to labor the smallest
portion of its earnings on which it can subsist, and to consume the
residue of what it was instituted to guard.'' Ilf might have been
well, to have explained whether it is the whole of the earnings of
labor, which government is instituted to guard, or only the rest-

830 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 45.

due after deducting what is necessary to enable it to fulfil the duty
of protection. Kepresentatives who share with their constitu-
ents in an excessive jealousy of executive abuses, are cantingly
admonished to "circumscribe discretionary powers over mo-
ney," though they are known to be already so limited, as that
the Executive, even on the prospect of a rupture with a foreign
power, would not possess the means of obtaining intelligence the
most necessary for the proper direction of its measures. That
the new administration has not boldly invaded the laws and
withheld the funds applicable to the payment of the principal
and interest of the public debt, is fastidiously proclaimed as evi-
dence that " the public faith has been exactly maintained." The
praise of a spirit of economy is attempted to be gained, by the sup-
pression of a trifling number of officers, (a majority of whom had
become unnecessary by the mere change of circumstances,) and by
declaiming, with affectation, against " the multiplication of officers
and the increase of expense.'1'1 The proposition to reduce our insignifi-
cant military establishment (the actual number of troops probably
not exceeding that which is intended to be retained) cannot be sug-
gested, without tickling our ears with the trite but favorite max-
im, that " a standing army ought not to be kept up in time of peaceP
To make a display of concern for their prosperity — agriculture,
manufactures, commerce, and navigation, are introduced among
the pageants of the piece; but, except as "to protection from
casual embarrassments," we are sagaciously informed that these
" great PILLARS of our prosperity, ought to be left to take care of
themselves.'''' The carying trade, however, seems to engage more
solicitude ; no doubt that we may be terrified by the expecta-
tion of future evils, from a much traduced instrument,* which
in time past, has done nothing but good, in spite of the gloomy
predictions of patriotic seers.

Such are the minor features of this curious performance. Had
these been its only blemishes, a regard to national reputation
would have forbidden a comment ; but connected as they are
with schemes of innovation replete with great present mischief,

* The treaty with Great Britain.

Mt. 45.] THE EXAMINATION. 831

and still greater future danger ; designed as they are to varnish
over projects which threaten to precipitate our nation from an
enviable height of prosperity to that low and abject state, from
which it was raised by the establishment and wise administra-
tion of our present government — they become entitled to notice
as additional indications of character and disposition.

The merits of the message have now been pretty fully dis-
cussed ; but before it is dismissed, it may be useful to take a
view of it in another and a different light ; as one link in a chain
of testimony, which the force of circumstances, at every step of
the new administration, extorts from them, in favor of their pre-
decessors.

The President, on the threshold of office, at the first opportu-
nity of speaking to his constituents, in his very inaugural speech ;
full of a truth, which the most rancorous prejudice cannot ob
scure, and not sufficiently reflecting on the inferences which
would be drawn, proclaims aloud to the world, that a govern-
ment, which he had disapproved in its institution and virulently
opposed in its progress, was in the full tide of successful
experiment. In the last address he again unconsciously be-
comes the panygerist of those whom he seeks to depreciate. The
situation in which (humanly speaking) we have been preserved
by the prudent and firm councils of the preceding administra-
tions, amidst the revolutionary and convulsive throes, amidst the
desolating conflicts of Europe, is there a theme of emphatic gra-
tulation. It shall not be forgotten, as the solitary merit of the
address, that we are reminded of the gratitude due to Heaven for
the blessings of this situation. Amidst the spurious symptoms
of a spirit of reform, it is consoling to observe one, which, in
charity, ought to be supposed genuine. But it would not have
diminished our conviction of its sincerity, if the instruments of
Providence in the accomplishment of the happy work, had not
been entirely overlooked ; since this would have been evidence
of a willingness to acknowledge and retract error — to make re-
paration for injury. But though they have been overlooked by
the message, the American people ought never for a moment to
forget them. Their efforts and their struggles, their moderation

832 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [j£r. 45.

and their energy, their care and their foresight ; the mad and
malignant opposition of their political adversaries; the charges
of pusillanimity and perfidy lavished on the declaration of neu-
trality ; the resistance to measures for avoiding a rupture with
Great Britain ; the attempt to rush at once into reprisals ; the cry
for war with the enemies of France, as the enemies of republican
liberty ; all these things should be for ever imprinted on the me-
mory of a just and vigilant nation. And in recollecting them,
they should equally recollect that the opposers of the salutary
plans to which they are so much indebted, were and are the
zealous partisans of the present head of our government ; who
have at all times submitted to his influence and implicitly obey-
ed his nod ; who never would have pursued with so much vehe-
mence the course they did, had they known it to be contrary to
the views of their chief: nor should it be forgotten that this
chief, in the negotiation with the British minister, conducted by
him as Secretary of State, acted precisely as if it had been his
design to widen, not to heal the breach between the two coun-
tries ; that he at first objected to the declaration of neutrality ;
was afterwards reluctantly dragged into the measures connected
with it ; was believed by his friends not to approve the system
of conduct, of which he was the official organ ; was publicly and
openly accused by the then agent of the French republic with
duplicity and deception, with having been the first to inflame his
mind with ill impressions of the principles and views of leading
characters in our government, not excepting the revered Wash-
ington ; that this chief, at a very critical period of our affairs
in reference to the war of Europe, withdrew from the direction
of that department peculiarly charged with the management
of our foreign relations, evidently to avoid being more deeply
implicated in the consequences of the position, which had been
assumed by the administration ; but on the hollow pretence of a
dislike to public life and a love of philosophic retirement. Citi-
zens of America, mark the sequel and learn from it instruction !
You have been since agitated to the centre, to raise to the first
station in your government the very man who, at a conjuncture
when your safety and your welfare demanded his stay, early re-

jEt. 45. j THE EXAMINATION. 833

linquished a subordinate, but exalted and very influential post,
on a pretence as frivolous as it has proved to be insincere ! Was
he, like the virtuous Washington, forced from a beloved retreat,
by the unanimous and urgent call of his country ? No ; he
stalked forth the champion of faction — having never ceased in
the shade of his retreat, by all the arts of intrigue, to prepare
the way to that elevation, for which a restless ambition impa-
tiently panted.

The undesigned eulogy of the men who have been slandered out
of the confidence of their fellow-citizens, has not been confined to
the situation of the country as connected with the war of Europe.
In the view given of the very flourishing state of our finances,
the worst of the calumnies against those men is refuted, and it is
admitted, that in this article of vital importance to the public
welfare, their measures have been provident and effectual beyond
example. To the charge of a design to saddle the nation with a
perpetual debt, a plain contradiction is given by the concession,
that the provisions which have been made for it are so ample, as
even to justify the relinquishment of a part no less considerable
than the whole of the internal revenue. The same proposal testifies
the brilliant success of our fiscal system generally ; and that it is
more than equal to all that has been undertaken, to all that has
been promised to the nation.

The report of the Secretary of the Treasury, as published,
confirms this high commendation of the conduct of the former
administrations. After relieving each State from the burden of
its particular debt, by assuming the payment of it on account of
the United States, in addition to the general debt of the nation ;
after settling the accounts between the States relatively to their
exertions for the common defence in our revolutionary war, and
providing for the balances found due to such of them as were
creditors ; after maintaining, with complete success, an obstinate
and expensive war with the Indian tribes ; after making large
disbursements for the suppression of two insurrections against
the government ; after liberal contributions to the Barbary pow-
ers, to induce them to open to our merchants the trade of the
Mediterranean ; after incurring a responsibility for indemnities
G 53

834 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 45.

to a large amount, due to British merchants, in consequence of
infractions of the treaty of peace by some of the States ; after
heavy expenditures for creating and supporting a navy, and for
other preparations, to guard our independence and territory
against the hostilities of a foreign nation ; after the accomplish-
ment of all these very important objects, it is now declared to
the United States, by the present head of the Treasury, by the
confidential minister of the present Chief Magistrate, by the
most subtle and implacable of the enemies of the former admin-
istrations, " That the actual revenues of the Union are sufficient
to defray all the expenses, civil and military, of government, to the
extent authorized by existing laivs, to meet ALL the engagements
OF THE United States ; and to discharge in fifteen years and a
half the whole of our public debt " — foreign as well as do-
mestic, new as well as old. Let it be understood, that the reve-
nues spoken of were all provided under the two first administrations ;
and that the "existing laws" alluded to, were all passed under
the same administrations ; consequently, that the revenues had not
been increased, nor the expenses diminished, by the men who now hold
the reins : and then let it be asked, whether so splendid a result
does not reflect the highest credit on those who in time past have
managed the affairs of the nation ? Does not the picture furnish
matter not only for consolation, but even for exultation, to every
true friend of his country? And amidst the joy which he must
feel in the contemplation, can he be so unjust as to refuse the
tribute of commendation to those, by whose labors his country
has been placed on so fair an eminence ? Will he endure to see
any part of the fruits of those labors blasted or hazarded, by a
voluntary surrender of any portion of the means which are to
insure the advantages of so bright a prospect?

In vain will envy or malevolence reply, " The happy situa-
tion in which we are placed is to be attributed, not to the labors
of those who have heretofore conducted our affairs, but to an
unforeseen and unexpected progress of our country." Candor
and truth will answer — Praise is always due to public men who
take their measures in such a manner as to derive to the nation
the benefit of favorable circumstances which are possible, as well
a of those which are foreseen. If proportionate provision had not

jEt. 45.] THE EXAMINATION. 835

been made, concurrently with the progress of our national re-
sources, the effect of them would not have been felt as to the
past, and would not have been matured as to the future.

But why should it be pretended that this progress was not
anticipated ? In past experience, there were many data for cal-
culation. The ratio of the increase of our population had been
observed and stated ; the extent and riches of our soil were
known ; the materials for commercial enterprise were no secret;
the probable effect of the measures of the government, to foster
and encourage navigation, trade, and industry, was well under-
stood ; and especially, the influence of the means which were
adapted to augment our active capital, and to supply a fit and
adequate medium of circulation, towards the increase of national
wealth, was declared and insisted upon, in official reports.
Though adventitious circumstances may have aided the result, it is
certain, that a penetrating and comprehensive mind could be at no
loss to foresee a progress of our affairs, similar to what has been
experienced. Upon this anticipation, the assumption of the State
debts, and other apparently bold measures of the government,
were avowedly predicated, in opposition to the feeble and con-
tracted views of the little politicians, who now triumph in
the success of their arts, and enjoy the benefits of a policy, which
they had neither the wisdom to plan nor the spirit to adopt ; idly
imagining that the cunning of a demagogue and the talents of a
statesman are synonymous. Consummate in the paltry science
of courting and winning popular favor, they falsely infer that
they have the capacity to govern, and they will be the last to
discover their error. But let them be assured that the people
will not long continue the dupes of their pernicious sorceries.
Already the cause of truth has derived this advantage from the
crude essays of their chief, that the film has been removed from
many an eye. The credit of great abilities was allowed him by
a considerable portion of those who disapproved his principles ;
but the short space of nine months has been amply sufficient to
dispel that illusion ; and even some of his most partial votaries
begin to suspect that they have been mistaken in the object of
their idolatry.

Lucius Crassus.

H36 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 45.

AMENDMENT OF THE CONSTITUTION.

RESOLUTIONS FOR THE AMENDMENT OF THE CONSTITUTION OF
THE UNITED STATES IN THE LEGISLATURE OF NEW-YORK.

1802.

Resolved: as the sense of the legislature, that the following
amendments ought to be incorporated into the Constitution of
the United States, as a necessary safeguard in the choice of a
President and Vice-President, against pernicious dissensions, as
the most eligible mode of obtaining a full and fair expression of
the public will in such election.

1st. That Congress shall, from time to time, divide each State
into districts, equal to the whole number of Senators and Repre-
sentatives from such State in the Congress of the United States,
and shall direct the mode of choosing an elector of President
and Vice-President, in each of the said districts, who shall be
chosen by citizens who have the qualifications requisite for elec-
tors of the most numerous branch of the State Legislature, and
that the districts shall be formed, as nearly as may be, with an
equal proportion of population in each, and of counties, and, if
necessary, parts of counties contiguous to each other, except
where there may be any detached portion of territory, not suf-
ficient of itself to form a district, which then shall be an-
nexed to some other nearest thereto.

2d. That in all future elections of President and Vice-Pre-
sident, the persons voted for shall be particularly designated,
by declaring which is voted for as President, and which as Vice-
President.

Resolved, that the president of the Senate, and speaker of
the Assembly, transmit a copy of the preceding resolutions to
the Senators and Representatives in Congress, from this State,
with an earnest request, that they would use their best exertions
for obtaining the adoption of the above amendments, or other
amendments in substance equivalent, so as that the President

JEt. 45.] MEMORIAL. S3T

and Vice-President may be separately designated in voting for
them, and that the electors for both may be chosen in distinct
districts.

SUPPLYING NEW- YORK WITH WATER.

1802.
To the Honorable the Legislature of the State of New- York :

The memorial of the subscribers, citizens of New-York,
respectfully showeth —

That your memorialists have become alarmed, lest a difference
of opinion about the best mode of providing the means of con-
veying water in pipes throughout the city (a measure which your
memorialists deem of essential consequence), should prevent any
law being passed on the subject.

That without desiring to interfere with the plan which, un-
der the patronage of the corporation of the city, they under-
stand, has been presented to your consideration, they have
thought it may not be improper to suggest an alternative, in
case that plan should not be improved.

It is, that a company may be incorporated with a capital not
exceeding one million of dollars, to be formed by voluntary
subscriptions of fifty dollars to a share, and with the necessary
powers to enable them to act.

Of this capital, it may be expedient to reserve to the corpo-
ration, at its option, a number of shares not exceeding one third ;
and it may be provided that the recorder shall be ex-officio a
director of the company.

It will likewise conduce materially to the success of the plan,
if the Legislature will apply to this object, the duties arising
from sales by auction. It may be a fund for raising a correspond-
ent principal to be invested in stock of the company, from
which a superior revenue may be eventually derived.

838 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [vEt. 45.

Your memorialists deeming it unnecessary to enter into
further details, pray leave to bring in a bill for the above men-
tioned purpose.

PLAN OF THE MERCHANTS' BANK.

To all to whom these presents shall come, or in any wise concern.

Be it known and made manifest, that we the subscribers, have
formed a company or limited partnership, and do hereby associ-
ate and agree with each other, to conduct business in the manner
hereinafter specified and described, by and under the name and
style of the "Merchants' Bank," and we do hereby mutually
covenant, declare, and agree, that the following are and shall be
the fundamental articles of this our association and agreement
with each other, by which we, and all persons who at any time
hereafter may transact business with the said company, shall be
bound and concluded.

I. The capital stock of the said company shall consist of one
million two hundred and fifty thousand dollars, in money of the
United States. The said capital stock shall be divided into shares
of fifty dollars each : two dollars and fifty cents on each share
shall be paid at the time of subscribing, and the remainder shall
be paid at such times, and in such proportions as the board of
directors shall order and appoint, under pain of forfeiting to the
said company the said shares, and all previous payments thereon :
but no payment shall be required, unless by a notice to be pub-
lished for at least fifteen days, in two newspapers printed in the
city of New-York.

II. The affairs of the said company, shall be conducted by
sixteen directors, who shall elect one of their number to be the
president thereof, and nine of the directors shall form a board or
quorum for transacting all the business of the company, except

jEx.45.] MERCHANTS' BANK. 839

ordinary discounts, which it shall be in the power of any five of
the directors to perform, of whom the president shall always be
one, except in case of his sickness or necessary absence, when his
place may be supplied by any other director, whom he by writing
under his hand, shall nominate for that purpose ; and until the
second Tuesday in June, one thousand eight hundred and four,
Oliver Wolcott, Richard Varick, Peter Jay Munro, Joshua Sands,
Thomas Storm, William W. Woolsey, John Hone, John Kane,
Joshua Jones, Robert Gilchrist, Wynant Van Zandt, jun., Isaac
Bronson, James Roosevelt, John Swartwout, Henry I. Wyckoff,
and Isaac Hicks, shall be directors of the said company ; the directors
from and after that period, shall be elected for one year by the stock-
holders, for the time being, and each director shall be a stockholder
at the time of his election, and shall cease to be a director if he should
cease to be a stockholder: and the number of votes which each
stockholder shall be entitled to, shall be equal to the number of
shares which he shall have held on the books of the company,
for at least sixty days prior to the election ; and all stockholders
shall vote at elections by ballot, either personally or by proxy ;
to be made in such form as the board of directors may appoint.

III. A general meeting of the stockholders of the company
shall be holden upon the first Tuesday of June, in every year
(excepting in June now next ensuing), at such place as the board
of directors shall appoint, by notice, to be published in two news-
papers printed in the city of New-York, at least fifteen days pre-
vious to such meeting, for the purpose of electing directors for
the ensuing year, who shall take their seats at the board on the
second Tuesday in the same month of June, and immediately
proceed to elect the president.

IV. The board of directors are hereby fully empowered to
make, revise, and alter or annul, all such rules, by-laws, and
regulations, for the government of the company, and that of their
officers, servants, and affairs, as they, or a majority of them, shall
from time to time think expedient, not inconsistent with law, or
these articles of association ; and to use, employ, and dispose of
the joint stock, funds or property of the said company (subject
only to the restrictions herein after contained) as to them, or a
majority of them, shall seem expedient.

840 HAMILTON'S WORKS

[Mt. 45.

V. All bills, bonds, notes, and every contract and engagement
on behalf of the company, shall be signed by the president ; and
countersigned or attested by the cashier of the company ; and
the funds of the company shall in no case be held responsible for
any contract or engagement whatever, unless the same shall be
so signed and countersigned, or attested as aforesaid.

VI. The books, papers, correspondence and funds of the
company, shall at all times be subject to the inspection of the
directors.

VII. The said board of directors shall have power to ap-
point a cashier, and all other officers and servants, for executing
the business of the company ; and to establish the compensations
to be paid to the president and all the other officers and servants
of the company respectively ; all which, together with all other
necessary expenses, shall be defrayed out of the funds of the
company.

VIII. A majority of the directors shall have power to call a
general meeting of the stockholders, for purposes relative to the
concerns of the company ; giving at least thirty days' notice, in
two of the public newspapers, printed in the city of New-York,
and specifying in such notice the object or objects of such meet-
ing.

IX. The shares of capital stock, at any time owned by any
individual stockholder, shall be transferable on the books of the
company, according to such rules as, conformable to law, maybe
established in that behalf by the board of directors ; but all debts
actually due and payable to the company, by a stockholder re-
questing a transfer, must be satisfied before such transfer shall be
made, unless the board of directors shall direct to the contrary.

X. No transfer of stock in this company shall be considered
as binding upon the company, unless made in a book or books,
to be kept for that purpose by the company. And it is hereby
further expressly agreed and declared, that any stockholder, who
shall transfer in manner aforesaid all his stock or shares in this
company, to any other person or persons whatever, shall ipso
facto cease to be a member of this company ; and that any person
or persons whatever, who shall accept a transfer of any stock or

jEt. 45.] MERCHANTS' BANK. 841

share in this company, shall ipso facto become and be a member
of this company, according to these articles of association.

XL It is hereby expressly and explicitly declared to be the
object and intention of the persons who associate under the style
or firm of the " Merchants' Bank," that the joint stock or property
of the said company (exclusive of dividends to be made in the
manner hereinafter mentioned) shall alone be responsible for the
debts and engagements of the said company. And that no per-
son, who shall or may deal with this company, or to whom they
shall or may become in any wise indebted, shall on any pretence
whatever have recourse against the separate property of any pre-
sent or future member of this company, or against their persons,
further than may be necessary to secure the faithful application
of the funds thereof, to the purposes to which by these presents
they are liable. But all persons accepting any bond, bill, note,
or other contract of this company, signed by the president, and
countersigned or attested by the cashier of the company for the
time being, or dealing with it in any other manner whatsoever,
thereby respectively give credit to the said joint stock or property
of the said company, and thereby respectively disavow having
recourse, on any pretence whatever, to the person or separate
property of any present or future member of this company, except
as above mentioned. And all suits to be brought against this
company (if any shall be) shall be brought against the president
for the time being ; and in case of his death or removal from
office, pending any such suit against him, measures shall betaken
at the expense of the company for substituting his successor in
office as a defendant; so that persons having demands upon the
company, may not be prejudiced or delayed by that event, or if
the person suing shall go on against the person first named as
defendant (notwithstanding his death or removal from office), this
company shall take no advantage by writ of error, or otherwise,
of such proceeding, on that account ; and all recoveries had in
manner aforesaid, shall be conclusive upon the company, so far
as to render the company's said joint stock or property liable
thereby, and no further ; and the company shall immediately
pay the amount of such recovery out of their joint stock, but not

842 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 45.

otherwise. And in case of any suit at law, the president shall
sign his appearance upon the writ, or file common bail thereto ;
it being expressly understood and declared, that all persons deal-
ing with the said company agree to these terms, and are to be
bound thereby.

XII. Dividends of the profits of the company, or of so much
of the said profits as shall be deemed expedient and proper, shall
be declared and paid half yearly during the months of May and
November in every year, and shall from time to time be deter-
mined by a majority of the said directors, at a meeting to beheld
for that purpose, and shall in no case exceed the amount of the
net profits actually acquired by the company ; so that the capi-
tal stock of the company shall never be impaired by dividends :
and at the expiration of every three years, from the first Tuesday
of June next, a dividend of surplus profits shall be made, but the
directors shall be at liberty to retain at least one per cent, upon
the capital, as a fund for future contingencies.

XIII. If the said directors shall at any time, wilfully and
knowingly, make or declare any dividend which shall impair the
said capital stock, all the directors present at the making or
declaring such dividend, and consenting thereto, shall be liable,
in their individual capacities, to the company, for the amount or
proportion of the said capital stock so divided by the said direc-
tors. And each director who shall be present at the making or
declaring of such dividend, shall be deemed to have consented
thereto, unless he shall immediately enter, in writing, his dissent
on the minutes of the proceedings of the board, and give public
notice to the stockholders, that such dividend has been declared.

XIV. These articles of agreement shall be published in at
least three newspapers, printed in the city of New- York, for one
month ; and for the further information of all persons, who may
transact business with, or in any manner give credit to this com-
pany, every bond, bill, note, or other instrument or contract,
by the effect or terms of which the company may be charged or
held liable for the payment of money, shall specially declare in
such form as the board of directors shall prescribe, that payment
shall be made out of the joint funds of the Merchants' Bank, according

Mr. 45.] MERCHANTS' BANK. 843

to the present articles of association, and not otherwise • and a copy
of the eleventh article of this association shall be inserted in
the bank book of every person depositing money, or other valu-
able property, with the company for safe custody, or a printed
copy shall be delivered to every such person, before any such
deposit shall be received from him. And it is hereby expressly
declared, that no engagement can be legally made in the name
of the said company, unless it contain a limitation or restriction,
to the effect above recited. And the company hereby express-
ly disavow all responsibility, for any debt or engagement, which
may be made in their name, not containing a limitation or re-
striction to the effect aforesaid.

XV. The company shall in no case be owners of any ships
or vessels, or directly or indirectly concerned in trade, or the
importation or exportation, purchase or sale of any goods, wares,
or merchandise whatever (bullion only excepted), unless by sell-
ing such goods, wares, and merchandise, as shall be truly pledg-
ed to them, by way of security for debts due to the said com-
pany.

XVI. If a vacancy shall at any time happen among the di-
rectors, by death, resignation, or otherwise, the residue of the
directors, for the time being, shall immediately elect a director,
to fill the said vacancy, until the next election of directors, to
be made according to the second article of these presents.

XVII. This association shall continue until the first Tuesday
of June, one thousand eight hundred and fifteen, and no longer;
but the proprietors of two thirds of the capital stock of the com-
pany may, by their concurring votes, at a general meeting to be
called for that express purpose, dissolve the same at any prior
period ; provided, that notice of such meeting, and of its object,
shall be published in at least three newspapers, to be printed in
the city of New-York, for at least six months previous to the
time appointed for such meeting.

XVIII. Immediately on any dissolution of this association,
effectual measures shall be taken by the directors then existing,
for closing all the concerns of the company, and for dividing the
capital and profits, which may remain, among the stockholders,
in proportion to their respective interests.

844 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 45.

In witness thereof, we have hereunto set our names or firms
the seventh day of April, one thousand eight hundred and
three.

LAW BRIEFS.

VALIDITY OF CERTAIN BRITISH ACTS.

Question. Will the acts (particularly judgments and executions)
of courts, exercising jurisdiction under the authority of Great
Britain, subsequent to the time when by the treaty of peace the
western posts ought to have been delivered up, within the dis-
tricts comprehending those posts, be recognized as valid by the
courts of the United States?

This question is both new and difficult. The argument for
the negative is — that the treaty of peace having admitted those
territories to be within the United States, the detention of
them after the time when they ought to have been surrendered,
and all exercise of inspection over them by Great Britain after
that time, to be wrongful and unlawful; especially as not
sanctioned by the jus belli, there being a state of peace, conse-
quently the tribunals of Great Britain as illegal and incompetent,
interfering with those of the United States, and their acts as
nullities.

The argument for the affirmative is — that Great Britain
being antecedently in the possession of those posts {jure belli)
and not having actually restored them to the jurisdiction of the
United States after the peace, her anterior jurisdiction must be
supposed to have continued, and that of the United States in
virtue of territorial right, suspended by the adverse possession of
a foreign sovereign power ; that, therefore, there was no inter-
ference of jurisdiction, especially as the United States had not
within the districts in question any competent organs to exercise
jurisdiction. That the treaty of peace having only stipulated

JEt. 45.] LAW BRIEFS. 845

that the posts should be delivered up as soon as conveniently
might be, there was no judiciary epoch from which to date the
cessation of British jurisdiction and the commencement of
American.

That the wrongful detention was a question between the two
governments foreign to the fact of jurisdiction, as it respected
individuals and the effects of it. That with regard to those
who were under the coercion of the jurisdiction in fact, and
whose mutual dealings had reference to it, the legal effects'ought to
be according to the fact. That convenience and legal justice will
both be promoted by this principle and extremely infringed by
its opposite.

It is impossible to foresee with certainty what will be the de-
termination of the courts of the United States on the point ; but
it is conceived that the argument for the affirmative, on great
principles of policy, convenience and right, ought to prevail, and it
is presumed that it will.

CARRIAGE TAX.

February 25, 1795.

What is the distinction between direct and indirect taxes ? It
is a matter of regret that terms so uncertain and vague in so im-
portant a point are to be found in the Constitution. We shall
seek in vain for any antecedent settled legal meaning to the
respective terms — there is none.

We shall be as much at a loss to find any disposition of either
which can satisfactorily determine the point.

Shall we call an indirect tax, a tax which is ultimately paid
by a person, different from the one who pays it in the first instance?

Truly speaking, there is no such tax — those on imported arti-
cles best claim the character. But in many instances the mer-
chant cannot transfer the tax to the buyer ; in numerous cases it
falls on himself, partly or wholly. Besides, if the same article

846 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mi. 45.

which is imported by a merchant for sale, is imported by a mer-
chant for his ownuse, or by a lawyer, a physician, or mechanic, for
his own use, there can be no question about the transfer of the
tax. It remains upon him who pays it.

According to that rule, then, the same tax may be both a
direct and indirect tax, which is an absurdity. To urge that a
man may either buy an article already imported, or import it him-
self, amounts to nothing; sometimes he could not have that
option.

But the option of an individual cannot alter the nature of a
thing. In like manner he might avoid the tax on carriages, by
hiring occasionally instead of buying.

The subject of taxation, not the contingent optional conduct of
individuals, must be the criterion of direct or indirect taxation.
Shall it be said that an indirect tax is that of which a man is not
conscious when he pays? Neither is there any such tax. The
ignorant may not see the tax in the enhanced price of the com-
modity— but the man of reflection knows it is there. Besides,
when any but a merchant pays, as in the case of the lawyer, &c,
who imports for himself, he cannot but be conscious that it falls
upon himself.

By this rule, also, then a tax would be both direct and indirect
— and it will be equally impracticable to find any other precise
or satisfactory criterion.

In such a case no construction ought to prevail calculated to
defeat the express and necessary authority of the government.

It would be contrary to reason, and to every rule of sound
construction, to adopt a principle for regulating the exercise of a
clear constitutional power which would defeat the exercise of the
power.

It cannot be contested that a duty on carriages specifically, is
as much within the authority of the government as a duty on
lands or buildings.

Now if a duty on carriages is to be considered as a direct tax,
to be apportioned according to the rates of representation, very
absurd consequences must ensue.

'Tis possible that a particular State may have no carriages of
the description intended to be taxed, or a very small number.

^Et. 45.J LAW BRIEFS. 847

But each State would have to pay a proportion of the sum to
be laid, according to its relative numbers ; yet, while the State
would have to pay a quota, it might have no carriages upon
which its quota could be assessed, or so few, as to render it ruin-
ous to the owners to pay the tax. To consider then a duty on
carriages as a direct tax, may be to defeat the power of laying
such a duty. This is a consequence, which ought not to ensue
from construction.

Further : If the tax on carriages be a direct tax, that on
ships according to their tonnage must be so likewise. Here is
not a consumable article. Here the tax is paid by the owner of
the thing taxed, from time to time, as would be the tax on car-
riages.

If it be said that the tax is indirect because it is alternately
paid by the freighter of the vessel, the answer is, that some-
times the owner is himself the freighter, and at other times the
tonnage accrues when there is no freight, and is a dead charge on
the owner of the vessel.

Moreover, a tax on a hackney or stage-coach or other car-
riage, or on a dray or cart employed in transporting commodi-
ties for hire, would be as much a charge on the freight as a tax
upon vessels ; so that, if the latter be an indirect tax, the former
cannot be a direct tax.

And it would be too great a refinement for a rule of practice
in government to sa}r, that a tax on a hackney or stage-coach,
and upon a dray or cart, is an indirect one, and yet a tax upon a
coach or wagon ordinarily used for the purposes of its owner, is
a direct one.

The only known source of the distinction between direct and
indirect taxes is in the doctrine of the French Economists — Locke
and other speculative writers — who affirm that all taxes fall ulti-
mately upon land, and are paid out of its produce, whether laid
immediately upon itself, or upon any other thing. Hence, taxes
upon lands are in that system called direct taxes ; those on all
other articles indirect taxes.

According to this, land taxes only would be direct taxes, but
it is apparent that something more was intended by the Constitu-
tion. In one case, a capitation is spoken of as a direct tax.

848 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 45.

But how is the meaning of the Constitution to be determined ?
It has been affirmed, and so it will be found, that there is no
general principle which can indicate the boundary between the
two. That boundary, then, must be fixed by a species of arbitra-
tion, and ought to be such as will involve neither absurdity nor
inconvenience.

The following are presumed to be the only direct taxes.

Capitation or Poll taxes.

Taxes on Lands and Buildings.

General assessments, whether on the whole property of indivi-
duals, or on their whole real or personal estate ; all else must of
necessity be considered as indirect taxes.

To apply a rule of apportionment according to numbers to
taxes of the above description, has some rationale in it ; but to
extend an apportionment of that kind to other cases, would, in
many instances, produce, as has been seen, preposterous conse-
quences, and would greatly embarrass the operations of the
government. Nothing could be more capricious or outre, than
the application of quotas in such cases.

The Constitution gives power to Congress to lay and collect
the taxes, duties, imports, and excises, requiring that all duties,
imports, and excises shall be uniform throughout the United
States.

Here duties, imports, and excises appear to be contradis-
tinguished from taxes, and while the latter is left to apportion-
ment, the former are enjoined to be uniform.

But unfortunately, there is equally here a want of criterion to
distinguish duties, imports, and excises from taxes.

If the meaning of the word excise is to be sought in the Bri-
tish statutes, it will be found to include the duty on carriages,
which is there considered as an excise, and then must necessarily
be uniform and liable to apportionment; consequently, not a
direct tax.

Some argument results from this, though not perhaps a con-
clusive one : yet where so important a distinction in the Con-
stitution is to be realized, it is fair to seek the meaning of terms
in the statutory language of that country from which our juris-
prudence is derived.

iEr.47.] LAW BRIEFS. 849

THE LAW OF LIBEL.

1804.

I. The liberty of the press consists in the right to publish
with impunity truth, with good motives, for justifiable ends,
though reflecting on government, magistracy, or individuals.

II. That the allowance of this right is essential to the preser-
vation of free government — the disallowance of it, fatal.

III. That its abuse is to be guarded against, by subjecting
the exercise of it to the animadversion and control of the tribu-
nals of justice ; but that this control cannot safely be intrusted
to a permanent body of magistracy, and requires the effectual
co-operation of court and jury.

IV. That to confine the jury to the mere question of publi-
cation and the application of terms, without the right of inqui-
ry into the intent or tendency, referring to the court the
exclusive right of pronouncing upon the construction, tendency,
and intent of the alleged libel, is calculated to render nugatory
the function of the jury ; enabling the court to make a libel of
any writing whatsoever, the most innocent or commendable.

V. That it is the general rule of criminal law, that the intent
constitutes the crime, and that it is equally a general rule, that
the intent, mind, or quo animo, is an inference of fact to be drawn
by the jury.

VI. That if there are exceptions to this rule, they are con-
fined to cases in which not only the principal fact, but its cir-
cumstances can be and are specifically defined by statute or judi-
cial precedent.

VII. That in respect to libel there is no such specific and
precise definition of facts and circumstances to be found, that con-
sequently it is difficult, if not impossible, to pronounce that any
writing is per se and exclusive of all circumstances libellous;
that its libellous character must depend on intent and tendency,
the one and the other being matter of fact.

VIII. That the definitions or descriptions of libels to be found
in the books predicate them upon some malicious or mischievous

G 54

850 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [tEt. 47.

intent or tendency, to expose individuals to hatred or contempt,
or to occasion a disturbance or breach of the peace.

IX. That in determining the character of a libel, the truth or
falsehood is in the nature of things a material ingredient, though
the truth may not always be decisive, but being abused, may still
admit of a malicious and mischievous intent which may consti-
tute a libel.

X. That in the Roman law, one source of the doctrine of
libel, the truth in cases interesting to the public, may be given
in evidence. That the ancient statutes probably declaratory of
the common law, make the falsehood an ingredient of the crime.
That ancient precedents in the courts of justice correspond, and
that these precedents to this day charge a malicious intent.

XI. That the doctrine of excluding the truth as immaterial,
originated in a tyrannical and polluted source, the court of Star
Chamber, and that though it prevailed a considerable length of
time, yet there are leading precedents down to the revolution,
and even since, in which a contrary practice prevailed.

XII. That this doctrince being against reason and natural
justice, and contrary to the original principles of the common
law enforced by statutory provisions, precedents which support
it deserve to be considered in no better light than as malus
usus which ought to be abolished.

XIII. That in the general distribution of powers in our sys-
tem of jurisprudence, the cognizance of law belongs to the court,
of fact to the jury ; that as often as they are not blended, the
power of the court is absolute and exclusive. That in civil cases
it is always so, and may rightfully be so exerted. That in crimi-
nal cases the law and fact being always blended, the jury, for
reasons of a political and peculiar nature, for the security of life
and liberty, is intrusted with the power of deciding both law
and fact.

XIY. That this distinction results, 1, from the ancient forms
of pleading in civil cases, none but special pleas being allowed
in matter of law ; in criminal, none but the general issue ; 2, from
the liability of the jury to attaint in civil cases, and the general
power of the court as its substitute in granting new trials, and

vEt. 47.] LANSING OR BURR. 851

from the exemption of the jury from attaint in criminal cases,
and the defect of power to control their verdicts by new trials,
the test of every legal power being its capacity to produce a defi-
nitive effect liable neither to punishment nor control.

XV. That in criminal cases, nevertheless, the court are the
constitutional advisers of the jury in matter of law; who may
compromit their consciences by lightly or rashly disregarding
that advice, but may still more compromit their consciences by
following it, if exercising their judgments with discretion and
honesty they have a clear conviction that the charge of the court
is wrong.

LANSING or BURR.

REASONS WHY IT IS DESIRABLE THAT MR. LANSING RATHER THAN
COL. BURR SHOULD SUCCEED.

1804.

1. Col. Burr has steadily pursued the tract of democratic
politics. This, he has done either from -principle, or from calcula-
tion. If the former, he is not likely now to change his plan,
when the federalists are prostrate, and their enemies predominant.
If the latter, he will certainly not at this time relinquish the
ladder of his ambition, and espouse the cause or views of the
weaker party.

2. Though detested by some of the leading Clintonians, he is
certainly not personally disagreeable to the great body of them,
and it will be no difficult task for a man of talents, intrigue, and
address, possessing the chair of government, to rally the great
body of them under his standard, and thereby to consolidate for
personal purposes, the mass of the Clintonians, his own adherents
among the democrats, and such federalists as, from personal
good- will or interested motives, may give him support.

3. The effect of his elevation will be to reunite under a more

852 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 47.

adroit, able, and daring chief, the now scattered fragments of the
democratic party, and to reinforce it by a strong detachment
from the federalists. For though virtuous federalists, who, from
miscalculation may support him, would afterwards relinquish his
standard, a large number from various motives would continue
attached to it.

4. A farther effect of his elevation by aid of the federalists
will be, to present to the confidence of New England, a man,
already the man of the democratic leaders of that country, and
towards whom the mass of the people have no weak predilection,
as their countryman, as the grandson of President Edwards, and
the son of President Burr. In vain will certain men resist this
predilection, when it can be said, that he was chosen governor of
this State, in which he was best known, principally, or in a great
degree, by the aid of the federalists.

5. This will give him fair play to disorganize New England,
if so disposed ; a thing not very difficult, when the strength of the
democratic party in each of the New England States is con-
sidered, and the natural tendency of our civil institutions is duly
weighed.

6. The ill opinion of Jefferson, and jealousy of the ambition
of Virginia, is no inconsiderable prop of good principles in that
country. But these causes are leading to an opinion, that a dis-
memberment of the Union is expedient. It would probably suit
Mr. Burr's views to promote this result, to be the chief of the
Northern portion ; and placed at the head of the State of New-
York, no man would be more likely to succeed.

7. If he be truly, as the federalists have believed, a man of
irregular and unsatiable ambition, if his plan has been to rise to
power on the ladder of Jacobinic principles, it is natural to con-
clude that he will endeavor to fix himself in power by the same
instrument ; that he will not lean on a fallen and falling party,
generally speaking, of a character not to favor usurpation, and
the ascendency of a despotic chief. Every day shows, more and
more, the much to be regretted tendency of governments en-
tirely popular, to dissolution, and disorder. Is it rational to
expect that a man, who had the sagacity to foresee this tendency,

jEt.47.] LANSING OR BURR. 853

and whose temper would permit him to bottom his aggrandize-
ment on popular prejudices and vices, would desert the system at
a time, when, more than ever, the state of things invites him to
adhere to it.

8. If Lansing is governor, his personal character affords some
security against pernicious extremes, and at the same time ren-
ders it morally certain, that the democratic party, already much
divided, and weakened, will moulder, and break asunder more
and more. This is certainly a state of things favorable to the
future ascendency of the wise and good. May it not lead to a
recasting of parties, by which the federalists will gain a great
accession of force from former opponents ? At any rate is it not
wiser in them to promote a course of things, by which schism
among the democrats will be fostered and increased, than on
fair calculation to give them a chief, better able than any they
have yet had, to unite and direct them ; and in a situation to
infer rottenness in the only part of our country which still re-
mains sound, the federal States of New England?

CONTENTS.

Page.

Correspondence. — {See Index of Letters, I. II.) Vol. i. 1

Notes in Pay Book 4

Narrative of a Duel between Lee and Laurens 72

A Full Vindication Vol. ii. 1

The Farmer Eefuted 37

Remarks on the Quebec Bill 127

Eeorganization of the Army 139

Inspector-General 153

Publius 156

Military Remarks and Queries 164

Inspector-General 168

Mission to France 171

Military Regulations 176

Discipline 133

The Continentalist 185

Resolution for a General Convention 201

Specific Taxation 205

Resolutions in Congress {See General Index) 213

Military Peace Establishment 253

Reports in Congress 276

Vindication of Congress 283

Letters from Phocion 287

Constitution of the Bank of New-York 330

Petition as to Revenue System 333

Cincinnati ' 335

Address of the Annapolis Convention 336

Resolution for a General Convention 340

Resolution for Appointment of Delegates 340

Act to Institute an University 341

856 CONTENTS.

Speech on the Revenue System Vol. ii. 352

Act to Accede to Independence of Vermont 374

Speech on Acceding to the Independence of Vermont 375

Speech on Act repealing Acts inconsistent with the Treaty of Peace 390

Propositions for a Constitution of Government 393

Constitution of Government by the People of the United States of America 395

Brief of Speech on submitting Plan of Constitution 409

Speeches in Federal Convention 416 — 419

Impressions as to the New Constitution 419

Resolution for Erection of Kentucke into an Independent State 426

Speeches in New- York Convention on the Constitution of United States. . . 426—463

Brief of Argument on the Constitution of the United States 463

Draft of Proposed Ratification of the Constitution of the United States 467

Resolutions in Congress 471 474

Address on Election of Governor in New- York 474

Eulogium on General Nathaniel Greene 480

Report on Public Credit Vol. ill. 1

Remission of Forfeitures 46

Additional Estimates 48

State Debts 50

Operations of Impost Act 54

Tonnage Duties 80

Monet received from or paid to the States 80

Purchase of West Point 82

Disposition of Public Lands 84

Estimates 89

Renewal of final Settlement Certificates 93

Public Credit 95

National Bank 106

Estimates for 1791 146

Duties on Imports 148

Establishment of a Mint 149

Trade with India and China 188

The Dutch Loan 190

Spirits, Foreign and Domestic 192

Manufactures 192

Estimates of Receipts and Expenditures 284

Loans 286, 350, 351, 357, 368, 871, 403, 413

Spirits, Foreign and Domestic 297

Additional Supplies for 1792 826

CONTENTS. S57

Page.

„ . . „t. .. Vol. iii. 337

Report on Remission of Duties

Public Debt

Bank Deposits, Surplus Revenue and Loans

, ... 411

Public Funds

„ 441,442

Spirits, Domestic

Balance in the Treasury, and Domestic Loans

Public Debt, Receipts, and Expenditures

448, 451

Loan
Public Credit
Improvement of the Revenue

... 537

Revenue Circulars
Reports on Claims

Cabinet Papers, vol. iv. 1-604, vol. v. l-S0.-(See Index or Letters I. II.)

^ • , t> w .... Vol. v. 80

Speech on Commercial Relations

Act to punish Certain Crimes
Act laying duties upon Carriages

Act as to Calling forth Militia

Remarks on the Treaty with Great Britain

r r, t \ . 137— 43S

Military Papers.— {See General Index.)

Correspondence.-^ Index of Letters I. II.) 439 to end ; vol. vi. 1-600

„_ „ Vol. vi. 600

Letters of H. G

, -,. 632

Address to Public Creditors
Funding System V indicated '
Anti-Defamer

Vol. vii. 1

An American
Civis
Fact

Amicus

... 34

Catullus

... 74

A Plain Honest Man
Observer
Paciflcus
No Jacobin
Reply of Washington

... 141

Americanus
Tullv
Horatius
Camillus
Explanation
Washington's Speech. draft

858 CONTENTS.

Page.

Message for Washington — draft Vol. vii. 556

Abstract of Points to form an Address 570

Farewell Address — draft 575

France 594

The Answer 600

Part of Washington's Speech to Congress 611

The Warning 616

The Stand 639

A French Faction 682

The War in Europe 688

Allegorical Device 685

Public Conduct and Character of John Adams 687

Address to the Electors of the State of New- York 728

The Examination 744

Resolutions for the Amendment of the Constitution 836

Memorial for supplying New-York with Water 837

Plan of the Merchants' Bank 838

Brief on Validity of certain British Acts 844

Brief on the Carriage Tax 845

Brief on the Law of Libel 849

Lansing or Burr , £>51

1 N 1) EX

OF

LETTERS FROM HAMILTON.
No. I.

A.

Adams, John, iv. 245; v. 359, 430; vi. 449, 470.
Adluin, Major, v. 268.
Auldjo, i. 439.

B.

Bayard, J. A., vi. 419, 451, 499, 540.
Bayard, Low & Boudinot, v. 471.
Bond, vi. 152.

Boston, Supervisors of, iv. 166.
Boudinot, Elisha, v. 514, 517, 518; vi. 138.
Broome, Samuel, i. 469.

c.

Zl'oI^X 287, 291, 331, 366, 368, 396, 404 ; vi. 561, 562, 564, 565.
Chipman, Nathaniel, i. 46. ,477.
Church, J. B., i. 414.

Clarkson, Matthew, v. 279. conmHtee of Congress of TJ. S.

Congress, provincial of Tsew-torK, i. i, J, ^,
512, 513; President of, i. 34, 35, 36, 76, 413.
Convention of New-York, i. 10.
County Treasurers, i. 292, 304.
Craig, v. 12, 15.
Cruger, Tileman, i. 2.

D

Dayton, Jonathan, vi. 335, 383.
De Chastellux, i. 419.
De Noailles, i. 314 ; v. 422, 427.
De Ternay, i. 140.
Duportail, vi. 328.

860 INDEX OF LETTERS

Duane, James, i. 82, 85, 87, 92, 137, 150, 170, 190.
Duer, William, i. 25, 56; iv. 147; v. 444, 478, 489, 506.

Ellery, Captain, v. 264.
Fitzsimmons. i. 416.

Gates, Horatio, i. 43, 49.

Georgia, Governor of, v. 33.

Goodhue, Benjamin, iv. 79 ; v. 470.

Greenleaf, vi. 142.

Greene, Nathaniel, i. 185, 318.

Greene, Mrs., v. 583.

Gunn, James, v. 180, 184.

Hamilton, A., vi. 243.

Hamilton, Eliza, i. 266, 268, 269, 396.

Hamtranek, v. 257, 266.

Harison, Richard, v. 503, 542.
Harrison, K. E., v. 446.
Hazard, Nathaniel, i. 430.
Hay, Col., i. 290.
Heth, Col.,, v. 512.
Hoffman, Josiah O., vi. 413.
Hoops, Major, v. 269.

E.
P.
G.

H.

J.

Jay, John,iv. 551, 564; v. 142, 150, 291, 522; vi 92 281 4-«
•' erxerson, Thomas iv oq or oq i« , -, ' ' °'

422, 490 ' ' ' 98' 141' l01' 155' 162' 170> 185> "<>, 240, 332, 391, 394, 410,

K.
"V2f e^fl \XT£ ft 5J J? 55°' 562' 569> 5U> ^ ™> «* ^

. 298,' 347,' 362/415, 546', 559 ' ' ^ ^ 106' 108' 1M> 187> 206> 236' 252, m[ 287,'
Knox, Henry, vi. 403.
Knox, Hugh, i. 31.

La Fayette, i. 62, 270, 320 ; v. 440 ; vi. 388

Latour, Du Pin, vi. 363.

Laurens, John, i. 109, 172.

Lear, Tobias, vi. 415.

Lee, Henry, i. 79; v. 38, 446 ; vi. 431.

Lincoln, iv. 75.

Livingston, E. E., i. 23; vi. 586, 594, 597

Livingston, William, i. 47i.

FROM HAMILTON. &61

M.

Q.

Madison James, i. 393, 395, 450, 451, 453, 454, 459, 460, 462, 463, 464, 469, 483

McH nry J™ v 138, 141, 152, 180, 186, 190, 194, 196, 209, 211, 215, 234, 235, 236,

ST'i 2 5, 256, 259, 261, 263, 271, 272, 275, 278, 279, 233, 284, 286,
S 292; 297; 299 300 808 306; 308, 320, 326, 331, 334, 341 345 847 355, 356, 360

371, 378, 384, 385, 386, 392, 396, 397, 401, 402, 409, 423, 429, 435, 43, ; v,. 127, 267,

285, 338, 340, 354, 355.
McPherson, v. 185, 262.
Meade, i. 275, 298.
Mifflin, Thomas, iv. 1S3; v. 1, 16.
Miranda, vi. 348.

S":-S^, m i w. eoe ; vi. «, m, *, «, m, m, m, m, k

568, 570, 572, 574, 575, 577, 579, 531, 583, 589, 592.
MorHs! Eobert, i. 116, 223, 279, 281, 236, 287, 293, 297, 302, 304, 306, 307, 309, 311, 319.

N.

New-York, Bank of, v. 503.
Newton, William, i. 3.
North, William, v. 391.

Ogden, Col., v. 416.
Olney, Jeremiah, v. 588.
Otis, H. G., vi. 379, 390.

P.

, . m- li • on/.. ,.; an ins on*. 213 216 226,246,249,264,269,271,278,
Pickering, Timothy, i. 306 ; vi. 80, 198, mo, -Ji<5, ^xo> — «> - 'i ' '

299, 326, 355, 395, 407, 435, 477, 556.

Pinckney, C. C, v. 232, 388, 404, 415, 427, 532 ; vi. 434, 551.

Pintard, John, v. 469.

R.

Randolph, Edmund, iv. 544, 571 ; v. 29.

Eeade, Col., v. 370.

Eeed, i. 374.

Eivardi, Major, v. 222, 434.

Bush, Richard, vi. 527.

s.

Sands, Comfort, i. 282.

Schuyler, Eliza, i. 169, 186, 137.

Schuyler, Philip, i. 211.

Sears, Isaac, i. 189.

Sedgewick, Theodore, i. 476, 481, 486, 49«» ; v. 215. 024 : vi. 193, 209, 354, 381, 397, 429.

436, 440, 441, 495, 521. 567.
Seton, William, iv. 93 ; v. 403, 477, 486, 491, 498, 501, 502, 503, 508, 520.
Short, William, iv. 5, 22, 37, 38, 152, 157,158, 162, 163,163, 170, 176, 180, 181, 185, 1 6,

188, 193, 194, 216, 217, 219, 221, 223, 225, 226, 239, 279, 283, 307, 319, 320, 331, 388,

337, 338, 345, 405.

862 INDEX OF LETTERS.

Smith, Col., v. 295, 371, 304, 426.

Smith, William, vi. 92, 189, 192, 234, 237, 432.

Speaker of House of Representatives, iv. 49 ; v. 56.

Steele, v. 583.

Stevens, Ebenezer, v. 260, 291 .

Stevens, Edward, i. 1.

Steuben, Baron de, i. 72, 78, 84, 136, 139, 142, 143.

Stoddert, v. 290 ; vi. 336.

Stuyvesant, P. G., vi. 567.

Sullivan, Gen., i. 60.

Swan, Caleb, v. 836, 482 ; vi. 42s.

T.

Talleyrand, vi. 566.
Toussard, Colonel, v. 309, 393.

VanSchaack, v. 506.
Verplanck, v. 491.

w.

Wadswortk, i. 440 ; v. 584.
Walbach, v. 248.

Washington, George, i. 39, 41, 45, 48, 51, 63, 64, 65, 67, 102, 132, 139, 200, 220 258 267
273, 274, 327, 342, 345, 34S, 349, 351, 355, 359, 402, 403, 428, 435, 444, 448, 47o' 473' 487 '
iv. 1, 6, 13, 23, 30, 32, 37,46, 47, 48, 71, 72, 73, 77, 81, 84, 93, 94, 95, 108,' 104,' 148^
1 49, 150, 154, 161, 167, 174, 175, 177, 188, 193, 206, 217, 220, 222, 226, 235, 289 242
247, 282, 284, 287, 291,303, 306, 315, 319, 328, 332, 337, 347, 355, 356, 362, 3S2, 392
894,406,411,414,417,419,420,425,426,436, 443, 448, 449, 460, 467,477,481 48s'
489,491,497,506,509,510,516,519,532,533,534, 536, 540, 546,547, 557, 560, 561
562, 564, 566, 568, 569, 573, 575, 599, 600 ; v. 11, 13, 14, 30, 43, 45, 46, 48, 50, 51, 52, 53,
55, 56, 60, 63, 65, 67, 69,70, 73,75, 77, 142, 154, 177, 213, 214, 215, 233, 239 240 253*
267, 270, 302, 310, 387, 353, 374, 467, 480, 633; vi. 47, 49. 61, 79, 82, 84, 85 86 9o'
95, 96,97,100, 101,102, 119, 122,128, 133, 161. 163. 167. 168, 177. 194 264 289 W
316, 331, 341,361, 3C5,414.
Washington, Mrs., vi. 418.
Wilkes, John, i. 424.
Wilkinson, James, v. 211, 247, 361.
Willink & Co., iv. 12, 173, 1*7, 346, 466 ; v. 66, 73.
Winn, iv. 69.

Wolcott, Oliver, v. 296, 626 ; vi. 9, 11, 23, 29, 40, 48, 50, 57, 64, 107, 127, 129, 131, 185
143, 155, 156, 161, 165, 179, 184, 218, 229, 238, 252, 259, 294, 307, 334, 349, 381, 404 432'
414, 449, 486, 487, 549.

INDEX

LETTERS TO HAMILTON

NO. II.

A

Adams, John, i. 424 ; v. 140, 285, 430, 435.

Adams, John Q., v. 58.

Affleck, W., v. 585.

Ames, Fisher, v. 473, 510, 581 ; vi. 198, 4C3.

B.

Bard, William, v. 540.

Bauman, S., i. 144.

Bayard, J. A., vi. 455, 505, 522, 530, 543.

Bird, Savage & Bird, v. 79.

Boudinot, v. 519, 525, 548.

Bradford, William, vi. 1.

C

Cabot, George, v. 486, 547 ; vi. 453, 458, 460, 476, 480.

Garrington, Edward, v. 544, 549, 555, 598, 606, 614, 617.

Carroll, Charles, v. 537 ; vi. 434, 467.

Carter, John, i. 261.

Chipman, Nathaniel, i. 466, 472.

Church, J. B., vi. 261.

Clarkson, Matthew, v. 64.

Clinton, George, i. 55, 295, 303, 324, 338 ; vi. 561, 563.

Constable, William, vi. 524.

Convention of New-York, i. 12, 15, 19, 22.

Corbin, Thomas, v. 604.

Coxe, Tenche, v. 455, 456,457, 513.

Cashing, Dana & Brcck, i. 432.

864 INDEX OF LETTERS

r>

Davie, v. 483.

Dayton, Jonathan, v. 521 ; vi. 83.

De Corny, i. 197.

Delany, v. 622.

De Marbois, i. 147.

De Noailles, i. 260.

Duane, James, i. 83, 86, 89, 90, 329, 399.

Duportail, i. 108, 133, 198.

Duplessis, i. 75.

Fitzgerald, v. 485.
Fitzsimmons, iv. 82.
Fleury, L., i. 81, 172.
Fry, John, v. 4S1.

F.

(I.

Goodhue, vi. 478.

Gore, C, v. 631.

Greanleaf, James, vi. 141.

Greene, Nathaniel, i. 203.

Greene, Mrs., v. 563.

Guun, James, v. 182, 195 ; vi. 483, 492, 508.

H.

Hamilton, A., vi. 371.

Hamilton, James, v. 567.

Hamtranck, v. 197.

Harper, E. G., vi. 282.

Harrison, Eobt. II., i. 192, 215.

Hawkins, v. 464.

Heth, Col., v. 596.

Higginson, Stephen, v. 570, 577, 595, 599, 603; vi. 18?, 191.

Humphreys, D., i. 442.

I.

Indians, Oneida, v. 591.

J.

Jackson, "W., vi. 532.

Jay, John, i. 61, 400; iv. 574; v. 12, 27, 28, 54, 151, 524, 541, 552; vi. 87, 280 281 369

462,466,469,526,598. '

Jefferson, Thomas, iv. 23, 96, 144, 148, 1S9, 215, 354, 474.
Johnson, W. S., v. 531.

K.

King, Rufus, i. 456 ; y. 516, 526, 530, 553, 572, 589, 630 ; vi. 77, 102, 112 113 146 150
151, 183, 207, 211, 227, 260, 262, 265, 283, 297, 300, 308, 311, 313, 314, 356, 359' m
37o, 3(6, 389, 402, 407, 410, 411, 527, 538.

Knox, Hugh, i. 24, 52.

TO HAMILTON. 865

La Fayette, i. 63, 194, 196, 199, 217, 219, 262, 277, 283, 325, 421, 422, 423, 432, 445 ; vi.

425, 430, 555.
Lauzun, Duke de, i. 215.
Laurens, Henry, i. 80.
Laurens, John, i. 68, 111, 113, 114, 214.
Lear, Tobias, vi. 424, 425.

i£££r££#k «.i *• «». «* 6«- «•. •»■ «• 621 ' ri- 48°-

Lincoln, Benjamin, V. 454, 460 ; vi. 23.
Livingston, K. K., i. 14.

M.

tSZSZXSi £ 3U -. -, «, wj -.»■-•« 252- M4' 276'

282, 388, 400, 401, 403, 444, 462, 536, 623 ; vi. 250, 282, 3o6, 374, 408, 479.
McKenzie, v. 611.
McPherson, v. 237. -

Madison, James, i. 409, 457, 458, 461, 462, 463, 465 ; vi. 524.
Meade, E. K., i. 207.
Miranda, v. 465 ; vi. 225.
Mitchell, John, i. 100.

E£££2£~ «,«,»; iv. «.; v. m, m, 538,539> w, 5Sr ; vi. m,m.

503, 517, 518, 528.
Morris, Robert, i. 264, 278, 280, 284, 299, 312.
Murray, Vans, vi. 476.

N.

North, William, v. 415.

0.

Olney, Jeremiah, i. 484.
Otis, H. G., vi. 377, 490.

P.

Page, v. 497.
Paterson, John, v. 459.

SSSJ'm i. «• i * •». w, »* «.«* ™. «. »■ 2'3' 279' S08' 325' S2r'

343, 350, 351, 398, 443, 484, 558.
Pinckney, C. C, v. 357, 421 ; vi. 545, 554.
Pinckney, Thomas, v. 543.

R

Randolph, Edmund, iv. 288, 487 ; v. 623 ; vi. 22, 31.
Rice, Col., v. 419.
Ross, David, v. 592.
Rutledge, Edward, vi. 2.
Rutledge, John, vi. 509.

G 55

866 INDEX OF LETTERS.

S.

Schuyler, Philip, i. 136, 169, 1S2, 1S3, 1S8, 191, 209, 210, 222, 265, 270; v. 492, 590;

vi. 212.
Sedgewick, Theodore, i. 482, 483; v. 216, 580; vi. 392,396, 399, 437, 442, 491, 511, 552.
Seton, William, i. 416 ; v. 463, 4S0, 500, 505, 509, 511, 512.
Short, Wm, iv. 7, 9, 86, 99, 138, 164, 177, 180.
Smith, E. II., vi. 268.
Smith, Col., v. 394, 412.
Smith. William, vi. 241.
St. Clair, v. 613 ; vi. 403.
Steele, v. 561.

Steuben, Baron de, i. 83, 475 ; vi. 405.
Stevens, Edward, vi. 115.
Stirling, Lord, i. 21.
Stoddert, v. 209 ; vi. 353.

T.

Talleyrand, vi. 170.
Ternant, iv. 174, 382.
Tilghman, i. 219.
Tracy, Uriah, vi. 286.
Truxton, vi. 533.

V.

Van Eensselaer, vi. 404.
Van Vechteu, vi. 525.
Varick, Eichard, v. 633.
Verplanck, v. 490.

w.

Wadsworth, Jeremiah, i. 440 ; v. 447, 586.

Washington, Bushrod, vi. 526.

Washington, George, i. 37, 52, 62, 95, 97, 101, 106, 107, 193, 195, 202, 221, 339, 343, 352,
353, 361, 363, 410, 412, 429, 437, 447, 449, 479, 485, 490 ; iv. 4, 35, 70, 75, 76, 94, 103,
145, 146, 156,159,168, 175, 17S, 180,230, 238, 241, 280,284, 286, 312, 313, 314, 333,
341, 857, 359, 392,435,44S, 453, 454, 455, 464, 465, 471, 473, 475, 476, 515, 516, 534,
589, 543, 547, 562, 566, 570, 572 ; v. 11, 15, 27, 42, 44, 47, 49, 74, 143, 148, 217, 237,
245, 266, 274, 277, 316, 339, 35S, 387, 439, 593 ; vi. 12, 14, 16, 19, 25, 28, 03, 35, 51, 52,
63,64,70,71,73,78,99,116,120,135,144,147, 149, 156, 160, 171,178,196,263,260,
290,322, 336,369,400,401.

Walterstoff, vi. 556.

Watson, James, v. 495 ; vi. 126.

Wheelock, John, v. 458.

Williams, vi. 258.

Williams, O. H., i. 148.

Williamson, IE, v. 594.

Willinck, vi. 4.

Willing, v. 76.

Wilkes, John, i. 427.

Witherspoon, v. 442.

Wolcott, Oliver, iv. 223 ; vi. 7, 15, 20, 24, 27, 30, 39, 41, 57, 59, 65, 74, 83, 110, 126, 129, 132,
154, 164, 173, 175, 185, 221, 237, 278, 358, 365, 379,406, 447, 470, 471, 498.

Woolsey, vi. 525.

INDEX OF LETTERS

No. III.

"Washington to Count D'Estaing, vol. i. 93.

Clinton to Duane and L'Hommedieu, i. 398.

Jefferson to Washington, iv. 35.

Washington to President of National Assembly, iv. 101.

Knox to Washington, iv. 196, 459.

Jefferson to Washington, iv. 197, 293, 314, 334, 401, 412, 415, 419, 430, 458.

Randolph to Washington, iv. 209, 344, 403, 455.

Jefferson to Ternaut, iv. 240.

Washington to Governors of Pennsylvania and North and South Carolina, iv. 318.

Substance of answer proposed to French Minister, iv. 353.

Washington to Jefferson, iv. 429.

Washington to Justices of Supreme Court of United States, iv. 449.

Washington to Heads of Departments, iv. 454.

Jefferson to Genet, iv. 490.

Wolcott to Wilkes, vi. 37.

McHenry to Washington, vi. 143.

Washington to McHenry, vi. 154, 165.

Adams to McHenry, vi. 285, 283.

GENERAL INDEX.

N1_ VnrO \^ A

Academies, ii. 344.

Academy, Military/i. 262 ; v. 373, 387 ; vi. 295 ; vn. 612, 613, 686.

Accounts wITII States, i. 337, 347, 350 ; auditor of, ii. 148, 236 ; m Irregular settle-

ments of, not to be disturbed, i. 580 ; adjustment of, v. 397, 409 423.
Adams, Jon* as v. p. i. 481, 482 ; opinions and writings, 482, 483 4 7 439 cha ac r
v. 217 ; election, 526, 533, 534 ; vi. 186, 191, 206, 213, 251, 294 ,817 359 8bS,
413 436, 437, 440, 441, 444, 446, 448, 449, 452, 454, 456, 458, 459, 460, 461, 463, 464,
465, 471, 472, 474, 475, 477, 479, 480, 431, 482, 483, 522 ; vii. 175, 380 ; public con-
duct examined, 687 to 727 ; letters to, 726, 727-
Adams, Fort, v. 366.
Address on New- York Election, ii. 474.

to Public Creditors, vi. 632.

, answer to, vi. 35 ; valedictory, see Farewell Address.

Ade. succeeds Fauchet as Minxster erom France vi 1 ; bis powers 41 42, 72 129,
130, 132, 134; publisbed letter, 156, 157 ; conduct to, 159, 160, 161, 163, 169, 175,
17s', 179, 180, 197, 207; vii. 599, 602.
Adjutant General, v. 264. „„„„„ rcn

Administrate, objections to, iv. 231 ; answered, 248, 294 808 ; of £ibho money M0,
562 ; measures of, vi. 222, 227 ; policy, 236, 248, 250, 253, 255, 270, 2, 3, 277 , mea,
ures advised, 295 ; member of, bis duty, vii. 61, 62, 63.
Advances, to Army, v. 334; by Treasury, vi. 59 60. __
Agriculture, promotion of, iii. 5; vi. 158; board of, vn. 611, 61-
Aids de Camp, v. 169, 170, 229.
Algiers, iv. 215 ; vi. 55, 131, 212.
Alien Bill, vi. 300, 303.
Allegiance, ii. 47.

Alleghany, insurrection in, v. 2, 39.

Allowances, extra, wben proper, v. 152, 153, 306, 357, 396, 432.

Ambassador, power to send home, vn. 500. .... , ._ „,9 . lib„

America, independence, ii. 10 ; courage, 67, 88, 105 ; population, 117 , duty, 3-9 , liber

ties of, vi. 587.
America, South. See South America.
Amsterdam, iv. 7.

Andre, Major, capture and execution, i. 173, 179, 187.
Animals, live, v. 88.

870 GENERAL INDEX.

Appropriations, vii. 530, 532 ; laws, 533, 786, 788, 790.

Army, of revolution — composition, i. 58, 155 ; raise for war, 159; supply, 160; half-pay
to, 160, 321 ; claims, 328 ; discontents, 341, 343; addresses to, 344; accounts, 347, 348,
849, 351, 354, 355, 361, 364, 384; reorganization, ii. 139, 145; position, 150; recruit-
ing, 164 ; supplies, 166 ; ordnance, clothing, 166 ; regulations, 176 ; servants, 177 ;
arms, 177; guards, 177; dragoons, 182 ; furloughs, 185; memorial, 229 ; pay, half-
pay, accounts, 229 ; rights, 230 ; pay, 234 ; patriot, 237 ; accounts, 238 ; invalids,
246 ; discharge, 250 ; land, 251 ; peace establishment, 253, 256 ; fortifications,
255, 260 ; rations, 259 ; pay, 259 ; forage, 260 ; clothing, 260 ; arsenals, magazines,
261 ; foundries, arms, 262 ; officers, 262 ; board of, 266 ; promotions, 267 ; necessity
of, 268 ; mutiny, 268, 276, 279 ; standing, 50 ; supplies, regulation, iv. 226, 242 ;
claims, v. 512; station, 146, 159; supplies, 146, 155; augmentation, 156; western,
160; supplies, 162; deportment of, 162; organization, 166; disposition, 179; in-
crease, 184; supplies,! 84; provisional, 185, 189, 190, 195; command, 196 ; stations,
199 ; commands, 202, 205, 211, 213; act better organizing, 223, 227; disposition, 311,
816 ; distribution, 345, 347, 352, 355, 358, 362, 402, 406 ; disbanded, 437 ; address to,
437 ; vi. 56 ; provisional, 214, 240, 243, 282, 295, 305, 317, 378, 380, 386, 393, 408 ; re-
view of establishment urged, vii. 553 ; increase of, 686, 739.

Arnold, Mr., i. 342.

Arnold, Gen., treason, i. 172, 181, 202; in Virginia, 20S.

Articles or War, v. 392.

Artillery, ii. 148, 256; v. 147; park, 149, 160, 166, 169, 174; stations, 178, 206, 223, 251,
269 ; organization, 280 ; regulations, 393, 405.

Arts and Sciences, academy of, v. 479.

Arsenals, v. 164, 323.

Assays, iv. 93.

Assembly, ii. 395, 396 ; persons eligible, 466.

Assumption of State Debts, iii. 43 ; amount, 96 ; further and general, 291 ; iv. 277 ; v
455, 457, 547.

Attorney General, iv. 4; views of constitution, iii. 117.

Auction, sales at, iii. 52.

Auldjo, i. 43.S, 439.

Austria, vi. 211, 315, 375, 376, 407, 408; vii. 112.

B.

Baoite, v. 50, 51.

Bank, i. national, plan, 125, 127, 131, 164, 165, 236 to 317, 414; of New-York, 415; in

Pennsylvania, 415, 416, 419; national, ii. 194; of New- York, 330; national, iii. 40;

notes, 69, 70, 105 ; report on, 106 ; advantages, 108, 110, 111 ; disadvantages, 112 ;

capital, 115, 119, 120; banks three, 125; direction of, 129, 136; organization, 132;

stock, 137; loans, 138; debts, 143; deposits, 352, 353; public benefits, 433; notes,

540; iv. 93, 103; constitutionality, 104, 124, 127 to 184; of New- York, v. 37, 76,

463; national, 478, 475; branch, 485, 486, 562; vi. 9; vii. 371, 372, 374; merchants,

plan of, vii. 838, 844.
Barracks, v. 308.
Barras, vi. 231.
Barre, Col., ii. 93.
Battle, order of, v. 414, 421, 427.
Bauman, S., i. 144; condition of West Point.
Batard, Willlam, vi. 363.

GENERAL INDEX. S?1

Beaumarchais, claim, vi. 170, 171.

Beck, i. 402.

Beckwith, Major, mission, iv. 30, 32, 33, 34.

Bellamy, vi. 314.

Berxadotte, vi. 555.

Bern*torf, Count, vi, 556.

Blanchard, v. 497, 525.

Blount, Gov., v. 13, 36.

Bohlman, Dr., vi. 85, 118.

Buonaparte, vi. 209, 302, 308, 311, 313, 315, 360, 375, 377, 412, 426, 427, 435,439, 453,

469, 476.

Bond, memorial, vi. 110.

Bonds, form of returns, iii. 551, 553, 555.

Books, printed, iii. 279.

Boston, act closing port, ii. 94, 100.

Bradford, v. 43.

Breckenridge, v. 51.

Brest Fleet, v. 271.

British army, disposition and numbers, vi. 590, 593 ; connection, i. 346 ; creditors,
compensation, vii. 284, 286, 287, 289 ; plan of, 290, 291, 292 ; suits by, 293 ; interest,
294; faction, vi. 449; posts, i. 359, 360; titles to lands, vii. 315, 316, 317, 318, 319,
321, 324, 325.

Burcoyne, i. 30, 32 ; vi. 591, 594, 595, 597.

Burke, ii. 93.

Burr, Aaron, v. 493, 494, 496, 497, 526, 527, 529, 532, 535, 537; vi. 419, 420, 421, 422,
423, 445, 453, 467, 483, 486, 487, 488, 489, 490, 491, 492, 494, 495, 497, 498, 499, 500,
502,' 506, 507, 508, 509, 510, 512, 513, 517, 520, 521, 523, 524, 537, 539, 548, 559, 560;
vii. 851.

Butler, Major, v. 11.

c.

Cabot, George, vi. 51, 209, 214, 223, 230, 235.

Cadwallader, ii. 155.

Call for Papers, vi. 90, 91, 94, 96, 97, 98, 99, 100, 101, 271.

Calm Observer, vi. 49, 50, 57, 64.

Calonne, i. 433, 434.

Cambauld, vi. 288, 298, 301, 304.

Camillus on British Treaty, vi. 26 ; vii. 473 to 556.

Canada, ii. 6, 17, 18, 19, 109, 127, 128 ; vii. 226, 229, 233, 258, 259, 267, 26*, 278.

Canton, vii. 413.

Canvassers, New-York, v. 515, 517.

Captures and Condemnations, compensation, vii. 295 ; how made, 296, 299, 301 to 311 ;

treaty regulation, 441, 446.
Carleton, Guy, i. 371 ; iv. 77 ; vi. 573.
Carolina, Noinn, ii. 77, 93, adopts constitution ; iv. 6, 15; discontents, 293 ; resolutions,

v. 13, 439 ; instructions, 464; paper money, 4S3; South, v. 37; act of, suspending

British debts, 117; vii. 200.
Carriages, duties on, iii. 52, 535 ; act imposing, v. 99 ; constitutionality, vi. 83 ; nature

of, vii. 845. t

Caerlngton, Edward, i. 133 ; v. 68, 302 ; vi. 68, 438.
Carroll, Charles, v. 536 ; vi. 479.

872 GENERAL INDEX.

Carter, John, i. 261.

Catherine, brigantine, iv. 425.

Cavalry, ii. 144, 257, 264 ; v. 223, 248, 275, 276 278, 282, 284 ; vi. 249.

Cazenove, vi. 7.

Census, ii. 225, 241.

Certificates cancelled, of registry and enrollments, iii. 552 ; renewal, 582, 583.

Charles First, ii. 71, 74 ; Second, 79.

Charlestown, resolutions of, vi. 292.

Charters, ii. 3, 4, 47, 66, 122.

China, iii. 188, 189.

Chipman, Nathaniel, i. 466, 472, 477.

Christianity, ii. 65; vii. 650, 651, 684.

Church, Philip, v. 138.

Cincinnati, i. 428, 429 ; constitution of, ii. 335 ; primogeniture, 336 ; vi. 532.

Circulating Medium, paper, i. 313, 314, 319.

Citizens, mutual rights of, ii. 408; protection, 418.

Crvn, War, vii. 167.

Clarke, Gen., v. 36.

Clarkson, Col., i. 419 ; v. 63, 64, 150.

Clinton, George, i. 47, 48, 55, 444, 447 ; opposition to constitution, 453 ; political char-
acter and conduct, ii. 475; iv. 245, 424; v. 464, 493, 514, 527, 528, 530, 532, 535; vi.
66, 522 ; career, military and political, 601 to 632; vii. 175, 740, 741, 743.

Clinton, Henry, Sir, i. 86, 316.

Clothing, v.- 149, 172, 231, 254, 279.

Coal, iii. 264.

Cochrane, vi. 299.

Cockade, v. 150.

Coffee, iii. 38.

Coinage, i. 419, 420 ; foreign, iv. 162, 326.

Colonies, American, population, ii. 11, 15, 45, 46, 102 ; French, vi. 296.

Colonization, vii. 383 ; trade monopoly, 384, 385.

Collectors, iii. 63.

Colleges, ii. 343 ; Columbia, 345 ; vi. 451.

Commander in Chief, vi. 290, 293, 309, 316, 354, 355, 365, 369, 417.

Commerce, internal, ii. 112, 222 ; iv. 97, 98 ; power over, 121 ; v. 81, 92, 94 ; vi. 599 ;
free, vii. 378 ; rights of imperfect, 378 ; state regulations, 380 ; West India, 401 ;
East India, 409 ; European, 420, 422, 423, 425, 426, 427, 429, 431 ; reciprocity, 440.

Commissariat, v. 236, 242.

Commission, return of, iv. 69 ; to France, vi. 397, 400.

Commissioners of Accounts, iii. 17.

Comptroller, v. 68, 78.

Confederation, defects of, i. 150: reform of, i. 353, 401, 406; ii. 190, 219 ; defects, 269
to 274, 410, 428, 430, 432, 444.

Confiscation prohibited, vii. 326, 331, 338, 340, 341, 342, 343 ; when rightful, 352 ; effect
of, 357, 363, 376.

Congress, powers of, i. 151, 158, 323, 324, 325, 333, 353 ; removal of, 381, 393, 410 ; resi-
dence, 411 ; adjourn, 412; ii. 1, 4, 5, 7, 13, 21, 23, 27, 29, 31, 40, 101, 153, 161, 163 ;
its officers, 200 ; powers of, 203, 267 ; vindication, 283 ; powers of, 356 ; convening,
iv. 455, 458, 459, 460;#meeting of, 476, 477, 481 ; character, vi. 202, 203, 214, 215,
288, 357, 362, 384, 416, 429.

GENERAL INDEX,
Connecticut, ii. 75, 147, 235.
Consolidation, v. 455.

Constitution of U. S., formation of, i. 157, 158, 444 ; prospects, 447, 448, 450 ; amend-
ments to, 465 ; adoption by New Hampshire and Virginia, 462 ; ratification condi-
tional, 464, 465 ; creature of people, ii. 319, 322, 356 ; propositions for, 393 ; plan
of, 395 ; amendments to, 409 ; ratifications of, 409 ; prospects, 419 ; opposition to,
422 ; defence, 426 ; nature, 463 ; powers, 466 ; advantages, miscellaneous, 466 ; ra-
tification, draft of, 467 ; amendments to, time of electing officers, 471, 472 ; iv. 6,
18; powers, 105, 106, 107, 112, 135; construction of, 278, 298, 312, 313; v. 1, 4;
power over militia, 23, 24, 25, 26 ; amendments, v. 445, 470 ; vi^ 526, 531, 536, 537,
539, 542, 557 ; vii. 8, 9; Jefferson's opposition to, 39, 54, 55, 56; executive power^
80, 81, 82, 83, 84, 157, 158 ; policy of opponents, i58, 159 to 166 ; violation of, 287,
328, 380, 435 ; treaty power, 502. 504, 505, 517, 518, 527 ; appropriations, 532, 559,
563 ; opposition to, 728, 733, 741 ; Judiciary, 767, 792, 794, 797, 799, 803, 809, 810,
814, 819, 820, 824, 828.
Constitution of New-York, v. 515.
Constellation, vi. 376.

Consuls, iv. 184, 332 ; American, vi. 127 ; vii. 441.

Contraband, vii. 468, 469 to 481 ; provisions, 483, 484, 607, 608, 666, 667.
Convention to form a Constitution, i. 157 ; writings to induce, 167 ; of public creditors,
311 ; at Annapolis, 432, 435, 442 ; General, resolutions for, ii. 201, 204 ; call of, 269,
275; address of Annapolis, 336; New- York resolutions for, 340; propositions in,
393 ; New York, 426.
Convoys, vi. 131.
Copper, manufactures of, iii. 263.

Cotton, ii. 113; iii. 243; manufacture of, 272, 273; duty on, 275 ; iv. 179 ; vii. 403.
Cornwallis, i. 149 ; vi. 312, 585.

Correspondence with France, disclosing to Senate, iv. 505, 539.
Corporations, nature and creation, iv. 106, 108, 113, 115, 116, 117,123.
Countervailing right, vii. 432.
Courts Martial, v. 392.
Coxe, Tenche, v. 78.
Craig, Doctor, vi. 311.

Crimes, trial by Jury, ii. 404 ; act to punish, v. 95.
Cruger, Nicholas, i. 2.
Currency, depreciation of, i. 31, 72, 166, 172.
Cusuing, i. 432.

Cutters, Eevence, iii. 61, 62, 538, 550, 554; iv. 46, 70, 72.
Cutting, William, vi. 80, 82.

D.

Dale, v. 209.

Dallas, v. 526, 528, 574, 576, 589 ; vi. 39, 406.

Dana, i. 432.

Danbury, expedition to, vi. 577.

Dartmouth College, v. 458.

D'Autun, Bishop of, iv. 23.

Dayton, vi. 327, 365.

Deane, i. 358.

Debate, open, ii. 237.

8*74 GENERAL INDEX.

TJebts, funding, i. 347, 350 ; ii. 175, 212, 220 ; interest, 223, 230 ; liquidate and pay, 232 ;
amount of, 240 ; foreign, 367 ; iii. 4, 6 ; foreign, 7 ; liquidated, 18 ; loan office,
19 ; domestic, 20, 21, 22, 31 ; extinguishment of, 41 ; interest, 44 ; certificates, re-
newal, 93 ; amount subscribed, 286; foreign officers, 294; redemption, 338, 341,
446 ; provisions for funding, 464 ; for reimbursing and redeeming, 470 ; statement,
477 ; definition of, 517 ; composition with a debtor, 5S6; iv. 9, 10, 12, 20; payment
of, 39 ; foreign, 41, 83, 99 ; price of, 153, 156, 162, 1S2, 183, 194; owners of, 275,
320, 327, 334, 464 ; discharge of, 486 ; sequestration, 526 ; to France, v. 448, 450 ; of
United States, 481, 498, 500, 501, 503, 505, 543, 627, 681 ; French, finally settled, vi.
7 ; domestic, payment of, vi. 8 ; provision for, 632 ; composition of, 641, 647 ; aliena-
tion of, 650 ; payments of, vii. 16, 17, 18, 20, 26 ; funding it a national blessing, 28 ;
extinguishment of, 30, 75 ; redemption, 555, 736, 737.

De Corny, i. 197.

D'Estaing, Count, i. 65, 91, 92, 93, 98, 112.

Delaware, i. 471.

De Marbois, i. 147.

Democracy, ii. 463 ; representative, 464 ; vi. 201, 368, 438, 439, 568, 582. Democrats,
devotion to France, vi. 170, 171, 173, 832.

Denmark, policy of, vii. 181, 297, 298.

De Noallles, i. 260, 314, 322.

De Kochambeau, i. 193, 215.

De Segur, i. 321.

Desertion, v. 263, 393.

Despotism, vii. 164.

De Ternay, Chevalier, i. 140.

Dexter, vi. 61.

Directory, French, vi. 313, 316, 357, 376, 418 ; vii. 658, 659, 660; demand of tribute
676, 679, 680, 685, 709.

Disaffected, vi. 574.

Discipline, ii. 117, 1S3, 184; v. 181, 198,295.

Discrimination, iii. 8, 11, 20; v. 443 ; object, vii. 381.

Dismemberment of United States, vi. 568.

District Judge, vi. 168.

Disunion, vii. 47, 4S.

Donald, v. 521.

Dorchester, Lord, iv. 30, 31, 32, 34, 85, 48.

Drafting troops, ii. 142.

Dragoons, v. 166.

Drawback, iii. 58.

Duane, James, i. 82, 85, 86, 90, 137, 150, 408.

Duer, William, i. 25, 56, 464.

Duelling, v. 331, 340.

Duplessis, i. 75.

Duportail, i. 93, 95, 108, 133, 198, 322.

Dutch, ii. 17.

Duties, Light House, v. 29.

E.

East India Trade, vii. 409 to 418.
Education, ii. 341 to 352 ; vi. 147, 143, 141).

GENERAL INDEX. 875

Eliza, ship, capture of, vi. 152.

Elizabeth, Queen, ii. 65, 66. 300.

Elswobth, i. 136, 379, 383 : ii. 252 ; vi. 448, 484, 498.

Embargo, iv. 511 ; vi. 135, 193, 214.

Emigrants, French, vi. 405.

Engineers, ii. 256, 257, 259; v. 148, 150, 174, 229; organization, 280.

Enlistment of citizens in foreign service, vii. 489.

Ensign, v. L68.

Estimates, additional, in. 48, 89, 92, 146, 284, 285.

Etiquette, iv. 1.

Excise on distilled liquors, i. 312; constitutional, vii. 161, 165.

Executive departments, i. 127, 155, 158, 189.

Expenditures, how controlled, vii. 529 ; advances, 536, 541, 545.

Expenses, extra, rules, v. 326, 398, 399, 402, 410.

Expop.ts, duties, return of, iii. 570.

F.

Faiklie, James, i. 428, 429.

Farewell Address, vi. 119, 120, 121, 122, 137, 138, 143, 144, 145, 147, 148, 149 ; points
to frame, vii. 570 ; draft of, 575 ; Union, 578, 579 ; dangers to, 580 ; partisan and
geographical differences, 581 ; one government, 582, 583 ; innovation, dangers of,
5S4* party spirit, 584, 585, 586 ; religion and morality, 587 ; industry, frugality,
public credit, 588 ; good faith, justice, peace, 588 ; national antipathies and attach-
ments, 589 ; foreign influence, 590, 591 ; foreign relations, 592 ; proclamation of
neutrality, 593.

Fauciiet, iv. 508, 546, 547 ; vi. 1, 40, 41, 42, 57, 65, 66, 69, 76 ; vii. 599.

Federalist, The, i. 450, 451, 454, 455, 470.

Federalists, The, vi. 368, 404, 486, 494, 508, 541, 543, 544, 548, 553, 565; vii. 831.

Fenno, iv. 299.

Finance, ii. 174 ; Superintendent, 193 ; iii. 1, 13 ; vi. 40.

Fines, penalties and forfeitures, iii. 556.

Flndley, v. 45.

Fisheries, i. 372. 408; iii. 55, 56; whale, iv. 79 ; v. 486.

Fish, liberty to, ii. 78. Fish and Fish Oil, v. 85.

Flsh, Major, i. 271.

FlTZSIMM'iNS, ii. 213.

Flax and Hemp, manufacture of, iii. 270.

Fleming, Col., ii. 155.

Fleury, Col., i. 80, 81, 172, 411 ; Madame, vi. 480.

Floridas, iv. 35, 57; v. 148, 283; cession of, vi. 15, 20, 291. 891

Flour, v. 82.

Floyd, Col., i. 324.

Forage, v. 370.

Foreign Affairs, department of, ii. 242; consuls, 243.

Foreign Attachments, v. 845.

Foreigners, enlistment of, v. 261, 264.

Forfeitures, remission of, iii. 46, 47.

Fortifications, inspector of, v. 230.

Fowler, Tiieodocius, iv. 147.

France, commerce, ii. 104, 119, 120, 127 ; mission to, 171 ; iv. «, 7, 11, 14; «ommerce, 22 ;

876 GENERAL INDEX.

debt to, 38; conduct, 55, 62, 77, 98, 102, 151, 153, 155, 153; payment, 171, 181, 188,
216, 221, 223, 240, 283, 318, 339, 343, 358; minister, received or not, 362; treaties
with, 365, 379, 382 ; debt to, 381, 414, 415, 418, 420 ; v. 441 ; accounts with, 422, 444 ;
reclaims tonnage, 474, 488, 497, 508, 546 ; v. 13 ; commercial system, 81, 94, 95, 135,
136, 140 ; invasion by, v. 148, 157, 274, 359 ; prospects, 440 ; commerce, 487, 489,
538, 539, 555, 559, 566, 570, 588, 634; famine in, vi. 16, 75, 88, 116, 122, 125 ; plan
of, 130, 133, 136, 150, 159, 165, 178, 174, 177, 181, 183, 187, 193; mission to, 194 to
209; treaty, 210; commission extraordinary to, 214, 216 to 260, 265, 269, 274, 284,
296, 297, 301, 319, 328, 357, 367, 378, 390, 407, 425, 466 ; treaty, 491, 508, 524, 575 ;
vii. 85, 86 ; war by, offensive, 87, 88 ; decree, 89, 90, 91 ; guarantee, 96 ; gratitude
to, 96, 99 ; conduct to U. S., 100, 105 ; obligation to, 108, 118 ; treaty with, 131, 137 ;
career and objects, 141, 142, 151, 157, 171, 174, 181, 210, 211, 222, 224, 353 ; treaty
with, 382 ; colonial system, 389, 391 ; new treaty with, 393 ; terms required, 398 ;
guarantee, 399 ; succors of, vii. 594 ; motives, 595 ; policy, 596, 597 ; conduct, 601 ;
motives, 609 ; policy, 616 ; adherents, 619 ; object, 620 ; power, 621 ; measures to-
wards, 622 ; captures by, 626 ; decrees aggressive, 631, 636; conduct, 640; resistance
to, 642, 643; war, origin of, 645, 647, 649 ; irreligion and immorality, 650, 651 ; arro-
ance, 663, 664; demand of tribute, 669 ; invasion, 671,672; policy towards, 673, 675,
702, 729, 731.

Frauncis, v. 583, 584, 585 ; vi. 261.

Franklin, Benjamin, i. 39S ; opinion of Adams, vi. 446, 569, 571; vii. 380.

Franklin Fort, v. 11, 12; pieces signed, vi. 2; vii. 168.

Freedom, definition of, ii. 3, 22, 34, 64, 116, 291.

Free Ships, free goods, vii. 452, 453, 458, 460, 463, 464, 665, 667.

Freneau, iv. 299 ; v. 518, 519, 522 ; vii. 5, 6, 11, 15, 35.

French Captures, vi. 84; colonies, independence of, vii. 686 ; faction, vii. 681, 682, 6S9.

Fulton, v. 43.

Fundlng, i. 312 ; permanent, 317 ; general, 329, 356, 366, 867 ; ii. 191, 197, 198, 236, 239 ,
sinking, 212, 213 ; general, 217, 220, 239 ; iii. 5 ; sinking, 295; right of taxing public,
514 ; of sequestration and confiscation, 521 ; iv. 167, 187 ; sinking, 217, 218 ; state
of, 426 ; vindication of, vi. 636 ; vii. 735, 833.

Funerals and Executions, military, v. 415.

G.

Gallatin, vi. Ill, 279.

Galvan, Major, i. 221.

Gates, Horatio, i. 28, 37, 38 ; objects to detaching troops, 41, 49, 111, 170, 171 ; v. 546.

Genet, iv. 394, 415, 419 ; recall requested, 469 ; conduct, 489, 491, 494 ; correspondence
with, 496, 497; v. 561, 564, 565, 572, 574, 589; appeal of, vii. 117, 118, 119; fitting
privateers, 138, 139 ; enlisting citizens, 139, 140, 394, 395 ; instructions to, 396, 397,
399, 597, 598.

Genoa, iv. 169 ; vii. 624, 625, 653.

Georgia, ii. 17, 19; iv. 408, 473, 572; v. 33, 35.

Gerard, i. 65, 92.

German Battalion, ii. 147.

Germany, Emperor of, vi. 215, 230, 313 ; vii. 655.

Gerry, Elbridge, iv. 274; vi. 283, 297, 313, 316, 357, 367, 413.

Giles, Wm. B., v. 596 ; vi. 261.

Gllleland, i. 11, 271.

Gilman, iv. 85.

GENERAL INDEX.

8Y7

Gimat, i. 322.
Glass, iii. 277.
Glaubeck, v. 583, 584, 586.
Goodhue, vi. 249.
Goods, unloading of, iii. 64.
Gore, v. 580; vi. 61,402.
Gouvion, i. 305, 322 ; Madame, vi. 364.

Government, general, i. 189, 330, 435, 444; seat of, 471, 477; republican, ii. 30; civil,
44 ; free, 56, 188 ; federal and state, 189 ; powers necessary, 189, 198 ; weakness,
201, 202, 284; adequate, 339, 363; constitution of, 393, 395; guaranteed, 408; sup-
ports, 411 ; British, 413, 415 ; republic, 415 ; democratic, 415, 440 ; moderate, 416 ;
depends on opinion, 438, 446, 453 ; objects, 456 ; state, 459 ; national, 460 ; mixed,
464; monarchy, 464; representative,*^; departments, 465 ; extent of, 465 ; national,
iv. 19, 83 ; powers of sovereign, 105, 109, 110 ; defect of, 148 ; change of, 271 ;
powers, vi. 386 ; views of the, 581 ; national and state, vii. 778, 780 ; departments,
813, 818 ; definition of, vii. 164.
Grain, manufacture, iii. 267 ; v. 87.
Grand, Mr., iv. 163, 307, 308.
Grants, New Hampshire, i. 324, 330, 338, 397.
Granville, ii. 92 ; v. 29 ; vi. 34.

Great Britain, ii. 2, 8, 11, 14, 20 ; king, 46, 48, 62, 104, 105, 116 ; army, 117 ; income,
196; consumption of, 196; peace with, 244, 298, 323; iv. 31, 34, 35, 36, 59, 60, 62,
67 ; policy towards, 500 ; non-intercourse, 527 ; negotiation with, 531 ; conduct of,
545 ; treaty with, 549 ; instructions, 472, 550, 552, 565 ; v. 28.
Commercial System, v. 81, 93, 95, 470, 487, 489, 568, 593 ; vi. 2, 26 ; remonstrance to, 35,
58 89 107 125, 135, 166, 181, 187 ; Bank of England, 211, 237, 278, 286 ; new in-
structions, 288, 297, 300, 306, 315, 417, 462, 466, 469, 478, 485, 496, 519, 538; resources,
vii. 149,153,154,172; hostility to, 174, 185, 210, 218; situation, 220, 221; acts of
June 8, and November 6,1793, 302, 382; colonial system, 383, 384, 386, 390, 391,
461; conduct, 628; policy towards, 629, 630; orders of, 683, 635; conduct to, 639,
656 ; treaty with, 723 ; acts, validity of, 844.
Greene, Gen., succeeds Gates, i. 190, 193 ; southern army, 204 ; defeat of Gates, 205,

316, 318, 423; eulogium on, ii. 480; v. 583, 585, 586; vi. 579; Mrs., vi. 3, 6.
Greenleaf, vi. 413.
Gunpowder, iii. 278.

H.

Habersham, v. 37, 68.

Half-Pat, i. 347, 358.

Hamilton, prophetic letter, i. 1 ; mercantile letters, 2, 8 ; pay-book, 4; notes of reading,
4 5, 6, 7 ; captain of artillery, 7, 8, 9, 10; aid to Washington and Lieut.-Colonel, 11 ;
operations of enemy, 16; check to disaffection, 24 ; rank to Frenchmen, 26 ; danger
of Philadelphia, 34; his exposure, 35; mission to Gates, 37, 41, 44, 45 ; movements
of enemy, 60, 62, 63, 64, 70 ; battalions of negroes, 76 ; their emancipation , 77 ; vigor
at south, reinforcements of enemy, 85; western expedition, 85; West Indies, 88 ;
mission to D'Estaing, 93, 95; currency, finances, a foreign loan, 119 ; employment
of it, 121; a tax in kind, 124; advises a bank, board of trade, single executive de-
partments, 127 ; mission to negotiate a cartel, 132 ; movement of enemy, 139 ; mis-
sion to De Ternay, plan of co-operation, 140 ; movement of enemy, 142 ; officers of
light infantry, 143 ; defects of confederation, 150 ; advises a convention to form a con-
stitution, 157 ; perpetual revenue, 158 ; a bank-executive departments, 159 ; taxes, 162 ;

(o GENERAL INDEX.

a continental receiver, 163 ; Gates' defeat, lVl ; capture of Andre, 173; his character.
179 ; Arnold's treason, 172, 181 ; asks a command in light infantry, attack on New-
York, 195 ; armory, 201 ; marriage, 202 ; resigns as aid, 211 ; asks a command, 220 ;
finances, 225; revenues of U. S., 231; expenses, credit, a national bank. 236; plan
of, 240 ; funds and debts, 255 ; as to command in army, 258 ; obtains it, 266 ; ad-
vances to Yorktown, 269; attack of, 271; as to retaining his rank, 275; appointed
continental receiver, 279 ; condition of U. S., visits New-York Legislature, and
urges taxes, 288 ; resolution for a national convention, 288 ; as to New-York finances,
291,293; elected to Congress, 29S ; urges collection of taxes, 304 ; permanent funds.
307; taxes, collection of, 308 ; system of taxation, 311; advises funding debt, ii. 317 ;
resigns office of Continental receiver, 320 ; admitted to the bar, 320 ; elected to
Congress, 320 ; dissuades removal of French army, 821 ; rule of conduct, 336 ; na-
tional commissioners, his plan of, 336 ; mocferation in army, 346, 851 ; chairman of
committee on peace arrangements, 359 ; as to plan funding debt, 366 ; treaty of
peace, 369 ; mutiny of troops, 374, 895 ; New Hampshire, 397 ; Federal Union,
402 ; relinquishment of compensation, 403 ; rank in army, 403 ; garrisoning posts,
405 ; rank, 412 ; brevet,'413 : learning, 420 ; Cincinnati, 428 ; tories 431 ; for an en-
ergetic government, 436 ; temporary absence from convention, 436, 440, 442 ; as to
his appointment of aid to Washington, 444 ; the new Constitution, 445, 448 ;
Steuben's claims, 448 ; the Federalist, 450 ; as to conditional ratification of Consti-
tution/464 ; as to adoption by Vermont, 46S ; "Washington becoming President?
470, 473, 488 ; as to seat of Government, 471 ; advises policy of Massachusetts as
to amendments, 476, 486 ; Vermont, 477 ; as to the Vice-President, 481 ; opinion
of Adams, 487, 489 ; choice of President, 488 ; choice of Vice-President, 490.

Writes "full vindication of Congress," ii. 1; "farmer refuted," 37; "Ee-
marks on Quebec bill," 127 ; plan "reorganization of army," 189 ; plan "Inspector
General office," 153; writes Essays of Publius, 156; " military remarks and que-
ries," 164 ; second plan of office of " Inspector General," 168 ; instructions for
mission to France, 171 ; "military regulations," 176 ; "discipline," 188 ; "the Con-
tinentalist," 185; "resolutions for General Convention," 201 ; plan of " specific tax-
ation," 204; resolution for "raising funds," 212; for sinking fund, 212; report on
import duty, 213 ; provision for interest on debt, 223 ; for compensation to Steu-
ben, 223; for "valuation of lands and a census," 224; plan of quartermaster
general's department, 225 ; report on army memorial, 229 ; on memorial of Penn-
sylvania, 230 ; valuation of lands deferred, 236 ; for permanent and adequate funds
collected by Congrses, 236 ; respectful resolution as to Washington, 236 ; for open
debate, 237 ; homage to the army, 237 ; army lands and settlement of accounts, 238 ;
national funds, 239 ; basis of taxation, 241 ; department of foreign affairs, 242 ; ratifi-
cation of treaty with Great Britain, 243 ; Indian affairs, 244; commercial treaty with
Great Britain, 245 ; corps of invalids, 246 ; collection of taxes, 247 ; garrisoning fron-
tier posts, 248: treaty with Russia, 248; discharge of army, 250; deportation of ne-
groes, 251 ; army lands, 251 ; fulfilment of treaty with Great Britain, 252 ; thanks to
B. E. Livingston, 253 ; military peace [establishment, 253 ; mutiny at Philadelphia,
268 ; resolutions for a general convention, 269 ; mutiny at Philadelphia, 276 ; vindi-
cates Congress, 283; Phocion, 287 ; bank of New- York, 830; revenue system, 333;
Cincinnati, 335 ; address of Annapolis convention, 336 ; resolution of New-York legis-
lature calling a convention, and for appointment of delegates, 340 ; act instituting an
university, 341 ; revenue system, 352 ; act acceding to independence of Vermont,
374 ; speech on it, 375 ; speech on fulfilment of treaty, 390 ; propositions for a na-
tional government, 393 ; Constitution for the U. S., 395 ; speech on, 409 ; on a re-

GENERAL INDEX. 879

publican government, 416, 417 ; prospects of Constitution, 419 ; on the opposition
to it, 422 ; speech on it, 426 ; speech on Senate, 446 ; brief of argument on Consti-
tution, 463 ; draft of proposed ratification, 467 ; resolution to carry it into effect,
471 ; on fugitive slaves, 472 ; free navigation of Mississippi, 473 ; address on New-
York election, 474 ; euloginm on General Greene, 480.

Eeport on public credit, iii. 1 ; on remission of forfeitures, 4G ; on additional
estimates, 48 ; on State debts, 50 ; impost act, 54, tonnage duties, SO ; State debits
and credits, 80; purchase of West Point, 82; plan for sale of public lands, B4 : es-
timates, 89 ; renewal of certificates, 93; public credit, 95; National Bank, 106:
estimates, 146; duties on imports, 148; establishment of a mint, 149; India and
China trade, 18S ; Dutch loan, 190 ; duties on spirits, 192 ; report on manufactures,
192; receipts and expenditures, 284; loans, 2S6 ; duties on spirits, 297 ; additional
supplies, 326; remission of duties, 337; public debt, 338; loans, 350, 351; bank
deposits, 352 , loans, 356, 368, 370, 371, 403 ; public funds, 411 ; loans, 413 : duties
on spirits, 441 ; balance in treasury, and loans, 444; Public debt, &c, 446; loan,
448, 451 ; public credit, 456 ; improvement of revenue, 529 ; revenue circulars.
537; reports on claims, 578.

Etiquette, iv. 1 ; formation of cabinet, 4 ; negotiations as to foreign loans, 5,
12, 13, 22, 37, 38, 149, 152, 154, 157, 158, 162, 163, 168, 170, 176, 181, ISO, 188, 193,
217, 221, 226, 279, 282, 308, 320, 337, 411, 425, 426, 436, 449, 466, 533, 540, 562 ;
Indian Treaty, 6 ; on arrears of pay to Virginia and North Carolina lines, 15 ; on light-
houses, 23 ; communication with Beckwith, 30, 32 ; on revenue cutters, 46 ; on march-
ing British troops through U. S., and a pacific policy, 48 ; on navigation of Mississippi,
71 ; President's speech, 77, 83 ; on fisheries, 79 ; assay of dollars, 93 ; mail con-
tracts, 95; on treaty with Prance, 97; letter to National Assembly, 101; on con-
stitutionality of National Bank, 104 ; on treaty with Great Britain, 141 ; on defect of
power in national government, 148; foreign coins, 162; inspection of stock lists;
166; succor to Hispaniola, 174 ; President's Speech, 184; on treaty with Great
Britain, 190 ; apportionment of Kepresentatives, 206 ; loans from France, 223 ; re-
election of Washington, 235 ; army supplies, 242 ; salary to Vice-President, 245 ;
defence of his administration, 248 ; on opposition to internal duties, 284, 286, 287,
291, 306, 311, 315; cabinet dissensions, 303; speech of President, 323; succor to
Hispaniola, 328, 339 ; commerce and navigation of United States, 332 ; treaty with
Indians, 340 ; debt to France, 343 ; invasion of Spanish territory, 343 ; loans, 347 ;
war in Europe, 356; neutrality, 357, 359, 360, 361; reception of French minister,
362 ; obligations of treaties with France, 382 ; advance of money to France, 391 ;
fitting out privateers, 394; allowances collecting revenue, 407 ; Indian wars, 409 ;
debt to France, 414, 417, 420, 422 ; French privateers, 424, 434, 438, 443, 457, 462,
471; questions to judges, 450; convening Congress, 460; restoration of French
prizes, 467 ; on Genet's conduct, 469 ; on British instructions, 472 ; reply to Rich-
mond, 474 ; convening Congress, 477, 481 ; communication to Congress, 485 ; Presi-
dent's Speech, 486 ; President's Message, 492; requests inquiry into his conduct,
495 ; message of President, 496 ; release of La Fayette, 505 ; transmission of corre-
spondence, 505; preparation for war, 507; advance to France, 508; on loans, 510,
512,513,516; state of public affairs and mission to England, 519 ; instructions to
Jay, 536, 550; on reply to Hammond, 544; on negotiating with Great Britain, 551 ;
treaty project, 555; Indian war, 558; establishment at Presqu' Isle, 559; foreign
intercourse expense, 560; supervisor of revenue, 566 ; removal of a collector, 568;
compensation for captured vessels, 569 ; treaty concert with Sweden and Denmark.
571; Kentucky and Georgia, 573; insurrection in Pennsylvania, 575; report on.
578 ; proclamation, 600.

880 GENERAL INDEX.

Insurrection in Pennsylvania, v. 1, 11, 12, 13, 15 ; employment of militia, 16 ;
on commercial treaty with Great Britain, 29 ; Indians in Georgia, 33 ; instructions
to General Lee, 38 ; march through Pennsylvania, 43 to 55 ; invites inquiry into his
conduct, 56 ; purveyor of supplies, 56 ; loan, 60 ; proclamation of thanksgiving,
61 ; commissioner of loans, 63 ; additional compensation to supervisors, 65 ; remit-
tance of stock, 66 ; conduct of mint, 70 ; mounted volunteers, 72 ; agents for Indian
affairs, 72 ; 7'esigns treasury department, 73 ; Washington's approbation, 74'; speech
on commercial relations, 80 ; act to punish crimes, 95 ; imposing duties on carriages,
99 ; for calling forth militia, 103 ; remarks on treaty with Great Britain, 106 ; ap-
pointed Inspector General, 137; extra allowances, 152; reply for Washington
to Secretary at war, 154, 165, 177 ; army regulations, 181 ; bill for provisional army,
190; organization of militia, 191; provisional army, 192; system of trade with In-
dians, 193; manufactories of arms, 193; medical establishment, 194, 210; distribu-
tion of commands, 196; instructions for recruiting, 211; army commands, 211 ;
act better organizing troops, 223 ; transportation, 232 ; riot in Pennsylvania, 235,
237; plan as to military supplies, 242; objects of discussion with Wilkinson, 247 ;
cavalry evolutions, 248 ; arrangement of artillery, 251 ; filling vacancies, 255 ; dress
of soldiers, 256 ; Indian affairs, 257 ; candidates for vacancies, 258 ; sales by In-
dians, 259 ; supplies, 260 ; enlistment of foreigners, 261 ; volunteer corps, 262 ; re-
medies for desertion, 263; duties of Adjutant General, 264; supply of a regiment
of infantry, 272; cavalry, 276; act better organizing corps of artillerists and engi-
neers, 280 ; rank and promotion, 286 ; capital punishment, 289 ; plan for uniform,
291 ; regulations for issue of fuel, straw, and stationery ; horses, 293 ; discipline, 296 ;
winter quarters, 299 ; on legal enlargement of soldiers, 303; circular as to military
communications, 304 ; allowance of barracks and quarters, 308 ; disposition of
troops on frontiers, 311 ; army supplies, 320 ; allowance of servants, 327 ; regulations
as to supplies and special and extra expense, 329 ; filling vacancies, 331 ; advances to
army, 334; arrangement of huts, 341, 342; distribution of troops, 345, 347, 355;
extra allowance, 356; works at Loftus Heights, 360, 372 ; distribution of troops, 361 ;
stage wagon for army uses, 369; rations, 370; pay of troops, 374; plan of mili-
tary academy, 378 ; uniform, 385 ; funeral honors to Washington, 388 ; separate
commands, 396 ; adjustment of accounts, 397, 409 ; general army system, 404; the
step, 407,412; organization of a regiment, 413 ; Deputy Quarter Master General's
duties, 416 ; order of battle, 421, 427 ; Paymaster General 424, 425'; rule of promo-
tion, 430, 435 ; special compensations, 432 ; address on disbanding army, 437
French revolution, 440 ; excessive speculation, '463, 476, 477, 478, 492, 498, 500
character of Wolcott, 467 ; manufactory at Patterson, 471, 508 ; army claims, 512
New- York canvassers, 514 ; appointment of Freneau in State department, 518
Pennsylvania opposition to internal revenue, 522; election of Vice-President,
527,528, 529, 532, 533 ; necessity of a loan, 550; reception of Genet, 564; deten-
tion of privateers, 569 ; threatened appeal of Genet to people, 574, 575 ; party ap-
pointments, 588 ; negotiation with Great Britain, western insurrection, 609, 611 ;
public credit, 624, 626 ; purposes of France, 634.

Katification of treaty with G. B., vi. 5 ; advice as to finance, 9 ; as to British Pro-
vision order, 29 ; of remonstrance to G. B., and modification of treaty, 35 ; power of
treaty commissioners, 43 ; G. W. La Fayette, 47, 70, 79, 102 ; calm observer, 49, 50 ;
instructions prior to conclusion of definitive treaty, 57 ; as to Secretary of State, 61 ;
Freich captures, 84; convening Senate, 86; call for papers, 90, 95, 97, 100 ^fulfil-
ment of treaty, 92, 94, 103, 106 ; conduct of England, impressment of seamen, 107 ;
candidate for President, 114; farewell address, 119; advice as to France, 122; ad-

GENERAL INDEX. 881

vises Veto, 128 ; policy of France, 130, 133 ; completion of frigates, 131 ; sale of a
prize, 155, 161, 165; conduct to Adet, 161, 163, 168; outline of president's speech,
167 ; commencement of a navy, 177 ; reply to Adet, 177, 179 ; election of president,
188 ; system of revenue, 190, 253, 259 ; policy towards France, mission and prepara-
tion, 193, 194, 205, 209, 213, 216, 218, 226, 230, 234, 246, 249, 270; sketch of his
career, 243 ; advice as to aid by G. B., 278 ; declines seat in Senate of the U. S., 281 ;
as to president's power to employ ships as convoys, 2S5 ; British instructions, 288 ;
proposes journey by Washington, 289 ; probable appointment to command army,
293, 316; measures of military preparation and revenue, 295; conduct of British
officers, 298 ; policy as to alien bill, 300 ; bill to define treason, 307 ; as to his
military rank, 326, 331, 340, 341, 355; military expedition to S. America, 347,
348 ; advises treasury notes, 349 ; terms of loan, 381 ; house-tax, 381 ; proposes
measures to support government, 384 ; internal improvements, 386 ; subdivision
of States, 387 ; contingent authority to declare war, and conquest of Floridas and
Louisiana, 390 ; expedition to South America, 391 ; nomination of Murray, 397 ;
governor of each State first general of its militia, 405 ; directs prosecution for a libel,
413; commission to France, 414 ; on death of Washington, 415; condition of public
affairs, completion of navy, 416, 417 ; election of president, 429, 438, 441, 445, 451 ;
as to compensation for injury in public service, 432 ; letters to Adams, 449, 470, 477 ;
Jefferson or Burr as president, 487, 495, 497, 499, 508, 519, 520, 521 ; treaty with
France, 496 ; effect of, 514 ; judiciary system, 529 ; proposes amendments of consti-
tution, as to election of president and vice-president, 531, 536; policy of federalists,
540 ; state of parties, 546 ; project in aid of Wolcott, 549 ; cession of Lousiana to
France, 551 ; states his propositions in federal convention, and views of govrnment
for U. S., 556 ; New-York election, Lansing or Burr, 559 ; vindicates federalists,
561, 562, 565 ; on preservation of the Union, 568 ; condition of army and enemy in
1777; punishment of disaffected persons, 574; Danbury expedition, 577; plan of
enemy, 579 ; his views of government, 5S1 ; designs of enemy, 534 ; Fabian policy
vindicated, 587 ; strength and movements of enemy, 589, 592, 594,597 ; New- York
election, character of George Clinton examined, 600; writes "Address to Public
Creditors," 632; "Funding System Vindicated," 636; " Anti-Defamer," 651.

" An American," vi. 1 ; "payments of public debt," 16 ; "Civis,"18; "Fact,"
27; "Amicus," 31; "Catullus," 34; " A plain honest man," 74 ; " Observer," 75 ;
"Pacificus," 76; "No Jacobin," 117; "Reply of Washington," 140 ; " Ameriea-
nus,"141; "Tully,"157; " Horatius," 169; "Camillus," 172; "Explanation,"
528; " Washington's speech," 550; "Message for Washington as to call for pa-
pers and treaty power," 556 ; " Abstract of points to form Farewell Address,"
570 ; " draft of Farewell Address," 575 ; " France," 594; " The Answer," 600 ;
"Washington's speech," 611 ; " The Warning," 616 ; " The Stand," 689 ; "John
Adams," 687; "Address to Electors of New- York," 728; "The Examination,"
744 ; " Resolutions for amendment of constitution," 836; " Supplying New- York
with water," 837 ; " Plan of Merchants' Bank," 838 ; " Law Briefs," " Validity of
British acts," 844 ; "Carriage tax," 845 ; "Law of libel," 849; " Lansing or Burr,"
as Governor of New-York, 851.

Hammond, iv. 141, 177 ; reply to, 544, 557, 569 ; v. 470 ; vi. 27 ; vii. 381.

Hancock, John, i. 484 ; vi. 597.

Harper's Ferry, v. 339.

Harper, Goodloe, vi. 334, 338.

Harrison, Robert H., eastern alliance, i. 192, 215.

Hawkesbury, Lord, iv. 177.

Hay, Col., i. 85.

G 56

882 GENERAL INDEX.

Hazen, ii. 147.

Hemp, iii. 57.

Henfield, iv. 410.

Henry, Patrick, i. 463 ; vi. 113, 114 ; vii. 40, 41.

Hessians, i. 136.

Heth, Col., vi. 338, 343.

Hispaniola, iv. 174, 184.

Holders, original of debt, iii. 9, 12.

Holland, debt to, iv. 15, 39, 42, 62, 94, 151, 157, 169, 176, 247, 419, 566 ; v. 450, 554

vi. 20 ; treaty with, vii. 413, 427, 653, 782.
Holmes, vi. 33.
Honor, true, vii. 206.
Hoops, Major, v. 141.
Hospital, ii. 167.

Howe, Gen., i. 19, 27, 32, 50; vi. 588, 589, 593, 595, 597.
Howell, Gov., v. 43.
Hubbard, iv. 13, 37.

Hudson's Bat Co., vi. 17 ; vii. 266, 270, 435.
Humphreys, Col., i. 441, 442.
Husbands, v. 48.

I.

Impeachments, court of, ii. 404.

Import Doty, ii. 213, 214, 239, 364, 370 ; iii. 54, 55, 148 ; v. 447.
Impressment, vi. 35, 38, 80, 107, 169 ; vii. 212, 213.
Improvements, internal, iii. 255, 256 ; vi. 384, 385, 386 ; vii. 755, 756.
Income, professional, v. 139.
Indemnification, claims for, iii. 585, 587.

Independence, ii. 49, 50, 55, 175, 303, 358 ; of Vermont, 374, 419; of U. S., vi. 231.
India Goods, iii. 56, 57 ; trade, 188, 189.

Indians, i. 32, 421 ; ii. 244, 245 ; iv. 32, 84, 145, 184, 238, 323, 341, 408, 409, 411, 558, 559,
573 ; v. 11, 33, 35, 36 ; agents for, 72, 193, 247, 257, 259, 317 ; vi. IS, 56, 107, 596,
651 ; vii. 181, 243, 244, 255, 260, 551 ; protection of, 554, 555.
Indigo, v. 88.

Infantry, ii. 143; v. 166, 223, 498, 506.
Inland Trade Navigation, vii. 243, 247, 254, 262, 271, 275, 277.

Inspector General, i. 56, 77 ; ii. 153 ; duties, 154, 168, 169, 170 ; v. 137, 139 ; compen-
sation, 181, 187, 197, 207 ; deputy, 228, 231, 265, 297 ; vi. 294, 323, 326, 327, 323,
329, 355.

Inspectors, iii. 65.

Interest, rate of, iii. 23 ; quarter yearly, 30 ; rate of, iv. 86, 89, 172, 346.

Invalids, corps of, v. 328.

Ireland, ii. 17, 18, 106, 107 ; vi. 309, 312, 372, 412.

Iron, manufacture of, iii. 259, 262 ; v. 89.

Irvine, Gen., iv. 174.

Insurgents, trial of, vi. 2, 432 ; vii. 159, 165, 718, 719.

J,

Jacobin, vii. 118, 133, 137.
James, King, ii. 70.

GENERAL INDEX. 883

Jay, John, i. 61, 400, 421 ; iv. 4, 7, 531 ; instructions to, 536, 550 ; prospects, 574 ; v. 140,
589, 602, 603, 605, 609 ; vi. 2, 95, 97, 114, 117, 137, 141, 161, 192, 207, 312, 345, 492 ;
vii. 175, 176 ; mission, 179, 180, 182, 186, 208, 209, 381, 462, 464, 690, 723, 741, 742.

Jefferson, iv. 4, 8, 23, 34, 35, 148, 303, 306, 312, 314, 517 ; v. 90, 115, 116, 127, 519, 522
526, 528, 535, 538, 540, 552, 575 ; vi. 59, 111, 191, 192, 206, 214, 242, 246, 280, 419, 420,
421, 434, 437, 438, 441, 445, 447, 453, 454, 457, 463, 464, 467, 468, 473, 483, 486,
487, 488, 490, 491, 492, 494, 495, 497, 499, 501, 504, 506, 507, 509, 510, 511, 512, 513,
523; vii. 5, 6; opposition to constitution and provision for debt-bank, 8, 10, 11, 12,
13, 14, 35, 38, 41 ; advice as to debt to France, 37, 40, 44, 58, 59, 64, 65, 66, 68, 69, 70,
71, 72; opposition to fiscal measures, 42, 43, 47, 48 ; attack on Adams, 49, 50; op-
position to Constitution, 54, 55, 56, 60, 74, 175, 197, 199, 294; letter of, 308, 313, 323,
380, 381, 382, 394, 395, 398, 459, 460, 462, 463, 601, 688, 695, 696, 700, 722, 724, 734,
738, 817, 832, 852.

Johnson, Gov., v. 439.

Judiciary Department, ii. 270, 394, 395, 403 ; iv. 17 ; v. 446 ; extension of, vi. 384, 385-
483, 498, 528, 543, 545 ; vii. 762 ; objects, 763, 765 ; constitution of, 767, 792 ; inde-
pendence of, 793, 799, 806, 808, 811, 815, 824, 826.

Jury, trial by, ii. 315.

Justice, fugitives from, ii. 408.

K.

Keane, iv. 6.
Kent, Duke of, v. 434.

Kentucke, i. 458 ; ii. 426 ; iii. 589 ; iv. 326, 344, 573 ; v. 13, 473 ; vi. 392, 403.
Ktng, Rufus, iv. 145, 150 ; vi. 61, 113, 122, 125, 130, 2S0, 303, 546, 553.
Kirkpatrick, i. 272.
Knowlton, i. 342.
Knox, Hugh, i. 24, 52.

Knox, Gen., i. 482, 483; ii. 152 ; iv. 6 ; v. 31, 139, 141 ; vi. 324, 326, 328, 331, 336, 339,
340, 341, 342, 343, 346, 351, 355, 366, 369, 373, 571.

La Fayette, i. 63, 137, 138, 140, 197, 211 ; southern army, 263 ; negotiations in France,
277, 283 ; Indians, 421 ; U. S. and France, 446 ; iv. 6, 100, 102 ; his release, 505 ; vi.
47, 48, 51, 63, 65, 70, 71, 73, 78, 79, 85, 90, 102, 118, 120, 266 ; vii. 105.

Lakes, v. 319.

Lazurne, character, i. 83, 84.

Land, valuation of, i. 334, 335; Hamilton's plan of, 336; ii. 190; valuation, 225; ces-
sion, 234, 235 ; valuation deferred, 235 ; allowances, 238, 251 ; tax, 240 ; value, iii. 6
26 ; report sale of, 84, 85, 86, 87 ; patents, 88 ; commissioners, 89 ; waste, 123 ; ap-
propriation, 295, 463 ; estimate, iv. 184 ; power to relinquish, 340 ; vii. 555.

Langdon, iv. 85.

Lansdown, Marquis of, v. 481.

Lansing, vi. 559 ; reasons for election, vii. 851, 853.

Laurens, Col., i. 68, 109, 111 ; mission to France, 113; southern army, 114; 172, 214
271 ; death, 318.

Laurens, Henry, i. 80.

Lauzun, Duke, i. 215.

88-4 GENERAL INDEX.

Law of Nature, ii. 43, 45.

Law or Nations, modern, binding on U. S., vii. 349.

Lawrence, John, i. 310 ; vi. 82, 83.

Laws, Doctor of, v. 458.

Lead, manufacture of, iii. 264.

Lebeuf, v. 613.

Lee, Major-Gen., i. 19, 68 ; duel with Laurens, 73, 358.

Lee, Major, instructions to, i. 79, 86, 94, 99, 104, 105 ; Governor, v. 44, 45, 46, 48, 53 ; vi.

62, 68.
Lee, Richard H., i. 482.

Legislation, power of, vii. 801, 803, 807, 819, 825.
Legislature of U. S., powers of, ii. 405; exceptions to, 406.
Leguen, vi. 133.
Lenox, Major, v. 52.
Letters, forged, vi. 111.
Lewis, Morgan, vi.'560.
L'Hohmedieu, i. 409.

LlANCOURT, EoCHEFAtTCATJLD, v/28.*

Libel, law of, vii. 849.

Liberty, vii. 164.

Licenses, duties on, iii. 52 ; abstracts of, 570.

Lieutenant Colonel, v. 168.

Light Houses, iv. 23, 30, 75, 82, 222, 316.

Lincoln, Gen., as V. P., i. 482, 483.

Liston, vi. 472, 473.

Livingston, Eobert E., i. 12, 14, 15 ; ii. 253 ; v. 464 ; vi. 231, 232, 233, 234, 473.

Livingston, William, Gov. i. 471.

Livingston, Edward, vi. 90 ; election of, 188.

Loans, i., abroad, 323 ; ii. 192, 193, 204, 458 ; iii. 2, 24 ; Tontine, 29, 42 ; Dutch, 190, 191,
286; Eeporton, 350, 351, 352, 356, 357, 368, 370; policy, 384; authority, 403; de-
fence, 414 ; benefits, 418 ; domestic, 444, 448, 449 ; from bank, 451 ; iv. 12, 13, 14,
39, 41, 44, 83, 87, 90, 138, 140 148, 151, 153, 155, 164, 167, 173, 178, 186, 193, 227,
239, 246, 347, 354, 411, 419, 428, 429, 430, 435; application of, 436, 449, 453, 464,
466, 509, 533, 540, 543, 546, 566 ; v. 37 ; at Antwerp, 59, 60, 550 ; vi. 7 ; interest on,
how payable, 10, 16, 381.

Loftus Heights, Water battery, v. 360, 363, 371. '

London, ii. 2, 6.

Louis XVI., vii. 103, 105, 107.

Louisiana, iv. 35, 57 ; v. 148, 158, 283 ; cession to France, vi. 15, 20, 276, 278, 291, 391,
524, 551, 553.

Lowndes, Capt., i. 1.

Loyalists, i. 443.

Luxuries, iii. 34.

M.

McDougal, Gen., i. 36, 90, 159 ; vi. 579.

McGillivrat, iv. 6.

MoHenry, i. 327, 365 ; vi. 63, 130, 133, 334,^351, 354, 366 ; vii. 717.

McKean, Judge, vi. 406, 523.

McPherson, Gen., vi. 406.

GENERAL INDEX. 885

Madison, James, i. 383 ; conditional ratification, 465, 470 ; ii. 213, 252 ; iv. 274, 277, 517 ;
vi. 78, 92, 111, 209, 214, 223, 230, 235, 241, 242, 246, 261, 473, 559 ; vii. 40, 41 ; com-
mercial resolutions, 382, 724, 734; proposes direct tax, 738.

Magazines, v. 164, 165, 323.

Major General, v. 137, 138, 229.

Malcolm, Col., i. 310 ; vi. 562, 563.

Malmesbury, Mission of, vi. 183, 260, 276.

Malta, vi. 811.

Mansfield, Jared, i. 442.

Manufactures, ii. 12, 20, 28, 113, 114, 115 ; iii. 5, 123 ; report on, 123 ; expediency of en-
couraging, 193, 232; enumeration of, 233 : effect on price, 235; motives to protect,
236 ; effects of, 237 ; geographical interests, 241 ; protective duties, 244 ; prohibito-
ry, 245; bounties, 246 ; premiums, 251 ; exemptions from duty, 251; drawbacks,
252 ; new inventions, 253 ; inspection of, 255 ; remittances, 255 ; transportation,
255 ; bounties, 280, 2S1 ; v. 193, 471, 475, 478, 506, 508, 512, 514, 548 ; vii. 615, 616.

Manumission Society, i. 423 ; vi. 525.

Marshall, John, vi. 283, 392, 438.

Maryland, ii. 71, 74, 146, 147 ; vi. 367.

Massachusetts, i. 456 ; ii. 5, 71, 87, 95 ; iii. 72 ; iv. 76 ; v. 215, 216, 277.

Matthews, i. 136.

Meade, Col., i. 207, 298.

Measures, Weights and Coins, Report on, iv. 23.

Medical Establishment, v. 194, 218, 297.

Meigs, i. 442.

Mercator, vii. 19, 21, 24.

Mercer, Col., v. 592.

Merchants, integrity of, iii. 62 ; protection of, vii. 499.

Mexico, iv. 70 ; vi. 391.

Mifflin, Gov., iv. 559 ; as to drafting militia, v. 43, 44, 47 ; vi. 406.

Militia, plan of, ii. 264, 265, 266 ; v. 8, 9, 17, 20, 21, 32 ; objects of calling, 38, 42, 43, 46,
49; return, 55; act calling forth, 103; classing, 185; plan, 191, 193; act, 447, 608
621 ; classed, vi. 295, 306 ; draft, 378, 380, 405 ; vii. 554, 686.

Military Academy, See Academy Military.

Military Executions, v. 249, 289, 356.

Mint, establishment of, iii. 149 ; money unit, 151, 15S, 180; coins, 158; metals, 161;
alloy, 163; coinage free or not, 165, 176; alloy, 178; pieces, 180; denominations,
182; devices, 184; coins, foreign, 185 ; officers of mint, 187 ; errors, remedy of, 187
iv. 23, 96; v. 70; vii. 555, 734.

Miranda, iv. 71 ; vi. 343, 347.

Mission to France, v. 359 ; to England, vi. 113, 122, 125 ; to France, 209.

Mississippi, i. 408 ; ii. 17, 19, 109 ; navigation, 255, 293, 473 ; iv. 35, 48, 56, 60, 63, 65, 71 ;
v. 349 ; vi. 58 ; vii. 171, 217, 251, 254, 256, 271, 277, 278, 279, 596.

Mitchell, John, i. 100.

Monarchy, iv. 271, 273, 298 ; vi. 565.

Money, when in the treasury, iii. 449.

Monroe, James, v. 27, 48, 634; vi. 1, 88, 116, 129, 133, 137, 150, 159, 225, 226, 231, 261
389.

Montesquieu, vi. 388.

Montmorin, iv. 10 11 ; v. 449.

Morgan, General, v. 47, 50.

886 GENERAL INDEX.

Morocco, vi. 55 ; vii. 551.

Morris, Gouverneur, i. 12, 13, 27, 362, 417, 490 ; iv. 10, 31, 140, 157, 227, 307 ; v. 27 ; tj.

116, 120, 443.
Morris, Chief Justice, ii. 478, 470.
Morris, Kobert, i. 116, 159, 223, 264; appoints Hamilton-Continental Receiver, 278, 284,

299, 357, 358, 362, 364, 417 ; v. 474.
Mount Vernon, the capture of, vi. 132, 136.
Moustier, Count de, iv. 7, 8, 9, 11.
Mutint at Philadelphia, i. 374, 385, 386, 394, 395.
Murray, Vans, v. 216 ; vi. 396, 397, 399.

N.

Nash, vi. 431.

National Assembly, iv. 77, 78, 101, 304.

National Gazette, vii. 5, 6, 7, 10, 11, 35, 36, 51.

Naturalization Laws, aholition of, vii. 771, 772, 774,775, 776.

Naval Officer, iv. 37.

Naval Stores, v. 89.

Navigation, French, iv. 97.

Navy, ii. 255; agent of marine, 261, 267; v. 283, 288, 595, 598; vi. 131, 177, 189, 214,
283, 285, 295 ; Secretary of, 303, 386, 417, 534 ; vi. 555, 614, 686 ; agents, 783.

Necker, iv. 7 ; v. 441, 448, 450, 451.

Negroes, arming and emancipation of, i. 76, 77, 214 ; slavery, 423 ; deportation of, ii..
251 ; representation of, 434 ; vi. 38 ; deportation of, vii. 190, 191, 192, 193, 207.

Nelson, Admiral, vi. 311.

Netherlands, United, iv. 37.

Neutrality, rules for preserving, iii. 574 ; iv. 36, 63, 357, 359 ; proclamation, 360, 361 .
circular, 392, 451, 452, 454, 457, 467, 475, 486; v. 553, 555, 559, 581, 595: vi. 150^
151; proclamation of, vii. 76, 77>(79 ; object, 82; policy, 93, 94, 114, 116; rights,
443, 448, 449, 451 ; armed, 453, 456, 458, 498, 593, 618, 632, 634.

Neuville, de, vi. 84, 192, 196.

Neville, Presby, v. 17.

New England, ii. 71.

Newfoundland, vii. 435.

New Hampshire, i. 456, 462, ii. 147.

New Jersey, i. 471 ; ii. 147 ; vi. 138.

New Plymouth, ii. 72, 73.

New- York, attack on, i. 28, 31, 347, 407 ; as to Constitution, 452, 455, 459, 460, 464, 469.
ii. 81, 147 ; v. 493 ; trespass act, 115, 116 ; vii. 197 ; fortification of, v. 141, 151, 291 J
vi. 212, 370, 404,405; election, 436; bank, 175, 176, 184; reply to, vii. 140, 141.

Nicholas, George, vi. 403.

Nicholson, v. 209.

Non Exportation, ii. 13, 21, 87.

Non Importation, effects of, ii. 13, 21, 28, 87, 98.

North, William, vi. 69, 365.

Notables, Assembly of, i. 433.

Nova Scotia, ii. 17.

GENERAL INDEX. 887

0.

Oath of Office, ii. 408.

O'Connor, vi. 372, 373.

Officers, Army, accounts of, i. 344, 346, 365; ii. 139 ; half pay, general, 144; appoint-
ment, 190; [of Congress, 200, 216;] appointment, 260, 262; v. 144, 145, 154, 155,
166, 167 ; distribution, 177, 178 ; pay and rations, 224, 255 ; appointment, 255, 266.
279 ; detached, 152 ; French, v. 545 ; foreign, debt to, iii. 92 ; iv. 279, 282, 307, 317 ;
of customs, compensation, iii. 68, 77, 79, 531, 544 ; superintendence of, 558 ; and
interpretation of laws, 559 ; compensation, 562, 564 ; of inspection duties, v. 404 ;
officers, public compensation, vii. 614 ; reduction, 780.

Office, definition of, vii. 805 ; how holden, 822.

0<sden, i. 23, vi. 335.

Oglethorpe, vii. 323.

Ohio, iv. 123, company, 220, 340, 344 ; v. 349.

Olney, Capt., i. 271, 484.

Organization of Troops, v. 166, 320, 321, 413.

Original Claimant, iv. 15.

Orleans, New, iv. 35, 58, 60, 71.

Osnaburgh, Bishop of, i. 443.

Osgood, Col., iv. 4.

Pacificus, v. 571.

Paine, Thomas, vi. 185, 225.

Paper Monet, ii. 368 ; iii. 124, 125, 278.

Papers, call for, vii. 556 ; reasons for refusing, 557, 559, 570.

Parker, iv. 78 ; v. 339, 353.

Parkinson's Ferry, v. 46.

Parliament, ii. 26, 42 ; Commons, power of, 52 ; supremacy, 60, 92, 289.

Passage, right of, iv. 48, 49.

Pay of Army, v. 224, 325, 374.

Paymaster General, ii. 148 ; v. 229, 233, 243, 376, 424, 425.

Peace, i. 321, 339, 346, 348 ; treaty of, 360, 362, 368, 396 ; vii. 205.

Peace Establlshment, i. 359, 410, 412.

Pendleton, Edmund, v. 563 ; vi. 526.

Pendleton, Nathaniel, vi. 62.

Pennsylvania, i. 28, 374, 381, 388, 393, 471 ; ii. 146 ; iv. 285, 287 ; insurrection, 291, 564,

566, 575; suppressed, 576 ; report on, 578; proclamation, 599, 600; v. 1, 3, 12, 13.

19, 22 ; proclamation, 31, 46, 53, 236, 237, 240, 262, 268, 522, 524, 530, 606, 608, 609,

610, 611, 613, 614, 617, 620 ; vi. 406 ; vii. 161, 162.
Peru, vi. 391.
Peters, EicnARD, v. 40.
Pftition, ii. 5, 9.
Petri, v. 69.
Pettit, v. 458.
Phelps, i. 324.

Philadelphia, i. 33; danger of, 34, 381 ; ii, 77; vi. 578, 579, 585.
Pichon, v. 217; vi. 425, 428.
Pickering, Timothy, i. 297, 306 ; v. 284 ; vii. 715.

888 GENERAL INDEX.

Pierce, Major, i. 438.

Pilots, regulation of, iv. 81.

Pinckney, C. C.j v. 149, 203. 204, 217 ; vi. 208, 211, 213, 221, 223, 230, 235, 241, 242, 246,
282, 283, 313, 319, 324, 326, 331, 333, 337, 342, 344, 350, 369, 436, 440, 444, 446, 452,
454, 457, 459, 461, 463, 464, 465, 471, 475, 481, 513; vii. 702, 724, 725.

Pinckney, Charles, vi. 559.

Pinckney, Thomas, vi. 113, 114, 131, 180, 186, 191, 197 ; vii. 694, 695, 697, 698, 699, 700.

Pirates, vii. 489, 492.

Pitt, William, ii. 90 ; v. 504 ; vi. 375.

Pittsburgh, v. 12, 15, 17, 53, 522, 524.

Poland, vii. 153.

Police of Army, v. 384.

Polly Sloop, iv. 424.

Population, i. 335 ; iv. 84.

Portsmouth, v. 309.

Portugal, vii. 438, 781.

Posts, i. 371, 398, 399; garrisoning, 405; ii. 248, 295; iv. 34, 63, 65; vii. 194, 195, 196..
217, 218, 219, 220, 223, 225, 226, 232.

Post Office, iii. 41 ; iv. 4, 95, 184, 326 ; v. 72.

Pot and Pearl Ash, v. 88.

Power, excess, ii. 187 ; want of, 188 ; jealousy of, 222 ; bigotry, 325 ; toleration, 326.

President, ii. 399 ; persons eligible, 407, 466 ; iv. 1, 2, 292, 342, 570 ; v. 472 ; vi. 186,
188, 191, 285; electors, 404, 439, 452; salary of, vii. 529, 533, 538, 539, 542, 543,
547, 548.

Press, liberty of defined, vii. 849 ; bow protected, 849.

Prisoners, i. 359, 363 ; ii. 149.

Privateers, French, iv. 394, 401, 403, 438, 440, 443, 462, 469, 565 ; v. 14, 572, 577, 579;
vii. 120, 121, 123, 134, 135, 136, 138, 312, 313, 314; letters of marque, French, 400,
487, 488, 491, 495; refitting and providing, 496, 497 ; French, 602, 603; prizes, iv.
192, 451, 462, 467, 468, 471, 532 ; compensation for, 569, 570, 571 ; sale of, vi. 154,
155, 161, 164, 165, 166 ; seizure of, vii. 124, 125, 126, 129 ; sale, 136 ; condemnation,
139 ; sale, 494, 495 ; French, when restored, 602, 603, 606.

Promotion, v. 170, 286, 303, 430, 435.

Property, power over, iv. 122.

Prosecutions, i. 413.

Providence, vi. 567.

Provisions, salted, v. 89.

Provision Order, vi. 29, 31, 33.

Prussia, vi, 313, 315, 375, 407, 408, 588 ; vii. 112, 153, 155 ; treaty with, 379, 781, 783.

Public Credit, i. 329, 347, 356 ; iii. 1, 2, 5, 44, 95 ; plan for improvement, 456 ; proposi-
tions to complete system, 483, 491 ; iv. 5, 83, 98, 443, 454, 481, 625, 627 ; vi. 4, 16 ;
sinking fund, 127 ; vii. 26.

Public Creditors, i. 310; iii. 3, 5, 15, 19, 24; v. 456, 457 ; address to, vi. 632.

Public Funds, books not inspected, iv. 166.

Public Interest, vi. 431.

Publius, ii. 156, 160.

Purdy, Judge, vi. 561, 562, 563, 565.

Puritans, ii. 73.

Purveyor of Military Supplies, v. 56, 62.

Putnam, Gen., i. 45, 48, 51, 55.

GENERAL INDEX.

88V)

Quarters, v. 308.

Quarter Master General's Department, ii. 225, 228 ; v. 175, 227, 243, 346, 416.

Quebec Bill, ii. 127.

R.

Randolph, Edmund, i. 451, 455; iv. 4; v. 13, 27, 30; vi. 1, 2, 19, 27, 28, 39, 40, 48, 52,

65, 66, 76, 78, 79.
Bank of Officers, v. 250, 286, 287, 290, 368.
Rastadt, vi. 312, 315.
Ration, v. 173, 179, 230, 370.
Rawle, Wm,, v. 40.
Recruiting, v. 139, 145, 161, 178, 203, 209, 211, 218, 226, 233, 239, 241, 253, 266, 267, 400,

401 ; vi. 400.
Regiments, completing, ii. 141 ; organization, 143, 146.
Regulations of Tactics, v. 181, 207, 292, 293, 309, 329.
Religion, ii. 25 ; established, 131, 135; Protestant, 136: toleration, 351; Christian,

vi. 542.
Remission of Duties, iii. 337.
Remittances, how made, v. 66, 627.
Remonstrance, ii. 5, 9.
Representation, its basis, ii. 188,425, 440, 455; iv. 5, 17; apportionment, 196, 197, 206,

209, 213.
Rensselaer, Van, v. 493 ; vi. 522.
„ Republic, Federal, ii. 201 ; rights in, 316, 320, 415, 446, 463 ; dangers of, iv. 271 :
theory, vi. 558.
Residence, v. 456.
Responsibility, v. 373.
Returns, Monthlv, v. 273, 305, 021.

Revenue, ii. 191, 192, 197; perpetuity, 212 ; sources, 222, 223 ; adoption of system, 333.
352, 365, 366 ; power, 456 ; exclusive, 457 ; iii. 31, 32, 33 ; collection, 35 ; duties, 36,
38 ; product, 40, 53 ; how payable, 68 ; collection, 98 ; indirect, why preferable, 101 :
moderate duties, 102, 103; diversification, 103 ; additional, 327, 330 ; ratesexamined,
334; additional, 340; plan, 341, 347, 348; account and expenditure, 411,433, 439 ;
statement, 458, 474; disposition, 475 ; statement, 479 ; plan for improvement, 529 ;
collection, 531, 537,538; duties, bonded, 542; tonnage, 543; collection, 54o; reve-
nue laws, breaches of, 547 ; actual measuring, &c, 550 ; vi. 190, 214, 296 ; vn. 687,
749, 750, 753, 755, 758, 759, 761.
Revenue Officers, iv. SI, 319, 324, 407, 487, 506, 568.
Reynolds, James, i. 440.

Rhode Island, attack on, i. 64, 67 ; evacuation, 97 ; refuses duty on imports, 322 ; de-
putation to, 322; opposition to plan funding debt, 366, 484; n. 75, 164, 212, 216,
232; v. 296.
Rice, v. 87.
Richmond, iv. 474.
Riflemen, v. 175, 227.
Rights, equality of, ii. 52, 61, 62, 80.
Robespierre, v. 13 ; vii. 662.
Rolls, Muster and Pay, v. 336.

890 GENERAL INDEX.

Eome, ii. 10, 61.

Russia, ii. 118 . treaty with, 248,259; commerce, iv. 100 ; v. 504; vi. 215, 260, 586;

vii. 153, 155.
Rutledge, vi. 24, 77.
Rouverie, S., Marquis de, vi. 405.

s.

Salt, ill. 52, 333.

Sarah, little, brigantine, iv. 438, 440, 443.

Savannah invested, i. 101, 103.

Schuyler, Philip, i. 135, 159 ; eastern convention,|169, 183, 185, 188, 191, 209, 210,.222,

266, 330; vi. 573, 591.
Scotland, ii. 103 ; vi. 309.
Sea, Jurisdiction iv. 480.

Search, right of, vii. 447, 448, 453, 465, 467.

Sears, Isaac, i. 189.

Secretary of State, iv. 4, 23 ; iii. 116 ; vi. 52, 53, 67, 160.

Secretary of the Treasury, iv. 5, 23, 35.

Sedgwick, Theodore, i. 476, 481, 483 ; vi. 498.

Sedition, vi. 387 ; law, vii. 738.

Senate, ii. 395, 397, 447, 451, 452, 466 ; vi. 9, 15, 19, 86, 392.

Sequestration, prohibited, iv. 526 ; vii. 326, 380, 340, 350, 354; effect of, 357, disadvan-
tages of, 358, 363, 376.

Segur, Madame, vi. 65.

Servants, public, iv. 40 ; army, v. 327, 3S6.

Seton, James, i. 416.

Settlement, iii. 16.

Shelburne Lord, i 346.

Ships, v. 90, 94.

Short, William, appointed minister to Hague, iv. 185, 308.

Silk, iii. 277.

Simcoe, Lt. Col., i. 106.

Sims, i. 23.

Skins, Manufacture, iii. 265.

Slaves, Fugitive, ii. 472.

Slaves, Manumission of, vi. 268.

Slavery, definition of, ii. 3, its effects, 9, 23, 86.

Smallwood, i. 36.

Smith, Col., v. 435.

Smith, Wm., v. 533; vi. 61.

Smuggling, effects of, iii. 36.

Snuff, iii. 51, 534.

Soldiers, discharge of, v. 303.

South America, iv. 34; v. 283 ; vi. 347, 348, 368, 390, 391, 402.

Spain, ii. 119, 120, 193 ; debt to, iv. 14, 15, 31, 35; conduct of, 55, 64, 66, 78; treatv
with, 189, 190, 192, 294; v. 247, 367 ; vi. 15, 19, 21, 55, 74, 376, 524; vii. 153, 171,
181, 185, 244 ; Colonial system, 384, 385, 435 ; negotiation with, 552, 596, 657.

Speculation, v. 465, 477, 480, 492, 510.

Spices, duties on, iii. 51.

Spinosa, ii. 58.

GENERAL INDEX. 891

Spirits, distilled, duties on, iii. 36, 52, 96, 97, 98, 100, 106, 192, 297, 299, 325, 338 ; rev-
enue from, 441, 442 ; collection, 532 ; iv. 241, 285, 288, 292 ; proclamation, 306, 311.
318, 325, 332, 338 ; report on opposition, 578 ; proclamation, 600.

Staff, General, vi. 310, 323.

State, suits against, v. 582.

State Creditors, iii. 15.

State Debts, iii. 50 ; v. 447, 455, 547 ; vi. 193.

States, Governors of, ii. 407.

State Legislatures, iv. 19 ; governments, 105, 148.

States, money received from, and paid to, iii. 80, 81.

States, New, how formed, ii. 408 ; artificial beings, 418 ; delinquencies of, 429 ; inter_
est, 433 ; powers, 436, 449 ; necessity, 459 ; influence, 461 ; jurisdiction, 462.

State Prejudices, i. 346 ; politics, 356.

St. Clair, General, i. 132, 378, 382, 383, 385.

St. Croix, vi. 115 ; boundary, vi. 139, 140 ; vii. 280, 284.

St. Domingo, iv. 328, 490 ; vi. 395, 398, 399.

Steuben, Baron de, i. 56, 72, 73, 83, 136, 139, 142, 143,263, 428, 430, 431, 448, 475 ; ii.
154, 223.

Stevens, Edward, i. 1 ; Consul-general to St. Domingo, vi. 398.

Stevens, Col., v. 141, 260.

Stirling, Lord, i. 21 ; vi. 586.

Stoddart, v. 285 ; vi. 303, 356 ; fort., v. 365.

Sugars, duty on, iii. 50 ; manufacture of, 280.

Supervisors, plan, compensation, v. 65.

Sullivan, General, i. 60, 85, 90, 111.

Supplies, Military, plan v. 241, 242, 251, 271, 286, 301, 324; regulations of, 329.

Supreme Court, ii. 395, 403, 460.

Surat, vii. 413.

Surgeons, ii. 151, 167.

Surveys, v. 182, 185.

Surveyor General, iii. 87.

Sweden, ii. 118 ; treaty with dissuaded, iv. 571 ; vii. 137, 181, 297, 298 ; treaty with, 427.

T.

Tactics, v. 181, 384, 407, 412, 419, 422, 427.

Talbot, v. 209 ; vi. 354.

Talleyrand, de Perigord, iv. 548; v. 593; vi. 231, 280, 313, 316, 357, 3G7, 413.

Taverns, license on, i. 211, 312.

Taxes, mode of collecting, i. 163, 310, 311, 332; general, 332, 333, 373; ii. 24, 124, 190 ;
poll, 195; arbitrary, evil of, 199; plan of, 204; collection, 208; house, 210;
carriage, 210 ; seal, 211 ; tavern, 211, 218, 241 ; collection, 347 ; poll, iii. 257 ; arbi-
trary, 258; power, iv. 120, 121; house, stamp, salt, vi. 190; direct, 193, 199, 253,
255, 256, 296, 349, 382, 385 ; vii. 737, 738, 830, 888 ; direct and indirect, 845, 848.

Tea, ii. 24, 26, 93 ; iii. 38, 104 ; duties classified, 530.

Ternant, vii. 398.

Territorial Eights, how determined, ii. 405.

Territory, alienation of, iv. 191.

Test Oaths, ii. 316, 317.

Thanksgiving, proclamation of, v. 61.

892 GENERAL INDEX.

TlLGHMAN, Col., i. 219.

Tillotson, i. 310.

Tobacco, iii. 51 ; v. 83.

Tonnage, duties on, iii. 59,60; collection, 61, 80, 543; admeasurement, 546 ; when
payable, 546; returns of, 548 ; vii. 430, 431.

Toussaint, vi. 395, 399.

Toussaed, Col., v. 140.

Trade, boards of, i. 127, 159; restriction on, ii. 9 ; regulating, 189, 194; promote ex-
ports, 221 ; iii. 5 ; Mediterranean, iv. 84 ; free, 99 ; with Britain and France, 185 ;
spoliations on, vi. 200, 205, 212, 248.

Transportation, v. 232.

Treason, attainders, ii. 288, 303 ; discriminations, 321 ; bill defining, vi. 307.

Treasury Bills, vi. 127.

Treasury Department, iii. 1.

Treasury Notes, vi. 349.

Treaty of Peace, ratification, i. 413.

Treaty, commercial, ii. 245 ; provisional, 238, 243, 252, 390 ; power of, 573, 293 295, 306,
308; validity, 408; of peace, infractions of, iv. 141, 143, 144; with France, effects
of, iv. 449 ; with Britain, 536, 552, 555 ; v. 29, 54, 106, 630, 632 ; vi. 5, 6, 9, 11, 12,
13, 14, 15, 17, 19, 23, 25, 27, 30, 34, 36, 38,41, 44, 46, 54, 58, 75, 77, 83, 86, 92, 102,
104, 106, 108, 110, 112, 130, 135, 139, 146, 161, 208, 252, 264; with France, 286 ; vii.
78, 85, 86, 118, 119, 120, 312, 318, 323; suspension of, 674; with Britain, 169, 172;
opposition to, 176, 177 ; results of, 178, 186 ; of peace, breaches first, 187 ; date of
execution, 195, 196; breaches of, 197,400; articles of, 214; performance of, 228,
230 ; indemnification, 233, 237. 242, 381 ; twelfth article rejected, 403, 404, 405 ;
East India trade, 409; with Europe, 420, 427, 429, 431, 436; constitutionality of,
501, 509, 518, 527 ; effects of, 665, 667, 738 ; treaty power, vi. 92, 93, 94, 95 ; vii.
284; examined, 502, 509, 518; under confederation, 521; over territory, 525;
where lodged, 559 ; objects, 560, 561; obligation of House of Keprcsentatives, 563;
its province and rights, 567.

Treaties, commercial, vii. 379 ; policy of, 380, 382.

Tripoli, vi. 212 ; vii. 745, 747.

Trumbull, v. 48.

Truxton, Capt. v. 209 ; vi. 376, 435.

Tyconderoga, i. 31.

Tyranny, vi. 307.

u

Uniform, v. 149, 170, 230, 256, 291, 385.

Union, i. 334; perpetuation of, 348, 402, 405; opposition to, 453; ii. 358, 373, 459; iii.
4 ; v. 4 ; its value, vii. 572, 578.

Uniontown, v. 47.

United States, situation of, iv. 61, 519 ; parties, 520; policy, 523, 531 ; v. 59, 461 ; vii.
117 ; means of assisting France, 144, 145, 146, 147 ; war in concert, 148 ; effects of,
150, 151, 154; people of, motives and conduct, 156, 160; condition, 167 ; true foreign
policy, 172; interest in peace, 181, 182, 183, 184; war or peace, 209; commercial
policy, 387— towards France, 395, 396 ; situation, 552 ; public opinion, 641 ; condi-
tion, 642, 654 ; conduct to France, 661, 662, 663 ; device armorial, 685.
.University of New- York, ii. 341 ; national, vii. 611.

GENERAL INDEX. 893

United Provinces, i. 331.

Unjegah or Peace Eiver, journey to, v. 612.

V.

Vacancies, v. 331, 332.

Valerius, vi. 59.

Van Staphorst, iv. 13, 37.

Varville, de, v. 441.

Vaughan, v. 52.

Venice, vii. 653.

Vermont, independence of, i. 324 ; ii. 374, 375, 466, 472, 478.

Vessels, registering and clearing, iii. 72 ; admeasurement, 73; transfer, 74; coasting
and fishing, 74, 75 ; manifests, 539 ; measuring, 551 ; new entry, 572 ; armed pro-
hibition of, vi. 238, 248, 258 ; American, vii. 433, 434 ; national treatment of, 493 :
disabled, 494.

Veto, iv. 21, 205; advice to interpose, vi. 129.

Vice-President, ii. 403, 405 ; iv. 147, 154 ; salary, 245.

Virginia, as to Constitution, i. 452, 455, 461, 463 ; ii. 70, 146, 235 ; iv. 245 ; answer to,
471 ; v. 245; resolve, v. 460, 461, 526, 555, 604, 609, 615, 619; vi. 392, 416, 468; act
of, vii. 200, 201, 202 ; officers debt to, iv. 15.

Volunteers, Mounted, v. 72 ; organization, v. 262.

w.

Wabash, iv. 67.

Wadswoth, Jeremiah, i. 83, 415 ; ii. 160.

Wagon, stao-e, v. 369.

War, articles of, ii. 150 ; iv. 61, 68, 69, 356 ; preparation urged, 492 ; measures advised,
506 ; vi. 390 ; in Europe, character of, vii. 683.

Waranzow, Count, v. 504.

Walker, Col, vi. 338, 342.

Washington, election, i. 492; re-election, iv. 235, 280, 393, 492, 496 ; death, v. 388; fu-
neral honors, 388 ; general order, 389, 391, 395 ; vi. 207, 344, 349, 415, 416, 418, 424,
482, 491 ; vii. 700, 832.

Wayne, Gen., i. 36, 86 ; iv. 344, 558 ; v. 15.

Wats and Means, report on iv. 193.

Wells, i. 342 ; Benjamin, vi. 432, 433.

Western Country, iv. 57, 60, 64, 66, 174.

West Indies, ii. 13, 108, 109 ; iv. 56 ; v. 29, 30 ; vi. 378 ; trade, v. 90 ; vii. 401, 408 ;
depredations in, 626.

West Point, condition of, i. 144, 173, 185; purchase of, iii. 82, 83, 84.

Whigism, its spirit, ii. 288, 289.

Whitmore, i. 440, 442.

Wilkinson, v. 159, 211, 212, 218, 247, 270, 277, 282, 302, 360.

Williams, Otho H., i. 79, 148.

Willink, iv. 12, 13, 37, 38, 46, 164, 186.

Wines, iii. 36, 52, 104.

Whiter Quarters, huts, v. 299, 341, 342.

Wolcott, Oliver, appointed Comptroller, iv.fl59, 161 ; v. 67, 73, 74, 467 ; vi/68, 344,|345,
351, 356, 361, 463, 479, 549.

Wood, manufacture, iii. 265 ; v. 86.

894 GENERAL INDEX.

Wool, iii. 276.
Wtcomb, Lord, v. 480.

X.

X. Y. Z., vi. 313.

Y.

Yates, ii. 478, 479 ; v. 493.
Yorktown, i. 404, vi. 556.

1.

ERRATA

Vol. i., p. 20, for " Edminston " read " Edmonson."
144, for " We," line 17 from top, read " He."
227, for " some," line 13 from top, read "same."
225, in second line, before " have " read " will."
324, at bottom, for " decicisely " read " decisively."
419, for " Clarkeson " read " Clarkson."
Vol. ii., p. 396, in line 3 from bottom, omit " shall."

397, for " full," in line 19 from top, read "first."

in line next to bottom, for " not be less " read " be not less.'

399, in line 9 from top, for " shall be not" read " shall not be."
in last line, omit " individually."

400, in lines 16 and 17 from top, for "Junior " read " Senior."

402, in line 15 from top, for " finances" read " finance."
in line 23 from top, for " office " read " offices."

in line 32 from top, for "or" read " nor."

403, in line 14 from top, for "and" read "who."

404, before " Impeachments." in line 14 from top, read " Sec. ii.
in line 29 from top, omit " a."

407, in line 8 from top, before " its" read " to."

408, in line 21 from top, after " more " read " States."
Vol. iv., p. 595, for"Smilee" read "Smilic,"

OCT 2 7 1933