NYPL RESEARCH LIBRARIES

3 3433 08173707 8

HAMILTON'S WORKS.

VOL. III.

THE WORKS

OF

ALEXANDER HAMILTON;

COMPRISING

HIS CORRESPONDENCE,

AND

HIS POLITICAL AND OFFICIAL WHITINGS,

EXCLUSIVE OF THE FEDERALIST

CIVIL AND MILITARY.

PUBLISHED FROM THE ORIGINAL MANUSCRIPTS DEPOSITED IN
THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE,

BY ORDER OF

THE JOINT LIBRARY COMMITTEE OF CONGRESS.

EDITED BY

JOHN C. HAMILTON,

AUTHOR OF "THE LIFE OF HAMILTON.1

nT / — V ■— — j ' j \ -

■y f /■ y \ > , • • .

; ■ : •/

NEW-YORK:
JOHN F. TROW, PRINTER, 49, 51 & 53 ANN-STREET

M.DCCC.L.

Peeked
Mav ioi*

ok

Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1850. by

JOHN C. HAMILTON,

In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States for the Southern

District of New- York.

jEt. 33.]

FINANCE.

TREASURY DEPARTMENT.

PUBLIC CBEDIT.

Communicated to the House of Representatives, January 14, 1790.

Treasury Department, January 9, 1790.

The Secretary of the Treasury, in obedience to the resolu-
tion of the House of Eepresentatives of the twenty-first day of
September last, has, during the recess of Congress, applied him-
self to the consideration of a proper plan for the support of the
public credit, with all the attention which was due to the author-
ity of the House, and to the magnitude of the object.

In the discharge of this duty, he has felt, in no small degree, "■
the anxieties which naturally flow from a just estimate of the
difficulty of the task, from a well founded diffidence of his own
qualifications for executing it with success, and from a deep and
solemn conviction of the momentous nature of the truth contained
in the resolution under which his investigations have been con-
ducted, " That an adequate provision for the support of the pub-
plic credit is a matter of high importance to the honor and pros-
perity of the United States."

With an ardent desire that his well meant endeavors may be
conducive to the real advantage of the nation, and with the ut-
most deference to the superior judgment of the House, he now

c 1

2 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 33.

respectfully submits the result of his inquiries and reflections to
their indulgent construction.

In the opinion of the Secretary, the -wisdom of the House, in
giving their explicit sanction to the proposition which has been
stated, cannot but be applauded by all who will seriously consider
and trace, through their obvious consequences, these plain and
undeniable truths :

That exigencies are to be expected to occur, in the affairs of
nations, in which there will be a necessity for borrowing.

That loans in times of public danger, especially from foreign
war, are found an indispensable resource, even to the wealthiest
of them.

And that, in a country which, like this, is possessed of little
active wealth, or, in other words, little moneyed capital, the
necessity for that resource must, in such emergencies, be propor-
tionably urgent.

And as, on the one hand, the necessity for borrowing, in par-
ticular emergencies, cannot be doubted, so, on the other, it is
equally evident, that, to be able to borrow upon good terms, it is
essential that the credit of a nation should be well established.

For, when the credit of a country is in any degree question-
able, it never fails to give an extravagant premium, in one shape
or another, upon all the loans it has occasion to make. Nor
does the evil end here ; the same disadvantage must be sustained
upon whatever is to be bought on terms of future payment.

From this constant necessity of borrowing and buying dear,
it is easy to conceive how immensely the expenses of a nation, in a
course of time, will be augmented by an unsound state of the
public credit.

To attempt to enumerate the complicated variety of mischiefs
in the whole system of the social economy, which proceed from
a neglect of the maxims that uphold public credit, and justify the
solicitude manifested by the House on this point, would be an
improper intrusion on their time and patience.

In so strong a light, nevertheless, do they appear to the Sec-
retary, that, on their due observance, at the present critical
juncture, materially depends, in his judgment, the individual and

^Et. 33.] FINANCE. 3

aggregate prosperity of the citizens of the United States ; their
relief from the embarrassments they now experience ; their cha-
racter as a people ; the cause of good government.

If the maintenance of public credit, then, be truly so impor-
tant, the next inquiry which suggests itself is, By what means is
it to be effected? The ready answer to which question is, by
good faith ; by a punctual performance of contracts. States, like
individuals, who observe their engagements, are respected and
trusted, while the reverse is the fate of those who pursue an op-
posite conduct.

Every breach of the public engagements, whether from
choice or necessity, is, in different degrees, hurtful to public credit.
When such a necessity does truly exist, the evils of it are only
to be palliated by a scrupulous attention, on the part of the
Government, to carry the violation no further than the necessity
absolutely requires, and to manifest, if the nature of the case
admit of it, a sincere disposition to make reparation whenever
circumstances shall permit. But, with every possible mitigation,
credit must suffer, and numerous mischiefs ensue. It is, there-
fore, highly important, when an appearance of necessity seems to
press upon the public councils, that they should examine well its
reality, and be perfectly assured that there is no method of
escaping from it, before they yield to its suggestions. For,
though it cannot safely be affirmed that occasions have never
existed, or may not exist, in which violations of the public faith,
in this respect, are inevitable; yet there is great reason t(
believe, that they exist far less frequently than precedents indi-
cate, and are oftenest either pretended, through levity or want of
firmness ; or supposed, through want of knowledge. Expedients
often have been devised to effect, consistently with good faith,
what has been done in contravention of it. Those who are most
commonly creditors of a nation, are, generally speaking, enlight-
ened men ; and there are signal examples to warrant a conclu-
sion, that, when a candid and fair appeal is made to them, they
will understand their true interest too well to refuse their con-
currence in such modifications of their claims as any real neces •
sity may demand.

4 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.tor. 33.

While the observance of that good faith, which is the basis of
public credit, is recommended by the strongest inducements of
political expediency, it is enforced by considerations of still
greater authority. There are arguments for it which rest on the
immutable principles of moral obligation. And in proportion as
the mind is disposed to contemplate, in the order of Providence,
an intimate connection between public virtue and public happi-
ness, will be its repugnancy to a violation of those principles.

This reflection derives additional strength from the nature of
the debt of the United States. It was the price of liberty. The
faith of America has been repeatedly pledged for it, and with
solemnities that give peculiar force to the obligation. There is,
indeed, reason to regret that it has not hitherto been kept ; that
the necessities of the war, conspiring with inexperience in the
subjects of finance, produced direct infractions; and that "the
subsequent period has been a continued scene of negative viola-
tion or non-compliance. But a diminution of this regret arises
from the reflection, that the last seven years have exhibited an
earnest and uniform effort, on the part of the Government of the
Union, to retrieve the national credit, by doing justice to the
creditors of the nation ; and that the embarrassments of a de-
fective constitution, which defeated this laudable effort, have
ceased.

From this evidence of a favorable disposition given by the
former Government, the institution of a new one, clothed with
powers competent to calling forth the resources of the communi-
ty, has excited correspondent expectations. A general belief
accordingly prevails, that the credit of the United States will
quickly be established on the firm foundation of an effectual pro-
vision for the existing debt. The influence which this has had
at home, is witnessed by the rapid increase that has taken place
in the market value of the public securities. From January to
November, they rose thirty -three and a third per cent. ; and,
from that period to this time, they have risen fifty per cent,
more ; and the intelligence from abroad announces effects pro-
portionably favorable to our national credit and consequence.

It cannot but merit particular attention, that, among ourselves,

JEt. 33.J FINANCE. 5

the most enlightened friends of good government are those
whose expectations are the highest.

To justify and preserve their confidence; to promote the
increasing respectability of the American name ; to answer the
calls of justice ; to restore landed property to its due value ; to
furnish new resources, both to agriculture and commerce ; to
cement more closely the union of the States ; to add to their
security against foreign attack ; to establish public order on the
basis of an upright and liberal policy ; — these are the great and
invaluable ends to be secured by a proper and adequate provi-
sion, at the present period, for the support of public credit.

To this provision we are invited, not only by the general
considerations which have been noticed, but by others of a more
particular nature. It will procure, to every class of the commu-
nity, some important advantages, and remove some no less im-
portant disadvantages.

The advantage to the public creditors, from the increased
value of that part of their property which constitutes the public
debt, needs no explanation.

But there is a consequence of this, less obvious, though not
less true, in which every other citizen is interested. It is a well
known fact, that, in countries in which the national debt is
properly funded, and an object of established confidence, it
answers most of the purposes of money. Transfers of stock or
public debt, are there equivalent to payments in specie ; or, in
other words, stock, in the principal transactions of business,
passes current as specie. The same thing would, in all proba-
bility, happen here under the like circumstances.

The benefits of this are various and obvious :

First. Trade is extended by it, because there is a larger capital
to carry it on, and the merchant can, at the same time, afford to
trade for smaller profits ; as his stock, which, when unemployed,
brings him in an interest from the Government, serves him also
as money when he has a call for it in his commercial operations.

Secondly. Agriculture and manufactures are also promoted by
it, for the like reason, that more capital can be commanded to
be employed in both ; and because the merchant, whose enter-

b HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 33.

prise in foreign trade gives to them activity and extension, has
greater means for enterprise.

Thirdly. The interest of money will be lowered by it; for this
is always in a ratio to the quantity of money, and to the quick-
ness of circulation. This circumstance will enable both the pub-
lic and individuals to borrow on easier and cheaper terms.

And from the combination of these effects, additional aids
will be furnished to labor, to industry, and to arts of every kind.
But these good effects of a public debt are only to be looked for,
when, by being well funded, it has acquired an adequate and
stable value ; till then, it has rather a contrary tendency. The
fluctuation and insecurity incident to it, in an unfunded state,
render it a mere commodity, and a precarious one. As such,
being only an object of occasional and particular speculation, all
the money applied to it is so much diverted from the more useful
channels of circulation, for which the thing itself affords no sub-
stitute ; so that, in fact, one serious inconvenience of an unfunded
debt is, that it contributes to the scarcity of money.

This dictinction, which has been little if at all attended to, is
of the greatest moment ; it involves a question immediately
interesting to every part of the community, which is no other
than this : Whether the public debt, by a provision for it on true
principles, shall be rendered a substitute for money ; or whether,
by being left as it is, or by being provided for in such a manner
as will wound those principles, and destroy confidence, it shall
be suffered to continue as it is, a pernicious drain of our cash
from the channels of productive industry ?

The effect which the funding of the public debt, on right
principles, would have upon landed property, is one of the cir-
cumstances attending such an arrangement, which has been least
adverted to, though it deserves the most particular attention.
The present depreciated state of that species of property is a
serious calamity. The value of cultivated lands, in most of the
States, has fallen, since the Revolution, from twenty-five to fifty
per cent. In those further south, the decrease is still more con-
siderable. Indeed, if the representations continually received
from that quarter may be credited, lands there will command no

JEt. 33.] FINANCE. 7

price which may not be deemed an almost total sacrifice. This
decrease in the value of lands, ought, in a great measure, to be
attributed to the scarcity of money ; consequently, whatever pro-
duces an augmentation of the moneyed capital of the country,
must have a proportional effect in raising that value. The bene-
ficial tendency of a funded debt, in this respect, has been mani-
fested by the most decisive experience in Great Britain.

The proprietors of lands would not only feel the benefit of this
increase in the value of their property, and of a more prompt and
better sale, when they had occasion to sell, but the necessity of
selling would be itself greatly diminished. As the same cause
would contribute to the facility of loans, there is reason to be-
lieve that such of them as are indebted, would be able, through
that resource, to satisfy their more urgent creditors.

It ought not, however, to be expected, that the advantages
described as likely to result from funding the public debt, would
be instantaneous. It might require some time to bring the value of
stock to its natural level, and to attach to it that fixed confidence
which is necessary to its quality as money. Yet the late rapid
rise of the public securities encourages an expectation that the
progress of stock, to the desirable point, will be much more ex-
peditious than could have been foreseen. And as, in the mean
time, it will be increasing in value, there is room to conclude
that it will, from the outset, answer many of the purposes in
contemplation. Particularly, it seems to be probable, that from
creditors, who are not themselves necessitous, it will early meet
with a ready reception in payment of debts, at its current price.

Having now taken a concise view of the inducements to a
proper provision for the public debt, the next inquiry which pre-
sents itself is, What ought to be the nature of such a provision ?
This requires some preliminary discussions.

It is agreed, on all hands, that that part of the debt which has
been contracted abroad, and is denominated the foreign debt,
ought to be provided for according to the precise terms of
the contracts relating to it. The discussions which can arise,
therefore, will have reference essentially to the domestic part of
it, or to that which has been contracted at home. It is to be

8 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 33.

regretted that there is not the same unanimity of sentiment on
this part as on the other.

The Secretary has too much deference for the opinions of
every part of the community, not to have observed one, which
has more than once made its appearance in the public prints, and
which is occasionally to be met with in conversation. It involves
this question : Whether a discrimination ought not to be made
between original holders of the public securities, and present pos-
sessors, by purchase ? Those who advocate a discrimination, are
for making a full provision for the securities of the former at
their nominal value ; but contend that the latter ought to receive
no more than the cost to them, and the interest. And the idea is
sometimes suggested, of making good the difference to the primi-
tive possessor.

In favor of this scheme, it is alleged, that it would be unrea-
sonable to pay twenty shillings in the pound, to one who had not
given more for it than three or four. And it is added, that it
would be hard to aggravate the misfortune of the first owner,
who, probably, through necessity, parted with his property at so
great a loss, by obliging him to contribute to the profit of the
person who had speculated on his distresses.

The Secretary, after the most mature reflection on the force
of this argument, is induced to reject the doctrine it contains, as
equally unjust and impolitic; as highly injurious, even to the
original holders of public securities ; as ruinous to public credit.

It is inconsistent with justice, because, in the first place, it is
a breach of contract — a violation of the rights of a fair purchaser.

The nature of the contract, in its origin, is, that the public
will pay the sum expressed in the security, to the first holder or
his assignee. The intent in making the security assignable, is,
that the proprietor may be able to make use of his property, by
selling it for as much as it may be worth in the market, and that
the buyer may be safe in the purchase.

Every buyer, therefore, stands exactly in the place of the
seller ; has the same right with him to the identical sum expressed
in the security; and, having acquired that right, by fair pur-
chase, and in conformity to the original agreement and intention

Mi. 33.]

FINANCE. 9

of the Government, his claim cannot be disputed without manifest
inj ustice.

That he is to be considered as a fair purchaser, results from
this : whatever necessity the seller may have been under, was
occasioned by the Government, in not making a proper provision
for its debts. The buyer had no agency in it, and therefore
ought not to suffer. He is not even chargeable with having
taken an undue advantage. He paid what the commodity was
worth in the market, and took the risks of reimbursement upon
himself. He, of course, gave a fair equivalent, and ought to reap
the benefit of his hazard — a hazard which was far from inconsi-
derable, and which, perhaps, turned on little less than a revo-
lution in government.

That the case of those who parted with their securities, from
necessity, is a hard one, cannot be denied. But, whatever com-
plaint of injury, or claim of redress, they may have, respects the
Government solely. They have not only nothing to object to
the persons who relieved their necessities, by giving them the cur-
rent price of their property, but they are even under an implied
condition to contribute to the reimbursement of those persons.
They knew that, by the terms of the contract with themselves,
the public were bound to pay to those to whom they should
convey their title the sums stipulated to be paid to them ;. and
that, as citizens of the United States, they were to bear their
proportion of the contribution for that purpose. This, by the
act of assignment, they tacitly engage to do ; and, if they had an
option, they could not, with integrity or good faith, refuse to do
it, without the consent of those to whom they sold.

But, though many of the original holders sold from necessity,
it does not follow that this was the case with all of them. It
may well be supposed that some of them did it either through
want of confidence in an eventual provision, or from the allure-
ments of some profitable speculation. How shall these different
classes be discriminated from each other ? How shall it be ascer-
tained, in any case, that the money which the original holder ob-
tained for his security, was not more beneficial to him, than if he
had held it to the present time, to avail himself of the provision

c 2

10 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mi. 33.

which, shall be made ? How shall it be known whether, if the
purchaser had employed his money in some other way, he would
not be in a better situation than by having applied it in the pur-
chase of securities, though he should now receive their full
amount ? And, if neither of these things can be known, how
shall it be determined, whether a discrimination, independent of
the breach of contract, would not do a real injury to purchasers ;
and, if it included a compensation to the primitive proprietors,
would not give them an advantage to which they had no equita-
ble pretension ?

It may well be imagined, also, that there are not wanting
instances, in which individuals, urged by a present necessity,
parted with the securities received by them from the public, and
shortly after replaced them with others, as an indemnity for their
first loss. Shall they be deprived of the indemnity which they
have endeavored to secure by so provident an arrangement ?

Questions of this sort, on a close inspection, multiply them-
selves without end, and demonstrate the injustice of a discrimi-
nation, even on the most subtile calculations of equity, abstracted
from the obligation of contract.

The difficulties, too, of regulating the details of a plan for
that purpose, which would have even the semblance of equity,
would be found immense. It may well be doubted, whether
they would not be insurmountable, and replete with such absurd
as well as inequitable consequences, as to disgust even the pro-
posers of the measure.

As a specimen of its capricious operation, it will be sufficient
to notice the effect it would have upon two persons, who may be
supposed, two years ago, to have purchased, each, securities, at
three shillings in the pound, and one of them to retain those
bought by him, till the discrimination should take place ; the
other, to have parted with those bought by him, within a month
past, at nine shillings. The former, who had had most confi-
dence in the Government, would, in this case, only receive at
the rate of three shillings, and the interest ; while the latter, who
had had less confidence, would receive for what cost him the
same money, at the rate of nine shillings, and his representative,
standing in his place, would be entitled to a like rate.

JEt. 33.] FINANCE. 11

The impolicy of a discrimination results from two considera-
tions : one, that it proceeds upon a principle destructive of that
quality of the public debt, or the stock of the nation, which is
essential to its capacity for answering the purposes of money,
that is, the security of transfer ; the other, that, as well on this
account as because it includes a breach of faith, it renders pro-
perty, in the funds, less valuable, consequently, induces lenders
to demand a higher premium for what they lend, and produces
every other inconvenience of a bad state of public credit.

It will be perceived, at first sight, that the transferable quality
of stock is essential to its operation as money, and that this de-
pends on the idea of complete security to the transferee, and a
firm persuasion, that no distinction can, in any circumstances, be
made between him and the original proprietor.

The precedent of an invasion of this fundamental principle,
would, of course, tend to deprive the community of an advan-
tage with which no temporary saving could bear the least com-
parison.

And it will as readily be perceived, that the same cause would
operate a diminution of the value of stock in the hands of the
first as well as of every other holder. The price which any man
who should incline to purchase, would be willing to give for it,
would be in a compound ratio to the immediate profit it afforded,
and the chance of the continuance of his profit. If there was
supposed to be any hazard of the latter, the risk would be taken
into the calculation, and either there would be no purchase at all,
or it would be at a proportionably less price.

For this diminution of the value of stock, every person who
should be about to lend to the Government, would demand com-
pensation, and would add to the actual difference between the
nominal and the market value, an equivalent for the chance of
greater decrease, which, in a precarious state of public credit, is
always to be taken into the account. Every compensation of
this sort, it is evident, would be an absolute loss to the Go-
vernment.

In the preceding discussion of the impolicy of a discrimina-
tion, the injurious tendency of it to those who continue to be the

12 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [,Et. 33.

holders of the securities they received from the Government, has
been explained. Nothing need be added on this head, except
that this is an additional and interesting light in which the injus-
tice of the measure may be seen. It would not only divest
present proprietors, by purchase, of the rights they had acquired
under the sanction of public faith, but it would depreciate the
property of the remaining original holders. It is equally unne-
cessary to add any thing to what has been already said, to de-
monstrate the fatal influence which the principle of discrimination
would have on the public credit.

But there is still a point of view, in which it will appear per-
haps even more exceptionable than in either of the former. It
would be repugnant to an express provision of the Constitution
of the United States. This provision is, that " all debts con-
tracted, and engagements entered into, before the adoption of
that Constitution, shall be as valid against the United States un-
der it, as under the Confederation ;" which amounts to a consti-

- 1

tutional ratification of the contracts respecting the debt, in the
state in which they existed under the Confederation. And, re-
sorting to that standard, there can be no doubt that the rights of
assignees and original holders must be considered as equal. In
exploding thus fully the principle of discrimination, the Secre-
tary is happy in reflecting, that he is only the advocate of what
has been already sanctioned by the formal and express authority
of the Government of the Union, in these emphatic terms : " The
remaining class of creditors," say Congress, in their circular ad-
dressed to the States, of the 26th April, 1783, " is composed of
such of our fellow-citizens as originally lent to the public the use
of their funds, or have since manifested most confidence in their
country, by receiving transfers from the lenders ; and partly of
those whose property has been either advanced or assumed for
the public service. To discriminate the merits of these several
descriptions of creditors, would be a task equally unnecessary
and invidious. • If the voice of humanity pleads more loudly in
favor of some than of others, the voice of policy, no less than of
justice, pleads in favor of all. A wise nation will never permit
those who relieve the wants of their country, or who rely most

Mt. 33.] FINANCE. 13

on its faith, its firmness, and its resources, when either of them
is distrusted, to suffer bj the event."

The Secretary, concluding that a discrimination between the
different classes of creditors of the United States cannot, with
propriety, be made, proceeds to examine whether a difference
ought to be permitted to remain between them and another de-
scription of public creditors — those of the States, individually.
The Secretary, after mature reflection on this point, entertains a
full conviction, that an assumption of the debts of the particular
States by the Union, and a like provision for them, as for those
of the Union, will be a measure of sound policy and substantial
justice.

It would, in the opinion of the Secretary, contribute, in an
eminent degree, to an orderly, stable, and satisfactory arrange-
ment of the national finances. Admitting, as ought to be the
case, that a provision must be made, in some way or other, for
the entire debt, it will follow that no greater revenues will be re-
quired, whether that provision be made wholly by the United
States, or partly by them, and partly by the States separately.

The principal question, then, must be, whether such a pro-
vision cannot be more conveniently and effectually made, by one
general plan, issuing from one authority, than by different plans
originating in different authorities ? In the first case, there can
be no competition for resources ; in the last, there must be such
a competition. The consequences of this, without the greatest
caution on both sides, might be interfering regulations, and
thence, collision and confusion. Particular branches of industry
might also be oppressed by it. The most productive objects of
revenue are not numerous. Either these must be wholly en-
grossed by one side, which might lessen the efficacy of the pro-
visions by the other, or both must have recourse to the same
objects, in different modes, which might occasion an accumula-
tion upon them, beyond what they could properly bear. If this
should not happen, the caution requisite to avoiding it, would
prevent the revenue's deriving the full benefit of each object.
The danger of interference and of excess, would be apt to im-
pose restraints very unfriendly to the complete command of those

14 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 33.

resources which are the most convenient, and to compel the
having recourse to others, less eligible in themselves, and less
agreeable to the community. The difficulty of an effectual com-
mand of the public resources, in case of separate provisions for
the debt, may be seen in another, and, perhaps, more striking
light. It would naturally happen that different States, from
local considerations, would, in some instances, have recourse to
different objects, in others to the same objects, in different de-
grees, for procuring the funds of which they stood in need. It
is easy to conceive hoAv this diversity would affect the aggregate
revenue of the country. By the supposition, articles which
yielded a full supply in some States, would yield nothing, or an
insufficient product, in others. And hence, the public revenue
would not derive the full benefit of those articles from State regu-
lations ; neither could the deficiencies be made good by those of
the Union. It is a provision of the national Constitution, that
" all duties, imposts, and excises, shall be uniform throughout the
United States." And, as the General Government would be un
der a necessity, from motives of policy, of paying regard to the
duty which may have been previously imposed upon any article,
though but in a single State, it would be constrained either to
refrain wholly from any further imposition upon such article,
where it had been already rated as high as was proper, or to con-
fine itself to the difference between the existing rate and what
the article would reasonably bear. Thus the pre-occupancy of
an article by a single State, would tend to arrest or abridge the
impositions of the Union on that article. And as it is supposa-
ble, that a great variety of articles might be placed in this situa-
tion, by dissimilar arrangements of the particular States, it is
evident that the aggregate revenue of the country would be
likely to be very materially contracted by the plan of separate
provisions.

If all the public creditors receive their dues from one source,
distributed with an equal hand, their interest will be the same.
And, having the same interests, they will unite in the support of
the fiscal arrangements of the Government — as these, too, can be
made with more convenience where there is no competition.

Mt. 33.] FINANCE. 15

These circumstances combined, will insure to the revenue laws a
more ready and more satisfactory execution.

If, on the contrary, there are distinct provisions, there will be
distinct interests, drawing different ways. That union and con-
cert of views, among the creditors, which in every Government
is of great importance to their security, and to that of public
credit, will not only not exist, but will be likely to give place to
mutual jealousy and opposition. And from this cause, the ope-
ration of the systems which may be adopted, both by the particu-
lar States and by the Union, with relation to their respective
debts, will be in danger of being counteracted.

There are several reasons, which render it probable that the
situation of the State creditors would be worse than that of the
creditors of the Union, if there be not a national assumption of
the State debts. Of these it will be sufficient to mention two :
one, that a principal branch of revenue is exclusively vested in
the Union ; the other, that a State must always be checked in
the imposition of taxes on articles of consumption, from the
want of power to extend the same regulation to the other States,
and from the tendency of partial duties to injure its industry and
commerce. Should the State creditors stand upon a less eligible
footing than the others, it is unnatural to expect they would see
with pleasure a provision for them. The influence which their
dissatisfaction might have, could not but operate injuriously, both
for the creditors and the credit of the United States. Hence it
is even the interest of the creditors of the Union, that those of
the individual States should be comprehended in a general pro-
vision. Any attempt to secure to the former either exclusive or
peculiar advantages, would materially hazard their interests.
Neither would it be just, that one class of public creditors should
be more favored than the other. The objects for which both de-
scriptions of the debt were contracted, are in the main the same.
Indeed, a great part of the particular debts of the States has
arisen from assumptions by them on account of the Union. And
it is most equitable, that there should be the same measure of
retribution for all. There is an objection, however, to an as-
sumption of the State debts, which deserves particular notice. It

16 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [At. 33.

may be supposed, that it would increase the difficulty of an
equitable settlement between them and the United States.

The principles of that settlement, whenever they shall be
discussed, will require all the moderation and wisdom of the Go-
vernment. In the opinion of the Secretary, that discussion, till
further lights are obtained, would be premature. All, therefore,
which he would now think advisable on the point in question,
would be, that the amount of the debts assumed and provided
for, should be charged to the respective States, to abide an
eventual arrangement. This, the United States, as assignees to
the creditors, would have an indisputable right to do. "But, as
it might be a satisfaction to the House to have before them some
plan for the liquidation of accounts between the Union and its
members, which, including the .assumption of the State debts,
would consist with equity, the Secretary will submit, in this
place, such thoughts on the subject as have occurred to his own
mind, or been suggested to him, most compatible, in his judgment,
with the end proposed.

Let each State be charged with all the money advanced to it
out of the treasury of the United States, liquidated according to
the specie value at the time of each advance, with interest at six
per cent.

Let it also be charged with the amount, in specie value, of all
its securities which shall be assumed, with the interest upon
them, to the time when interest shall become payable by the
United States.

Let it be credited for all moneys paid, and articles furnished
to the United States, and for all other expenditures during the
war, either towards general or particular defence, whether au-
thorized or unauthorized by the United States ; the whole liqui-
dated to specie value, and bearing an interest of six per cent,
from the several times at which the several payments, advances,
and expenditures, accrued.

And let all sums of continental money, now in the treasuries
of the respective States, which shall be paid into the treasury of
the United States, be credited at specie value.

LTpon a statement of the accounts according to these princi-

JEt. 33.] FINANCE. 11

pies, there can be little doubt that balances would appear in
favor of all the States against the United States.

To equalize the contributions of the States, let each be then
charged with its proportion of the aggregate of those balances,
according to some equitable ratio, to be devised for that purpose.

If the contributions should be found disproportionate, the
result of this adjustment would be, that some States would be
creditors, some debtors, to the Union. Should this be the case —
as it will be attended with less inconvenience to the United
States to have to pay balances to, than to receive them from, the
particular States — it may, perhaps, be practicable to effect the
former by a second process, in the nature of a transfer of the
amount of the debts of debtor States, to the credit of creditor
States, observing the ratio by which the first apportionment shall
have been made. This, whilst it would destroy the balances due
from the former, would increase those due to the latter. These
to be provided for by the United States, at a reasonable interest,
but not to be transferable. The expediency of this second pro-
cess must depend on a knowledge of the result of the first. If
the inequalities should be too great, the arrangement may be im-
practicable, without unduly increasing the debt of the United
States. But it is not likely that this would be the case. It is
also to be remarked, that, though this second process might not,
upon the principle of apportionment, bring the thing to the point
aimed at, yet it may approach so nearly to it, as to avoid essen-
tially the embarrassment of having considerable balances to col-
lect from any of the States.

The whole of this arrangement to be under the superintend-
ence of commissioners, vested with equitable discretion and final
authority. The operation of the plan is exemplified in sche-
dule A.

The general principle of it seems to be equitable : for it ap-
pears difficult to conceive a good reason why the expenses for
the particular defence of a part, in a common war, should not be
a common charge, as well as those incurred professedly for the
general defence. The defence of each part is that of the whole ;
and unless all the expenditures are brought into a common mass,

18 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr.33.

the tendency must be to add to the calamities suffered, by being
the most exposed to the ravages of war, an increase of burthens.
This plan seems to be susceptible of no objection which does not
belong to every other, that proceeds on the idea of a final ad-
justment of accounts. The difficulty of settling a ratio is com-
mon to all. This must, probably, either be sought for in the
proportions of the requisitions during the war, or in the decision
of commissioners, appointed with plenary power. The rule pre-
scribed in the Constitution, with regard to representation and
direct taxes, would evidently not be applicable to the situation of
parties, during the period in question. The existing debt of the
United States is excluded from the computation, as it ought to
be, because it will be provided for out of a general fund. The
only discussion of a preliminary kind which remains, relates to
the distinctions of the debt into principal and interest. It is well
known that the arrears of the latter bear a large proportion to
the amount of the former. The immediate payment of these
arrears is evidently impracticable ; and a question arises, What
ought to be done with them ?

There is good reason to conclude, that the impressions of
many are more favorable to the claim of the principal, than to
that of the interest ; at least so far as to produce an opinion, that
an inferior provision might suffice for the latter.

But, to the Secretary, this opinion does not appear to be well
founded. His investigations of the subject have led him to a
conclusion, that the arrears of interest have pretensions at least
equal to the principal.

The liquidated debt, traced to its origin, falls under two
principal discriminations. One relating to loans, the other to
services performed and articles supplied. The part arising from
loans was at first made payable at fixed periods, which have long
since elapsed, with an early option to lenders, either to receive
back their money at the expiration of those periods, or to con-
tinue it at interest, till the whole amount of continental bills cir-
culating should not exceed the sum in circulation at the time of
each loan. This contingency, in the sense of the contract, never
happened ; and the presumption is, that the creditors preferred

^Et. 33.] FINANCE. 19

continuing their money indefinitely at interest to receiving it in
a depreciated and depreciating state.

The other parts of it were chiefly for objects which ought to
have been paid for at the time, that is, when the services were
performed, or the supplies furnished ; and were not accompanied
with any contract for interest.

But by different acts of Government and Administration, con-
curred in by the creditors, these parts of the debt have been con-
verted into a capital, bearing an interest of six per cent, per
annum, but without any definite period of redemption. A por-
tion of the Loan Office debt has been exchanged for new securi-
ties of that import ; and the whole of it seems to have acquired
that character after the expiration of the periods prefixed for re-
payment. If this view of the subject be a just one, the capital
of the debt of the United States may be considered in the light
of an annuity at the rate of six per cent, per annum, redeemable
at the pleasure of the Government by payment of the principal :
for it seems to be a clear position, that, when a Government con-
tracts a debt payable with interest, without any precise time
being stipulated or understood for payment of the capital, that
time is a matter of pure discretion with the Government, which
is at liberty to consult its own convenience respecting it, taking
care to pay the interest with punctuality.

"Wherefore, as long as the United States should pay the inter-
est of their debt, as it accrued, their creditors would have no
right to demand the principal. But with regard to the arrears
of interest, the case is different. These are now due, and those
to whom they are due, have a right to claim immediate payment.
To say that it would be impracticable to comply, would not vary
the nature of the right. Nor can this idea of impracticability be
honorably carried further than to justify the proposition of a new
contract, upon the basis of a commutation of that right for an
equivalent. This equivalent, too, ought to be a real and fair one.
And what other fair equivalent can be imagined for the deten-
tion of money, but a reasonable interest ? Or what can be the
standard of that interest, but the market rate, or the rate which
the Government pays in ordinary cases ?

20 HAMILTON'S WORKS

[Mt. 33.

From this view of the matter, which appears to be the accu-
rate and true one, it will follow, that the arrears of interest are
entitled to an equal provision with the principal of the debt.

The result of the foregoing discussions is this : That there
ought to be no discrimination between the original holders of
the debt, and present possessors by purchase ; that it is expe-
dient there should be an assumption of the State debts by the
Union ; and that the arrears of interest should be provided for
on an equal footing with the principal.

The next inquiry, in order, towards determining the nature
of a proper provision, respects the quantum of the debt, and
present rates of interest.

The debt of the Union is distinguishable into foreign and

domestic.

The foreign debt, as stated in schedule B,

amounts to, principal, - - - $10,070,307 00

Bearing an interest of four, and partly an inter-
est of five per cent.

Arrears of interest to the last of December,

1789, .... 1,640,071 62

Making, together, - - $11,710,878 62

The domestic debt may be subdivided into liquidated and un-
liquidated ; principal and interest.

The principal of the liquidated part, as stated in the schedule C,
amounts to $27,883,917 74

Bearing an interest of six per cent.
The arrears of interest, as stated in the sche-
dule D, to the end of 1790, amount to 13,030,168 20

Making, together, - - $40,414,085 94

This includes all that has been paid in indents (except what
has come into the treasury of the United States), which, in the
opinion of the Secretary, can be considered in no other light than
as interest due.

Mt. 33.] FINANCE. 21

The unliquidated part of the domestic debt, which consists
chiefly of the continental bills of credit, is not ascertained, but
may be estimated at 2,000,000 dollars.

These several sums constitute the whole of the debt of the
United States, amounting together to $54,124,464 56. That of
the individual States is not equally well ascertained. The sche-
dule E shows the extent to which it has been ascertained by re-
turns, pursuant to the orders of the House of the 21st September
last ; but this not comprehending all the States, the residue must
be estimated from less authentic information. The Secretary,
however, presumes that the total amount may be safely stated at
twenty-five millions of dollars, principal and interest. The pre-
sent rate of interest in the States' debt is, in general, the same with
that of the domestic debt of the Union.

On the supposition that the arrears of interest ought to be
provided for, on the same terms with the principal, the annual
amount of the interest, which, at the existing rates, would be
payable on the entire mass of the public debt, would be —
On the foreign debt, computing the interest on the principal, as
it stands, and allowing four per cent, on the
arrears of interest, - $542,599 66

On the domestic debt, including that of States, 4,044,845 15

Making, together, - - $4,587,444 81

The interesting problem now occurs : Is it in the power of
the United States, consistently with those prudential considera-
tions which ought not to be overlooked, to make a provision
equal to the purpose of funding the whole debt, at the rates of
interest which it now bears, in addition to the sum which will be
necessary for the current service of the Government ?

The Secretary will not say that such a provision would ex-
ceed the abilities of the country ; but he is clearly of opinion
that, to make it, would require the extension of taxation to a de-
gree, and to objects, which the true interest of the public credit-
ors forbids. It is therefore to be hoped, and even to be expected,
that they will cheerfully concur in such modifications of their

22 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 33.

claims, on fair and equitable principles, as will facilitate to the
Government an arrangement substantial, durable, and satisfac-
tory to the community. The importance of the last character-
istic will strike every discerning mind. No plan, however
flattering in appearance, to which it did not belong, could be
truly entitled to confidence.

It will not be forgotten, that exigencies may, ere long, arise,
which would call for resources greatly beyond what is now
deemed sufficient for the current service ; and that, should the
faculties of the country be exhausted, or even strained, to pro-
vide for the public debt, there could be less reliance on the
sacredness of the provision. But while the Secretary yields to
the force of these considerations, he does not lose sight of those
fundamental principles of good faith, which dictate that every
practicable exertion ought to be made, scrupulously to fulfil the
engagements of the Government ; that no change in the rights
of its creditors ought to be attempted without their voluntary
consent ; and that this consent ought to be voluntary in fact, as
well as in name. Consequently, that every proposal of a change
ought to be in the shape of an appeal to their reason and to their
interest, not to their necessities. To this end it is requisite that
a fair equivalent should be offered for what may be asked to be
given up, and unquestionable security for the remainder. With-
out this, an alteration consistently with the credit and honor of
the nation would be impracticable.

It remains to see what can be proposed in conformity to these
views.

It has been remarked, that the capital of the debt of the
Union is to be viewed in the light of an annuity, at the rate of six
per cent, per annum, redeemable at the pleasure of the Govern-
ment, by payment of the principal. And it will not be required
that the arrears of interest should be considered in a more favor-
able light. The same character, in general, may be applied to
the debts of the individual States.

This view of the subject admits, that the United States would
have it in their power to avail themselves of any fall in the
market rate of interest for reducing that of the debt.

JEt. 33.] FINANCE. 23

This property of the debt is favorable to the public, unfavor-
able to the creditor, and may facilitate an arrangement for the
reduction of interest, upon the basis of a fair equivalent.

Probabilities are always a rational ground of contract. The
Secretary conceives, that there is good reason to believe, if
effectual measures are taken to establish public credit, that the
Government rate of interest in the United States will, in a very
short time, fall at least as low as five per cent. ; and that* in a
period not exceeding twenty years, it will sink still lower, proba-
bly to four. There are two principal causes which will be likely
to produce this effect ; one, the low rate of interest in Europe ;
the other, the increase of the moneyed capital of the nation, by
the funding of the public debt.

From three to four per cent, is deemed good interest in seve-
ral parts of Europe. Even less is deemed so, in some places,
and it is on the decline ; the increasing plenty of money continu-
ally tending to lower it. It is presumable, that no country will
be able to borrow of foreigners upon better terms than the United
States, because none can, perhaps, afford so good security. Our
situation exposes us, less than that of any other nation, to those
casualties which are the chief causes of expense ; our incum-
brances, in proportion to our real means, are less, though these
cannot immediately be brought so readily into action ; and our
progress in resources, from the early state of the country, and
the immense tracts of unsettled territory, must necessarily ex-
ceed that of any other. The advantages of this situation have
already engaged the attention of the European money lenders,
particularly among the Dutch. And as they become better un-
derstood, they will have the greater influence. Hence, as large
a proportion of the cash of Europe as may be wanted, will be,
in a certain sense, in our market, for the use of Government.
And this will naturally have the effect of a reduction of the rate
of interest, not indeed to the level of the places which send their
money to market, but to something much nearer to it than our
present rate.

The influence which the funding of the debt is calculated to
have in lowering interest, has been already remarked and ex-

24 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 33.

plained. It is hardly possible that it should not be materially
affected by such an increase of the moneyed capital of the nation
as would result from the proper funding of seventy millions of
dollars. But the probability of a decrease in the rate of interest
acquires confirmation from facts which existed prior to the Kevo-
lutiou. It is well known that, in some of the States, money
might, with facility, be borrowed, on good security, at five per
cent* and, not unfrequently, even at less.

The most enlightened of the public creditors will be most sen-
sible of the justness of this view of the subject, and of the pro-
priety of the use which will be made of it. The Secretary, in
pursuance of it, will assume, as a probability sufficiently great to
be a ground of calculation, both on the part of the Government
and of its creditors, that the interest of money in the United
States will, in five years, fall to five per cent., and, in twenty, to
four. The probability, in the mind of the Secretary, is rather
that the fall may be more rapid and more considerable ; but he
prefers a mean, as most likely to engage the assent of the cre-
ditors, and more equitable in itself; because it is predicated on
probabilities, which may err on one side, as well as on the other.

Premising these things, the Secretary submits to the House
the expediency of proposing a loan, to the full amount of the
debt, as well of the particular States as of the Union, upon the
following terms :

First. That, for every hundred dollars subscribed, payable in
the debt (as well interest as principal), the subscriber be entitled,
at his option, either to have two-thirds funded at an annuity or
yearly interest of six per cent, redeemable at the pleasure of the
Government, by payment of the principal, and to receive the
other third in lands in the western territory, at the rate of twenty
cents per acre ; or to have the whole sum funded at an annuity
or yearly interest of four per cent., irredeemable by any payment
exceeding five dollars per annum, on account both of principal
and interest, and to receive, as a compensation for the reduction
of interest, fifteen dollars and eighty cents, payable in lands, as
in the preceding case ; or, to have sixty-six dollars and two-
thirds of a dollar funded immediately, at an annuity or yearly

J3t. 33.] FINANCE. 25

interest of six per cent., irredeemable by any payment exceeding
four dollars and two-thirds of a dollar per annum, on account
both of principal and interest, and to have, at the end of ten
years, twenty-six dollars and eighty-eight cents funded at the
like interest and rate of redemption ; or to have an annuity, for
the remainder of life, upon the contingency of fixing to a given
age, not less distant than ten years, computing interest at four
per cent. ; or to have an annuity, for the remainder of life, upon
the contingency of the survivorship of the youngest of two per-
sons, computing interest in this case also at four per cent.

In addition to the foregoing loan, payable wholly in the debt,
the Secretary would propose that one should be opened for ten
millions of dollars, on the following plan :

That, for every hundred dollars subscribed, payable one-half
in specie, and the other half in debt (as well principal as interest),
the subscriber be entitled to an annuity or yearly interest of five
per cent., irredeemable by any payment exceeding six dollars per
annum, on account both of principal and interest.

The principles and operation of these different plans may now
require explanation.

The first is simply a proposition for paying one-third of the
debt in land, and funding the other two-thirds at the existing
rate of interest, and upon the same terms of redemption to which
it is at present subject.

Here is no conjecture, no calculation of probabilities. The
creditor is offered the advantage of making his interest principal,
and he is asked to facilitate to the Government an effectual pro-
vision for his demands, by accepting a third part of them in land,
at a fair valuation.

The general price at which the Western lands have been
heretofore sold, has been a dollar per acre in public securities ;
but, at the time the principal purchases were made, these securi-
ties were worth, in the market, less than three shillings in the
pound. The nominal price, therefore, would not be the proper
standard, under present circumstances, nor would the precise
specie value then given be a just rule ; because, as the payments
were to be made by instalments, and the securities were, at the

c 3

26 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [M-r. 33.

times of the purchases, extremely low, the probability of a
moderate rise must be presumed to have been taken into the
account.

Twenty cents, therefore, seems to bear an equitable propor-
tion to the two considerations of value at the time and likelihood
of increase.

It will be understood that, upon this plan, the public retains
the advantage of availing itself of any fall in the market rate of
interest, for reducing that upon the debt ; which is perfectly just,
as no present sacrifice, either in the quantum of the principal, or
in the rate of interest, is required from the creditor.

The inducement to the measure is, the payment of one-third
of the debt in land. The second plan is grounded upon the sup-
position that interest, in five years, will fall to five per cent. ; in
fifteen more, to four. As the capital remains entire, but bearing
an interest of four per cent, only, compensation is to be made to
the creditor for the interest of two per cent, per annum, for five
years, and of one per cent, per annum, for fifteen years, to com-
mence at the distance of five years. The present value of these
two sums or annuities, computed according to the terms of the
supposition, is, by strict calculation, fifteen dollars and the seven
hundred and ninety -two thousandth part of a dollar — a fraction
less than the sum proposed.

The inducement of the measure here, is the reduction of in-
terest to a rate more within the compass of a convenient provi-
sion, and the payment of the compensation in lands.

The inducements to the individual, are, the accommodation
afforded to the public ; the high probability of a complete equi-
valent ; the chance even of gain, should the rate of interest fall,
either more speedily, or in a greater degree than the calculation
supposes. Should it fall to five per cent, sooner than five years ;
should it fall lower than five, before the additional fifteen were
expired ; or, should it fall below four, previous to the payment
of the debt ; there would be, in each case, an absolute profit to
the creditor. As his capital will remain entire, the value of it
will increase with every decrease of the rate of interest.

The third plan proceeds upon the like supposition of a sue-

jEt. 33.]

FINANCE. 2Y

cessive fall in the rate of interest, and upon that supposition
offers an equivalent to the creditor : One hundred dollars, bear-
ing an interest of six per cent, for five years ; or five per cent,
for fifteen years; and thenceforth, of four per cent, (these being the
successive rates of interest in the market), is equal to a capital of
$122.510725 parts, bearing an interest of four per cent., which,
converted into a capital, bearing a fixed rate of interest of six
per cent., is equal to $81.6738166 parts.

The difference between sixty-six dollars and two-thirds of a
dollar (the sum to be funded immediately), and this last sum, is
$15.0172 parts, which, at six per cent, per annum, amounts, at
the end often years, to $26.8755 parts — the sum to be funded at
the expiration of that period. It ought, however, to be acknow-
ledged that this calculation does not make allowance for the
principle of redemption, which the plan itself includes; upon
which principle, the equivalent, in a capital of six per cent,
would be, by strict calculation, $87.50766 parts.

But there are two considerations which induce the Secretary
to think that the one proposed would operate more equitably
than this : One is, that it may not be very early in the power of
the United States to avail themselves of the right of redemption
reserved in the plan ; the other is, that with regard to the part
to be funded at the end of ten years, the principle of redemption
is suspended during that time, and the full interest of six per
cent, goes on improving at the same rate ; which, for the last five
years, will exceed the market rate of interest, according to the
supposition.

The equivalent is regulated in this plan, by the circumstance
of fixing the rate of interest higher than it is supposed it will
continue to be in the market, permitting only a gradual discharge
of the debt, in an established proportion, and consequently pre-
venting advantage being taken of any decrease of interest below
the stipulated rate.

Thus the true value of eighty-one dollars and sixty-seven
cents, the capital proposed, considered as a perpetuity, and bear-
ing six per cent, interest, when the market rate of interest was
five per cent., would be a small fraction more than ninety-eight

28 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 33.

dollars ; when it was four per cent, would be one hundred and
twenty-two dollars and fifty-one cents. But the proposed capital
being subject to gradual redemption, it is evident that its value,
in each case, would be somewhat less. Yet, from this may be
perceived the manner in which a less capital, at a fixed rate of
interest, becomes an equivalent for a greater capital, at a rate
liable to variation and diminution.

It is presumable that those creditors who do not entertain a
favorable opinion of property in Western lands, will give a prefer-
ence to this last mode of modelling the debt. The Secretary is
sincere in affirming, that, in his opinion, it will be likely to prove,
to the full, as beneficial to the creditor, as a provision for his debt
upon its present terms.

It is not intended, in either case, to oblige the Government to
redeem in the proportion specified, but to secure to it the right of
doing so, to avoid the inconvenience of a perpetuity.

The fourth and fifth plans abandon the supposition which is
the basis of the two preceding ones, and offer only four per cent,
throughout.

The reason of this is, that the payment, being deferred, there
will be an accumulation of compound interest, in the intermedi-
ate period, against the public, which, without a very prov-
ident administration, would turn to its detriment, and the sus-
pension of the burthen would be too apt to beget a relaxation of
efforts in the mean time. The measure, therefore, its object
being temporary accommodation, could only be advisable uj)on
a moderate rate of interest.

With regard to individuals, the inducement will be sufficient
at four per cent. There is no disposition of money, in private
loans, making allowance for the usual delays and casualties,
which would be equally beneficial as a future provision.

A hundred dollars advanced upon the life of a person of
eleven years old, would produce an annuity* of —

Dolls. Parts.

If commencing at twenty-one, of - - - 10.346
If commencing at thirty-one, of - - - 18.803

* See Schedule F.

jEt. 33.] FINANCE. 29

Dolls. Parts.
If commencing at forty-one, of 37.286

If commencing at fifty-one, of 78.580

The same sum advanced upon the chance of the survivorship
of the youngest of two lives, one of the persons being twenty-five,
the other thirty years old, would produce, if the youngest of the
two should survive, au annuity* for the remainder of life, of
twenty -three dollars, five hundred and fifty -six parts.

From these instances may readily be discerned the advantages
which these deferred annuities afford, for securing a comfortable
provision for the evening of life, or for wives who survive their
husbands.

The sixth plan also relinquishes the supposition, which is the
foundation of the second and third, and offers a higher rate of
interest, upon similar terms of redemption, for the consideration
of the payment of one half of the loan in specie. This is a plan
highly advantageous to the creditors who may be able to make
that payment, while the specie itself could be applied in pur-
chases of the debt, upon terms which would fully indemnify the
public for the increased interest.

It is not improbable that foreign holders of the domestic debt
may embrace this as a desirable arrangement.

As an auxiliary expedient, and by way of experiment, the
Secretary would propose a loan upon the principles of a ton-
tine f —

To consist of six classes, composed respectively of persons
of the following ages :

First class, of those of 20 years and under.

Second class, of those above 20, and not exceeding 30.

Third class, of those above 30, and not exceeding 40.

Fourth class, of those above 40, and not exceeding 50.

Fifth class, of those above 50, and not exceeding 60.

Sixth class, of those above 60.

Each share to be two hundred dollars ; the number of shares,
in each class, to be indefinite. Persons to be at liberty to sub-

* See Table, Schedule G. t See Table, Schedule H.

30 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 33.

scribe on their own lives, or on those of others nominated by
them.

The annuity upon a share in the first class, to be $8 40
Upon a share in the second, - - - 8 65

Upon a share in the third, - - - 9 00

Upon a share in the fourth - - - - 9 65
Upon a share in the fifth, - - - - 10 70
Upon a share in the sixth, - - - - 12 80
The annuities of those who die, to be equally divided among
the survivors, until four-fifths shall be dead, when the principle
of survivorship shall cease, and each annuitant thenceforth enjoy
his dividend as a several annuity during the life upon which it
shall depend.

These annuities are calculated on the best life in each class,
and at a rate of interest of four per cent., with some deductions
in favor of the public. To the advantages which these circum-
stances present, the cessation of the right of survivorship, on the
death of four-fifths of the annuitants, will be no inconsiderable
addition.

The inducements to individuals, are, a competent interest for
their money from the outset, secured for life, and prospect of
continual increase, and even of a large profit to those whose for-
tune it is to survive their associates.

It will have appeared, that, in all the proposed loans, the
Secretary has contemplated the putting the interest upon the
same footing with the principal. That on the debt of the United
States, he would have computed to the last of the present year ;
that on the debt of the particular States, to the last of the year
1791 : the reason for which distinction will be seen hereafter.

In order to keep up a due circulation of money, it will be
expedient that the interest of the debt should be paid quarter
yearly. This regulation will, at the same time, conduce to the
advantage of the public creditors, giving them, in fact, by the
anticipation of payment, a higher rate of interest ; which may,
with propriety, be taken into the estimate of the compensation
to be made to them. Six per cent, per annum, paid in this mode,
will truly be worth six dollars, and the one hundred and thirty-

JEt. 33.] FINANCE. 31

five thousandth part of a dollar, computing the market interest
at the same rate.

The Secretary thinks it advisable to hold out various propo-
sitions, all of them compatible with the public interest, because it
is, in his opinion, of the greatest consequence that the debt
should, with the consent of the creditors, be remoulded into such
a shape as will bring the expenditure of the nation to a level with
its income. Till this shall be accomplished, the finances of the
United States will never wear a proper countenance. Arrears
of interest, continually accruing, will be as continual a monument,
either of inability or of ill faith, and will not cease to have an evil
influence on public credit. In nothing are appearances of greater
moment than in whatever regards credit. Opinion is the soul of
it ; and this is effected by appearances as well as realities. By
offering an option to the creditors between a number of plans,
the change meditated will be more likely to be accomplished.
Different tempers will be governed by different views of the
subject.

But while the Secretary would endeavor to effect a change in
the form of the debt by new loans, in order to render it more
susceptible of an adequate provision, he would not think it proper
to aim at procuring the concurrence of the creditors by operating
upon their necessities.

Hence, whatever surplus of revenue might remain, after satis-
fying the interest of the new loans and the demand for the cur-
rent service, ought to be divided among those creditors, if any,
who may not think fit to subscribe to them. But for this pur-
pose, under the circumstance of depending propositions, a
temporary appropriation will be most advisable, and the sum
must be limited to four per cent, as the revenues will only be
calculated to produce in that proportion to the entire debt.

The Secretary confides, for the success of the propositions to
be made, on the goodness of the reasons upon which they rest ;
on the fairness of the equivalent to be offered in each case ; on
the discernment of the creditors, of their true interest ; and on
their disposition to facilitate the arrangements of the Government,
and to render them satisfactory to the community.

32 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 33.

The remaining part of the task to be performed is to take a
view of the means of providing for the debt, according to the
modification of it which it is proposed.

On this point the Secretary premises, that, in his opinion, the
funds to be established ought, for the present, to be confined to
the existing debt of the United States ; as well because the
progressive augmentation of the revenue will be most convenient,
as because the consent of the State creditors is necessary to the
assumption contemplated ; and though the obtaining of that con-
sent may be inferred with great assurance, from their obvious
interest to give it, yet, till it shall be obtained, an actual provi-
sion for the debt would be premature. Taxes could not, with
propriety, be laid for an object which depended on such a con-
tingency.

All that ought now to be done respecting it, is to put the
matter in an effectual train for a future provision. For which
purpose the Secretary will, in the course of this report, submit
such propositions as appear to him advisable.

The Secretary now proceeds to a consideration of the neces-
sary funds. •

It has been stated that the debt of the United States consists
of the foreign debt, amounting, with ar-
rears of interest, to --- - $11,710,37862

And the domestic debt, amounting, with
like arrears, computed to the end of the
year 1790, to .... 42,414,085 94

Making, together, $54,124,464 56

The interest on the domestic debt is computed to the end of
this year, because the details of carrying any plan into execu-
tion, will exhaust the year.

The annual interest of the foreign debt has

been stated at - - - $542,599 66

And the interest on the domestic debt, at

four per cent., would amount to - - 1,696,563 43

Making, together, $2,239,163 09

2Et. 33.] FINANCE. 33

Thus, to pay the interest of the foreign debt, and to pay four
per cent, on the whole of the domestic debt, principal and inter-
est, forming a new capital, will require a yearly income of
$2,239,163 09 — the sum which, in the opinion of the Secretary,
ought now to be provided, in addition to what the current ser-
vice will require.

For, though the rate of interest proposed by the third plan,
exceeds four per cent, on the whole debt, and the annuities on
the tontine will also exceed four per cent, on the sums which
may be subscribed ; yet, as the actual provision for a part is in
the former case suspended, as measures for reducing the debt, by
purchases, may be advantageously pursued, and as the payment
of the deferred annuities will of course be postponed, four per
cent, on the whole will be a sufficient provision.

"With regard to the instalments of the foreign debt, these, in
the opinion of the Secretary, ought to be paid by new loans
abroad. Could funds be conveniently spared from other exi-
gencies, for paying them, the United States could illy bear the
drain of cash, at the present juncture, which the measure would
be likely to occasion.

But to the sum which has been stated for payment of the
interest, must be added a provision for the current service.
This the Secretary estimates at six hundred thousand dollars,*
making, with the amount of the interest, two millions eight
hundred and thirty -nine thousand one hundred and sixty-three
dollars and nine cents.

This sum may, in the opinion of the Secretary, be obtained
from the present duties on imports and tonnage, with the addi-
tions which, without any possible disadvantage, either to trade or
agriculture, may be made on wines, spirits (including those dis-
tilled within the United States), teas and coffee.

The Secretary conceives that it will be sound policy to carry
the duties, upon articles of this kind, as high as will be consistent
with the practicability of a safe collection. This will lessen the
necessity, both of having recourse to direct taxation, and of accu-

* See Schedule I.

34 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 33.

mulating duties, where they would be more inconvenient to trade,
and upon objects which are more to be regarded as necessaries of

life.

That the articles which have been enumerated, will, better
than most others, bear high duties, can hardly be a question.
They are all of them in reality luxuries ; the greatest part of
them foreign luxuries ; some of them, in the excess in which
they are used, pernicious luxuries. And there is, perhaps,
none of them, which is not consumed in so great abundance
as may justly denominate it a source of national extravagance
and impoverishment. The consumption of ardent spirits, par-
ticularly, no doubt very much on account of their cheapness,
is carried to an extreme which is truly to be regretted, as well
in regard to the health and morals, as to the economy of the
community.

Should the increase of duties tend to a decrease of the con-
sumption of those articles, the effect would be, in every respect,
desirable. The saving which it would occasion, would leave
individuals more at their ease, and promote a favorable balance of
trade. As far as this decrease might be applicable to distilled
spirits, it would encourage the substitution of cider and malt
liquors, benefit agriculture, and open a new and productive
source of revenue.

It is not, however, probable, that this decrease would be in a
degree which would frustrate the expected benefit to the re-
venue, from raising the duties. Experience has shown, that
luxuries of every kind lay the strongest hold on the attachments
of mankind, which, especially when confirmed by habit, are not
easily alienated from them.

The same fact affords a security to the merchant, that he is
not likely to be prejudiced by considerable duties on such
articles. They will usually command a proportional price.
The chief things, in this view, to be attended to, are, that the
terms of payment be so regulated as not to require inconvenient
advances, and that the mode of collection be secure.

To other reasons, which plead for carrying the duties, upon
the articles which have been mentioned, to as great an extent as

jEt. 33.] FINANCE. 35

they will bear, may be aded these : that they are of a nature,
from their extensive consumption, to be very productive, and
are amongst the most difficult objects of illicit introduction.

Invited by so many motives to make the best use of the re-
source which these articles afford, the essential inquiry is, in
what mode can the duties upon them be most effectually col-
lected ?

With regard to such of them as will be brought from abroad,
a duty on importation recommends itself by two leading consi-
derations : one is, that, meeting the object at its first entrance
into the country, the collection is drawn to a point, and, so far,
simplified ; the other is, that it avoids the possibility of interfer-
ence between the regulations of the United States and those of
the particular States.

But a duty, the precautions for the collection of which, should
terminate with the landing of the goods, as is essentially the case
in the existing system, could not, with safety, be carried to the
extent which is contemplated.

In that system, the evasion of the duty depends, as it were,
on a single risk. To land the goods in defiance of the vigilance
of the officers of the customs, is almost the sole difficulty. No
future pursuit is materially to be apprehended. And where the
inducement is equivalent to the risk, there will be found too
many who are willing to run it. Consequently, there will be
extensive frauds of the revenue, against which, the utmost rigor
of penal laws has proved, as often as it has been tried, an inef-
fectual guard.

The only expedient which has been discovered, for conciliat-
ing high duties with a safe collection, is, the establishment of a
second, or interior scrutiny.

By pursuing the article, from its importation, into the hands
of the dealers in it, the risk of detection is so greatly enhanced,
that few, in comparison, will venture to incur it. Indeed, every
dealer, who is not himself the fraudulent importer, then becomes,
in some sort, a sentinel upon him.

The introduction of a system founded on this principle, in
some shape or other, is, in the opinion of the Secretary, essential

36 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [-tor. 33.

to the efficacy of every attempt to render the revenues of the
United States equal to their exigencies, their safety, their pros-
perity, their honor.

Nor is it less essential to the interest of the honest and fair
trader. It might even be added, that every individual citizen,
besides his share in the general weal, has a particular interest in
it. The practice of smuggling never fails to have one of two
effects, and sometime unites them both. Either the smuggler
undersells the fair trader, as, by saving the duty, he can afford to
do, and makes it a charge upon him ; or he sells at the increased
price occasioned by the duty, and defrauds every man who buys
of him, of his share of what the public ought to receive ; for, it
is evident, that the loss falls ultimately upon the citizens, who
must be charged with other taxes, to make good the deficiency,
and supply the wants of the State.

The Secretary will not presume that the plan which he shall
submit to the consideration of the House is the best that could
be devised. But it is the one which has appeared to him freest
from objections, of any that has occurred, of equal efficacy. He
acknowledges, too, that it is susceptible of improvement, by
other precautions in favor of the revenue, which he did not think
it expedient to add. The chief outlines of the plan are not
original ; but it is no ill recommendation of it, that it has been
tried with success.

The Secretary accordingly proposes —

That the duties heretofore laid upon wines, distilled spirits,
teas, and coffee, should, after the last clay of May next, cease ;
and that, instead of them, the following duties be laid :

Upon every gallon of Madeira wine, the quality of London
particular, thirty-five cents.

Upon every gallon of other Madeira wine, thirty cents.

Upon every gallon of Sherry, twenty-five cents.

Upon every gallon of other wine, twenty cents.

Upon every gallon of distilled spirits, more than ten per
cent, below proof, according to Dicas's hydrometer, twenty
cents.

Upon every gallon of those spirits, under five, and not more

Mt. 33.] FINANCE. 37

than ten per cent, below proof, according to the same hydro-
meter, twenty-one cents.

Upon every gallon of those spirits, of proof, and not more
than five per cent, below proof, according to the same hydro-
meter, twenty-two cents.

Upon every gallon of those spirits, above proof, but not ex-
ceeding twenty per cent, according to the same hydrometer,
twenty-five cents.

Upon every gallon of those spirits, more than twenty, and
not more than forty per cent, above proof, according to the same
hydrometer, thirty cents.

Upon every gallon of those spirits, more than forty per cent,
above proof, according to the same hydrometer, forty cents.

Upon every pound of Hyson tea, forty cents.

Upon every pound of other green tea, twenty-four cents.

Upon every pound of Souchong and other black teas, except
Bohea, twenty cents.

Upon every pound of Bohea tea, twelve cents.

Upon every pound of coffee, five cents.

That, upon spirits distilled within the United States, from
molasses, sugar, or other foreign materials, there be paid —

Upon every gallon of those spirits, more than ten per cent,
below proof, according to Dicas's hydrometer, eleven cents.

Upon every gallon of those spirits, under five, and not more
than ten per cent, below proof, according to the same hydro-
meter, twelve cents.

Upon every gallon of those spirits, of proof, and not more
than five per cent, below proof, according to the same hydro-
meter, thirteen cents.

Upon every gallon of those spirits, above proof, but not
exceeding twenty per cent, according to the same hydrometer,
fifteen cents.

Upon every gallon of those spirits, more than twenty, and
not more than forty per cent, above proof, according to the same
hydrometer, twenty cents.

Upon every gallon of those spirits, more than forty per
cent, above proof, according to the same hydrometer, thirty
cents.

38 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 33.

That, upon spirits distilled within the United States, in any
city, town, or village, from materials of the growth or jDroduction
of the United States, there be paid —

Upon every gallon of those spirits, more than ten per cent,
below proof, according to Dicas's hydrometer, nine cents.

Upon every gallon of those spirits, under five, and not more
than ten per cent, below proof, according to the same hydro-
meter, ten cents.

Upon every gallon of those spirits, of proof, and not more
than five per cent, below proof, according to the same hydrometer,
eleven cents.

Upon every gallon of those spirits, above proof, but not ex-
ceeding twenty per cent, according to the same hydrometer, thir-
teen cents.

Upon every gallon of those spirts, more than twenty, and not
more than forty per cent, above proof, according to the same
hydrometer, seventeen cents.

Upon every gallon of those spirits, more than forty per cent,
above proof, according to the same hydrometer, twenty-five
cents.

That, upon all stills employed in distilling spirits from ma-
terials of the growth or production of the United States, in any
other place than a city, town, or village, there be paid the yearly
sum of sixty cents, for every gallon, English wine measure, of
the capacity of each still, including its head.

The Secretary does not distribute the duties on teas into dif-
ferent classes, as has been done in the impost act of the last ses-
sion ; beeause this distribution depends on considerations of com-
mercial policy, not of revenue. It is sufficient, therefore, for
him, to remark, that the rates above specified are proposed with
reference to the lowest class.

The Secretary, conceiving that he could not convey an
accurate idea of the plan contemplated by him, for the collection
of these duties, in any mode so effectual as by the draught of a
bill for the purpose, begs leave, respectfully, to refer the House
to that which will be found annexed to this report, relatively to
the article of distilled spirits ; and, which, for the better expla-

^t. 33.] FINANCE. 39

nation of some of its parts, is accompanied with marginal re-
marks.

It would be the intention of the Secretary that the duty on
wines should be collected upon precisely the same plan with that
on imported spirits.

But, with regard to teas and coffee, the Secretary is inclined
to think, that it will be expedient, till experience shall evince
the propriety of going further, to exclude the ordinary right of
the officers to visit and inspect the places in which those articles
may be kept. The other precautions, without this, will afford,
though not complete, considerable security.

It will not escape the observation of the House, that the Sec-
retary, in the plan submitted, has taken the most scrupulous
care, that those citizens upon whom it is immediately to operate,
be secured from every species of injury by the misconduct of
the officers to be employed. There are not only strong guards
against their being guilty of abuses of authority ; they are not
only punishable, criminally, for any they may commit, and made
answerable in damages, to individuals, for whatever prejudice
these may sustain by their acts or neglects ; but, even where
seizures are made with probable cause, if there be an acquittal of
the articles seized, a compensation to the proprietors, for the in-
jury their property may suffer, and even for its detention, is to
be made out of the public treasury.

So solicitous, indeed, has the Secretary been, to obviate every
appearance of hardship, that he has even included a compensa-
tion to the dealers, for their agency in aid of the revenue.

With all these precautions to manifest a spirit of moderation
and justice, on the part of the Government; and, when it is
considered that the object of the proposed system is the firm
establishment of public credit ; that, on this depends the charac-
ter, security, and prosperity of the nation ; that advantages, in
every light important, may be expected to result from it ; that
the immediate operation of it will be upon an enlightened class
of citizens, zealously devoted to good government, and to a lib-
eral and enlarged policy ; and that it is peculiarly the interest of
the virtuous part of them to co-operate in whatever will restrain

40 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. S3.

the spirit of illicit traffic ; there "will be perceived to exist the
justest ground of confidence, that the* plan, if eligible in itself,
will experience the cheerful and prompt acquiescence of the
community.

The Secretary computes the net product of the duties pro-
posed in this report, at about one million seven hundred and
three thousand four hundred dollars, according to the estimate in
schedule K, which, if l^ear the truth, will, together with the pro-
bable product of the duties on imposts and tonnage, complete the
sum required.

But, it will readily occur, that, in so unexplored a field, there
must be a considerable degree of uncertainty in the data ; and
that, on this account, it will be prudent to have an auxiliary re-
source for the first year in wh'ich the interest will become pay-
aole, that there may be no possibility of disappointment to the
public creditors, ere there may be an opportunity of providing
for any deficiency which the experiment may discover. This
will, accordingly, be attended to.

The proper appropriation of the funds provided, and to be
provided, seems next to offer itself to consideration.

On this head, the Secretary would jDropose, that the duties
on distilled spirits should be applied, in the first instance, to the
payment of the interest on the foreign debt.

That, reserving out of the residue of those duties, an annual
sum of six hundred thousand dollars, for the current service of
the United States, the surplus, together with the product of the
other duties, be applied to the payment of the interest on the
new loan, by an appropriation coextensive with the duration of
the debt.

And that, if any part of the debt should remain unsubscribed,
the excess of the revenue be divided among the creditors of the
unsubscribed part, by a temporary disposition ; with a limitation,
however, to four per cent.

It will hardly have been unnoticed that the Secretary has
been, thus far, silent on the subject of the Post Office. The rea-
son is, that he has had in view the application of the revenue,
arising from that source, to the purpose of a sinking fund. The

jEt. 33.] % FINANCE. 41

Postmaster General gives it as his opinion, that the immediate
product of it, upon a proper arrangement, would probably be not
less than one hundred thousand dollars. And, from its nature,
with good management, it must be a growing, and will be likely
to become a considerable fund. The Postmaster General is now
engaged in preparing a plan which will be the foundation of a
proposition for a new arrangement of the establishment. This,
and some other points relative to the subject referred to the Sec-
retary, he begs leave to reserve for a future report.

Persuaded, as the Secretary is, that the proper funding of the
present debt will render it a national blessing, yet he is so far
from acceding to the position, in the latitude in which it is some-
times laid down, that " public debts are public benefits " — a posi-
tion inviting to prodigality, and liable to dangerous abuse — that
he ardently wishes to see it incorporated, as a fundamental
maxim, in the system of public credit of the United States, that
the creation of debt should always be accompanied with the
means of extinguishment. This he regards as the true secret
for rendering public credit immortal. And he presumes that it
is difficult to conceive a situation in which there may not be an
adherence to the maxim. At least, he feels an unfeigned solici-
tude that this may be attempted by the United States, and that
they may commence their measures for the establishment of
credit with the observance of it.

Under this impression, the Secretary proposes that the net
product of the Post Office, to a sum not exceeding one million
of dollars, be vested in commissioners, to consist of the Vice-
President of the United States, or President of the Senate, the
Speaker of the House of Representatives, the Chief Justice, Sec-
retary of the Treasury, and Attorney General of the United
States, for the time being, in trust ; to be applied by them, or
any three of them, to the discharge of the existing public debt,
either by purchases of stock in the market, or by payments on
account of the principal, as shall appear to them most advisable,
in conformity to public engagements ; to continue so vested,
until the whole of the debt shall be discharged.

As an additional expedient for effecting a reduction of the

c 4

42 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 33.

debt, and for other purposes, which will be mentioned, the Sec-
retary would further propose, that the same commissioners be
authorized, with the approbation of the President of the United
States, to borrow, on their credit, a sum not exceeding twelve
millions of dollars, to be applied —

First. To the payments of the interest and instalments of
the foreign debt, to the end of the present year, which will re-
quire 3,491,923 dollars and 46 cents.

Secondly. To the payment of any deficiency which may
happen in the product of the funds provided for paying the
interest of the domestic debt.

Thirdly. To the effecting a change in the form of such part
of the foreign debt as bears an interest of five per cent. It is
conceived that, for this purpose, a new loan, at a lower interest,
may be combined with other expedients. The remainder of this
part of the debt, after paying the instalments which will accrue
in the course of 1790, will be 3,888,888 dollars and 81 cents.

Fourthly. To the purchase of the public debt, at the price it
shall bear in the market, while it continues below its true value.
This measure, which would be, in the opinion of the Secre-
tary, highly dishonorable to the Government, if it were to pre-
cede a provision for funding the debt, would become altogether
unexceptionable after that had been made. Its effect would be
in favor of the public creditors, as it would tend to raise the
value of stock; and all the difference between its true value and
the actual price would be so much clear gain to the public.
The payment of foreign interest on the capital to be borrowed
for this purpose, should that be a necessary consequence, would
not, in the judgment of the Secretary, be a good objection to the
measure. The saving, by the operation, would be, itself, a suffi-
cient indemnity ; and the employment of' that capital, in a coun-
try situated like this, would much more than compensate for it.
Besides, if the Government does not undertake this operation,
the same inconvenience which the objection in question sup-
poses, would happen in another way, with a circumstance of
aggravation. As long, at least, as the debt shall continue below
its proper value, it will be an object of speculation to foreigners,

^Et. 33.] FINANCE. 43

who will not only receive the interest upon what they purchase,
and remit it abroad, as in the case of the loan, but will reap the
additional profit of the difference in value. By the Govern-
ment's entering into competition with them, it will not only
reap a part of the profit itself, but will contract the extent, and
lessen the extra profit of foreign purchasers. That competition
will accelerate the rise of stock ; and whatever greater rate this
obliges foreigners to pay for what they purchase, is so much
clear saving to the nation. In the opinion of the Secretary, and
contrary to an idea which is not without patrons, it ought to be
the policy of the Government to raise the value of stock to its
true standard, as fast as possible. When it arrives to that point,
foreign speculations (which, till then, must be deemed perni-
cious, further than as they serve to bring it to that point) will
become beneficial. Their money, laid out in this country upon
our agriculture, commerce, and manufactures, will produce
much, more to us than the income they will receive from it.

The Secretary contemplates the application of this money
through the medium of a national bank, for which, with the per-
mission of the House, he will submit a plan in the course of the
session.

The Secretary now proceeds, in the last place, to offer to the
consideration of the House his ideas of the steps which ought, at
the present session, to be taken towards the assumption of the
State debts.

These are, briefly, that concurrent resolutions of the two
Houses, with the approbation of the President, be entered into,
declaring, in substance —

That the United States do assume, and will, at the first ses-
sion in the year 1791, provide, on the same terms with the pres-
ent debt of the United States, for all such parts of the debts of
the respective States, or any of them, as shall, prior to the first
day of January, in the said year, 1791, be subscribed towards a
loan to the United States, upon the principles of either of the
plans, which shall have been adopted by them, for obtaining a
re-loan of their present debt.

Provided, that the provision to be made, as aforesaid, shall

44 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 33.

be suspended, with, respect to the debt of any State, which may
have exchanged the securities of the United States for others
issued by itself, until the whole of the said securities shall either
be re-exchanged or surrendered to the United States.

And provided, also, that the interest upon the debt assumed,
be computed to the end of the year 1791 ; and that the interest
to be paid by the United States, commence on the first day of
January, 1792.

That the amount of the debt of each State, so assumed and
provided for, be charged to such State in account with the United
States, upon the same principles upon which it shall be lent to
the United States.

That subscriptions be opened for receiving loans of the said
debts, at the same times and places, and under the like regula-
tions, as shall have been prescribed in relation to the debt of the
United States.

The Secretary has now completed the objects which he pro-
posed to himself to comprise in the present report. He has, for the
most part, omitted details, as well to avoid fatiguing the attention
of the House, as because more time would have been desirable,
even to digest the general principles of the plan. If these
should be found right, the particular modifications will readily
suggest themselves in the progress of the work.

The Secretary, in the views which have directed his pursuit
of the subject, has been influenced, in the first place, by the con-
sideration, that his duty, from the very terms of the resolution
of the House, obliged him to propose what appeared to him an
adequate provision for the support of the public credit, adapted
at the same time to the real circumstances of the United States ;
and, in the next, by the reflection, that measures which will not
bear the test of future unbiassed examination, can neither be
productive of individual reputation, nor (which is of much
greater consequence) public honor or advantage.

Deeply impressed, as the Secretary is, with a full and delib-
erate conviction that the establishment of the public credit, upon
the basis of a satisfactory provision for the public debt, is, under
the present circumstances of this country, the true desideratum

Mt. 33.]

FINANCE. 45

towards relief from individual and national embarrassments;
that, without it, these embarrassments will be likely to press
still more severely upon the community ; he cannot but indulge
an anxious wish, that an effectual plan for that purpose may, du-
ring the present session, be the result of the united wisdom of
the Legislature.

He is fully convinced that it is of the greatest importance
that no further delay should attend the making of the requisite
provision : not only because it will give a better impression of
the good faith of the country, and will bring earlier relief to the
creditors, both which circumstances are of great moment to pub-
lic credit, but because the advantages to the community, from
raising stock, as speedily as possible, to its natural value, will be
incomparably greater than any that can result from its continu-
ance below that standard. No profit which could be derived
from purchases in the market, on account of the Government, to
any practicable extent, would be an equivalent for the loss which
would be sustained by the purchases of foreigners at a low value.
Not to repeat, that governmental purchases, to be honorable,
ought to be preceded by a provision. Delay, by disseminating
doubt, would sink the price of stock ; and, as the temptation to
foreign speculations, from the lowness of the price, would be too
great to be neglected, millions would probably be lost to the
United States.

All of which is humbly submitted.

Alexander Hamilton,.

Secretary of the Treasury.

To this Eeport were appended several schedules.

A. Being a supposititious statement of accounts between the United States and
individual States.

B. A general statement of the Foreign Loans, showing, in abstraot, the capital
sums borrowed, and the arrearages of interest, to the 31st of December, 1789.

C. Abstract of the Liquidated and Loan Office Debt of the United States, on
the 3d of March, 1789.

D. An estimate of all the interest which will accrue on the Domestic Debt of
the United States, from its formation to the 31st of December, 1790 ; of sucli par-
tial payments as have been made on account thereof, and of the balance which will
remain to be provided for, to pay up the interest, fully to that period.

46 HAMILTON'S WORKS.

[Ml. 33.

E. Abstract of the public debt of the States (therein) mentioned agreeably to
accounts transmitted in pursuance of the resolutions of the House of Representa-
tives of the 21st of September, 1789.

F. Table, showing the annuity which a person of a given age would be entitled
to, during life, from the time he should arrive at a given age, upon the present
payment of a hundred dollars, computing interest at four per cent.

G. Table, showing what annuity would be enjoyed by the survivor of only two
persons, of certain ages, for the remainder of life, after the determination of the
life in expectation, upon the present payment of one hundred dollars, computing
interest at four per cent, per annum, and the duration of life, according to Dr. Hal-
ley's tables.

H. Table for a Tontine of Six Classes, the number of lives in each class being
indefinite, calculated on a payment of two hundred dollars by each subscriber, and
at a rate of interest of four per cent. The computation on the best life in each
Class, and on the supposition that the subscribers to each Class will not be less
than the respective numbers specified in the first column.

I. General Estimate for the services of the current year.

K. Estimate of the probable product of the funds proposed for funding the
debt, and providing for the current service of the United States, including the pre-
sent duties on imports and tonnage.— State Papers— Finance, vol. i. pp. 26-37.

-♦-•-•-

KEMISSION OF FOEFEITUEES.

Communicated to the House of Representatives, January 19, 1790.

Treasury Department, January 19th, 1790.

In obedience to the order of the House of Eepresentatives, of
the 11th instant, referring to the Secretary of the Treasury the
petition of Christopher Sadler, the said Secretary most respect-
fully reports :

That, except the letter from the Collector of the district of
Boston and Charlestown, accompanying the petition, there is no
evidence immediately within reach, respecting the ground of
the application for relief.

That, though the letter is entirely satisfactory to the mind of
the Secretary, that the affair is of a nature to entitle the petition-
er to relief, yet, he does not consider it as such a document, as,
in point of precedent, would justify the interposition of the Leg-

Mt. 33.] REMISSION OF FORFEITURES. 47

islature to grant it. The Secretary will, therefore, take meas-
ures for a more regular authentication of the nature of the
transaction, and will submit the result. To this, therefore, is
the farther inducement of its being necessary to ascertain
whether the persons who may be interested in the forfeiture, are
disposed to relinquish their right.

The Secretary, however, begs leave to avail himself of the
occasion, to represent to the House, that there are other instan-
ces which have come under his notice, in which considerable
forfeitures have been incurred, manifestly through inadvertence
and want of information — circumstances which cannot fail to at-
tend the recent promulgation of laws of such a nature, and seem
to indicate the necessity, in conformity to the usual policy of
commercial nations, of vesting, somewhere, a discretionary power
of granting relief.

That necessity, though peculiarly great in the early stages of
new regulations, does not cease to operate throughout the pro-
gress of them. There occasionally occur incidents from which
heavy and ruinous forfeitures ensue, that require the constant
existence of some power capable of affording relief.

The proper investment of such a power is a matter of too
much delicacy and importance to be determined otherwise than
upon mature deliberation. Yet, the Secretary begs leave to sub-
mit to the consideration of the House, whether a temporary
arrangement might not be made, with expedition and safety,
which would avoid the inconvenience of a legislative decision
on particular applications.

All which is humbly submitted.

Alexander Hamilton,

Secretary of the Treasury.

48 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 33.

ADDITIONAL ESTIMATES FOR 1790.

Communnicated to the House of Representatives, March 2, 1790.

Treasury Department, March 1, 1790.

Pursuant to the act for establishing the Treasury Department,
the Secretary of the Treasury respectfully reports to the House
of Representatives, that, in addition to the estimate for the ser-
vice of the current }Tear, which accompanied his report of the
9th of January, there are various other objects for which an ap-
propriation is requisite, and which are detailed in the schedules
herewith submitted, numbered I and II.

Among the objects specified in the schedule No. I, the
House will observe the following :

The erection of a light-house on Cape Henry ;

Salaries to the late commissioners of loans, from the 30th of
June to the 31st December last ;

Interest on certain loans made, and necessary to be made, for
the current service ;

Sum requisite to complete the payment of interest on the
Dutch loans to the first of July next.

In respect to which several matters, the Secretary begs leave
to state —

First : As to the erection of a light-house on Cape Henry.
That the Commonwealth of Virginia, in conformity to the act of
the last session, for the establishment and support of light-
houses, &c, has passed a law empowering its Governor to cede
to the United States, as well the jurisdiction over, as the right
of soil in, as much land, not exceeding two acres, situate at a
place called the Headland of Cape Henry, as shall be sufficient
to erect a light-house upon ; which cession, it is of course to be
expected, will speedily be completed ; and an appropriation of a
competent sum is, therefore, necessary towards executing the
provision of the said act for erecting a light-house at the en-
trance of the Chesapeake, which, it is of importance to the navi-

jEt. 33.] ADDITIONAL ESTIMATES. 49

gation of that part of the Union, should be accomplished as
speedily as possible.

Secondly : As to the salaries of the late commissioners of
loans. Those officers were still in the execution of the duties
they had been appointed to perform, when the organization of
the present Treasury Department took place ; and it appeared to
the Secretary advisable to continue them in that situation to the
end of the year, which has been accordingly done, subject to the
discretion of the Legislature, in respect to compensation.

Thirdly : As to the interest on loans for the current service.
Those which have been already made were the result of neces-
sity ; they have been in great part satisfied, and the residue will
shortly be reimbursed out of the product of the duties : but the
interest being an extra expenditure, requires an appropriation ;
and, as a farther anticipation of the receipts into the treasury, to
satisfy immediate demands upon it, will be unavoidable, it is
necessary that this, also, should be provided for. Obvious con-
siderations dictate the propriety, in future cases, of making pre-
vious provision, by law, for such loans as the public exigencies
may call for, defining their extent, and giving special authority
to make them.

Fourthly : As to the sum for completing the payment of in-
terest on the Dutch loans to the first of July. The rate of ex-
change, at the present juncture, renders it peculiarly convenient
to remit from this country the sum necessary for that purpose ;
and it is important to the public credit, that immediate provision
should be accordingly made.

The Secretary further begs leave to observe, that occasions
occur, from time to time, which fall under no stated head of
expenditure ; for which, provision, in some mode or other, is
necessary. A circumstance, at present existing, may serve as an
example. There are persons who have been for some time asso-
ciated in the practice of counterfeiting the securities of the United
States, in a way which renders detection difficult, and has been
productive of numerous impositions on individuals. The appre-
hension and punishment of these persons is, evidently, a matter
of serious public concern, and the necessity of being able to offer

50 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 33.

rewards for that purpose, is apparent ; but the want of a provi-
sion for it is an impediment. Whether the appropriation of a
moderate sum, for such cases, to be disposed of under the direc-
tion of the President of the United States, would not be a proper
measure, is humbly submitted to the wisdom of the House.

Alexander Hamilton,

Secretary of the Treasury.

STATE DEBTS.

Communicated to the House of Representatives. 'March 4. 1790.

Treasury Department. March 4. 1790.

In obedience to the order of the House of ^Representatives,
of the 2d instant, the Secretary of the Treasury respectfully
reports :

That, in his opinion, the funds, in the first instance, requisite
towards the payment of interest on the debts of the individ-
ual States, according to the modifications proposed by him in
his report of the 9th of January past, may be obtained from the
following objects :

An increase of the general product of the duties on goods
imported, by abolishing the discount of ten per cent, allowed by
the fifth section of the act for laying a duty on goods, wares, and
merchandises, imported into the United States, in respect to
goods imported in American bottoms, and adding ten per cent
to the rates specified, in respect to goods imported in foreign
bottoms, with certain exceptions and qualifications. This change,
without impairing the commercial policy of the regulation, or
making an inconvenient addition to the general rates of the
duties, will occasion an augmentation of the revenue little short
of two hundred thousand dollars.

An additional duty on imported sugars. Sugars are an ob-
ject of general consumption, and yet constitute a small propor-

jEt. 33.] STATE DEBTS. 51

tion of the expense of families. A moderate addition to the pre-
sent rates would not be felt. From the bulkiness of the articles,
such an addition may he made with due regard to the safety of
collection. The quantity of brown and other inferior kinds of
sugar imported, appears to exceed twenty-two millions of pounds,
which, at a half cent per pound, would produce one hundred
and ten thousand dollars. Proportional impositions on foreign
refined sugar, and proper drawbacks on exportation, ought
of course to indemnify the manufacturers of this article among
ourselves.

Molasses, being in some of the States a substitute for sugar,
a small addition to the duty on that article, ought to accompany
an increase of the duty on sugar. This, however, ought to be
regulated with proper attention to the circumstances, that the
same article will contribute largely in the shape of distilled
spirits. Half a cent per gallon on molasses, would yield an
annual sum of thirty thousand dollars. Our distillers of spirits,
from this material, may be compensated by a proportional ex-
tension of the duty on imported spirits.

Snuff, and other manufactured tobacco, made within the
United States. Ten cents per pound on the snuff, and six cents
on other kinds of manufactured tobacco, would be likely to pro-
duce annually, from ninety to one hundred thousand dollars.
From as good evidence as the nature of the case will admit, the
quantity of these articles manufactured in the United States,
may be computed to exceed a million and a half of pounds. The
imposition of this duty would require an increase of the duty on
importation, and a drawback on exportation in favor of the
manufacturer. This, being an absolute superfluity, is the fairest
object of revenue that can be imagined, and may be so regulated
as, in no degree, to injure either the growth or manufacture of
the commodity.

Pepper, pimento, spices in general, and various other kinds
of groceries. These articles will bear such additional rates as
may be estimated to yield a sum of not less than thirty thousand
dollars. Computing according to the entries in the State of New
York, in 1788, the yearly quantity of pepper and pimento,

52 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 33.

brought into the United States is not less than eight hundred
thousand pounds, of which about a third is pepper. Six cents
on pepper, and four cents on pimento (with drawbacks on ex-
portation), may, without inconvenience, be laid.

Salt. An additional duty of six cents per bushel, may, in
the judgment of the Secretary, with propriety be laid on this
article. It is one of those objects, which, being consumed by
all, will be most productive, and yet, from the smallness of the
quantity in which it is consumed by any, and of the price,
will be least burthensome, if confined within reasonable limits.
If a government does not avail itself, to a proper extent, of re-
sources like these, it must, of necessity, overcharge others, and
particularly, give greater scope to direct taxation. The quantity
of this article annually imported, being at least a million and a
half of bushels, the annual product of an additional duty of six
cents may be computed at ninety thousand dollars.

Carriages, such as coaches, chariots, &c. These articles may
certainly be the subject of a considerable duty ; how productive
it would be, is not easy to be estimated. But it is imagined,
that it would yield not less than fifty thousand dollars per
annum.

Licenses to practisers of the law, certain law writings, and
various kinds of writings. The extent of this resource can only
be determined upon trial ; but the Secretary feels a strong assur-
ance that there may be drawn from it yearly, not less than two
hundred thousand dollars. The system for collecting a duty of
this kind, would embrace playing cards, and some other objects
of luxury, which do not fall under the above descriptions, but
which are estimated in the supposed product.

Sales at auction (exclusive of houses or lands, or of those
made in consequence of legal process, or of acknowledged insol-
vency). One per cent, on such sales would probably produce a
yearly sum of forty or fifty thousand dollars.

Wines and spirits, sold at retail. These articles are, in the
opinion of the Secretary, capable of being rendered far more pro-
ductive, than has been generally contemplated ; and they are,
certainly, among the most unexceptionable objects of revenue.

Ml. 33.] STATE DEBTS. 53

It is presumed that two hundred thousand dollars per annum
may, with facility, be collected from the retailment of these
articles.

The foregoing objects are those which appear to the Secre-
tary preferable towards a provision for the debts of the indivi-
dual States. There are others, which have occurred to him as
supplementary, in case the experiment should discover a defi-
ciency in the expected product, but which, he conceives it un-
necessary now to detail. He will only add, that he entertains
no doubt of its being practicable to accomplish the end on the
principles of his former report, without the necessity of taxing
either houses or lands, or the stock or the produce of farms.

The Secretary, conceiving the design of the House to have
been, to obtain from him a general delineation only of the funds
competent, in his judgment to the provision in question, has re-
frained from those details which would be indispensable, if that
provision were immediately to be made, and to have furnished
which, would have occasioned greater delay than would pro-
bably have suited with the present state of the business, or the
convenience of the House. He, with great deference, trusts, that
what is now offered will be deemed a satisfactory compliance
with their order.

The statement required respecting the product of the duties
on imports and tonnage, to the last of December, as far as returns
have come to hand, is contained in the schedule herewith.
All which is humbly submitted.

Alexander Hamilton,

Secretary of the Treasury.

Schedule— Abstract of the net proceeds of the duties on Imports and Tonnage.
— Stale Papers — Finance, p. 44.

54 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 33.

OPERATIONS OF THE ACT LAYING DUTIES ON

IMPORTS.

Communicated to the House of Representatives, April 23, 1790.

Treasury Department, April 22(1, 1790.

In obedience to the order of the House of Representatives of the
19th day of January last, the Secretary of the Treasury re-
spectfully submits the following report :

First. As to the act imposing duties on goods, wares, and mer-
chandise, imported into the United States.

Section 1. The duties specified in this act, according to this
section, took effect throughout the United States from and after
the first day of August last. But as the act for the collection of
those duties did not pass till the last of July, it was of course
impossible that the officers for carrying it into execution could
be appointed, commissioned, and ready to enter upon the execu-
tion of their offices, at the day fixed for the commencement of
the duties. The custom houses in the several States were not
organized till at different periods, from the fifth of August to
some time in September ; and in the intervals, several importa-
tions took place. In some instances, duties were paid under the
State laws, in others none were paid.

The Secretary, conceiving it to be a clear point, that the du-
ties, imposed by the first mentioned act, accrued as debts to the
United States, on all goods imported after the day specified for
their commencement, and that the regulations prescribed by the
collection law were to be considered merely as auxiliary guards,
for securing their due payment, did not think himself at liberty,
on grounds of convenience or inconvenience, to waive the claim
for them. He has therefore caused it to be made, and has given
directions, with a view to a legal decision of the question.

But it is worthy of consideration by the Legislature, Avhether
it be advisable to pursue, or relinquish it. The payment of the
duties in this situation has been generally unlooked for, and, in

JEt. 33.] DUTIES ON IMPORTS. 55

most cases, must be preceded by a legal determination. The en-
forcement of the claim would therefore be likely to be thought
rigorous, and, in some instances, might be injurious — where mer-
chants may have sold, without reference in the price to the duty ;
where factors or agents may have settled accounts with, and paid
over the proceeds of goods to, their principals, especially if tran-
sient persons ; where duties have been paid under the State
establishments ; in these and other cases, there might ensue loss
or embarrassment. There must also be difficulty in ascertaining
the sums which ought to be paid.

The distinctions between distilled spirits are conceived not to
be sufficiently diversified or accurate. This has been remarked,
and a remedy proposed, in the plan submitted to the House for
the support of the public credit.

There is no general rate prescribed for estimating the draught
and tare of those articles which pay duty by weight. The con-
sequence is, that different allowances are made at different places,
according to former usage, and too much is left to discretion.

Unwrought steel is rated at fifty-six cents for 112 lbs., which,
upon an average of the cost, is less than five per cent, ad valorem.
As an enumerated article, it is presumed to have been the inten-
tion of the Legislature to rate it higher than five per cent., espe-
cially as a higher rate would be in favor of the manufacture of
it among ourselves, in which considerable progress has been
made, particularly in the State of Pennsylvania.

The information received by the Secretary, induces him to
consider as questionable, the policy of the duty on pickled fish,
in its present extent. It is represented, that almost the whole of
what is brought from Nova Scotia to Massachusetts, is re-ex-
ported ; and this chiefly to foreign countries. And that, while
it forms a considerable article in an intercouse between those
places, beneficial to Massachusetts, it contributes to the augmen-
tation of her exports.

If this be true, it is difficult to discern any advantage in the
duty. To the revenue there will be rather loss than profit ; as
the expense, incident to the collection, and to the process of the
drawback, will probably exceed the amount of the duty on the

56 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 33.

small quantity internally consumed, even taking into the calcu-
lation the one per cent, retained as an indemnification for that
expense. In a commercial light, as far as it has any operation,
it seems to be rather an unfavorable one. The process of paying
and drawing back, is not without inconveniences ; and the unre-
funded residue is a tax on the export trade in that article, from
which, for the reason assigned, no benefit arises to the public ;
while the encouragement, which it was the object of this regula-
tion to give to the fisheries, loses, in a great measure, its effect,
by reason of the drawback. And it is suggested by intelligent
men, that an injurious competition in the branch of the fisheries,
to which the duty is applicable, is little to be apprehended.

The Secretary, however, does not conceive himself to be pos-
sessed with sufficient accuracy of all the facts necessary to a
right judgment on this point, to be willing to hazard a decisive
opinion. He therefore only means to state the circumstances
communicated to him, in expectation that the Representatives
from the part of the Union more immediately affected, will be
able, by further lights, to guide the opinion of the House to a
proper conclusion.

A discrimination is made by this section, in favor of teas
brought from China or India, in American bottoms. The fifth
section allows a discount of ten per cent, on all the duties im-
posed by this act, on goods, wares, and merchandises, imported
in American bottoms. A question arises, whether this discount
ought to obtain, in respect to the above-mentioned teas. The
Secretary presumes, that the better construction is against the
allowance, though within the letter of the provision ; but an ex-
planation is, perhaps, requisite, to obviate controversy.

All goods, wares, and merchandise, except teas, brought from
China or India, otherwise than in American bottoms, are made
liable to a duty of twelve and a half per cent, ad valorem. But
in the clause immediately succeeding, all China ware is rated
only at ten per cent, ad valorem. A doubt suggests itself, whe-
ther this article be excepted out of the preceding provision, or
be itself subject to an implied exception, in favor of the full
operation of that provision.

iET. 33.] DUTIES ON IMPORTS. 57

It is suggested, that the encouragement intended to our East
India trade, by the duty of twelve and a half per cent, on India
goods brought from China in foreign bottoms, will be counter-
acted by the want of a greater duty than is now laid on the
same goods, brought from Europe ; as competition is more to be
apprehended through that channel, than from direct importations,
in foreign bottoms, from India. While the Secretary deems it
proper to bring this suggestion into the view of the House, he
forbears giving an opinion as to the weight it ought to have. He
perceives various advantages in a direct commerce with the East
Indies, and is hitherto inclined to believe it merits the patronage
of the Government ; but the tendency of it is not yet suffi-
ciently developed, to his judgment, to leave him wholly without
reserve, as to the extent of the encouragement which ought to
be given.

Commodities of our own growth or manufacture, carried to a
foreign port, and brought back again to the United States, are,
by this act, liable to duty. The tendency of this to discourage
commercial enterprise, recommends the expediency of an exemp-
tion upon due proof of identity.

The sea stores of vessels, the furniture, clothing, and profes-
sional apparatus, of persons arriving in this country, from abroad,
seem equally liable to duties with goods brought by way of mer-
chandise. They have been in several instances exacted ; but the
payment is usually accompanied with remonstrance and discon-
tent. If it was not the intent of the Legislature to include such
articles, an explanation is necessary. Yarious considerations
plead for exempting them, under proper limitations.

Section 2. From this section, it has been doubted whether there
be, at present, any duty on hemp. And it has been inferred
from the debates, to have been the intention of the Legislature
to exempt it, till after the first of December, 1790 ; but the con-
struction of the act is different. There is a duty on cotton as
well as hemp, to take place at a future day. But cotton, in the
mean time, is expressly excepted out of the five per cent, duty,
which impliedly excludes hemp from the like exception. As

c 5

58 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 33.

the act now stands, it will be a question, when the duty of sixty
cents per hundred weight takes place, whether it be in addition
to, or in lieu of, the present duty.

Section 3. Provision is here made for a drawback of the duties
on goods exported within twelve months, with an exception of
certain kinds of distilled spirits, and a deduction of one per cent.

But there is no provision for entries for exportation ; whence
it happens, that a vessel arriving from a foreign port, with part
of her cargo destined for the United States, and other part for
some other country, is obliged to pay or secure the payment of
the duties on her whole cargo ; and in strictness, even to land
such articles, as require weighing, gauging, or measuring, in order
to the ascertaining of the duties. This is complained of as a
hardship, and is contrary to the prevailing usage of commercial
nations. The Secretary is of opinion, that the complaint is well
founded ; and that it is advisable that entries for exportation,
with proper precautions and restrictions, should be authorized.
The interests of the revenue can, with advantage, be consulted
no further than they are consistent with the necessary freedom
and facility of commercial intercourse.

The allowance of drawbacks does not obviate the subject of
complaint. The necessity of advancing the money, or procuring
security for the amount of the duties ; the necessity of landing
those articles which require to be weighed, measured, or gauged
(which must in the first instance be submitted to), are material
inconveniences ; and the process for obtaining drawbacks, is
attended with difficulty, casualty, and trouble. There must be a
bond given not to re-land the goods ; and this bond must be can-
celled by certain proofs, which may not, in all cases, be obtain-
able ; but which are, nevertheless, made a pre-requisite to the
payment of the drawbacks. Nor can that payment, at any rate,
be had, till after the expiration of six months : so that, even
where security is given for the amount of the duties, it must
often happen that they become payable before parties can be pre-
pared to demand the drawback ; and the one per cent, retained,
is, in every case, a certain loss. These circumstances, to transient
persons especially, operate as a grievance.

jEt. 33.] DUTIES ON IMPORTS. 59

Secondly. As to the act imposing duties on tonnage.

The duties mentioned in this act, are upon all ships or vessels,
entered into the United States.

The entry, therefore, is the circumstance which regulates the
payment of the duty.

But a doubt has arisen, whether the duty ought to be deemed
to accrue on every entry, or only on entries from foreign coun-
tries.

The construction which has been adopted, is, that it accrues
on every entry, whether from abroad, or in one part of the
United States from another.

One reason for this construction results from the second sec-
tion, which provides that vessels built and owned in the United
States, whilst employed in the coasting trade or fisheries, shall
not pay tonnage more than once a year. If the duty were con-
fined to entries from abroad only, it could not arise at all on ves-
sels employed in the coasting trade, whilst so employed ; in
which case, this provision would be wholly nugatory. The last
clause of the twenty-third section of the " act for registering and
clearing vessels, regulating the coasting trade, and for other pur-
poses," looks also to the same construction ; strongly implying
the payment of tonnage, generally, between district and district,
and enlarging the rate in a particular case.

Yet the third section of the act now under consideration has
been supposed to have a different aspect, as it subjects all vessels,
except those built within, and owned by citizens of, the United
States, employed in transporting our own commodities, coastwise,
to a tonnage of fifty cents at each entry ; whence it has been infer-
red, that, in other cases, the duty is not payable at each entry ;
because, by the first section, vessels wholly foreign pay fifty
cents, whether employed in the coasting trade or not. But this
inference loses its force, when it is observed, that there are other
descriptions of vessels, in respect to which it serves to increase
the rates specified in the first section, in favor of the exclusive
privilege, to transport our own commodities coastwise, intended
to be secured to vessels built within, and owned by citizens of,

60 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 33.

the United States. This suggests a use for the clause, which is
reconcilable with the provision in the second section.

The provisions of this act, however, appear to be varied by
the " act for registering and clearing vessels, regulating the
coasting trade, and for other purposes," in these particulars.
The latter extends the privileges in the coasting trade, which, by
the former, seem to be confined to vessels of the built of the
United States, to all vessels which are registered or enrolled,
provided they obtain licenses for the purpose. It also extends
the duty of fifty cents to the transportation of foreign (as well as
domestic) commodities, from district to district, by any vessel of
the burthen of twenty tons and upwards, which has not a register
or enrolment, and a license to trade.

Hence, if even a registered vessel, having no license, proceed
from one district, with part of an outward bound cargo, to ano-
ther district, in order to procure the remainder, and happen to
take in a freight, at the first place, for the last, which amounts to
a trading between the districts, she is subject, on her entry in the
last, to foreign tonnage.

The propriety of this construction has been questioned ; but
a consideration of the general spirit of the coasting act, which
aims at guarding the revenue against evasion, by the precautions
annexed to the granting of licenses, and an accurate attention to
the words of the last clause of the twenty-third section of that act,
seem to leave no room for a different construction. These words
are, "And if any vessel of the burthen of twenty tons, or up-
wards, not having a certificate of registry or enrolment, and a
licence, shall be found trading between different districts, or be
employed in the bank or whale fisheries, every such ship or
vessel shall be subject to the same tonnage and fees as foreign
ships or vessels."

This provision, for want of having been understood in the
proper sense, has, in a variety of instances, borne hard upon
individuals who have omitted to procure licenses, and whose
vessels have been, on that account, subjected to foreign tonnage.
It is submitted to the consideration of the House, whether resti-
tution of the sums paid, through misapprehension of a new law,

Mr. 33.] DUTIES ON IMPORTS. 61

would not be equitable in itself, and calculated to give a favora-
ble impression of the liberality of the Government.

Perhaps, indeed, the expediency of the regulation itself merits
reconsideration. The necessity of paying tonnage at all, in go-
ing from one district to another, has been a subject of complaint.
And it is certain that it has, in many cases, been a burthensome
operation. It would appear to the Secretary, upon the whole,
eligible, that, upon entries from district to district, tonnage
should, in no case, be demanded, except where a freight had
been taken in, at one district, for another ; and that, even there,
in respect to vessels registered, but not licensed, half tonnage
only should be paid.

Thirdly. As to the act to regulate the collection of the duties im-
posed by laiu on the tonnage of ships or vessels, and on goods, wares,
and merchandise, imported into the United States.

Sections 1, 2, 3, and 4. The arrangement of the districts, the
privileges granted to some ports, the restrictions upon others,
have been represented, in a few instances, as requiring alteration.
The Secretary is inclined to think that some of the representa-
tions, made to him, will deserve attention ; but, as he presumes
that the course of business will lead to the appointment of a spe-
cial committee, to prepare a bill for amending the laws under
consideration, there are reasons which, with the permission of
the House, would induce him to reserve a more particular com-
munication, on this part of the subject, for that committee.

Section 5. This section contemplates a provision of boats, for
securing the collection of the revenue ; but no authority to pro-
vide them is any where given. Information, from several quar-
ters, proves the necessity of having them ; nor can they, in
the opinion of the Secretary, fail to contribute, in a material
degree, to the security of the revenue, much more than will com-
pensate for the expense of the establishment : the utility of
which will increase in proportion as the public exigencies may
require an augmentation of the duties. An objection has been

62 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 33.

made to the measure, as betraying an improper distrust of the
merchants ; but, that objection can have no weight, when it is
considered that it would be equally applicable to all the precau-
tions comprehended in the existing system ; all which proceed
on a supposition, too well founded to be doubted, that there are
persons concerned in trade, in every country, who will, if they
can, evade the public duties for their private benefit. Justice to
the body of the merchants of the United States demands an
acknowledgment that they have, very generally, manifested a
disposition to conform to the national laws, which does them
honor, and authorizes confidence in their probity. But every
considerate member of that body knows that this confidence
admits of exceptions, and that it is essentially the interest of the
greater number that every possible guard should be set on the
fraudulent few, which does not, in fact, tend to the embarrass-
ment of trade.

The following is submitted as a proper establishment for this
purpose :

That there be ten boats, two for the coasts, bays, and harbors,
of Massachusetts and New Hampshire ; one for the sound,
between Long Island and Connecticut ; one for the bay of New-
York ; one for the bay of Delaware ; two for the bay of the
Chesapeake; (these, of course, to ply along the neighboring
coasts ;) one for the coasts, bays, and harbors, of North Caro-
lina ; one for the coasts, bays, and harbors, of South Carolina ;
and one for the coasts, bays, and harbors, of Georgia.

Boats of from thirty-six to forty feet keel will answer the pur-
pose, each having one captain, one lieutenant, and six mariners,
and armed with swivels. The first cost of one of these boats,
completely equipped, may be computed at one thousand dollars.
The following is an estimate of the annual expense :
10 Captains, at 40 dollars per month, $4,800
10 Lieutenants, at 25 do. do. 3,000

60 Seamen, at 8 do. do. 5,760

Provision, 3,000

Wear and tear, 2,000

$18,560

jEt. 33.] DUTIES ON IMPORTS. 63

The utility of an establishment of this nature must depend on
the exertion, vigilance, and fidelity, of those to whom the charge
of the boats shall be confided. If these are not respectable cha-
racters, they will rather serve to screen than detect fraud. To
procure such, a liberal compensation must be given, and, in addi-
tion to this, it will, in the opinion of the Secretary, be advisable
that they be commissioned as officers of the navy. This will not
only induce fit men the more readily to engage, but will attach
them to their duty by a nicer sense of honor.

Section 6. Collectors are here authorized, in case of necessary
absence, sickness, or inability, to appoint deputies. It is repre-
sented that inconveniences have arisen from the want of the like
power in the naval officers and surveyors.

Section 7. Provision is here made for the case of the disability
or death of the collector, but not of the naval officer or surveyor.
A similar provision, with respect to them, appears to be not less
requisite.

Section 10. The provision of this section seems to extend too
far. It is conceived that it ought to be confined to vessels owned
wholly, or in part, by citizens of the United States ; as it is not
supposable that those of other nations can be acquainted with a
regulation so entirely local in its nature, or be prepared to com-
ply with it. - There is also want of a penalty to enforce its
observance.

This regulation has been represented as inconvenient and
useless ; but the Secretary does not view it in this light. It is
probable that it will contribute to the security of the revenue, by
rendering more difficult those collusions between masters and
owners, which often take place after the arrival of vessels upon
the coast, or within port.

Section 11. Masters of vessels, within forty-eight hours after
their arrival in any port of the United States, are to make report.
It is not explained, whether they are not at liberty, in the mean

64 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 33.

time, to proceed elsewhere. The construction of the officers of
the customs, in several instances, has been in favor of such liberty.
But this construction does not appear to the Secretary well
founded. He conceives that the duties become payable by the
act of importation, even previously to entry, and that the forty-
eight hours are only allowed as a reasonable time for the master
to prepare his report ; after which he is to be subject to a penalty
for not doing it. An explanation, however, may prevent dis-
putes.

It is also submitted, whether masters ought not to be required,
within twelve hours after their arrival, to announce it at the
custom-house, and to complete their report within twenty- four,
with an exception for Sundays. It is of moment, that vessels
arriving should be brought, as speedily as possible, under the
notice of the proper officers, and that their situation should be
ascertained as early as practicable. More time than is necessary
for disclosing it with proper accuracy, can be of no real use, and
gives greater opportunity for concerting frauds.

In the oath here prescribed for masters of vessels, there is no
view to those casualties which may cause the cargo to be dimin-
ished at sea. There ought to be room for making the proper
exceptions, according to the circumstances. And it would be
useful to make it a part of the oath, that any goods afterwards
discovered on board, shall be reported ; as in the case of import-
ers or consignees.

Section 12. It is here declared that no goods shall be unladen
but in open day. It would be more safe, as well as more certain,
to fix particular hours for the purpose, according to different
seasons of the year. And it is submitted, whether all lading,
as well as unlading of goods, at other hours, unless by special
license from the officers of the customs, ought not to be for-
bidden. If, in addition to this, masters of vessels were required
to give previous notice to the officers assigned to their respec-
tive vessels, of the times when deliveries are intended to begin,
it would afford an increase of security.

This section contains various penalties on persons concerned

vEt.33.] DUTIES ON IMPORTS. 65

in unlading and removing goods, without the requisite permits.
It would be a most powerful check upon fraud, if every master
of a vessel, concerned in one, should, on conviction, be disquali-
fied, under competent penalties, from having, at any time after,
the command or charge of a vessel within the United States.
There are, however, objections of weight to such a provision.

Section 13. The effect of this section is to oblige the payment
or securing of the duties on all the goods brought in any vessel,
at the port at which, she first arrives, though part of them be
destined for another, either within the United States, or else-
where. This regulation is a subject of complaint. Its inconve-
nience becomes the more apparent, when it is considered that all
the goods intended for another port must first be landed (and
certain articles measured, weighed, or gauged), and afterwards
reshipped. The trouble, expense, and delay of such a process,
are serious obstructions to trade. Balancing its commercial
inconveniences with the additional security which it may afford
to the revenue, the Secretary is of opinion that an alteration is
advisable. It should be incumbent upon the master of the ship
to make report, at the first port, of the whole cargo on board,
upon oath, distinguishing the particular goods intended for each
port ; and also to make oath, at every subsequent port, of the
particulars of the goods landed at any preceding one, and of the
persons to and for whom they were delivered ; producing also
certificates from the proper officers, of the whole quantity of the
goods originally entered, and of so much as may have been regu-
larly landed. A power of securing, with proper fastenings, the
hatches, and other communications with the holds of ships ; pro-
viding for accidents and necessity ; and even, if judged requisite,
to put an inspector on board, in going from one port to another*
ought to be superadded.

No person but the owner or consignee of goods can make the
entry here required. This, from the absence of parties, is some-
times inconvenient. It is the practice of countries, whose regu-
lations are not deficient in strictness, to allow an agent of the
party to make entry in his absence. And though this may widen

66 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 33.

the door for evasion, there are, nevertheless, strong arguments,
derived from convenience, in its favor. Penalties, proportiona-
bly severe, may be inflicted, upon fraud committed by any such
agent, and the permission may be confined to the case of persons
absent at the time of the arrival of the vessel in which the goods
may have been brought.

The oath here directed to be taken by importers is not always
in their power. There may be no invoice, nor any other accu-
rate account of the quantity, quality, or cost of articles. A
qualification in this respect is indispensable. Entries, without
specifying particulars, must, of necessity, be admitted; parties
swearing that they have received no account of them, and that
they are unknown. An eye is had to this in the sixteenth sec-
tion, but something is wanting to reconcile the two sections, and
define a more accurate course of proceeding in the case.

Section 15. Inspectors are to be put on board vessels, who are
to remain on board until they are discharged. This implies,
during the night as well as the day; which, if practised, would
multiply the number of inspectors to a very expensive extent.
A power of securing the hatches, and other communications with
the holds of vessels, during the night, would give greater secu-
rity, where inspectors were kept constantly on board, and would,
in many instances, obviate the necessity of doing it.

The unloading of a vessel is here limited to fifteen working
days after she begins to unload. But the commencement of the
business may be postponed, as long as the parties interested
think fit. If there should be considerable delay, either an
inspector must remain on board the whole time, in which case
the expense may exhaust the duty, or there must be great oppor-
tunity for fraud. It seems proper, either to fix an ultimate
limit for unloading, to be computed from the time of arrival,
or of the master's report ; or a period, after which, the expense
of an inspector shall be borne by the party. The first appears to
the Secretary most advisable, and he conceives that twenty work-
ing days, after the master's report, would suffice.

JEt. 33.] DUTIES ON IMPORTS 67

Section 19. The payment, or securing of the duties, is here
made a preliminary to their being landed. This, in a strict
sense, is impracticable, as certain articles must first be landed,
weighed, gauged, or measured, before the duties can be ascer-
tained. The object, however, of the provision, is proper, and
it must be construed to admit a gross estimate of the sum,
in the first instance, subject to after revision. It would, however,
be desirable, that a discretion of this sort should be expressed.
The collector, together with the naval officer, where there is
one, or alone, where there is none, may be authorized to determine
the amount of the duties to be paid, by an estimate of the same,
according to the best of their or his judgment, and the collector
may be empowered, in case of an over-estimate, either to return
the excess, if the money has been paid, or to indorse a credit for
it on the bond.

A discount of ten per cent, is here allowed for prompt pay-
ment, on the excess of any sum of duties beyond fifty dollars.
The policy of this discount is questionable. Experience shows,
that, in most of the States, transient persons chiefly avail them-
selves of it, who would, in most cases, pay the money without
the discount, to avoid the inconvenience of suretyship.

But if even the discount ought to be continued, the rate seems
to be too high. It exceeds the rate of interest at which the
Government may borrow, more than is equivalent for the insu-
rance of the risk of non-payment. Seven per cent, would, in the
judgment of the Secretary, be the extent of a proper allowance.
The confining the discount to the excess beyond fifty dollars, coun-
teracts the provision wherever that excess is not considerable.

It is provided by the last clause of this section, that no
person, whose bond is unsatisfied, after it becomes due, shall
have a future credit with the collector, until it shall be dis-
charged. The words "the collector," have been supposed to
confine the non-allowance of credit to the particular collector
to whom the bond was given ; in which sense, a further credit
may be had in another district; which would considerably
lessen the utility of the regulation. The removal of this anibi-

68 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 33.

guity, so as to render the exclusion general, may add to the
efficacy of the provision.

Section 29. The compensations to the officers established by
this section require revision ; they are, in many instances, ina-
dequate ; in some, disproportionate. Eesignations, in consequence
of it, have taken place, and others are suspended on the expecta-
tion of a favorable alteration during the present session. It is
certain, that competent allowances are essential to the idea of
having the service performed by characters worthy of trust. And
how much the security of the revenue depends on this, is evident.
There are many ports where the officers receive next to nothing
for their services. It were superfluous to comment on the inex-
pediency of such a state of things.

The Secretary, for the sake of brevity, begs leave to reserve
the details, on this head, for the committee before alluded to.

It has been inferred, from this section, that the collector
and naval officer are, necessarily, to transact their business in
separate apartments. This (if it be the design of the provision
from which the inference is drawn) was, probably, founded upon
the idea, that the separation would lessen the danger of collu-
sion between those officers. But it does not seem likely that a
circumstance of this sort could have much effect in that way,
while the separation leaves a good deal more in the power of
the collector, and renders the naval officer far less a check upon
him, than if he were made an immediate witness to his transac-
tions. The Secretary is of opinion, that it would be preferable
to require them to act in conjunction, and in the presence of
each other, among other things, jointly administering and cer-
tifying all oaths required to be taken at the custom houses.

Section. 30. This section provides for the receipt of the duties
in gold and silver coin only. The Secretary has considered this
provision as having for object, the exclusion of payments in the
paper emissions of the particular States, and the securing the
immediate or ultimate collection of the duties in specie, as in-
tended to prohibit to individuals the right of paying in any

Me. 33.] DUTIES ON IMPORTS. 69

thing except gold or silver coin ; but not to hinder the treasury
from making such arrangements as its exigencies, the speedy
command of the public resources, and the convenience of the
community, might dictate ; those arrangements being compatible
with the eventual receipt of the duties in specie. For instance,
the Secretary did not imagine that the provision ought to be so
understood as to prevent, if necessary, an anticipation of the
duties, by treasury drafts, receivable at the several custom
houses. And, if it ought not to be understood in this sense, it
appeared to him that the principle of a different construction
would extend to the permitting the receipt of the notes of public
banks, issued on a specie fund. Unless it can be supposed, that
the exchanging of specie, after it has been received for bank
notes, to be remitted to the treasury, is also interdicted, it seems
difficult to conclude that the receipt of them, in the first in-
stance, is forbidden.

Such were the reflections of the Secretary with regard to
the authority to permit bank notes to be taken in payment of
the duties. The expediency of doing it appeared to him to be
still less questionable. The extension of their circulation, by the
measure, is calculated to increase both the ability and the incli-
nation of the banks to aid the Government. It alsoaccelerates
the command of the product of the revenues for the public ser-
vice, and it facilitates the payment of the duties. It has the
first effect, because the course of business occasions the notes to
be sent beforehand to distant places; and being ready on the
spot, either for payment or exchange, the first post, after the
duties become payable, or are received, conveys them to the
treasury. The substitution of treasury drafts, anticipating the
duties, could hardly be made without some sacrifice on the part
of the public. As they would be drawn upon time, and upon
the expectation of funds to be collected, and, of course, contin-
gent, it is not probable that they would obtain a ready sale, but
at a discount, or upon long credit. As they would also be more
or less liable to accident, from the failure of expected pay-
ments, there would be continually a degree of hazard to pub-
lic credit. And, to other considerations, it may be added,

70 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 33.

that the practice of anticipations of this kind, is, in its nature, so
capable of abuse, as to render it an in-eligible instrument of
administration, in ordinary cases, and fit only for times of ne-
cessity.

If the idea of anticipation should be excluded, then the rely-
ing wholly upon treasury drafts would be productive of consi-
derable delay. The knowledge, that funds were in hand, must
precede the issuing of them. Here would, of course, be some loss
of time. And as the moment of demand, created by the course
of business, would frequently elapse, there would, as frequently,
be a farther loss of time in waiting for a new demand. In such
intervals, the public service would suffer, the specie would be
locked up, and circulation checked. Bank notes being a con-
venient species of money, whatever increases their circulation,
increases the quantity of current money. Hence, the payment
of duties is doubly promoted by their aid ; they at once add to
the quantity of medium, and serve to prevent the stagnation of
specie.

The tendency of the measure to lessen the necessity of draw-
ing specie from distant places to the seat of Government results
from the foregoing considerations. The slow operation of trea-
sury drafts would frequently involve a necessity of bringing
on specie, to answer the exigencies of government ; the avoiding
of which, as much as possible, in the particular situation of this
country, need not be insisted upon.

But, convinced as the Secretary is of the usefulness of the
regulation, yet, considering the nature of the clause upon which
these remarks arise, he thought it his duty to bring the subject
under the eye of the House. The measure is understood by all
concerned to be temporary.

Indeed, whenever a National Bank shall be instituted, some
new disposition of the thing will be a matter of course.

Sections 31 and 32. The provision, in these sections, respect-
ing drawbacks, seems to require revision in several particulars.

The benefit of it is intended for any person by whom the
goods may be exported, whether that person be the importer of

jEt. 33.] DUTIES ON IMPORTS. 11

them or another ; and yet the oath, to be taken by the exporter,
is of such a nature, as must be very difficult to any but the im-
porter. It declares, that the goods are, in quantity, quality, and
value, according to the inward entry of them, which was duly
made at the time of importation — a fact, which, it is evident,
can rarely be known to any but the person who made that entry.
This must, therefore, occasion either difficulty in obtaining the
drawback, or a kind of constructive swearing, inconsistent with
that scrupulous strictness which ought ever to accompany an
oath, and on which the security they are intended to afford,
must depend. To obviate both, it seems necessary to direct, that
proof of the fact shall be made, to the satisfaction of the collector,
by the oaths or affirmations of all the parties, through whose
hands the goods may have passed ; in which case, each can be
examined as far as his knowledge can be presumed to extend.

There is no rule prescribed for regulating the sum in which
bonds shall be taken ; whence there is, perhaps, too much left to
the discretion of the officers. And the cancelling of the bond is
made to depend, among other things, upon the oath or affirma-
tion of the master and mate of the vessel, in which the goods are
exported, attesting their delivery : a requisite which it may not
always be possible to fulfil. The master or mate may die, or
may quit the vessel from different causes, without complying
with it. These circumstances seem to require some other modi-
fications. The Secretary has had an eye to them, in the draught
of the bill accompanying his report of the ninth of January last ;
to which he begs leave respectfully to refer.

Section 40. This section provides, that no goods, wares, or
merchandise, of foreign growth or manufacture, subject to the
payment of duties, shall be brought into the United States,
otherwise than by sea, and in ships or vessels of not less than
thirty tons' burthen ; with an exception as to the district of
Louisville, and another, as to vessels, at the time of the passing
of the act, on their voyage.

It is a matter which merits particular consideration, whe-
ther there ought not, also, to be an exception in regard to the

72 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 33.

most Easterly district of the State of Massachusetts. The situa-
tion of that district is, in different views, peculiar, so as, perhaps,
to render it advisable rather to endeavor to regulate, than to
prevent the introduction of foreign articles in smaller vessels.
The information received on this point will, also, with the
leave of the House, be reserved for the committee before re-
ferred to.

Fourthly. As to the u act for registering and clearing vessels,
regulating the coasting trade, and for other purposes."

Many of the provisions of this act are objected to, particularly
those parts which relate to the coasting trade and fisheries ; and
yet, it must be confessed, that the proper remedies or alterations
are neither obvious nor easy. The more the matter is examined,
the more difficult it appears to reconcile the convenience of
those branches of trade with due precautions for the security of
the revenue.

Section 2. The idea of this section is, that every vessel shall
be registered by the collector of the district to which she belongs.
This regulation is a proper one, as a knowledge of the persons
on whose oaths or affirmations the registries are to be founded by
the officer making them, is a security against imposition. But
this provision seems to be contravened by that of the seventh
section, as will be noted hereafter.

Section 3. This section directs the mode of ascertaining the
tonnage of all ships or vessels.

It is, however, a question, whether it means only those which
are to be registered, in order to their registry, or extends to
others, in order to computing the tonnage duty. The latter
construction has been preferred, for the sake of equality and uni-
formity.

The mode of admeasurement prescribed, has been complained
of, as unfavorable to certain kinds of vessels, and as tending to
enlarge the tonnage beyond the standard of other countries.

Mt. 33.] DUTIES ON IMPORTS. 73

Section 6. Objections are made to the form of the oath pre-
scribed by this section. The party is to swear, positively, to the
place where the vessel was built (which, in a great number of
cases, cannot, with propriety, be done), and, also, to the citizen-
ship, not only of himself, but of the other owners, and of the
master (which, in many cases, must be equally difficult).

Inconveniences are experienced from the want of a rule for
determining who are citizens. The consequence of it is, that
every man is left to his own opinion of what constitutes one, and
it is represented that there are instances in which persons of
reputation, supposing that residence only conferred the character,
have been ready to take the oath prescribed.

A designation of the several descriptions of persons entitled
to the privileges of citizens undec this act, requiring that the
particular one, under which each falls, should be inserted in his
oath, would be the most effectual guard against error or imposi-
tion. If this should be thought to be attended with too many
difficulties, from our peculiar situation, it may, at least, be proper
to annex some adequate pecuniary penalty to the obtaining of
registers by persons not citizens, and, to oblige all who apply,
to specify,- in their oaths, by what title they are citizens, that is,
whether by nativity, naturalization or otherwise, which, by
bringing into view the situation of each person, would serve as
a useful check.

In these observations, it is taken for granted, that, as the
law now stands, the oath of the party is the sole guide to the
officers of the customs ; that they have not any discretion in the
case, and, that a power in them to judge of the qualifications of
individuals, in so important a respect, could not, with propriety,
be established.

Section 7. The second section, as already remarked, directs,
that vessels be registered in the districts to which they belong.
This admits their registry wherever they may be, provided the
oath required be taken before the collectors of the district to
which they belong. It is conceived that an adherence to the
principle of the second section, throughout, would conduce to
c 6

74 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 33.

security. And it is, therefore, submitted, whether, instead of
the provision in this section, it would not be advisable
to provide that, when a vessel, being in a district other than
that to which she belongs, has occasion to be registered, she
shall be surveyed under the direction of the proper officer of the
port where she may happen to be, and registered by the collector
of the district to which she may belong, upon a certificate of the
officer bv whom such survey shall have been made.

tion 11. The declaring the instrument of transfer void, un-
less the register be recited in it, involves an embarrassing qu- -
tion, as to the property of the and does not seem neces-

sary to the object in view. The subsequent part of the section,
which annuls the privileges of an American bottom, without such
recital, answering, alone, the purpose of the provision.

- tion 12. If. in the oath on which the registry is founded,
it be necessary to declare that the master is a citizen, it would
seem equally necessary that, on a change of master, there should
be a like attestation of his citizenship, previous to the endorse-
ment herein directed to be made, as otherwise, a citizen may be
the master one day. a foreigner the next.

Section 13. There would be less room for imposition, if, in-
stead of allowing the collector of the port, where the vessel
might be, to grant a new register, he were authorized merely to
take the oath prescribed, in order to its transmission to the col-
lector of the district where she might belong, making it the duty
of the latter to issue the new register.

Section 22. This section commences the regulations respect-
ing vessels employed in the coasting trade and fisheries. The
proviso of it exempts all licensed vessels, under twenty tons,
from clearing and entering, and, in its consequences, remov
them, almost wholly, from the inspection of the officers of the
customs. The tendency of this to facilitate smuggling, is obvi-
ous, as these vessels are precisely of that kind which would be

tEt. 33.] DUTIES ON IMPORTS. 75

most naturally employed in clandestinely unlading, on the coast,
those which arrive from abroad. The bond required, in order
to a license, is a very slender restraint, not only from the small-
ness of the penalty, but from the little danger of discovery.
And the oath is still less effectual, because the master who is to
take it, may, at any time be changed, before the application for
anew license. This oath, too, is exceptionable on other accounts.
The anticipation of a future and distant oath may be too apt to
give way to the allurements of immediate interest; and if a
breach of the law have been committed, when it is to be taken,
it is hardly to be expected that there will be a strict adherence
to truth, at the price of incurring both disgrace and loss.

It would, perhaps, be more effectual, and less exceptionable,
if, instead of this oath, one should be required, previous to the
granting of any license to a fishing or coasting vessel, from the
owner or owners of such vessel, that she shall not, during the
time for which it is to be granted, be employed, with his or their
permission, consent, sufferance, privity, or connivance, in any
way, whereby the payment of the duties imposed by law, on
articles imported into the United States, may be evaded.

But it seems indispensable towards guarding against the
frauds which may be committed by coasters, that they should be
obliged, at every port or place where there is an officer of the
customs, to report themselves and their lading, on their arrival,
and previous to their departure. For this purpose, the office
hours ought to be so regulated and extended, as to afford the
greatest possible accommodation, and avoid occasions of delay.
With this precaution, and taking care that the fees are moder-
ate, it is presumable that coasters may be subjected to a pretty
exact inspection, without injuriously impeding their business.

While they ought, in the opinion of the Secretary, to be thus
subjected to a strict supervision at places where there are officers,
it appears to him proper that they should be exempted from the
obligation either of entering or clearing, when at places where
there are none. The necessity of journeys to distant offices, fre-
quently across rivers and bays, and at the expense of the loss
of favorable winds, occasions, in some parts of the Union, serious
obstructions to the coasting trade. As connected with the idea,

76 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [£h\ 33.

it would tend to the security of the revenue if a discretion were
allowed to appoint inspectors at places which are not ports of
general entry or delivery, for the purpose of entering, clearing,
and overseeing coasters.

Section 23. In the remarks on the act imposing duties on
tonnage, the construction which has obtained upon the last
clause of this section has been stated, together with the hard-
ships which have ensued to individuals from misapprehension
of it.

A different modification of the provision has, also, been sug-
gested. Among other reasons to be assigned for it is this : that,
by obliging all registered vessels to take out licenses, it unneces-
sarily increases the number of vessels entitled to the privileges
of coasters. In the opinion of the Secretary, these ought to be
confined to such as are ordinarily employed in the coasting and
fishing trade ; to effect which, it may be proper that, previous to
the granting of any license, an oath or affirmation should be
made, that the vessel for which it is required is, bona fide, intend-
ed to be employed as a coasting or fishing vessel, during the
period for which it is to be granted, or the greater part of it,
and even to annex a penalty to the taking out a license for any
vessel which shall not be so employed. This, in respect to fish-
ing vessels, seems peculiarly necessary, as it is easy to see that,
on the pretext of that employment, licenses may be perverted
from their real purpose, to that of a mere cover for illicit prac-
tices.

There is no provision for the case of a change of property
within the year, for which a license may be granted, which,
sometimes, occasions sureties to be bound for parties they did
not contemplate. This, and the repetition of tonnage duty,
which is a consequence of it, is regarded as an inconvenience,
requiring to be remedied, by a provision for the granting new
licenses, when such changes happen, upon new security for the
remainder of the year.

Sections 27 and 28. As there are no particular penalties annex-
ed to a non-compliance with the requisites of these sections, it

jEt. 33.] DUTIES ON IMPORTS. 11

has, of course, been found, in some instances, difficult to enforce
their execution. And, though it is presumed that such non-
compliance would be a good probable cause of seizure, yet if, in
the event of a trial, it turned out, in one case, that there were
no foreign goods, nor ardent spirits, exceeding four hundred
gallons, on board ; and in the other, that a manifest and permit
had been obtained, and that no goods were on board but such as
they had specified, no penalty could be inflicted. And a vexa-
tious litigation between the officer and the party might be the
only fruit of the seizure.

It is inferred from the last of these sections, that a coaster
whose ultimate destination is for a place where a collector or
surveyor resides, having on board goods for any intermediate
place, is not at liberty to land those goods at such intermediate
place, till after a permit for landing shall have been obtained at
the place of destination ; which is complained of as a grievance,
and certainly is attended, in many cases, with considerable incon-
venience. A relaxation, in this respect, may be advisable. And
to guard, as much as possible, against any ill effects from it, it
may be expedient that, whenever a coaster arrives at a port
where a collector or surveyor resides, it should be incumbent
upon the master of her to make a report in writing, and upon
oath, stating the goods on board at the time of her departure
from the last port left by her, at which a collector or surveyor
resided, and which may have been afterwards taken in, or de-
livered, prior to her arrival at the place of report. In this case,
to avoid a too great multiplication of oaths, the oaths required by
the 25th and 26th sections may be dispensed with ; though it
will be still useful, that the manifests should be exhibited and
certified.

Section 31. The Secretary, considering it as an essential rule,
that emoluments of office should not be extended by construction
or inference, beyond the letter of the provision, lest a door should
be opened to improper exactions, has instructed the officers of
the customs to govern themselves by a literal interpretation of
the several clauses of this section ; the consequence of which,
however, is, that equal services are unequally recompensed.

78 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 33.

This chiefly arises from that clause, which allows a fee of
sixty cents —

" For every entry of inroad cargo, directed to be made in con-
formity with this act, and for receiving of, and qualifying to,
every manifest of vessels, licensed to trade as aforesaid."

The entry, and the receiving and qualifying to a manifest,
being joined together by the word and, are understood as one
service, to which a fee of sixty cents is attached ; so that, when
only either of the two things is performed, and not the other, no
fee is taken.

Hence there is no allowance for swearing the master to his
manifest, and granting a certificate of its having been done, ac-
cording to the twenty-fifth and twenty-sixth sections of this act,
because it is not accompanied, in either case, with an inward
entry. Twenty cents for the permit to proceed to the place of
destination is the only fee understood to be demanclablc for the
services specified in these sections.

The sixty cents are deemed applicable only to the services
enjoined by the twenty-seventh section.

A revision of this section will, upon accurate examination,
be found eligible for other reasons, which, for the sake of brevity,
are omitted.

The foregoing are the principal remarks which occur on the
provisions of the several acts, on which the Secretary has been
directed to report. These acts have fulfilled their objects in all
respects, as well as could reasonably have been expected from
the first essay on so difficult a subject. It was foreseen that ex-
perience would suggest the propriety of corrections in the sys-
tem, and it is equally to be inferred, that farther experiment will
manifest the expediency of further correction. The work must
be progressive, since it can only be by successive improvements
that it can be brought to the degree of perfection of which it is
susceptible.

As connected with the difficulties that have occurred in the
execution of the laws, which is the subject of this report, the
Secretary begs leave, in the last place, to mention the want of an
officer, in each State, or other considerable subdivision of the

JEt. 33.] DUTIES ON IMPORTS. 79

United States, having the general superintendence of all the offi-
cers of the revenue within such State or subdivision.

Among the inconveniences attending it, is a great difficulty
in drawing, from the more remote ports, the moneys which are
there collected. As the course of business creates little or no
demand at the seat of Government, or in its vicinity, for drafts
upon such places, negotiations, in this way, are either very dila-
tory, or impracticable ; neither does the circulation of bank pa-
per, from the same cause, extend to them. This embarrassment
would be remedied by having one person in each State, or in a
district of the United States, of convenient extent, charged with
the receipt of all the moneys arising within it, and placed, in
point of residence, where there was the greatest intercourse with
the seat of Government. This would greatly facilitate negotia-
tions between the treasury and distant parts of the Union, and
would contribute to lessening the necessity for the transportation
of specie.

But there are other reasons, of perhaps still greater weight,
for the measure. It is, in the opinion of the Secretary, essential
to a due supervision of the conduct of the particular officers en-
gaged in the collection of the revenues, and to the purposes of
exact and impartial information, as to the operation of the laws
which relate to them. It is impossible, that the first end can be
answered by any attention or vigilance of an individual, or indi-
viduals, at the head of the treasury. Distance, and the multi-
plicity of avocations, are conclusive bars. And, however it may
appear at first sight, that the second end may be attainable from
the communications of those particular officers, yet, when it is
considered how apt their representations will be to receive a tint
from the personal interests of the individuals, and the local inter-
ests of districts, it must be perceived that there cannot always be
sufficient reliance upon them, and that variances between them
will not unfrequently serve rather to distract, than to inform the
judgment. Greater impartiality, and, of course, better informa-
tion, may be expected from an officer, who, standing in the same
relation to a larger district, composed of several smaller dis-
tricts, will be more likely to be free from the influence, either

80 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [>Et. 33.

of personal interests, or local predilections, in reference to the
parts.

The Secretary begs leave, with the utmost deference, to say,
that he considers an arrangement of this kind as of real impor-
tance to the public service, and to the efficacious discharge of the
trust reposed in him.

All which is humbly submitted.

Alexander Hamilton,

Secretary of the Treasury.

TONNAGE DUTIES.

Communicated to the House of Representatives. May 11, 1790.

Treasury Department, May 11, 1790.
The Secretary of the Treasury respectfully submits an ab-
stract of the duties which have accrued on the tonnage of ships
or vessels, from the first day of September, to the 31st day of
December last, pursuant to the order of the House of Represent-
atives of the fifth instant.

Alexander Hamilton,

Secretary of the Treasury.
— [Stak ^apers. Finance, vol. i. p. 52.]

MONEY RECEIVED FROM, OR PAID TO, THE STATES.

Communicated to the House of Representatives, May 11, 1790.

The Secretary of the Treasury, in obedience to the order of
the House of Representatives of the 23d of April, respectfully
submits the several statements, in the schedules herewith trans-
mitted, marked A and B, and Nos. 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5.

Upon these statements, the Register of the Treasury, in Lis
report to the said Secretary, makes the following remarks :

The debits and credits, in continental money, advanced from,

JEt. 33.] STATE DEBITS AND CREDITS. 81

or received out of, the treasury of the United States, as stated in
the within schedule, may be relied on as the true nominal
amount, stated on record in the treasury books ; but the reduc-
tion to specie value, is subject to the examination of the general
board of commissioners.

The credits for specie, and also of indents paid into the trea-
sury of the United States, on account of the existing requisitions
of Congress, are accurate, and, it is presumed, conclusive. But,
with respect to the extension, in specie, of the several payments
into the treasury, in the emission of continental bills of credit,
called old emissions, and the emissions of the 18th March, 1780,
although the nominal sums specified in the subordinate state-
ments, are as accurate as the treasury records will admit, yet, as
there is no legislative guide on a question of so great importance,
the treasury officers have felt themselves exceedingly embar-
rassed. On the one hand, they could not presume to affix a scale
not warranted by any act of the Legislature, and on the other, the
order of the House required a compliance as far as possible.
They have, therefore, on this occasion, governed themselves by
the only existing regulation of the late Congress. According to
the table herewith presented, by a reduction of specie, all sums,
either paid or received from the States, from the commencement
of the Revolution, to 18th March, 1780, and from that period to
the present date, all sums in continental money, are red *ced to
specie, at forty for one.

The new emissions are estimated equal to specie.

When State paper has been received by the United States
from any particular State, the State making the payment has re-
ceived a credit, at which, it has been accounted for, by those who
have received it.

The Secretary begs leave to observe, from principles which
have governed the said statements, they cannot be considered as
exhibiting the actual specie value of the moneys received from
the respective States.

But an impression, that it might not be advisable, on his part,
to enter into considerations which are relative to the duty of the
commissioners for settling accounts between the United States

HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Jfir. 33.

and the individual States, has led him to seek, in the acts of Con-
gress and the records of the treasury, for the results by which
the liquidation of the paper money should be conducted, rather
than to indulge a latitude of opinion as to what might be the
abstract right.

All which is respectfully submitted.

Schedule A. Genera] abstract of the sums of money, including indents and
paper money of every kind reduced to specie value, which have been received by,
or paid to, the Bevers 3 Congress from the commencement of the Revo-

lution to the present period : made in pursuance of the order of the House of Ri-p-
resentatives, of the 23d of April, 1790.

B. Sch. •(luk' of the accounts of the United States with individual States.

No. 1. Schedule of the Requisitions on the sevei i by the United States

in Congress assembled

So. 2 Schedule of the sums La the money ol the emission of the 18th March.
1780 which have been appropriated by the United 9

\ o Statement of the sums in the old Continental emission paid by certain
enumerated States into the Treasury of the United States on account of their sei
oral c |ui 't.i- of the requisitions I ingress of the 18th March. 1780.

\ . i Abstract of Warrants entered in the treasury books to the credit of
individual States &c— fi P P ance, pp. 53-62

WEST POINT.

Communicat.-.l to the House of Representative June 10th, 1790.

Treasury Department, June 3, IT"1
The said Secretary respectfully reports —

That it is the opinion of the Secretary for the Department of
War, that it is expedient and necessary that the United States
should retain and occupy West Point, as a permanent Military
Post; the principal reasons for which, as stated by him in a re-
port to Congress, of the 31st of July, 1786, are as follows :

That in case of an invasion of any of the Middle or Eastern
States by a Marine Power, the possession of Hudsou River would
be an object of the highest importance as well to the invader as
to the Unite 1 States.

That the reciprocal communication of the resources of the

JEr. 33.] WEST POINT. 83

Eastern and Middle States, so essential to a well-combined resist-
ance, depends entirely on the possession of the said river by the
United States.

That West Point is of the most decisive importance to the
defence of the said river for the following reasons :

1st. The distance across the river is only about fourteen hun-
dred feet, a less distance by far than any other part.

2d. The peculiar bend or turn of the river forming almost a
re-entering angle.

3d. The high banks on both sides of the river favorable for
the construction of formidable batteries.

4th. The demonstrated practicability of fixing across the river
a chain or chains at a spot where vessels, in turning the point,
invariably lose their rapidity, and, of course, their force, by
which a chain at another part of the river would be liable to be
broken.

These circumstances combined, render the passage of hostile
vessels by West Point impracticable.

That the fortifications of West Point and its dependencies are
extremely difficult to be invested and besieged.

This circumstance, which greatly enhances the value of the
place, arises from the broken and mountainous grounds and nar-
row passes which surround the fortifications.

A regular siege of West Point, properly garrisoned and fur-
nished, would require a large army, vast warlike preparation,
and much time. The States, therefore, in its vicinity, would
have sufficient time to draw forth their utmost force for its
relief.

That however West Point may be regarded by some persons
as an interior place, yet the reverse is a fact, and may be proved
by a slight consideration of the facility with which it can be ap-
proached by water. It is quite practicable for vessels coming in
from sea, and arriving at Sandy Hook at the close of day, to
reach West Point before the next morning. The navigation of
the river is known to be so bold that the passage could be easily
performed during the night.

That the said Secretary of the Treasury, impressed with a

84 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEr. 33.

persuasion that the said opinion is well founded, conceives it to
be just and proper that a purchase should be made, on account
of the United States, of so much of the tract of land called West
Point, as shall be necessary for the purpose contemplated ; and
this, for the following reasons :

First. That where the public safety requires the permanent
occupancy of the property of an individual for the public use,
it is just that compensation should be made for its entire value,
either by purchase with consent of parties, or by some equitable
mode < >f appraisement. Temporary or periodical compensations,
unless with the concurrence of the proprietor, are liable to this
objection — that they oblige the individual to content himself with
less than the full use or value of his property, by sale or other-
wise, as his interest or necessities may require.

Secondly. These temporary coin] ■ensations, for various obvi-
ous reasons, will be likely, in the end, to prove more expensive
to the public than an absolute purchase in the first instance :

Wherefore the said Secretary is of opinion, that it will be ad-
visable that provision should be made by law for the purchase
of so much of the said tract of land called "West Point, as shall
be judged requisite for the purpose of such fortifications and gar-
risons as may be necessary for the defence of the same.

All which is humbly submitted.

Alexander Hamilton,

Secretary of the Treasury.

PUBLIC LANDS.

REPORT OF A UNIFORM SYSTEM FOR THE DISPOSITION OF THE
LANDS, THE PROPERTY OF THE UNITED STATES.

Communicated to the House of Representatives, July 22, 1790.

That on the formation of a plan for the disposition of the va-
cant lands of the United States, there appears to be two leading
objects of consideration ; one, the facility of advantageous sales

jEt.33.] public lands. 85

according to the probable course of purchases ; the other, the
accommodation of individuals now inhabiting the western coun-
try, or who may hereafter emigrate thither.

The former, as an operation of Finance, claims primary atten-
tion ; the latter is important, as it relates to the satisfaction of the
inhabitants of the western country. It is desirable, and does not
appear impracticable, to conciliate both.

Purchasers may be contemplated in three classes ; moneyed
individuals and companies, who will buy to sell again ; associa-
tions of persons who intend to make settlements themselves ;
single persons or families now resident in the western country,
or who may emigrate thither hereafter. The two first will be
frequently blended, and will always want considerable tracts.
The last will generally purchase small quantities. Hence a plan
for the sale of the western lands, while it may have due regard
to the last, should be calculated to obtain all the advantages
which may be derived from the two first classes. For this reason
it seems requisite that the general land-office should be estab-
lished at the seat of government. 'Tis there that the principal
purchasers, whether citizens or foreigners, can most easily find
proper agents, and that contracts for large purchasers can be best
adjusted.

But the accommodation of the present inhabitants of the
western territory, and of unassociated persons and families who
may emigrate thither, seems to require, that one office subordi-
nate to that at the seat of Congress, should be opened in the
North Western, and another in the South Western government.

Each of these offices, as well the general one as the subordi-
nate ones, it is conceived, may be placed with convenience under
the superintendence of three commissioners, who may either be
pre-established officers of government, to whom the duty may be
assigned by law, or persons specially appointed for the purpose.
The former is recommended by considerations of economy, and
it is probable would embrace every advantage which could be
derived from a special appointment.

To obviate those inconveniences, and to facilitate and insure
the attainment of those advantages, which may arise from new

86 HAMILTON'S WORKS.

[JEt. 33.

and casual circumstances, springing up from foreign and domestic
causes, appear to be an object for which adequate provision
should be made in any plan that may be adopted. For this
reason, and from the intrinsic difficulty of regulating the details
of a specific provision for the various objects which require to be
consulted, so as neither to do too much nor too little for either,
it is respectfully submitted, whether it would not be advisable to
vest a considerable latitude of discretion in the commissioners of
the general land-office, subject to some such regulations and limi-
tations as follows, viz. :

That no land shall be sold, except such in respect to which
the titles of the Indian tribes shall have been previously extin-
guished.

That a sufficient tract or tracts shall be reserved and set
apart fur satisfying the subscribers to the proposed loan in the
public debt ; but that no location shall be for less than five hun-
dred acn

That convenient tracts shall from time to time be set apart
for the purpose of locations by actual settlers, in quantities not
exceeding to one person one hundred acres.

That other tracts shall, from time to time, be set apart for
sales in townships of ten miles square, except where they shall
adjoin upon a boundary of some prior grant, or of a tract so set
apart, in which cases there shall be no greater departure from
such form of location than may be absolutely necessary.

That any quantities may nevertheless be sold by special con-
tract, comprehended either within natural boundaries or lines, or
both.

That the price shall be thirty cents per acre, to be paid either
in gold or silver, or in public securities, computing those which
shall bear an immediate interest of six per cent, as at par with
gold and silver; and those which shall bear a future or less
interest, if any there shall be, at a proportional value.

The certificates issued for land upon the proposed loan, shall
operate as warrants within the tract or tracts which shall be
specially set apart for satisfying the subscribers thereto, and
shall also be receivable in all payments whatsoever for land, by
way of discount, acre for acre.

jEt. 33.] PUBLIC LANDS. 87

That no credit shall be given for any quantity less than a
township of ten miles square, nor more than two years credit for
any greater quantity.

That in every instance of credit, at least one quarter part of
the consideration shall be paid down, and security, other than the
land itself, shall be required for the residue. And that no title
shall be given for any tract, or part of a purchase, beyond the
quantity for which the consideration shall be actually paid.

That the residue of the tract or tracts, set apart for the
subscribers to the proposed loan, which shall not have been loca-
ted within two years after the same shall have been set apart,
may then be sold on the same terms as any other land.

That the commissioners of each subordinate office shall have
the management of all sales, and the issuing of warrants for all
locations, in the tracts to be set apart for the accommodation of
individual settlers, subject to the superintendency of the commis-
sioners of the general land-office, who may also commit to them
the management of any other sales or locations which it may be
found expedient to place under their direction.

That there shall be a surveyor-general, who shall have power
to appoint a deputy surveyor-general in each of the Avestern
governments, and a competent number of deputy surveyors to
execute in person all warrants to them directed by the surveyor-
general, or deputy surveyor-generals, within certain districts to
be assigned to them respectively. That the surveyor-general
shall also have in charge all the duties committed to the geogra-
pher-general by the several resolutions and ordinances of Con-
gress.

That all warrants issued at the general land-office shall be
signed by the commissioners, or such one of them as they may
nominate for that purpose, and shall be directed to the surveyor-
general. That all warrants issued at a subordinate office, shall
be signed by the commissioners of such office, or by such one of
them as they may nominate for that purpose, and shall be
directed to the deputy surve}Tor-general within the government.
That the priority of locations upon warrants shall be determined
by the times of the applications to the deputy-surveyors ; and, in

88 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 33.

case of two applications for the same land at one time, the priority-
may be determined by lot.

That the treasurer of the United States shall be the receiver
of all payments for sales at the general land-office, and may
also receive deposits of money, or securities for purchases in-
tended to be made at the subordinate offices, his receipts, or
certificates for which, shall be received in payment at those
offices.

That the secretary of each of the western governments shall
be the receiver of all payments arising from sales at the office of
such government.

That controversies concerning rights to patents, or grants of
land, shall be determined by the commissioners of that office
under whose immediate direction, or jurisdiction, the locations in
respect to which they may arise shall have been made.

That the completion of all contracts, and sales heretofore
made, shall be under the direction of the commissioners of the
general land-office.

That the commissioners of the general land-office, surveyor-
general, deputy surveyors-general, and the commissioners of the
hmd-office in each of the western governments, shall not pur-
chase, nor shall others purchase for them, in trust, any public
lands.

That the secretaries of the western governments shall give
security for the faithful execution of their duties as receivers of
the land-office.

That all patents shall be signed by the President of the Uni-
ted States, or by the Vice-President, or other officer of Govern-
ment acting as President, and shall be recorded in the office
either of the surveyor-general, or of the clerk of the Supreme
Court of the United States.

That all surveys of land shall be at the expense of the pur-
chasers or grantees.

That the fees shall not exceed certain rates, to be specified in
the law, affording equitable compensations for the services of the
surveyors, and establishing reasonable and customary charges
for patents and other office papers, for the benefit of the United
States.

JEt. 33.] ESTIMATES. 89

That the commissioners of the general land-office shall, as
soon as may be, from time to time, cause all the rules and regu-
lations which they may establish to be published, in one gazette
at least, in each State, and in each of the western governments
where there is a gazette, for the information of the citizens of the
United States.

Eegulations like these will define and fix the most essential
particulars which can regard the disposal of the western lands,
and where they leave any thing to discretion, will indicate the
general principles or policy intended by the Legislature to be
observed, for a conformity to which the commissioners will of
course be responsible. They will, at the same time, leave room
for accommodating to circumstances which cannot beforehand be
accurately appreciated, and for varying the course of proceeding
as experience shall suggest to be proper, and will avoid the
danger of those obstructions and embarrassments in the execu-
tion, which would be to be apprehended from an endeavor at
greater precision and more exact detail.

All which is humbly submitted.

Alexander Hamilton,

Secretary of the T)-easury.

ESTIMATES.

Communicated to the House of Representatives, August 7, 1700.

Treasury Department, August 5th, 1790.

The Secretary of the Treasury begs leave respectfully to
submit to the House of Eepresentatives, the estimates contained
in the schedules A and B, herewith transmitted.

That contained in the schedule A, relates chiefly to the cur-
rent service, and to matters for which an immediate provision is
obviously requisite.

That contained in the schedule B, relates partly to certain

c 7

90 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 33.

claims on the United States, of a nature distinguishable from the
mass of the public debt, and, therefore, requiring some special
disposition, and partly to objects which it appeared to the Secre-
tary proper to bring into the view of the House, that it might be
considered whether any reservation of funds was necessary on
their account.

The item respecting the orders of the superintendent of
finance, was the subject of statement, which accompanied a re-
port to the House of the 2-ith of September last, but was not
then provided for. Two petitions preferring claims, for the
satisfaction of which, among others, those orders were issued,
one from Peter Anspach on behalf of Timothy Pickering, late
Quartermaster General, and the other from Abraham Skinner.
late Commissary General of prisoners, have been presented to the
House during the present session, and referred to the said Secre-
tary ; pursuant to which reference, he begs leave to state —

That those orders were issued to satisfy debts, which had
been contracted by tin-- said late Quartermaster General, for sup-
plies furnished, and services preformed in relation to his depart-
ment, subsequent to the 1st of January, 1782, before which time
all transactions in paper money had ceased, and contracts and
dealings had begun to be wholly carried on in specie, and to dis-
charge demands upon the United States on account of supplies,
and accommodations to the officers of the American army, in
captivity during the late war.

The sums due on the former account were understood, when
incurred, to be immediately, or in a short time, payable in specie,
in many instances by special contract, in others, from the course
of the business. The then Quartermaster General alleges, and
the allegation is supported by some evidence, that he and his as-
sistants, relying on being enabled to make due payment, have
rendered themselves, in a number of cases, personally answera-
ble for its being done.

The sums due on the latter account, have been understood
to be payable in like manner with those due on the former.
Assurances to this effect have been repeatedly given, and corres-
pondent expectations have been entertained by those to whom

Mt. 33.] ESTIMATES. 91

the money is due. The said late Commissary of prisoners ap-
pears to have made himself personally liable, in some instances,
and represents, that he has done it in all.

Such having been the nature of both these species of claims,
warrants in the usual course were issued by the Superintendent
of Finance on the Receivers of the States of Rhode Island, New-
York, and Delaware ; which warrants not being satisfied, by rea-
son of the want of means, were afterwards returned into the
treasury by the officers to whom they were granted.

It has happened, that several persons have brought in the
certificates they received from the Quartermaster General and
his deputies, to the commissioner for settling the accounts of
that department, to be cancelled, and have received other certi-
ficates in lieu of them, which now constitute a part of the gen-
eral debt. To what extent this has been done is not ascertained,
nor can be so, without going over an immense mass of cancelled
papers.

It does not appear, that this circumstance has attended the
class of claims relating to prisoners.

If an appropriation should be made, it can only operate for
the benefit of those who have never made a different election,
by accepting in exchange the certificates alluded to. It is a rule
necessary to be maintained in all cases, that, whenever such an-
election has been made, the parties shall be concluded by it.

In respect to those claims which remain as they originally
stood, the Secretary is of opinion that they ought to be dis-
charged in specie. And he is informed, that they have always
been considered in this light at the treasury, though the embar-
rassments of the finances have unavoidably postponed the pay-
ment.

The expenses which have been incurred, in relation to the
treaties contemplated by the acts of Congress of the 22d of Octo-
ber, 1787, and 2d of July, 1788, appear to exceed the sums
which have been actually advanced on account of them. This
excess is not finally ascertained. The expediency of an appro-
priation equal to the sum remaining unpaid of the grant of the
2d of July, to answer such further demands as may be liqui-

92 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 33.

dated and admitted in the course of the treasury, is respectfully
submitted.

An estimate of the probable expense of a treaty with the
Indians of the Wabash and Miami rivers, is inserted, in order
that a provisional reservation of a competent sum may be
made, if it should be judged eligible.

The statement respecting the warrants issued, by the late Board
of Treasury, is intended as explanatory of the disposition of the
sum of one hundred and ninety thousand dollars, appropriated
by the act of the 29th day of September last, towards discharg-
ing those warrants.

In regard to the debt due to foreign officers, the Scretary
begs leave to submit to the House of Eepresentatives the expe-
diency of directing the same to be paid out of the loan of twelve
millions of dollars, which is authorized by the act of the fourth
instant, making provision for the public debt. In addition to
other cogent inducements for paying off this debt, is the cir-
cumstance, that it bears an interest of six per cent, payable in
Europe.

It will occur to the House of Representatives, that all the
revenues which shall exist, at the close of the present session,
are appropriated to the payment of the interest of the public
debt, subject to such priorities and reservations as may result
from appropriations heretofore made, or those which may be
made during the present session. Hence it will be perceived to
be necessary to reserve and appropriate, before the termination
of the session, such proportion of the revenues which have ac-
crued, or may be expected to accrue, in the course of the present
year, as may be sufficient to satisfy, not only the demands on
the treasury already established, but those which are likely to be
established in the progress of the adjustments of depending
claims, resulting from transactions of the former Government.
A reservation and appropriation of fifty thousand dollars, for
this purpose, will probably be found convenient.

The Secretary begs leave further to state, that there is a pro-
bability of a surplus, of about one million of dollars, accruing
from the duties now in operation, to the end of the present year,

jEt. 33.] RENEWAL OF CERTIFICATES. 93

over and above all the sums for which appropriations have been
heretofore made, and are now proposed. And to submit it as
his opinion, that it will be expedient to authorize the applica-
tion of this surplus to purchases of the public debt in the
market.

As long as these purchases can be made at rates below the
true value of the stock, there will be an absolute gain of all the
difference to the Government. And very considerable savings
to the nation will result from raising .the price of Stock by this
operation ; inasmuch as foreigners must pay a higher price for
what they buy.

It may even be worthy of consideration, whether authority
ought not to be given to extend the purchases beyond the limit
of that surplus upon a credit not exceeding a certain specified
and short term, relying for this purpose on the aid of loans.

In the execution of an arrangement of this nature, due re-
gard may be had to the possibility that the collection of the duties
accruing in the ensuing year, may not keep pace with the de-
mand for paying the yearly interest.

All which is humbly submitted.

Alexander Hamilton,

Secretary of the Treasury.

RENEWAL OF FINAL SETTLEMENT CERTIFICATES.

Communicated to the House of Representatives, August 7. 1790.

Treasury Department, August 5th, 1790.

The Secretary of the Treasury having considered the petition of
Jacob Rash, referred to him on the 29th day of June last,
respectfully reports :

That the reasons which induced the late Congress of the
United States to grant a renewal of continental loan-office certi
ficates, destroyed through accident, appear of equal weight in

94 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 33.

regard to other evidences of the public debt which have been
the subjects of similar casualty.

That justice to the petitioner, therefore, seems to require
that an opportunity of renewing his certificates be granted to
him; and, as there are several applications of the same nature,
it is respectfully suggested, that it will be expedient to provide
by law for administering relief to all who shall be found simi-
larly circumstanced, under the following cautionary regulations,
which are, in most particulars, the same as those provided in
the case of loan-office certificates, so far as they will apply to
the different species and circumstances of the certificates.

1st. That the certificates renewed be issued to those who shall
appear to have been the holders of them at the time they were
destroyed, or, if dead, to their legal representativ'

2d. That tin- certificates destroyed be advertised in the ne
papers of the State where the accident happened, and in the
Stat>' where they were issued; which advertisement shall be
continued six weeks, and shall contain the numbers, dates, sums,
names in which the certificates were taken out, and the time
when, the place where, and the means by which, the same wen
destroyed.

3d. That a copy of the advertisement be lodged in the office
of the Commissioner of Loans within the State, in which the cer-
tificates alleged to have been destroyed were issued, together
with such testimony as can be procured, ascertaining the time
when, the place where, and the means by which, the destruction
happened; which copies and testimonies shall be duly certified
by the said commissioner, to be laid, by the party claiming the
renewal, before the Comptroller of the treasury, who shall finally
decide on the sufficiency thereof.

1th. That the party claiming the renewal, enter into bond to
the United States, with two or more sufficient freeholders as
sureties (their sufficiency to be judged of by the said Comptroller)
in double the amount of the value of the certificates claimed to
be renewed, with condition to indemnify the United States
against the holders of the certificates said to be destroyed, should
any such afterwards appear.

jEt. 33.] PUBLIC CREDIT. 95

5th. That no certificates be renewed before trie expiration of
three months after the publication of the advertisement above
mentioned, and that there be an endorsement on each renewed
certificate, signifying that the same was issued in lieu of one de-
stroyed by accident, and describing the original.

In regard to certificates which have not been destroyed by
accident, but which have either been lost or captured, or other-
wise taken away, it appears extremely difficult to devise any
mode of relief to the sufferers which will not subject the United
States to so much hazard of imposition and injury, as to render
the expediency of it questionable. If the House should, never-
theless, be of opinion that justice requires it, it may be granted
under the same regulations which are proposed in respect to
certificates destroyed.

All which is humbly submitted.

Alexander Hamilton,

Secretary of the Treasury.

PUBLIC CREDIT.

Communicated to the House of Representatives, December 13, 1790.

Treasury Department, December 13, 1790.

In obedience to the order of the House of Representatives, of the
ninth day of August last, requiring the Secretary of the
Treasury to prepare and report on this day, such further
provision as may, in his opinion, be necessary for establish-
ing the public credit, the said Secretary respectfully reports :

That the object which appears to be most immediately essen-
tial to the further support of public credit, in pursuance of the
plan adopted during the last session of Congress, is the establish-
ment of proper and sufficient funds for paying the interest which
will begin to accrue, after the year one thousand seven hundred

96 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [£h\ 33.

and ninety -one, on the amount of the debts of the several States,
assumed by the United States, having regard at the same time
to the probable or estimated deficiency in those already estab-
lished, as they respect the original debt of the Union.

In order to this, it is necessary, in the first place, to take a
view of the sums requisite for those purposes.
The amount which has been assumed, of

the State debts, is $21,500,000 00

The sum of annual interest upon that
amount, which, according to the terms
of the proposed loan, will begin to
accrue after the year one thousand
seven hundred and ninety-one, is - $788,333 33

The estimated deficiency in the funds al-
ready established, as they respect the
original debt of the United States, is - 38,291 40

Making, together $826,624 73

For procuring which sum, the reiterated reflections of the
Secretary have suggested nothing so eligible and unexception-
able, in his judgment, as a further duty on foreign distilled
spirits, and a duty on spirits distilled within the United States,
to be collected in the mode delineated in the plan of a bill,
which forms part of his report to the House of Representatives,
of the ninth day of January last.

Under this impression, he begs leave, with all deference, to
propose to the consideration of the House —

That the following additions be made to the duties on dis-
tilled spirits imported from foreign countries, which are specified
in the act making further provision for the payment of the
debts of the United States, namely :

On those of the first class of proof, therein mentioned, per
gallon, eight cents ;

On those of the second class, per gallon, eight and a half
cents ;

On those of the third class, per gallon, nine cents ;

jEt. 33.] PUBLIC CREDIT. 97

On those of the fourth class, per gallon, ten cents ;

On those of the fifth class, per gallon, ten cents ;

On those of the sixth class, per gallon, fifteen cents.

And that the following duties be laid on spirits distilled
within the United States, namely :

If from molasses, sugar, or other foreign materials, and of the
first class of proof, per gallon, eleven cents ;

Of the said second class of proof, per gallon, twelve cents ;

Of the said third class of proof, per gallon, thirteen cents ;

Of the said fourth class of proof, per gallon, fifteen cents ;

Of the said fifth class of proof, per gallon, twenty cents ;

Of the said sixth class of proof, per gallon, thirty cents.

If from materials of the growth or production of the United
States, distilled within any city, town, or village, and

Of the said first class of proof, per gallon, nine cents ;

Of the said second class of proof, per gallon, ten cents ;

Of the said third class of proof, per gallon, eleven cents ;

Of the said fourth class of proof, per gallon, thirteen cents ;

Of the said fifth class of proof, per gallon, seventeen cents ;

Of the said sixth class of proof, per gallon, twenty-five cents.

And upon each still employed in distilling spirits from the
like materials, in any other place than a city, town, or village, in
lieu of the rates above mentioned, the yearly sum of sixty cents
for every gallon, English wine measure, of the capacity of such
still, including its head : exempting, nevertheless, all such stills,
within a certain defined dimension, as are used essentially for do-
mestic purposes of their respective proprietors.

The product of these several duties (which correspond in
their rates with those proposed in the report above referred to,
of the ninth of January last) may, upon as good grounds as the
nature of the case will admit, prior to an experiment, be com-
puted at eight hundred and seventy-seven thousand and five hun-
dred dollars, the particulars of which computation are contained
in the statement which accompanies this report.

This computed product exceeds the sum which has been
stated as necessary to be provided, by fifty thousand eight hun-
dred and seventy-five dollars and twenty-seven cents ; an excess

98 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 33.

which, if it should be realized by the actual product, may be
beneficially applied towards increasing the sinking fund.

The Secretary has been encouraged to renew the proposition
of these duties, in the same form in which they were before sub-
mitted, from a belief, founded on circumstances which appeared
in the different discussions of the subject, that collateral consid-
erations, which were afterwards obviated, rather than objections
to the measure itself, prevented its adoption, during the last ses-
sion ; from the impracticability, which he conceives to exist, of
devising any substitute equally conducive to the ease and inter-
est of the community ; and from an opinion that the extension
of the plan of collection, which it contemplates, to the duties
already imposed on wines and distilled spirits, is necessary to a
well-grounded reliance on their efficacy and productiveness.

The expediency of improving the resource of distilled spirits,
as an article of revenue, to the greatest practicable extent, has
been noticed upon another occasion. Various considerations
might be added to those then adduced, to evince it, but they are
too obvious to justify the detail. There is scarcely an attitude
in which the object can present itself, which does not invite, by
all the inducements of sound policy and public good, to take a
strong and effectual hold of it.

The manner of doing it, or, in other words, the mode of col-
lection, appears to be the only point about which a difficulty or
question can arise. If that suggested be liable to just objections,
the united information and wisdom of the legislative body insure
the substitution of a more perfect plan.

The Secretary, however, begs leave to remark, that there ap-
pear to him two leading principles, one or the other of which
must necessarily characterize whatever plan may be adopted.
One of them makes the security of the revenue to depend chiefly
on the vigilance of the public officers ; the other rests it essentially
on the integrity of the individuals interested to avoid the pay-
ment of it.

The first is the basis of the plan submitted by the Secretary ;
the last has pervaded most, if not all the systems, which have
hitherto been practised upon, in different parts of the United

JEt. 33.] PUBLIC CREDIT. 99

States. The oaths of the dealers have been almost the only se-
curity for their compliance with the laws.

It cannot be too much lamented, that these have been found
an inadequate dependence. But experience has, on every trial,
manifested them to be such. Taxes or duties, relying for their
collection on that security, wholly, or almost wholly, are uni-
formly unproductive. And they cannot fail to be unequal, as
long as men continue to be discriminated by unequal portions of
rectitude. The most conscientious will pay most ; the least con-
scientious, least.

The impulse of interest, always sufficiently strong, acts with
peculiar force in matters of this kind, in respect to which, a
loose mode of thinking is too apt to prevail. The want of a
habit of appreciating, properly, the nature of the public rights,
renders that impulse, in such cases, too frequently an overmatch
for the sense of obligation, and the evasions which are perceived,
or suspected to be practised by some, prompt others to imitation,
by the powerful motive of self-defence. They infer that they
must follow the example, or be unable to maintain an advanta-
geous competition in the business — an alternative very perplex-
ing to all but men of exact probity, who are thereby rendered,
in a great measure, victims to a principle of legislation which
does not sufficiently accord with the bias of human nature. And
thus the laws become sources of discouragement and loss to hon-
est industry, and of profit and advantage to perjury and fraud.
It is a truth that cannot be kept too constantly in view, that all
revenue laws which are so constructed as to involve a lax and
defective execution, are instruments of oppression to the most
meritorious part of those on whom they immediately operate,
and of additional burthens on the community at large.

The last effect is produced in two ways. The deficiencies in
the funds (which, in the main, afford only partial exemptions)
must be supplied from other taxes, and the charges of collection,
which, in most cases, are nearly the same, whether a tax or duty
yield much or little, occasion an accumulation of the ultimate
expense of furnishing a given sum to the treasury.

Another, and a very serious evil, chargeable on the system

100 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 33.

opposite to that proposed, is, that it leads to frequent and familiar
violations of oaths, which, by loosening one of the strongest
bands of society, and weakening one of the principal securities
to life and property, offends, not less against the maxims of good
government and sound policy, than against those of religion and
morality.

It may not be improper further to remark, that the two great
objections to the class of duties denominated excises, are inap-
plicable to the plan suggested. These objections are, first, the
summary jurisdiction confided to the officers of excise, in deroga-
tion from the course of the common law, and the right of trial
by jury ; and, secondly, the general power vested in the same
officers, of visiting and searching, indiscriminately, the houses,
stores, and other buildings, of the dealers in excised articles.
But, by the plan proposed, the officers to be employed are to be
clothed with no such summary jurisdiction, and their discretionary
power of visiting and searching, is to be restricted to those places
which the dealers themselves shall designate, by public insignia
or marks, as the depositories of the articles on which the duties
are to be laid. Hence, it is one of the recommendations of the
plan, that it is not liable to those objections.

Duties of the kind proposed are not novel in the United
States, as has been intimated in another place. They have ex-
isted, to a considerable extent, under several of the State Go-
vernments, particularly in Massachusetts, Connecticut, and Penn-
sylvania. In Connecticut, a State exemplary for its attachment
to popular principles, not only all ardent spirits, but foreign arti-
cles of consumption, generally, have been the subjects of an <x-
cise or inland duty.

If the supposition, that duties of this kind are attended with
greater expense in the collection, than taxes on lands, should
seem an argument for preferring the latter, it may be observed
that the fact ought not too readily to be taken for granted. The
state of things in England, is sometimes referred to as an exam-
ple on this point, but, there, the smallness of the expense in the
collection of the land tax, is to be ascribed to the peculiar modi-
fication of it, which, proceeding without new assessments, accord-

JEt. 33.] PUBLIC CREDIT. 101

ing to a fixed standard, long since adjusted, totally disregards the
comparative value of lands, and the variations in their value.
The consequence of this is, an inequality so palpable and extreme,
as would be likely to be ill relished by the landholders of the
United States. If, in pursuit of greater equality, accurate peri-
odical valuations or assessments are to afford a rule, it may well
be doubted whether the expense of a land tax will not always
exceed that of the kind of duties proposed. The ingenious, but
fallacious hypothesis, that all taxes on consumption fall, finally,
with accumulated weight, on land, is now too generally and too
satisfactorily exploded to require to be combated here. It has
become an acknowledged truth, that, in the operation of those
taxes, every species of capital and industry contribute their pro-
portion to the revenue, and, consequently, that, as far as they
can be made substitutes for taxes on lands, they serve to exempt
them from an undue share of the public burthen.

Among other substantial reasons which recommend, as a pro-
vision for the public debt, duties upon articles of consumption,
in preference to taxes on houses and lands, is this : It is very
desirable, if practicable, to reserve the latter fund for objects and
occasions which will more immediately interest the sensibility of
the whole community, and more directly affect the public safety.
It will be a consolatory reflection, that so capital a resource re-
mains untouched by that provision, which, while it will have a
very material influence in favor of public credit, will, also, be
conducive to the tranquillity of the public mind, in respect to ex-
ternal danger, and will really operate as a powerful guarantee of
peace. In proportion as the estimation of our resources is ex-
alted in the eyes of foreign nations, their respect for us must
increase, and this must beget a proportionable caution, neither to
insult nor injure us with levity ; while, on the contrary, the
appearance of exhausted resources (which would, perhaps, be a
consequence of mortgaging the revenue to be derived from land,
for the interest of the public debt) might tend to invite both in-
sult and injury, by inspiring an opinion that our efforts to resent
or repel them were little to be dreaded.

It may not be unworthy of reflection, that, while the idea of

102 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 33.

residuary resources, in so striking a particular, cannot fail to
have many beneficial consequences, the suspension of taxes on
real estate can as little fail to be pleasing to the mass of the com-
munity ; and it may reasonably be presumed, that so provident
a forbearance on the part of the Government, will insure a more
cheerful acquiescence on that of the class of the community im-
mediately to be affected, whenever experience and the exigency
of conjunctures shall dictate a resort to that species of revenue.
But, in order to be at liberty to pursue this salutary course,
it is indispensable that an efficacious use should be made of those
articles of consumption which are the most proper and most
productive, to which class distilled spirits very evidently belong ;
and a prudent energy will be requisite, as well in relation to the
mode of collection, as to the quantum of the duty.

It need scarcely be observed, that the duties on the great
mass of imported articles have reached a point which it would
not be expedient to exceed. There is at least satisfactory evi-
dence that they cannot be extended further, without contraven-
ing the sense of the body of the merchants ; and, though it is not
to be admitted as a general rule, that this circumstance ought to
conclude against the expediency of a public measure, yet, when
due regard is had to the disposition which that enlightened class
of our citizens has manifested towards the National Government ;
to the alacrity with which they have hitherto seconded its ope-
rations ; to the accommodating temper with which they look for-
ward to those additional impositions on the objects of trade,
which are to commence with the ensuing year ; and to the great-
ness of the innovation, which, in this particular, has already
taken place in the former state of things ; there will be perceived
to exist the most solid reasons against lightly passing the bounds
which coincide with their impressions of what is reasonable and
proper. It would be, in every view, inauspicious to give occa-
sion for a supposition that trade alone is destined to feel the
immediate weight of the hands of Government, in every new
emergency of the treasury.

However true, as a general position, that the consumer pays
the duty, yet, it will not follow, that trade may not be essen-

jEt.33.] public credit. 103

tially distressed and injured, by carrying duties on importations
to a height which is disproportionate to the mercantile capital of
a country. It may not only be the cause of diverting too large a
share of it from the exigencies of business, but, as the requisite
advances to satisfy the duties, will, in many, if not in most cases,
precede the receipts from the sale of the articles on which they
are laid, the consequence will often be sacrifices which the mer-
chant cannot afford to make.

The inconveniences of exceeding the proper limit, in this re-
spect, which will be felt every where, will fall with particular
severity on those places which have not the advantage of public
banks, and which abound least in pecuniary resources. Appear-
ances do not justify such an estimate of the extent of the mer-
cantile capital of the United States as to encourage to material
accumulations on the already considerable rates of the duties on
the mass of foreign importation.

Another motive for caution on this point arises from the re-
flection that the effect of an important augmentation, made by a
law of the last session, is, hitherto, a mere matter of speculative
calculation, and has not yet even begun to be tried.

It is presumable, too, that a still further augmentation would
have an influence the reverse of favorable to the public credit.
The operation would be apt to be regarded as artificial, as desti-
tute of solidity, as presenting a numerical increase, but involving
an actual diminution of revenue. The distrust of the efficacy of
the present provision might also be accompanied with a doubt of
a better substitute hereafter. The inference would not be un-
natural, that a defect of other means, or an inability to command
them, could alone have given birth to so unpromising an effort
to draw all from one source.

A diversification of the nature of the funds is desirable on
other accounts. It is clear that less dependence can be pl.-iced
on one species of funds, and that, too, liable to the vicissitude
of the continuance or interruption of foreign intercom^', than
from a variety of different funds, formed by the union of internal
with external objects.

The inference from these various and important considerations

104 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 33.

seems to be, that the attempt to extract wholly, from duties on
imported articles, the sum necessary to a complete provision for
the public debt, would probably be both deceptive and perni-
cious— incompatible with the interests not less of revenue than of
commerce ; that resources of a different kind must, of necessity,
be explored ; and that the selection of the most fit objects is the
only thing which ought to occupy inquiry.

Besides the establishment of supplementary funds, it is requi-
site to the support of the public credit that those established
should stand on a footing which will give all reasonable assur-
ance of their effectual collection.

Among the articles enumerated in the act making further pro-
vision for the payment of the debt of the United States, there are two,
wines and teas, in regard to which, some other regulations than
have yet been adopted, seem necessary for the security of the
revenue, and desirable for the accommodation of the merchant.

With these views it is submitted, that the term for the payment
of the duties on wines be enlarged, as it respects Madeira wines,
to eighteen months; and as it respects other wines, to nine
months ; and that they be collected on a plan similar to that pro-
posed in relation to imported distilled spirits.

And that a third option (two being allowed by the present
law) be given to the importers of teas, which shall be, to give
bond, without security, for the amount of the duty in each case,
payable in two years, upon the following terms :

The teas to be deposited, at the expense and risk of the im-
porter, in storehouses, to be agreed upon between him and the
proper officer of the revenue ; each storehouse having two locks,
the key of one of which to be in the custody of the importer, or
his agent ; and the key of the other of which, to be in the cus-
tody of an officer whose duty it shall be made to attend, at all
reasonable times, for the purpose of deliveries.

These deliveries, whether for home sale, or for exportation to
a foreign country, to be warranted by permits, from the chief
officer of inspection of the place.

If for home sale, the permits to be granted after the duties
shall have been paid, or secured to be paid.

Mt. 33.] PUBLIC CREDIT. 105

When the amount of the duties shall not exceed one hundred
dollars, four months to be allowed for payment. When it shall
exceed one hundred dollars, and not exceed five hundred dollars,
the term of payment to be eight months ; and twelve months,
whenever the amount shall exceed five hundred dollars : Provi-
ded, that the credit shall in no case extend beyond the period of
two years, originally allowed for the entire sum. If the duties
on the whole quantity deposited shall not have been paid, or se-
cured to be paid, before the expiration of that time, it shall be
lawful for the proper officer to cause a sale to be made of so much
as shall be sufficient to discharge what shall remain unsatisfied.
In every case, it shall be at the option of the party applying for
the permit, either to pay the amount of duties on the quantity
to be delivered, or to give bond for it, with one or more sureties,
to the satisfaction of the officer whose province it shall be to
grant the permits.

If the deliveries are to be made for exportation, the permits
to be granted upon bond being entered into, to secure and ascer-
tain the exportation. This may require some alterations of form,
in the manner of proceeding, relatively to the exportation of this
article.

All teas to be landed under the care of the inspectors of the
revenue ; the chests, and other packages containing them, to be
marked ; and certificates, which shall accompany them, be grant-
ed, as in the case of distilled spirits.

To these more direct expedients for the support of public
credit, the institution of a national bank presents itself, as a
necessary auxiliary. This the Secretary regards as an indispen-
sable engine in the administration of the finances. To present
this important object in a more distinct and more comprehensive
light, he has concluded to make it the subject of a separate
report.

All which is humbly submitted.

Alexander Hamilton,

Secretary of the Treasury.

c 8

106 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 33.

Estimate of the probable product of the funds proposed in the

annexed report.

4,000,000 gallons of distilled spirits, imported

from foreign countries, at 8 cents per gallon, $320,000 00

3,500,000 gallons of spirits, distilled in the Uni-
ted States, from foreign materials, at 11 cents
per gallon, 385,000 00

3,000,000 gallons of spirits, distilled from mate-
rials of the United States, at 9 cents per
gallon, 270,000 00

Total dollars, $975,000 00

Deduct for drawbacks, and expense of

collecting, 10 per cent. - - 97,500 00

Net product, - ... $877,500 00

-»-•♦-

NATIONAL BANK.

Communicated to the House of Representatives, Dec. 14, 1790.

Treasury Department, Dec. 13, 1790.

In obedience to the order of the House of Eepresentatives, of the
ninth day of August last, requiring the Secretary of the
Treasury to prepare and report, on this day, such further
provision as ma}^, in his opinion, be necessary for establish-
ing the public credit, the said Secretary further respectfully
reports :

That, from a conviction (as suggested in his report herewith
presented*) that a National Bank is an institution of primary
importance to the prosperous administration of the finances, and

* See preceding Report.

JEt. 33.] NATIONAL BANK. 107

would be of the greatest utility in the operations connected with
the support of the public credit, his attention has been drawn to
devising the plan of such an institution, upon a scale which will
entitle it to the confidence, and be likely to render it equal to the
exigencies of the public.

Previously to entering upon the detail of this plan, he en-
treats the indulgence of the House towards some preliminary
reflections naturally arising out of the subject, which he hopes
will be deemed neither useless nor out of place. Public opinion
being the ultimate arbiter of every measure of government, it
can scarcely appear improper, in deference to that, to accompany
the origination of any new proposition with explanations, which
the superior information of those to whom it is immediately
addressed, would render superfluous.

It is a fact, well understood, that public banks have found
admission and patronage among the principal and most enlight-
ened commercial nations. They have successively obtained in
Italy, Germany, Holland, England, and France, as well as in the
United States. And it is a circumstance which cannot but have
considerable weight, in a candid estimate of their tendency, that
after an experience of centuries, there exists not a question about
their utility in the countries in which they have been so long-
established. Theorists and men of business unite in the acknow-
ledgment of it.

Trade and industry, wherever they have been tried, have
been indebted to them for important aid. And government has
been repeatedly under the greatest obligations to them in dan-
gerous and distressing emergencies. That of the United States,
as well in some of the most critical conjunctures of the late wax,
as since the peace, has received assistance from those established
among us, with which it could not have dispensed.

With this twofold evidence before us, it might be expected
that there would be a perfect union of opinions in their favor.
Yet doubts have been entertained ; jealousies and prejudices have
circulated ; and, though the experiment is every day dissipating
them, within the spheres in which effects are best known, yet
there are still persons by whom they have not been entirely

108 HAMILTON'S WORKS. |^t. 33.

renounced. To give a full and accurate view of the subject,
would be to make a treatise of a report ; but there are certain
aspects in which it may be cursorily exhibited, which may per-
haps conduce to a just impression of its merits. These will
involve a comparison of the advantages, with the disadvantages,
real or supposed, of such institutions.

The following are among the principal advantages of a Bank :
First. The augmentation of the active or productive capital
of a country. Gold and silver, when they are employed merely
as the instruments of exchange and alienation, have been not
improperly denominated dead stock; but when deposited in
banks, to become the basis of a paper circulation, which takes
their character and place, as the signs or representatives of value,
they then acquire life, or, in other words, an active and produc-
tive quality. This idea, which appears rather subtile and abstract
in a general form, may be made obvious and palpable, by entering
into a few particulars. It is evident, for instance, that the money
which a merchant keeps in his chest, waiting for a favorable
opportunity to employ it, produces nothing till that opportu-
nity arrives. But if, instead of locking it up in this manner,
he either deposites it in a bank, or invests it in the stock of
a bank, it yields a profit during the interval, in which he par-
takes, or not, according to the choice he may have made of being
a depositor or a proprietor ; and when any advantageous specu-
lation offers, in order to be able to embrace it, he has only to
withdraw his money, if a depositor, or, if a proprietor, to obtain
a loan from the bank, or to dispose of his stock — an alternative
seldom or never attended with difficulty, when the affairs of the
institution are in a prosperous train. His money, thus deposited
or invested, is a fund upon which himself and others can borrow
to a much larger amount. It is a well established fact, that
banks in good credit can circulate a far greater sum than the
actual quantum of their capital in gold and silver. The extent
of the possible excess seems indeterminate ; though it has been
conjecturally stated at the proportions of two and three to one.
This faculty is produced in various ways. 1st. A great propor-
tion of the notes which are issued, and pass current as cash, are

jEt. 33.] NATIONAL BANK. 109

indefinitely suspended in circulation, from the confidence which
each holder has, that he can, at any moment, turn them into gold
and silver. 2dly. Every loan which a bank makes, is, in its first
shape, a credit given to the borrower on its books, the amount' of
which it stands ready to pay, either in its own notes, or in gold
or silver, at his option. But, in a great number of cases, no
actual payment is made in either. The borrower, frequently, by
a check or order, transfers his credit to some other person, to
whom he has a payment to make ; who, in his turn, is as often
content with a similar credit, because he is satisfied that he can,
whenever he pleases, either convert it into cash, or pass it to
some other hand, as an equivalent for it. And in this manner
the credit keeps circulating, performing in every stage the office
of money, till it is extinguished by a discount with some per-
son who has a payment to make to the bank, to an equal or
greater amount. Thus large sums are lent and paid, frequently
through a variety of hands, without the intervention of a single
piece of coin. 3dly. There is always a large quantity of gold
and silver in the repositories of the bank, besides its own stock,
which is placed there, with a view partly to its safe keeping, and
partly to the accommodation of an institution, which is itself a
source of general accommodation. These deposites are of im-
mense consequence in the operations of a bank. Though liable
to be re-drawn at any moment, experience proves, that the money
so much oftener changes proprietors than place, and that what is
drawn out is generally so speedily replaced, as to authorize the
counting upon the sums deposited, as an effective fund, which,
concurring with the stock of the bank, enables it to extend its
loans, and to answer all the demands for coin, whether in conse-
quence of those loans, or arising from the occasional return of
its notes.

These different circumstances explain the manner in which
the ability of a bank to circulate a greater sum than its actual
capital in coin is acquired. This, however, must be gradual, ami
must be preceded by a firm establishment of confidence — a con-
fidence which may be bestowed on the most rational grounds,
since the excess in question will always be bottomed on good

110 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 33.

security of one kind or another. This, every well conducted
bank carefully requires, before it will consent to advance either
its money or its credit, and where there is an auxiliary capital
(as will be the case in the plan hereafter submitted), which, to-
gether with the capital in coin, define the boundary that shall
not be exceeded by the engagements of the bank, the security
may, consistently with all the maxims of a reasonable circum-
spection, be regarded as complete.

The same circumstances illustrate the truth of the position,
that it is one of the properties of banks to increase the active
capital of a country. This, in other words, is the sum of them :
the money of one individual, while he is waiting for an opportu-
nity to employ it, by being either deposited in the bank for safe
keeping, or invested in its stock, is in a condition to administer
to the wants of others, without being put out of his own reach
when occasion presents. This yields an extra profit, arising from
what is paid for the use of his money by others, when he could
not himself make use of it, and keeps the money itself in a state
of incessant activity. In the almost infinite vicissitudes and
competitions of mercantile enterprise, there never can be danger
of an intermission of demand, or that the money will remain for
a moment idle in the vaults of the bank. This additional em-
ployment given to money, and the faculty of a bank to lend and
circulate a greater sum than the amount of its stock in coin, are,
to all the purposes of trade and industry, an absolute increase of
capital. Purchases and undertakings, in general, can be carried
on by any given sum of bank paper or credit, as effectually as by
an equal sum of gold and silver. And thus, by contributing to
enlarge the mass of industrious and commercial enterprise, banks
become nurseries of national wealth — a consequence as satisfac-
torily verified by experience, as it is clearly deducible in theory.

Secondly. Greater facility to the Government, in obtaining
pecuniary aids, especially in sudden emergencies. This is an-
other, and an undisputed advantage of public banks — one which,
as already remarked, has been realized in signal instances among
ourselves. The reason is obvious; the capitals of a great num-
ber of individuals are, by this operation, collected to a point, and

^t. 33.] NATIONAL BANK. Ill

placed under one direction. The mass formed by this union, is,
in a certain sense, magnified by the credit attached to it ; and
while this mass is always ready, and can at once be put in mo-
tion, in aid of the Government, the interest of the bank to afford
that aid, independent of regard to the public safety and welfare,
is a sure pledge for its disposition to go as far in its compliances
as can in prudence be desired. There is, in the nature of things,
as will be more particularly noticed in another place, an inti-
mate connection of interest between the Government and the
bank of a nation.

Thirdly. The facilitating of the payment of taxes. This ad-
vantage is produced in two ways. Those who are in a situation
to have access to the bank, can have the assistance of loans, to
answer, with punctuality, the public calls upon them. This ac-
commodation has been sensibly felt in the payment of the duties
heretofore laid by those who reside where establishments of this
nature exist. This, however, though an extensive, is not a
universal benefit. The other way in which the effect here con-
templated is produced, and in which the benefit is general, is the
increasing of the quantity of circulating medium, and the quick-
ening of circulation. The manner in which the first happens,
has already been traced. The last may require some illustration.
When payments are to be made between different places, having
an intercourse of business with each other, if there happen to be
no private bills at market, and there are no bank notes which
have a currency in both, the consequence is, that coin must be
remitted. This is attended with trouble, delay, expense, and
risk. If, on the contrary, there are bank notes current in both
places, the transmission of these by the post, or any other speedy
or convenient conveyance, answers the purpose ; and those
again, in the alternations of demand, are frequently returned,
very soon after, to the place from whence they were first sent :
whence the transportation and re-transportation of the metals
are obviated, and a more convenient and more expeditious me-
dium of payment is substituted. Nor is this all ; the metals,
instead of being suspended from their usual functions during
this process of vibration from place to place, continue in activity,

112 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 33.

and administer still to the ordinary circulation, which, of course,
is prevented from suffering either diminution or stagnation.
These circumstances are additional causes of what, in a practical
sense, or to the purposes of business, may be called greater plenty
of money. And it is evident, that whatever enhances the quan-
tity of circulating money, adds to the ease with which every
industrious member of the community may acquire that portion
of it of which he stands in need, and enables him the better to
pay his taxes, as well as to supply his other wants. Even where
the circulation of the bank paper is not general, it must still
have the same effect, though in a less degree. For, whatever
furnishes additional supplies to the channels of circulation, in
one quarter, naturally contributes to keep the streams fuller
elsewhere. This last view of the subject serves both to illustrate
the position that banks tend to facilitate the payment of taxes,
and to exemplify their utility to business of every kind in which
money is an agent.

It would be to intrude too much on the patience of the
House, to prolong the details of the advantages of banks ; espe-
cially, as all those which might still be particularized, are readily
to be inferred as consequences from those which have been enu-
merated. Their disadvantages, real or supposed, are now to be
reviewed. The most serious of the charges which have been
brought against them, are,

That they serve to increase usury ;

That they tend to prevent other kinds of lending ;

That they furnish temptations to overtrading ;

That they afford aid to ignorant adventurers, who disturb the
natural and beneficial course of trade ;

That they give to bankrupt and fraudulent traders, a ficti-
tious credit, which enables them to maintain false appearances,
and to extend their impositions ; and, lastly,

That they have a tendency to banish gold and silver from the
country.

There is great reason to believe, that, on a close and candid
survey, it will be discovered that these charges are either desti-
tute of foundation, or that, as far as the evils they suggest have

At. 33.] NATIONAL BANK. 113

been found to exist, they have proceeded from other, or partial,
or temporary causes, are not inherent in the nature and perma-
nent tendency of such institutions, or are more than counterbal-
anced by opposite advantages. This survey shall be had, in
the order in which the charges have been stated. The first of
them, is —

That banks serve to increase usury.

It is a truth, which ought not to be denied, that the method
of conducting business, which is essential to bank operations,
has, among us, in particular instances, given occasion to usurious
transactions. The punctuality in payment, which they neces-
sarily exact, has sometimes obliged those who have adventured
beyond both their capital and their credit, to procure money at
any price, and, consequently, to resort to usurers for aid.

But experience and practice gradually bring a cure to this
evil. A general habit of punctuality among traders, is the
natural consequence of the necessity of observing it with the
bank — a circumstance which, itself, more than compensates for
any occasional ill which may have sprung from that necessity,
in the particular under consideration. As far, therefore, as
traders depend on each other for pecuniary supplies, they can
calculate their expectations with greater certainty ; and are in
proportionally less danger of disappointments, which might
compel them to have recourse to so pernicious an expedient as
that of borrowing at usury ; the mischiefs of which, after a few
examples, naturally inspire great care, in all but men of desper-
ate circumstances, to avoid the possibility of being subjected to
them. One, and not the least of these evils, incident to the use
of that expedient, if the fact be known, or even strongly sus-
pected, is loss of credit with the bank itself.

The directors of a bank, too, though, in order to extend its
business and its popularity, in the infancy of an institution, they
may be tempted to go further in accommodation than the strict
rules of prudence will warrant, grow more circumspect, of course,
as its affairs become better established, and as evils of too great
facility are experimentally demonstrated. They become more
attentive to the situation and conduct of those with whom they
HAMILTON'S WORKS

[JEt. 33.

deal ; they observe more narrowly their operations and pursuits ;
they economize the credit they give to those of suspicious
solidity ; they refuse it to those whose career is more manifestly
hazardous. In a word, in the course of practice, from the very
nature of things, the interest will make it the policy of a bank to
succor the wary and industrious ; to discredit the rash and un-
thrifty ; to discountenance both usurious lenders and usurious
borrowers.

There is a leading view, in which the tendency of banks will
be seen to be to abridge, rather than to promote usury. This
relates to their property of increasing the quantity and quicken-
ing the circulation of money. If it be evident, that usury will
prevail or diminish, according to the proportion which the de-
mand for borrowing bears to the quantity of money at market
to be lent ; whatever has the property just mentioned, whether
it be in the shape of paper or coin, by contributing to render
the supply more equal to the demand, must tend to counteract
the progress of usury.

But bank lending, it is pretended, is an impediment to other
kinds of lending ; which, by confining the resource of borrowing
to a particular class, leaves the rest of the community more desti-
tute, and, therefore, more exposed to the extortions of usurers.
As the profits of bank stock exceed the legal rate of interest, the
possessors of money, it is urged, prefer investing it in that article
to lending it at this rate ; to which, there are the additional mo-
tives of a more prompt command of the capital, and of more
frequent and exact returns, without trouble or perplexity in the
collection. This constitutes the second charge which has been
enumerated.

The fact on which this charge rests, is not to be admitted
without several qualifications ; particularly in reference to the
state of things in this country.

First. The great bulk of the stock of a bank will consist of
the funds of men in trade, among ourselves, and moneyed for-
eigners ; the former of whom could not spare their capitals out
of their reach, to be invested in loans for long periods, on mort-
gages or personal security ; and the latter of whom would not be

Mt. 33.] NATIONAL BANK. 115

willing to be subjected to tlie casualties, delays, and embarrass-
ments, of such a disposition of their money in a distant country.

Secondly. There will always be a considerable proportion of
those who are properly the money lenders of a country, who,
from that spirit of caution which usually characterizes this de-
scription of men, will incline rather to vest their funds in mort-
gages on real estate, than in the stock of a bank, which they are
apt to consider as a more precarious security.

These considerations serve, in a material degree, to narrow
the foundation of the objection, as to the point of fact. But
there is a more satisfactory answer to it. The effect supposed,
as far as it has existence, is temporary. The reverse of it takes
place in the general and permanent operation of the thing.

The capital of every public bank, will, of course, be restrict-
ed within a certain defined limit. It is the province of legisla-
tive prudence so to adjust this limit, that, while it will not be
too contracted for the demand which the course of business may
create, and for the security which the public ought to have for
the solidity of the paper which may be issued by the bank, it
will still be within the compass of the pecuniary resources of the
community ; so that there may be an easy practicability of com-
pleting the subscriptions to it. When this is once done, the
supposed effect, of necessity, ceases. There is then no longer
room for the investment of any additional capital. Stock may,
indeed, change hands, by one person selling and another buying ;
but the money which the buyer takes out of the common mass
to purchase the stock, the seller receives and restores to it.
Hence, the future surplusses which may accumulate must take

I their natural course, and lending at interest must go on as if
there were no such institution.
It must, indeed, flow in a more copious stream. The bank
furnishes an extraordinary supply for borrowers, within its im-
mediate sphere. A larger supply consequently remains for bor-
rowers elsewhere. In proportion as the circulation of the bank
is extended, there is an augmentation of the aggregate mass of
; money for answering the aggregate mass of demand. Hence
, greater facility in obtaining it for every purpose.

116 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 33.

It ought not to escape without a remark, that, as far as the
citizens of other countries become adventurers in the bank, there
is a positive increase of the gold and silver of the country. It
is true, that, from this, a half yearly rent is drawn back, accruing
from the dividends upon the stock. But as this rent arises from
the employment of the capital by our own citizens, it is probable
that it is more than replaced by the profits of that employment.
It is also likely that a part of it is, in the course of trade, con-
verted into the products of our country : and it may even prove
an incentive, in some cases, to emigration to a country in which
the character of citizen is as easy to be acquired as it is esti-
mable and important. This view of the subject furnishes an
answer to an objection which has been deduced from the circum-
stance here taken notice of, namely, the income resulting to
foreigners from the part of the stock owned by them, which has
been represented as tending to drain the country of its specie.
In this objection, the original investment of the capital, and
the constant use of it afterwards, seem both to have been over-
looked.

That banks furnish temptations to overtrading, is the third of
the enumerated objections. This must mean, that, by affording
additional aids to mercantile enterprise, they induce the mer-
chant sometimes to adventure beyond the prudent or salutary
point. But the very statement of the thing shows that the sub-
ject of the charge is an occasional ill, incident to a general good.
Credit of every kind (as a species of which only, can bank lend-
ing have the effect supposed), must be, in different degrees,
chargeable with the same inconvenience. It is even applicable to
gold and silver, when they abound in circulation. But would it
be wise, on this account, to decry the precious metals, to root
out credit, or to proscribe the means of that enterprise which is
the main spring of trade, and a principal source of national
wealth, because it now and then runs into excesses, of which
overtrading is one ?

If the abuses of a beneficial thing are to determine its con-
demnation, there is scarcely a source of public prosperity which
will not speedily be closed. In every case, the evil is to be com-

jEt.33.] NATIONAL BANK. 117

pared with the good ; and in the present case such a comparison
will issue in this, that the new and increased energies derived
to commercial enterprise, from the aid of banks, are a source of
general profit and advantage, which greatly outweigh the partial
ills ; the overtrading of a few individuals, at particular times, or of
numbers in particular conjunctures.

The fourth and fifth charges may be considered together.
These relate to the aid which is sometimes afforded by banks to
unskilful adventurers and fraudulent traders. These charges,
also, have some degree of foundation, though far less than has
been pretended ; and they add to the instances of partial ills,
connected with more extensive and overbalancing benefits.

The practice of giving fictitious credit to improper persons, is
one of those evils which experience, guided by interest, speedily
corrects. The bank itself is in so much jeopardy of being a suf-
ferer by it, that it has the strongest of all inducements to be on
its guard. It may not only be injured immediately, by the de-
linquencies of the persons to whom such credit is given, but
eventually by the incapacities of others, whom their impositions
or failures may have ruined.

Nor is there much danger of a bank's being betrayed into
this error from want of information. The directors themselves,
being, for the most part, selected from the class of traders, are to
be expected to possess, individually, an accurate knowledge of
the characters and situations of those who come within that de-
scription. And they have, in addition to this, the course of
dealing of the persons themselves with the bank, to assist their
judgment, which is, in most cases, a good index of the state in
which those persons are. The artifices and shifts, which those
in desperate or declining circumstances are obliged to employ, to
keep up the countenance which the rules of the bank require,
and the train of their connections, are so many prognostics, not
difficult to be interpreted, of the fate which awaits them. Hence,
it not unfrequently happens, that banks are the first to discover
the unsoundness of such characters, and, by withholding credit,
to announce to the public that they are not entitled to it.

If banks, in spite of every precaution, are sometimes betrayed

118 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 33.

into giving a false credit to the persons described, they more fre-
quently enable honest and industrious men, of small, or, perhaps,
of no capital, to undertake and prosecute business with advan-
tage to themselves and to the community ; and assist merchants,
of both capital and credit, who meet with fortuitous and unfore-
seen shocks, which might, without such helps, prove fatal to
them and to others, to make head against their misfortunes, and
finally to retrieve their affairs — circumstances which form no
inconsiderable encomium on the utility of banks.

But the last and heaviest charge is still to be examined:
this is, that banks tend to banish the gold and silver of the
country.

The force of this objection rests upon their being an engine
of paper credit, which, by furnishing a substitute for the metals,
is supposed to promote their exportation. It is an objection,
which, if it has any foundation, lies not against banks peculiarly,
but against every species of paper credit.

The most common answer given to it is, that the thing
supposed is of little or no consequence; that it is immaterial
what serves the purpose of money, whether paper, or gold and
silver ; that the effect of both upon industry is the same ; and
that the intrinsic wealth of a nation is to be measured, not by
the abundance of the precious metals contained in it, but by
the quantity of the productions of its labor and industry.

This answer is not destitute of solidity, though not entirely
satisfactory. It is certain, that the vivification of industry, by
a full circulation, with the aid of a proper and well regulated
paper credit, may more than compensate for the loss of a part
of the gold and silver of a nation, if the consequence of avoid-
ing that loss should be a scanty or defective circulation.

But the positive and permanent increase or decrease of the
precious metals in the country, can hardly ever be a matter of
indifference. As the commodity taken in lieu of every other, it
is a species of the most effective wealth ; and as the money of
the world, it is of great concern to the State, that it possess a
sufficiency of it to face any demands which the protection of its
external interest may create.

JEt. 33.] NATIONAL BANK. 119

The objection seems to admit of another and a more con-
clusive answer, which controverts the fact itself. A nation that
has no mines of its own, must derive the precious metals from
others ; generally speaking, in exchange for the products of its
labor and industry. The quantity it will possess, will, therefore,
in the ordinary course of things, be regulated by the favorable
or unfavorable balance of its trade ; that is, by the proportion
between its abilities to supply foreigners, and its wants of
them ; between the amount of its exportations and that of its
importations. Hence, the state of its agriculture and manufac-
tures, the quantity and quality of its labor and industry, must,
in the main, influence and determine the increase or decrease
of its gold and silver.

If this be true, the inference seems to be, that well consti-
tuted banks favor the increase of the precious metals. It
has been shown that they augment, in different ways, the active
capital of a country. This it is which generates employment ;
which animates and expands labor and industry. Every addi-
tion which is made to it, by contributing to put in motion a
greater quantity of both, tends to create a greater quantity of
the products of both ; and, by furnishing more materials for
exportation, conduces to a favorable balance of trade, and, con-
sequently, to the introduction and increase of gold and silver.

This conclusion appears to be drawn from solid premises.
There are, however, objections to be made to it.

It may be said, that, as bank paper affords a substitute for
specie, it servqg to counteract that rigorous necessity for the
metals, as a medium of circulation, which, in the case of a wrong
balance, might restrain, in some degree, their exportation ; and
it may be added, that, from the same cause, in the same case, it
would retard those economical and parsimonious reforms in the
manner of living, which the scarcity of money is calculated to
produce, and which might be necessary to rectify such wrong
balance.

There is, perhaps, some truth in both these observations ;
but they appear to be of a nature rather to form exceptions to
the generality of the conclusion, than to overthrow it. The

H A M I L T 0 N ' 9 W 0 RKS. ^t. 33.

state of tilings in which the absolute exigencies of circulation can
be supposed to resist, with any effect, the urgent demands for
specie which a wrong balance of trade may occasion, presents an
extreme case. And a situation in which a too expensive manner
of living of a community, compared with its means, can stand in
need of a corrective, from distress or necessi: is one which,
perhaps, rarely results but from extraordinary and adventitious
causes; such, for example, as a national revolution; which un-
settles all the established habits of the people, and inflames the
appetite for extravagance, by the illusions of an ideal wealth, en-
gendered by the continual multiplication of a depreciating cur-
rency, or some similar cause. There is a good reason to bei:
that, where the laws are wise and well executed, and the invio-
lability of property and contracts maintained, the economy of a
people will, in the general course of things, correspond with its

The support of industry is, probably in every case, of more
consequence towards correcting a wrong balance of trade, than
practicable retrenchments in the expenses of families or indi-
viduals; and the stagnation of it would be likely to have more
effect in prolonging, than any such savings in shortening
continuance. That stagnation is a natural consequence of an in-
adequate medium, which, without the aid of bank circulation,
would, in the cases supposed, be severely felt

It also deserves notice, that, as the circulation is always in
a compound ratio to the fund upon which it depends, and to
the demand for it, and as that fund is itself affected by the ex-
portation of the metals, there is no danger of its being over-
stocked, as in the case of paper issued at the pleasure of the Go v-
ernmentj or of its preventing the consequences of any un-
favorable balance from being sufficiently felt to produce the
reforms alluded to, as far as circumstances may require and

Nothing can be more fallible than the comparisons which
have been made between different countries, to illustrate the
truth of the position under consideration. The compare
quantity of gold and silver in different countries, depends upon

jEt. 33.] NATIONAL BANK. 121

an infinite variety of facts and combinations, all of which ought
to be known in order to judge whether the existence or non-
existence of paper currencies has any share in the relative pro-
portions they contain. The mass and value of the productions
of the labor and industry of each, compared with its wants ; the
nature of its establishments abroad ; the kind of wars in which
it is usually engaged ; the relations it bears to the countries
which are the original possessors of those metals; the privileges
it enjoys in their trade; these, and a number of other circum-
stances, arc all to be taken into the account, and render the
investigation too complex to justify any reliance on the vague
and general surmises which have been hitherto hazarded on the
point.

In the foregoing discussion, the objection has been considered
as applying to the permanent expulsion and diminution of the
metals. Their temporary exportation, for particular purposes,
has not been contemplated. This, it must be confessed, is facili-
tated by banks, from the faculty they possess of supplying their
place. But their utility is in nothing more conspicuous than in
these very cases. They enable the Government to pay its for-
eign debts, and to answer any exigencies which the external
concerns of the community may have produced. They enable
the merchant to support his credit (on which the prosperity of
trade depends), when special circumstances prevent remittances
in other modes. They enable him also to prosecute enterprises
which ultimately tend to an augmentation of the species of
wealth in question. It is evident that gold and silver may often
be employed in procuring commodities abroad, which, in a cir-
cuitous commerce, replace the original fund, with considerable
addition. But it is not to be inferred, from this facility given to
temporary exportation, that banks, which are so friendly to trade
and industry, are, in their general tendency, inimical to the in-
crease of the precious metals.

These several views of the subject appear sufficient to impress
a full conviction of the utility of banks, and to demonstrate that
they are of great importance, not only in relation to the adminis-

c 9

122 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.tor. 33.

tration of the finances, but in the general system of the political
economy.

The judgment of many concerning them, has, no doubt, been
perplexed, by the misinterpretation of appearances which were
to be ascribed to other causes. The general devastation of per-
sonal property, occasioned by the late war, naturally produced,
on the one hand, a great demand for money, and, on the other,
a great deficiency of it to answer the demand. Some injudi-
cious laws, which grew out of the public distresses, by impairing
confidence, and causing a part of the inadequate sum in the
country to be locked up, aggravated the evil. The dissipated
habits contracted by many individuals during the war, which,
after the peace, plunged them into expenses beyond their in-
comes ; the number of adventurers without capital, and, in many
instances, without information, who at that epoch rushed into
trade and were obliged to make any sacrifices to support a
transient credit ; the employment of considerable sums in specu-
lations upon the public debt, which, from its unsettled state,
was incapable of becoming itself a substitute : all these circum-
stances concurring, necessarily led to usurious borrowing, pro-
duced most of the inconveniences, and were the trur causes of
most of the appearances, which, where banks were established,
have been by some erroneously placed to their account — a mis-
take which they might easily have avoided by turning their eyes
towards places where there were none, and where, nevertheless,
the same evils would have been perceived to exist, even in a
greater degree than where those institutions had obtained.

These evils have either ceased, or been greatly mitigated.
Their more complete extinction may be looked for from that
additional security to property which the Constitution of the
United States happily gives (a circumstance of prodigious mo-
ment in the scale, both of public and private prosperity) ; from the
attraction of foreign capital, under the auspices of that security,
to be employed upon objects, and in enterprises, for which the
state of this country opens a wide and inviting field ; from the
consistency and stability which the public debt is fast acquiring,
as well in the public opinion at home and abroad, as in fact, from

Mt.33.) NATIONAL BANK. 123

the augmentation of capital which that circumstance and the
quarter-yearly payment of interest will afford; and from the
more copious circulation which will be likely to be created by a
well constituted national bank.

The establishment of banks in this country seems to be re-
commended by reasons of a peculiar nature. Previously to the
Eevolution, circulation was in a great measure carried on by
paper emitted by the several local governments. In Pennsylva-
nia alone, the quantity of it was near a million and a half of
dollars. This auxiliary may be said to be now at an end. And
it is generally supposed that there has been, for some time past,
a deficiency of circulating medium. How far that deficiency is
to be considered as real or imaginary, is not susceptible of demon-
stration ; but there are circumstances and appearances, which, in
relation to the country at large, countenance- the supposition of
its reality.

The circumstances are, besides the fact just mentioned respect-
ing paper emissions, the vast tracts of waste land, and the little
advanced state of manufactures. The progressive settlement of
the former, while it promises ample retribution, in the generation
of future resources, diminishes or obstructs, in the mean time,
the active wealth of the country. It not only draws off a part of
the circulating money, and places it in a more passive state, but
it diverts, into its own channels, a portion of that species of labor
and industry which would otherwise be employed in furnishing
materials for foreign trade, and which, by contributing to a
favorable balance, would assist the introduction of specie. In
the early periods of new settlements, the settlers not only furnish
no surplus for exportation, but they consume a part of that
which is produced by the labor of others. The same thing is a
cause that manufactures do not advance, or advance slowly. And
notwithstanding some hypotheses to the contrary, there are many
things to induce a suspicion, that the precious metals will not
abound in any country which has not mines, or variety of manu-
factures. They have been sometimes acquired by the sword ;
but the modern system of war has expelled this resource, and it
is one upon which it is to be hoped the United States will never
be inclined to rely.

124 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 33-

The appearances alluded to, are, greater prevalency of direct
barter, in the more interior districts of the country, which, how-
ever, has been for some time past gradually lessening ; and
greater difficulty, generally, in the advantageous alienation of
improved real estate ; which, also, has of late diminished, but
is still seriously felt in different parts of the Union. The diffi-
culty of getting money, which has been a general complaint, is
not added to the number; because it is the complaint of all
times, and one in which imagination must ever have too great
scope to permit an appeal to it.

If the supposition of such a deficiency be in any degree
founded, and some aid to circulation be desirable, it remains to
inquire what ought to be the nature of that aid.

The emitting of paper money by the authority of the Gov-
ernment is wisely prohibited to the individual States, by the
national constitution ; and the spirit of that prohibition ought
not to be disregarded by the Government of the United States.
Though paper emissions, under a general authority, might have
some advantages not applicable, and be free from some disad-
vantages which are applicable to the like emissions by the
States, separately, yet they are of a nature so liable to abuse
— and, it may even be affirmed, so certain of being abused —
that the wisdom of the Government will be shown in never
trusting itself with the use of so seducing and dangerous an
expedient. In times of tranquillity, it might have no ill conse-
quence ; it might even perhaps be managed in a way to be pro-
ductive of good : but, in great and trying emergencies, there is
almost a moral certainty of its becoming mischievous. The
stamping of paper is an operation so much easier than the lay-
ing of taxes, that a government in the practice of paper emissions
would rarely fail, in any such emergency, to indulge itself too
far in the employment of that resource, to avoid, as much as pos-
sible, one less auspicious to present popularity. If it should not
even be carried so far as to be rendered an absolute bubble, it
would at least be likely to be extended to a degree which would
occasion an inflated and artificial state of things, incompatible
with the regular and prosperous course of the political economy.

JSt. 33.] NATIONAL BANK. 125

Among other material differences between a paper currency,
issued by the mere authority of Government, and one issued by
a bank, payable in coin, is this: That, in the first case, there is
no standard to which an appeal can be made, as to the quantity
which will only satisfy, or which will surcharge the circulation :
in the last, that standard results from the demand. If more
should be issued than is necessary, it will return upon the bank.
Its emissions, as elsewhere intimated, must always be in a com-
pound ratio to the fund and the demand : whence it is evident,
that there is a limitation in the nature of the thing ; while the
discretion of the Government is the only measure of the extent
of the emissions, by its own authority.

This consideration further illustrates the danger of emis-
sions of that sort, and the preference which is due to bank paper.

The payment of the interest of the public debt, at thirteen
different places, is a weighty reason, peculiar to our immediate
situation, for desiring a bank circulation. "Without a paper,
in general currency, equivalent to gold and silver, a considerable
proportion of the specie of the country must always be suspended
from circulation, and left to accumulate, preparatory to each day
of payment; and as often as one approaches, there must in
several cases be an actual transportation of the metals, at both
expense and risk, from their natural and proper reservoirs, to
distant places. This necessity will be felt very injuriously to
the trade of some of the States ; and will embarrass, not a little,
the operations of the treasury in those States. It will also ob-
struct those negotiations, between different parts of the Union,
by the instrumentality of treasury bills, which have already
afforded valuable accommodations to trade in general.

Assuming it, then, as a consequence, from what has been
said, that a National Bank is a desirable institution, two inqui-
ries emerge : Is there no such institution, already in being, which
has a claim to that character, and which supersedes the propriety
or necessity of another? If there be none, what are the princi-
ples upon which one ought to be established ?

There are at present three banks in the United States: that
of North America, established in the city of Philadelphia ; that

126 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 33.

of New- York, established in the city of New- York ; that of Mas-
sachusetts, established in the town of Boston. Of these three,
the first is the only one which has at any time had a direct rela-
tion to the Government of the United States.

The Bank of North America originated in a resolution of
Congress of the 26th of May, 1781, founded upon a proposition of
the Superintendent of Finance, which was afterwards carried
into execution by an ordinance of the 31st of December follow-
ing, entitled " An ordinance to incorporate the subscribers to the
Bank of North America."

The aid afforded to the United States by this institution,
during the remaining period of the war, was of essential conse-
quence ; and its conduct towards them since the peace, has not
weakened its title to their patronage and favor. So far, its pre-
tensions to the character in question are respectable ; but there
are circumstances which militate against them, and considerations
which indicate the propriety of an establishment on different
principles.

The directors of this bank, on behalf of their constituents,
have since accepted, and acted under, a new charter, from the
State of Pennsylvania, materially variant from their original one,
and which so narrows the foundation of the institution, as to
render it an incompetent basis for the extensive purposes of a
national bank.

The limit assigned by the ordinance of Congress to the stock
of the bank, is ten millions of dollars. The last charter of Penn-
sylvania confines it to two millions. Questions naturally arise,
whether there be not a direct repugnancy between two charters
so differently circumstanced ? and whether the acceptance of the
one, is not to be deemed a virtual surrender of the other? But,
perhaps it is neither advisable nor necessary to attempt a solution
of them.

There is nothing in the acts of Congress which imply an
exclusive right in the institution to which they relate, except
during the term of the war. There is, therefore, nothing, if the
public good require it, which prevents the establishment of
another. It may, however, be incidentally remarked, that in the

iET. 33.] NATIONAL BANK. 127

general opinion of the citizens of the United States, the Bank of
North America has taken the station of a bank of Pennsylvania
only. This is a strong argument for a new institution, or for a
renovation of the old, to restore it to the situation in which it
originally stood in the view of the United States.

But, though the ordinance of Congress contains no grant of
exclusive privileges, there may be room to allege, that the Gov-
ernment of the United States ought not, in point of candor and
equity, to establish any rival or interfering institution, in preju-
dice of the one already established ; especially as this has, from
services rendered, well founded claims to protection and regard.

The justice of such an observation ought, within proper
bounds, to be admitted. A new establishment of the sort ought
not to be made without cogent and sincere reasons of public
good. And, in the manner of doing it, every facility should be
given to a consolidation of the old with the new, upon terms not
injurious to the parties concerned. But there is no ground to
maintain that, in a case in which the Government has made no
condition restricting its authority, it ought voluntarily to restrict
it, through regard to the interests of a particular institution,
when those of the State dictate a different course ; especially,
too, after such circumstances have intervened, as characterize the
actual situation of the Bank of North America.

The inducements to a new disposition of the thing are now
to be considered. The first of them which occurs is, the, at
least, ambiguous situation in which the Bank of North America
| has placed itself, by the acceptance of its last charter. If this
has rendered it the mere bank of a particular State, liable to dis-
solution at the expiration of fourteen years, to which term the
act of that State has restricted its duration, it would be neither lit
nor expedient to accept it as an equivalent for a bank of the
United States.

The restriction of its capital, also, which, according to the
same supposition, cannot be extended beyond two millions oi
dollars, is a conclusive reason for a different establishment >o
small a capital promises neither the requisite aid to Government,
nor the requisite security to the community. It may answer

128 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 33.

very well the purposes of local accommodation, but is an inade-
quate foundation for a circulation coextensive with the United
States, embracing the whole of their revenues, and affecting
every individual into whose hands the paper may come.

And, inadequate as such a capital would be to the essential '■
ends of a National Bank, it is liable to being rendered still more
so, by that principle of the constitution of the Bank of North
America, contained equally in its old and in its new charter,
which leaves the increase of the actual capital at any time (now
far short of the allowed extent) to the discretion of the directors
or stockholders. It is naturally to be expected, that the allure-
ments of an advanced price of stock, and of large dividends, may
disincline those who are interested to an extension of capital,
from which they will be apt to fear a diminution of profits. And
for this circumstance, the interest and accommodation of the
public (as well individually as collectively), are made more sub-
ordinate to the interest, real or imagined, of the stockholders,
than they ought to be. It is true, that, unless the latter be con-
sulted, there can be no bank (in the sense at least in which insti-
tutions of this kind, worthy of confidence, can be established in
this country). But, it does not follow that this alone is to be
consulted, or that it even ought to be paramount. Public utility
is more truly the object of public banks than private profit. And
it is the business of Government to constitute them on such prin-
ciples, that, while the latter will result in a sufficient degree to
afford competent motives to engage in them, the former be not
made subservient to it. To effect this, a principal object of atten-
tion ought to be to give free scope to the creation of an ample
capital, and with this view, fixing the bounds which are deemed
safe and convenient, to leave no discretion either to stop short of
them, or to overpass them. The want of this precaution in the
establishment of the Bank of North America, is a further and
an important reason for desiring one differently constituted.

There may be room at first sight for a supposition, that,
as the profits o( a bank will bear a proportion to the extent of its
operations, and as for this reason the interest of the stockholders
will not be disadvantageous^ affected by any necessary atig-

JEt. 33.] NATIONAL BANK. 1*29

mentations of capital, there is no cause to apprehend that they
will be indisposed to such augmentations. But most men, in
matters of this nature, prefer the certainties they enjoy, to
probabilities depending on untried experiments, especially, Avhen
these promise rather that they will not be injured, than that they
will be benefited.

From the influence of this principle, and a desire of enhancing
its profits, the directors of a bank will be more apt to overstrain
its faculties, in an attempt to face the additional demands which
the course of business may create, than to set on foot new sub-
scriptions, which may hazard a diminution of the profits, and
even a temporary reduction of the price of stock.

Banks are among the best expedients for lowering the rate of
interest in a country ; but, to have this effect, their capitals must
be completely equal to all the demands of business, and such as
will tend to remove the idea, that the accommodations they
afford are in any degree favors — an idea very apt to accompany
the parsimonious dispensation of contracted funds. In this, as
in every other case, the plenty of the commodity ought to beget
a moderation of the price.

The want of a principle of rotation in the constitution of the
Bank of North America is another argument for a variation of
the establishment. Scarcely one of the reasons which militate
against this principle in the constitution of a country, is applica-
ble to that of a bank ; while there are strong reasons in favor of
it, in relation to the one, which do not apply to the other. The
knowledge to be derived from experienee is the only circum-
stance common to both, which pleads against rotation in the
directing officers of a bank.

But the objects of the Government of a nation, and those of
the government of a bank, are so widely different, as greatly to
weaken the force of that consideration in reference to the latter.
Almost every important case of legislation requires, towards a
right decision, a general and accurate acquaintance with the
affairs of the State, and habits of thinking seldom acquired but
from a familiarity with public concerns. The administration of
a bank, on the contrary, is regulated by a few simple fixed max-

130 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mi. 33.

ims, the application of which is not difficult to any man of judg-
ment, especially if instructed in the principles of trade. It is, in
general, a constant succession of the same details.

But, though this be the case, the idea of the advantages of
experience is not to be slighted. Boom ought to be left for the
regular transmission of official information ; and, for this pur-
pose, the head of the direction ought to be excepted from the
principle of rotation. With this exception, and with the aid of
the information of the subordinate officers, there can be no dan-
ger of any ill effects from want of experience or knowledge ;
especially as the periodical exclusion ought not to reach the
whole of the directors at one time.

The argument in favor of the principle of rotation is this :
that, by lessening the danger of combinations among the direc-
tors, to make the institution subservient to party views, or to the
accommodation, preferably, of any particular set of men, it will
render the public confidence more firm, stable, and unqualified.

When it is considered that the directors of a bank are not
elected by the great body of the community, in which a diver-
sity of views will naturally prevail at different conjunctures, but
by a small and select class of men, among whom it is far more
easy to cultivate a steady adherence to the same persons and ob-
jects, and that those directors have it in their power so immedi-
ately to conciliate, by obliging the most influential of this class,
it is easy to perceive that, without the principle of rotation,
changes in that body can rarely happen, but as a concession
which they may themselves think it expedient to make to public
opinion.

The continual administration of an institution of this kind,
by the same persons, will never fail, with or without cause, from
their conduct, to excite distrust and discontent. The necessary
secrecy of their transactions gives unlimited scope to imagination
to infer that something is or may be wrong. And this inevitable
mystery is a solid reason for inserting in the constitution of a
bank the necessity of a change of men. As neither the mass of
the parties interested, nor the public in general, can be permitted
to be witnesses of the interior management of the directors, it is

Mt. 33.]

NATIONAL BANK. 131

reasonable that both should have that check upon their conduct,
and that security against the prevalency of a partial or perni-
cious system, which will be produced by the certainty of peri-
odical changes. Such, too, is the delicacy of the credit of a
bank, that every thing which can fortify confidence and repel
suspicion, without injuring its operations, ought carefully to be
sought after in its formation.

A further consideration in favor of a change, is the improper
rule by which the right of voting for directors is regulated in
the plan upon which the Bank of North America was originally
constituted, namely, a vote for each share, and the want of a rule
in the last charter ; unless the silence of it, on that point, may
signify that every stockholder is to have an equal and a single
vote ; which would be a rule in a different extreme, not less er~
roneous. It is of importance that a rule should be established
on this head, as it is one of those things which ought not to be
left to discretion ; and it is, consequently, of equal importance
that the rule should be a proper one.

A vote for each share renders a combination between a few
principal stockholders, to monopolize the power and benefits of
the bank, too easy. An equal vote to each stockholder, how-
ever great or small his interest in the institution, allows not that
degree of weight to large stockholders which it is reasonable
they should have, and which, perhaps, their security and that of
the bank require. A prudent mean is to be preferred. A con-
viction of this has produced a by-law of the corporation of the
Bank of North America, which evidently aims at such a mean.
But a reflection arises here, that a like majority with that which
enacted this law, may, at any moment, repeal it.

The last inducement which shall be mentioned, is the want
of precautions to guard against a foreign influence insinuating
itself into the direction of the bank. It seems scarcely recon-
cilable with due caution, to permit that any but citizens should
be eligible, as directors of a national bank, or that non-resident
foreigners should be able to influence the appointment of direc-
tors by the votes of their proxies. In the event, however, of an
incorporation of the Bank of North America in the plan, it may

132 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 33.

be necessary to qualify this principle, so as to leave the right of
foreigners, who now hold shares of its stock, unimpaired ; but
without the power of transmitting the privilege in question to
foreign alliances.

It is to be considered that such a bank is not a mere matter
of private property, but a political machine, of the greatest im-
portance to the State.

There are other variations from the constitution of the Bank
of North America, not of inconsiderable moment, which appear
desirable, but which are not of magnitude enough to claim a
preliminary discussion. These will be seen in the plan which
will be submitted in the sequel.

If the objections which have been stated to the constitution
of the Bank of North America are admitted to be well-founded,
they will, nevertheless, not derogate from the merit of the main
design, or of the services which that bank has rendered, or of
the benefits which it has produced. The creation of such an
institution, at the time it took place, was a measure dictated by
wisdom. Its utility has been amply evinced by its fruits ; Ame-
rican independence owes much to it. And it is very conceiva-
ble, that reasons of the moment may have rendered those fea-
tures in it inexpedient, which a revision, with a permanent view,
suggests as desirable.

The order of the subject leads next to an inquiry into the
principles upon which a national bank ought to be organized.

The situation of the United States naturally inspires a wish
that the form of the institution could admit of a plurality of
branches. But various considerations discourage from pursuing
this idea. The complexity of such a plan would be apt to
inspire doubts, which might deter from adventuring in it. And
the practicability of a safe and orderly administration, though not
to be abandoned as desperate, cannot be made so manifest in
perspective, as to promise the removal of those doubts, or to
justify the Government in adopting the idea as an original ex-
periment. The most that would seem advisable, on this point,
is to insert a provision which may lead to it hereafter, if experi-
ence shall more clearly demonstrate its utility, and satisfy those

Mr. 33.] NATIONAL BANK. 133

who may have the direction, that it may be adopted with safety.
It is certain that it would have some advantages, both peculiar
and important. Besides more general accommodation, it would
lessen the danger of a run upon the bank.

The argument against it is, that each branch must be under
a distinct, though subordinate direction, to which a considerable
latitude of discretion must, of necessity, be intrusted. And, as
the property of the whole institution would be liable for the en-
gagements of each part, that and its credit would be at stake,
upon the prudence of the directors of every part. The mis-
management of either branch might hazard serious disorder in
the whole.

Another wish, dictated by the particular situation of the
country, is, that the bank could be so constituted as to be made
an immediate instrument of loans to the proprietors of land ;
but this wish also yields to the difficulty of accomplishing it.
Land is, alone, an unfit fund for a bank circulation. If the notes
issued upon it were not to be payable in coin, on demand, or at a
short date, this would amount to nothing more than a repetition
of the paper emissions, which are now exploded by the general
voice. If the notes are to be payable in coin, the land must
first be converted into it by sale, or mortgage. The difficulty of
effecting the latter, is the very thing which begets the desire of
finding another resource ; and the former would not be prac-
ticable on a sudden emergency, but with sacrifices which would
make the cure worse than the disease. Neither is the idea of
constituting the fund partly of coin and partly of land, free from
impediments. These two species of property do not, for the
most part, unite in the same hands. Will the moneyed man
consent to enter into a partnership with the landholder, by which
the latter will share in the profits which will be made by the money
of the former? The money, it is evident, will be the agent or
efficient cause of the profits — the land can only be regarded as
an additional security. It is not difficult to foresee, that a
union, on such terms, will not readily be formed. If the land-
holders are to procure the money by sale or mortgage of a part
of their lands, this they can as well do when the stock consists

134 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mi. 33.

wholly of money, as if it were to be compounded of money and
land.

To procure for the landholders the assistance of loans, is the
great desideratum. Supposing other difficulties surmounted, and
a fund created, composed partly of coin and partly of land, yet
the benefit contemplated could only then be obtained by the
bank's advancing them its notes for the whole, or part, of the
value of the lands they had subscribed to the stock. If this ad-
vance was small, the relief aimed at would not be given ; if it
was large, the quantity of notes issued would be a cause of
distrust; and, if received at all, they would be likely to return
speedily upon the bank for payment; which, after exhausting
its coin, might be under a necessity of turning its lands into
money, at any price that could be obtained for them, to the irre-
parable prejudice of the proprietors.

Considerations of public advantage suggest a further wish,
which is — that the bank could be established upon principles,
that would cause the profits of it to redound to the immediate
benefit of the State. This is contemplated by many who speak
of a national bank, but the idea seems liable to insuperable
objections. To attach full confidence to an institution of this
nature, it appears to be an essential ingredient in its structure,
that it shall be under a private not a public direction — under the
guidance of individual interest, not of public policy ; which would
be supposed to be, and, in certain emergencies, under a feeble
or too sanguine administration, would really be, liable to being
too much influenced by public necessity. The suspicion of this
would, most probably, be a canker that would continually
corrode the vitals of the credit of the bank, and would be most
likely to prove fatal in those situations in which the public good
would require that they should be most sound and vigorous.
It would, indeed, be little less than a miracle, should the credit
of the bank be at the disposal of the Government, if, in a long
series of time, there was not experienced a calamitous abuse of
it. It is true, that it would be the real interest of the Govern-
ment not to abuse it ; its genuine policy to husband and cherish
it with the most guarded circumspection, as an inestimable

jEt. 33.] NATIONAL BANK. 135

treasure. But what Government ever uniformly consulted its
true interests in opposition to the temptations of momentary ex-
igencies ? What nation was ever blessed with a constant suc-
cession of upright and wise administrators ?

The keen, steady, and, as it were, magnetic sense of their
own interest as proprietors, in the directors of a bank, pointing
invariably to its true pole- — the prosperity of the institution — is
the only security that can always be relied upon for a careful
and prudent administration. It is, therefore, the only basis on
which an enlightened, unqualified, and permanent confidence
can be expected to be erected and maintained.

The precedents of the banks established in several cities of
Europe, Amsterdam, Hamburgh, and others, may seem to
militate against this position. Without a precise knowledge of
all the peculiarities of their respective constitutions, it is difficult
to pronounce how far this may be the case. That of Amsterdam,
however, which we best know, is rather under a municipal than
a governmental direction. Particular magistrates of the city,
not officers of the republic, have the management of it. It is
also a bank of deposit, not of loan, or circulation ; consequently,
less liable to abuse, as well as less useful. Its general business
consists in receiving money for safe keeping, which, if not called
for within a certain time, becomes a part of its stock, and irre-
claimable. But a credit is given for it on the books of the bank,
which, being transferable, answers all the purposes of money.

The directors being magistrates of the city, and the stock-
holders in general its most influential citizens, it is evident that
the principle of private interest must be prevalent in the
management of the bank. And it is equally evident, that,
from the nature of its operations, that principle is less essential
to it than to an institution constituted with a view to the accom-
modation of the public and individuals, by direct loans and a
paper circulation.

As far as may concern the aid of the bank, within the proper
limits, a good Government has nothing more to wish for than it
will always possess, though the management be in the hands of
private individuals. As the institution, if rightly constituted,

L36 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 33.

must depend for its renovation, from time to time, on the
pleasure of the Government, it will not be likely to feel a dis-
position to render itself, by its conduct, unworthy of public
patronage. The Government, too, in the administration of its
finances, has it in its power to reciprocate benefits to the bank,
of not less importance than those which the bank affords to
the Government, and which, besides, are never unattended with
an immediate and adequate compensation. Independent of
these more particular considerations, the natural weight and

influence of a g I Government will always go far towards

procuring a compliance with its desires : and, as the directors
will usually be composed of some of the most discreet, respect-
able, and well-informed citizens, it can hardly ever be difficult
to make them sensible oi' the force of the inducements which
ought to stimulate their exertions.

It will not follow, from what has been said, that the State
may not he the holder of a part oi' the stock of a bank, and con-
sequently a sharer in the profits of it. It will only follow that
it ought not to desire any participation in the direction of it. and,
therefore, ought not to own the whole or a principal part of the
stock; for, it' the mass of the property should belong to the
public, and if the direction of it should be in private hands, this
would be to commit the interests of the State to persons not
interested, or not enough interested in their proper manage-
ment.

There is one thing, however, which the Government owes to
itself and the community — at least, to all that part of it who are
not Stockholders — which is, to reserve to itself a right of ascer-
taining, as often as may be nee ssary, the of the bank: ex-
cluding, however, all pretension to control. This right forme
article in the primitive constitution of the Bank of North
.America; and its propriety stands upon the clearest reasons. If
the paper of a bank is to be permitted to insinuate itself into all
the revenues and receipts o[' a country: if it is even to be
tolerated as the substitute tor gold and silver in all the transac-
tions o\' business: it becomes, in either view, a national concern
oi' the first magnitude. As such, the ordinary rules of prudence

At. 33.] NATIONAL BANK. 137

require that the Government should possess the means of ascer-
taining, whenever it thinks fit, that so delicate a trust is execut-
ed with fidelity and care. A right of this nature is not only
desirable, as it respects the Government, but it ought to be
equally so to all those concerned in the institution, as an addi-
tional title to public and private confidence, and as a thing which
can only be formidable to practices that imply mismanagement.
The presumption must always be, that the characters who would
be intrusted with the exercise of this right, on behalf of the
Government, will not be deficient in the discretion which it may
require ; at least, the admitting this presumption cannot be
deemed too great a return of confidence for that very large por-
tion of it which the Government is required to place in the bank.
Abandoning, therefore, ideas which, however agreeable or
desirable, are neither practicable nor safe, the following plan, for
the constitution of a National Bank, is respectfully submitted to
the consideration of the House.

1. The capital stock of the bank shall not exceed ten millions
of dollars, divided into twenty-five thousand shares, each share
being four hundred dollars ; to raise which sum, subscriptions
shall be opened on the first Monday of April next, and shall
continue open until the whole shall be subscribed. Bodies poli-
tic as well as individuals may subscribe.

2. The amount of each share shall be payable, one-fourth in
gold and silver coin, and three-fourths in that part of the public
debt, which, according to the loan proposed by the act making
provision for the debt of the United States, shall bear an accru-
ing interest, at the time of payment, of six per centum per
annum.

3. The respective sums subscribed shall be payable in four
equal parts, as well specie as debt, in succession, and at the dis-
tance of six calendar months from each other ; the first payment
to be made at the time of subscription. If there shall be a fail-
ure in any subsequent payment, the party failing shall lose the
benefit of any dividend which may have accrued prior to the
time for making such payment, and during the delay of the same.

4. The subscribers to the bank, and their successors, shall be
c 10

138 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 33.

incorporated, and shall so continue until the final redemption of
that part of its stock which shall consist of the jDublic debt.

5. The capacity of the corporation to hold real and personal
estate, shall be limited to fifteen millions of dollars, including the
amount of its capital, or original stock. The lands and tene-
ments which it shall be permitted to hold, shall be only such as
shall be requisite for the immediate accommodation of the insti-
tution, and such as shall have been bona fide mortgaged to it by
way of security, or conveyed to it in satisfaction of debts previously
contracted, in the usual course of its dealings, or purchased at sales
upon judgments which shall have been obtained for such debts.

6. The totality of the debts of the company, whether by
bond, bill, or other contract (credits for deposites excepted), shall
never exceed the amount of its capital stock. In case of excess,
the directors, under whose administration it shall happen, shall
be liable for it in their private or separate capacities. Those
who may have dissented may excuse themselves from this re-
sponsibility, by immediately giving notice of the fact, and their
dissent, to the President of the United States, and to the stock-
holders, at a general meeting, to be called by the President of
the bank, at their request.

7. The company may sell or demise its lands and tenements,
or may sell the whole, or any part of the public debt, whereof
its stock shall consist ; but shall trade in nothing except bills of
exchange, gold and silver bullion, or in the sale of goods pledged
for money lent ; nor shall take more than at the rate of six per
centum per annum, upon its loans or discounts.

8. No loan shall be made by the bank for the use, or on ac-
count, of the Government of the United States, or of either of
them, to an amount exceeding fifty thousand dollars, or of any
foreign prince or State, unless previously authorized by a law of
the United States.

9. The stock of the bank shall be transferable, according to
such rules as shall be instituted by the company in that behalf.

10. The affairs of the bank shall be under the management

O

of twenty-five directors, one of whom shall be the President ;
and there shall be, on the first Monday of January, in each year,

jEt. 33.] NATIONAL BANK. 139

a choice of directors, by a plurality of suffrages of the stock-
holders, to serve for a year. The directors, at their first meeting
after each election, shall choose one of their number as President.

11. The number of votes to which each stockholder shall be
entitled, shall be according to the number of shares he shall
hold, in the proportions following, that is to say : For one share,
and not more than two shares, one vote ; for every two shares
above two, and not exceeding ten, one vote; for every four
shares above ten, and not exceeding thirty, one vote ; for every
six shares above thirty, and not exceeding sixty, one vote;
for every eight shares above sixty, and not exceeding one hun-
dred, one vote ; and for every ten shares above one hundred,
one vote ; but no person, copartnership, or body politic, shall be
entitled to a greater number than thirty votes. And, after the
first election, no share or shares shall confer a right of suffrage,
which shall not have been holden three calendar months previous
to the day of election. Stockholders actually resident within the
United States, and none other, may vote in the elections by proxy.

12. Not more than three-fourths of the directors in office, ex-
clusive of the President, shall be eligible for the next succeeding
year. But the director who shall be President at the time of
an election, may always be re-elected.

13. None but a stockholder, being a citizen of the United
States, shall be eligible as a director.

14. Any number of stockholders not less than sixty, who,
together, shall be proprietors of two hundred shares, or upwards,
shall have power, at any time, to call a general meeting of the
stockholders, for purposes relative to the institution ; giving at
least six weeks' notice, in two public gazettes, of the place where
the bank is kept, and specifying, in such notice, the object of the
meeting.

15. In case of the death, resignation, absence from the United
States, or removal, of a director, by the stockholders, his place
may be filled by a new choice for the remainder of the year.

16. No director shall be entitled to any emolument, unless
the same shall have been allowed by the stockholders at a gene-
ral meeting. The stockholders shall make such compensation

140 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 33.

to the President, for his extraordinary attendance at the bank, as
shall appear to them reasonable.

17. Not less than seven directors shall constitute a board
for the transaction of business.

18. Every cashier or treasurer, before he enters on the
duties of his office, shall be required to give bond, with two or
more sureties, to the satisfaction of the directors, in a sum not less
than twenty thousand dollars, with condition for his good be-
havior.

19. Half-yearly dividends shall be made of so much of the
profits of the bank, as shall appear to the directors advisable.
And, once in every three years, the directors shall lay before
the stockholders, at a general meeting, for their information, an
exact and particular statement of the debts which shall have re-
mained unpaid, after the expiration of the original credit, for a
period of treble the term of that credit, and of the surplus of
profit, if any, after deducting losses and dividends.

20. The bills and notes of the bank, originally made payable,
or which shall have become payable, on demand, in gold and
silver coin, shall be receivable in all payments to the United
States.

21. The officer at the head of the Treasury Department of
the United States shall be furnished, from time to time, as often
as he may require, not exceeding once a week, with statements
of the amount of the capital stock of the bank, and of the debts
due to the same, of the moneys deposited therein, of the notes in
circulation, and of the cash in hand ; and shall have a right to
inspect such general accounts in the books of the bank as shall
relate to the said statements ; provided that this shall not be con-
strued to imply a right of inspecting the account of any private
individual or individuals, with the bank.

22. No similar institution shall be established by any future
act of the United States, during the continuance of the one
hereby proposed to be established.

23. It shall be lawful for the directors of the bank to estab-
lish offices wheresoever they shall think fit, within the United
States, for the purposes of discount and deposit only, and upon the

Mr. 33.] NATIONAL BANK. 141

same terms, and in the same manner, as shall be practised at the
bank, and to commit the management of the said offices, and the
making of the said discounts, either to agents specially appointed
by them, or to such persons as may be chosen by the stockhold-
ers residing at the place where any such office shall be, under
such agreements, and subject to such regulations, as they shall
deem proper, not being contrary to law, or to the constitution of
the bank.

24. And lastly, the President of the United States shall be
authorized to cause a subscription to be made to the stock of the
said company, on behalf of the United States, to an amount not
exceeding two millions of dollars, to be paid out of the moneys
which shall be borrowed by virtue of either of the acts, the one
entitled " An act making provision for the debt of the United
States;" and the other, entitled "An act making provision for
the reduction of the public debt;" borrowing of the bank an
equal sum, to be applied to the purposes for which the said
moneys shall have been procured, reimbursable in ten years, by
equal annual instalments ; or at any time sooner, or in any
greater proportions, that the Government may think fit.

The reasons for the several provisions contained in the fore-
going plan, have been so far anticipated, and will, for the most
part, be so readily suggested by the nature of those provisions,
that any comments which need further to be made, will be both
few and concise.

The combination of a portion of the public debt, in the forma-
tion of the capital, is the principal thing of which an explanation
is requisite. The chief object of this is to enable the creation of
a capital sufficiently large to be the basis of an extensive circula-
tion, and an adequate security for it. As has been elsewhere re-
marked, the original plan of the Bank of North America con-
templated a capital of ten millions of dollars, which is certainly
not too broad a foundation for the extensive operations to which
a national bank is destined. But to collect such a sum in this
country, in gold and silver, into one depository, may, without
hesitation, be pronounced impracticable. Hence the necessity
of an auxiliary, which the public debt at once presents.

142 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 33-

This part of the fund will always be ready to come in aid
of the specie ; it will more and more command a ready sale ;
and can, therefore, expeditiously be turned into coin, if an exi-
gency of the bank should at any time require it. This quality
of prompt convertibility into coin, renders it an equivalent for
that necessary agent of bank circulation, and distinguishes it
from a fund in land, of which the sale would generally be far
less compendious, and at great disadvantage. The quarter -yearly
receipts of interest will also be an actual addition to the specie
fund, during the intervals between them and the half yearly
dividends of profits. The objection to combining land with
specie, resulting from their not being generally in possession of
the same persons,' does not apply to the debt, which will always
be found in considerable quantity among the moneyed and trad-
ing people.

The debt composing part of the capital, besides its collateral
effect in enabling the bank to extend its operations, and conse-
quently to enlarge its profits, will produce a direct annual re-
venue of six per centum for the Government, which will enter
into the half-yearly dividends received by the stockholders.

When the present price of the public debt is considered, and
the effect which its conversion into bank stock, incorporated
with a specie fund, would, in all probability, have to accelerate
its rise to the proper point, it will easily be discovered, that the
operation presents, in its outset, a very considerable advantage
to those who may become subscribers ; and from the influence
which that rise would have on the general mass of the debt, a
proportional benefit to all the public creditors, and, in a sense
which has been more than once adverted to, to the community
at large.

There is an important fact, which exemplifies the fitness of
the public debt for a bank fund, and which may serve to remove
doubts in some minds on this point : it is this, that the Bank of
England, in its first erection, rested wholly on that foundation.
The subscribers to a loan to Government of one million two
hundred thousand pounds sterling, were incorporated as a bank,
of which the debt, created by the loan and the interest upon it,

At. 33.] NATIONAL BANK. 143

were the sole fund. The subsequent augmentations of its capital,
which now amounts to between eleven and twelve millions of
pounds sterling, have been of the same nature.

The confining of the right of the bank to contract debts to
the amount of its capital, is an important precaution, which is
not to be found in the constitution of the Bank of North Ame-
rica, and which, while the fund consists wholly of coin, would
be a restriction attended with inconveniences, but would be free
from any, if the composition of it should be such as is now pro-
posed. The restriction exists in the establishment of the Bank
of England, and, as a source of security, is worthy of imitation.
The consequences of exceeding the limit, there, is, that each
stockholder is liable for the excess, in proportion to his interest
in the bank. When it is considered that the directors owe their
appointments to the choice of the stockholders, a responsibility
of this kind, on the part of the latter, does not appear unreason-
able ; but, on the other hand, it may be deemed a hardship upon
those who may have dissented from, the choice. And there are
many among us, whom it might perhaps discourage from becom-
ing concerned in the institution. These reasons have induced
the placing of the responsibility upon the directors by whom the
limit prescribed should be transgressed.

The interdiction of loans on account of the United States, or
of any particular State, beyond the moderate sum specified, or
of any foreign Power, will serve as a barrier to Executive en-
croachments, and to combinations inauspicious to the safety, or
contrary to the policy of the Union.

The limitation of the rate of interest is dictated by the con-
sideration, that different rates prevail in different parts of the
Union ; and as the operations of the bank may extend through
the whole, some rule seems to be necessary. There is room for
a question, whether the limitation ought not rather to be to five
than to six per cent., as proposed. It may, with safety, be
taken for granted, that the former rate would }delcl an ample
dividend, perhaps as much as the latter, by the extension which
it would give to business. The natural effect of low interest is
to increase trade and industry ; because undertakings of every

144 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 33.

kind can be prosecuted with greater advantage. This is a truth
generally admitted ; but it is requisite to have analyzed the sub-
ject in all its relations, to be able to form a just conception of the
extent of that effect. Such an analysis cannot but satisfy an in-
telligent mind, that the difference of one per cent, in the rate
at which money may be had, is often capable of making an
essential change for the better in the situation of any country or
place.

Every thing, therefore, which tends to lower the rate of in-
terest, is peculiarly Avorthy of the cares of legislators. And
though laws, which violently sink the legal rate of interest
greatly below the market level, are not to be commended, be-
cause they are not calculated to answer their aim, yet, whatever
has a tendency to effect a reduction, without violence to the
natural course of things, ought to be attended to and pursued.
Banks are among the means most proper to accomplish this end ;
and the moderation of the rate at which their discounts are
made, is a material ingredient towards it ; with which their own
interest, viewed on an enlarged and permanent scale, does not
appear to clash.

But, as the most obvious ideas are apt to have greater force
than those which depend on complex and remote combinations,
there would be danger that the persons whose funds must consti-
tute the stock of the bank, would be diffident of the sufficiency
of the profits to be expected, if the rate of loans and discounts
were to be placed below the points to which they have been ac-
customed, and might, on this account, be indisposed to embark-
ing in the plan. There is, it is true, one reflection, which, in
regard to men, actively engaged in trade, ought to be a security
against this danger; it is this: That the accommodations which
they might derive in the way of their business, at a low rate,
would more than indemnify them for any difference in the divi-
dend, supposing even that some diminution of it were to be the
consequence. But, upon the whole, the hazard of contrary rea-
soning among the mass of moneyed men, is a powerful argument
against the experiment. The institutions of the kind already
existing, add to the difficulty of making it. Mature reflection

jEt. 33.] NATIONAL BANK. 145

and a large capital, may, of themselves, lead to the desired
end.

The last thing which requires any explanatory remark, is,
the authority proposed to be given to the President, to subscribe
the amount of two millions of dollars on account of the public.
The main design of this is, to enlarge the specie fund of the
bank, and to enable it to give a more early extension to its ope-
rations. Though it is proposed to borrow with one hand what
is lent with the other, yet the disbursement of what is borrowed,-
will be progressive, and bank notes may be thrown into circula-
tion, instead of the gold and silver. Besides, there is to be an
annual reimbursement of a part of the sum borrowed, which
will finally operate as an actual investment of so much specie. In
addition to the inducements to this measure, which results from
the general interest of the Government to enlarge the sphere of
the utility of the bank, there is this more particular considera-
tion, to wit : That, as far as the dividend on the stock shall ex-
ceed the interest paid on the loan, there is a positive profit.

The Secretary begs leave to conclude with this general obser-
vation : That, if the Bank of North America shall come forward
with any propositions which have for their objects, the engraft-
ing upon that institution, the characteristics which shall appear
to the Legislature necessary to the due extent and safety of a
National Bank, there are, in his judgment, weighty inducements
to giving every reasonable facility to the measure. Not only the
pretensions of that institution, from its original relation to the
Government of the United States, and from the services it has
rendered, are such as to claim a disposition favorable to it, if
those who are interested in it are willing, on their part, to place it
on a footing satisfactory to the Government, and equal to the pur-
poses of a bank of the United States, but its co-operation would
materially accelerate the accomplishment of the great object,
and the collision, which might otherwise arise, might, in a vari-
ety of ways, prove equally disagreeable and injurious. The in-
corporation or union here contemplated, may be effected in dif-
ferent modes, under the auspices of an act of the United
States, if it shall be desired by the Bank of North America,

146 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.tor. 34.

upon terms which shall appear expedient to the Govern-
ment.

All which is humbly submitted.

Alexander Hamilton,

Secretary of the Treasury.

ESTIMATES FOR 1791.

Communicated to the House of Representatives, January 6, 1701.

Treasury Department, January G. 1791.

The Secretary of the Treasury respectfully reports to the House
of Representatives, the estimates herewith transmitted, Nos. 1,
2, 3, and 4.

The first relating to the civil list, or the expendi-
ture for the support of Government, during the
year 1791, amounting to .... $299,276 53

The second exhibiting some additional objects of
expenditure, arising out of the laws for collect-
ing the duties on imports and tonnage, for
making provision for the public debt, for the
maintenance and support of light-houses, &c,
and for executing certain surveys of land,
amounting to 50,756 07

The third, relating to the Department
of War, showing the stated expen-
diture of that department for a year, 202,179 46

The probable extra expense of the late

expedition under General Harmar, 100,000 00

The amount of military pensions for

a year, 87,463 60.6

Pay and subsistence to sundry offices,

for which no appropriation has yet

been made, 556 48

390,199 54.6

Amounting together to $740,232 14.6

yET. 34.] ESTIMATES. 14*7

As appears by No. 4, which contains a summary of the three
preceding ones; and shows in one view the total sum of, as
above stated, for which an appropriation is requisite.

The funds now at the disposal of the Legislature for this pur-
pose, are the 600,000 dollars reserved annually out of the duties
on imports and tonnage, by the act making provision for the
debt of the United States, for the support of the Government
thereof, and certain surplusses arising on former appropriations
for the current service, in consequence of over estimates, and
some other circumstances.

It is probable, that these two sources will be equal to the
object ; but, as the amount of those surplusses is not yet definitely
ascertained, it appears to be expedient that the appropriation
should embrace some additional resource.

The product, during this year, of whatever duties may be
laid in the present session, as a further provision for the public
debt, may with propriety be resorted to for the purpose ; as the
interest, which will be payable on the amount of the State debts,
assumed by the United States, will not begin to accrue till after
the end of the year ; and it is calculated that the product of the
duties, within each year, will be adequate to the payment of the
interest of such year.

The Secretary begs leave to remind the House of Representa-
tives, that no provision has been made for payment of interest to
the foreign officers, beyond the year 1788. In his report of the.
5th day of August last, he submitted the expediency of discharg-
ing the principal of their debt, which bears an interest of six per
centum per annum, payable in Paris : but the advanced period
of the session prevented a discussion of the matter. The propri-
ety of this measure, and the necessity of a provision for the inter-
est, are again humbly submitted.

The Secretary also begs leave to state to the House, that repre-
sentations have been made to him, by several of the Commission-
ers of Loans, respecting the extraordinary expense occasioned to
them, in the first instance, in the execution of the act making
provision for the debt of the United States, and the inadequate-
ness of their compensation. Considerations relative to the public

148 HAMILTON'S WORKS. (JEt. 34.

service, as well as the officers themselves, require an acknow-
ledgment that these representations are not without foundation.

The quantity and pressure of business which arise in receiv-
ing subscriptions, in liquidating and cancelling the old certifi-
cates, and issuing new ones in their stead ; in counting and exam-
ining the old bills of credit ; in making entries and furnishing
returns to the treasury, necessarily require much additional
clerkship ; the expense of which, united with that of providing
different sets of books, and other stationery in considerable
quantity, must, in some cases, exhaust nearly, if not altogether,
the whole salaries of the officers, and in others so considerable a
part of them, as to leave a very incompetent recompense for the
services to be performed.

All which is humbly submitted.

Alexander Hamilton,

Secretary of the Treasury.

DUTIES ON IMPORTS.

Communicated to the House of Representatives, January 7, 1791.

Treasury Department, January 7, 1791.

Sir:

In addition to the papers transmitted yesterday, I have the
honor to enclose you two abstracts of the duties on imports into
the United States; one exhibiting the sum received from the
commencement of the operation of the impost act, to the 30th of
September, 1789 ; and the other showing, as far as the returns
have been transmitted, the sum received for one year following
that day.

None of the collectors have yet furnished their returns for
the last quarter of the year 1790, for want of time, it is presumed,
to make them up.

I have the honor to be, with the greatest respect, sir, your
most obedient and most humble servant,

Alexander Hamilton,

Secretary of the Treasury.
Hon. F. A. Muhlenberg, Speaker of the House of Representatives.

iET. 34.] ESTABLISHMENT OF A MINT. 149

ON THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A MINT.

Communicated to the House of Representatives, January 28, 1791.

The Secretary of the Treasury having attentively considered
the subject referred to him by the order of the House of Kepre-
sentatives, of the fifteenth of April last, relatively to the estab-
lishment of a Mint, most respectfully submits the result of his
inquiries and reflections.

A plan for an establishment of this nature, involves a great
variety of considerations — intricate, nice, and important. The
general state of debtor and creditor ; all the relations and conse-
quences of price ; the essential interests of trade and industry ;
the value of all property ; the whole income, both of the state
and of individuals, are liable to be sensibly influenced, benefi-
cially or otherwise, by the judicious or injudicious regulation of
this interesting object.

It is one, likewise, not more necessary than difficult to be
rightly adjusted ; one which has frequently occupied the reflec-
tions and researches of politicians, without having harmonized
their opinions on some of the most important of the principles
which enter into its discussion. Accordingly, different systems
continue to be advocated, and the systems of different nations
after much investigation, continue to differ from each other.

But, if a right adjustment of the matter be truly of such
nicety and difficulty, a question naturally arises, whether it may
not be most advisable to leave things, in this respect, in the state
in which they are ? Why, might it be asked, since they have
so long proceeded in a train which has caused no general sensa-
tion of inconvenience, should alterations be attempted, the pre-
cise effect of which cannot with certainty be calculated ?

The answer to this question is not perplexing. The immense
disorder which actually reigns in so delicate and important a
concern, and the still greater disorder which is every moment
possible, call loudly for a reform. The dollar originally contem-

150 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 34.

plated in the money transactions of this country, by successive
diminutions of its weight and fineness, has sustained a depreci-
ation of five per cent., and yet the new dollar has a currency, in
all payments in place of the old, with scarcely any attention to
the difference between them. The operation of this in depreci-
ating the value of property, depending upon past contracts ; and,
(as far as inattention to the alteration in the coin may be sup-
posed to leave prices stationary) of all other property, is appa-
rent. Nor can it require argument to prove that a nation ought
not to suffer the value of the property of its citizens to fluctuate
with the fluctuations of a foreign mint, and to change with the
changes in the regulations of a foreign sovereign. This, never-
theless, is the condition of one which, having no coins of its own,
adopts with implicit confidence those of other countries.

The unequal values allowed in different parts of the Union
to coins of the same intrinsic worth ; the defective species of
them which embarrass the circulation of some of the States ; and
the dissimilarity in their several moneys of account ; are incon-
veniencies, which, if not to be ascribed to the want of a national
coinage, will at least be most effectually remedied by the estab-
lishment of one — a measure that will, at the same time, give
additional security against impositions by counterfeit as well as
by base currencies.

It was with great reason, therefore, that the attention of
Congress, under the late Confederation, was repeatedly drawn to
the establishment of a mint ; and it is with equal reason that the
subject has been resumed, now that the favorable change which
has taken place in the situation of public affairs, admits of its
being carried into execution.

But, though the difficulty of devising a proper establishment
ought not to deter from undertaking so necessary a work, yet it
cannot but inspire diffidence in one, whose duty it is made to
propose a plan for the purpose, and may perhaps be permitted
to be relied upon as some excuse for any errors which may be
chargeable upon it, or for any deviations from sounder princi-
ples, which may have been suggested by others, or even in part
acted upon by the former Government of the United States.

^Et. 34.] ESTABLISHMENT OF A MINT. 151

In order to a right judgment of what ought to be done, the
following particulars require to be discussed.

1st. What ought to be the nature of the money unit of the
United States?

2d! What the proportion between gold and silver, if coins of
both metals are to be established ?

3d. What the proportion and composition of alloy in each
kind ?

4th. Whether the expense of coinage shall be defrayed by
the Government, or out of the material itself?

5th. What shall be the number, denominations, sizes, and
devices of the coins ?

6th. Whether foreign coins shall be permitted to be current
or not ; if the former, at what rate, and for what period ?

A prerequisite to determining with propriety, what ought to
be the money unit of the United States, is to endeavor to form
as accurate an idea as the nature of the case will admit, of what
it actually is. The pound, though of various value, is the unit
in the money account of all the States. But it is not equally easy
to pronounce what is to be considered as the unit in the coins.
There being no formal regulation on the point (the resolutions of
Congress of the 6th July, 1785 and 8th of August, 1786, having
never yet been carried into operation), it can only be inferred
from usage or practice. The manner of adjusting foreign ex-
changes, would seem to indicate the dollar as best entitled to
that character. In these, the old piaster of Spain, or old Seville
piece of eight reals, of the value of four shillings and six-pence
sterling, is evidently contemplated. The computed par between
Great Britain and Pennsylvania, will serve as an example. Ac-
cording to that, one hundred pounds sterling is equal to one hun-
dred and sixty-six pounds and two-thirds of a pound, Pennsylva-
nia currency ; which corresponds with the proportion between 4s.
id sterling, and 7s. 6d. the current value of the dollar in that
State, by invariable usage. And, as far as the information of
the Secretary goes, the same comparison holds in the other
States.

But this circumstance in favor of the dollar, loses much of its

152 HAMILTON'S WORKS.

[Mt. 34.

weight from two considerations. That species of coin has never
had any settled or standard value, according to weight or fine-
ness, but has been permitted to circulate by tale, without regard
to either, very much as a mere money of convenience, while gold
has had a fixed price by weight, and with an eye to its fineness.
This greater stability of value of the gold coins is an argument
of force for regarding the money unit as having been hitherto
virtually attached to gold, rather than to silver.

Twenty-four grains and six-eighths of a grain of fine gold
have corresponded with the nominal value of the dollar in the
several States, without regard to the successive diminutions of
its intrinsic worth.

But, if the dollar should, notwithstanding, be supposed to
have the best title to being considered as the present unit in the
coins, it would remain to determine what kind of dollar ought
to be understood ; or, in other words, what precise quantity of
fine silver.

The old piaster of Spain, which appears to have regulated
our foreign exchanges, weighed 17 dwt. 12 grains, and contained
386 grains and 15 mites of fine silver. But this piece has been
long since out of circulation. The dollars now in common cur-
rency, are of recent date, and much inferior to that, both in
weight and fineness. The average weight of them, upon differ-
ent trials, in large masses, has been found to be 17 dwt. 8 grains.
Their fineness is less precisely ascertained ; the results of various
assays, made by different persons, under the direction of the late
Superintendent of the Finances, and of the Secretary, being as
various as the assays themselves. The difference between their
extremes is not less than 24 grains in a dollar of the same weight
and age ; which is too much for any probable differences in the
pieces. It is rather to be presumed, that a degree of inaccuracy
has been occasioned by the want of proper apparatus, and, in
general, of practice. The experiment which appears to have
the best pretensions to exactness would make the new dollar to
contain 370 grains and 933 thousandth parts of a grain of pure
silver.

According to an authority on which the Secretary places reli-

JEt. 34.] ESTABLISHMENT OF A MINT. 153

ance, the Standard of Spain, for its silver coin, in the year 1761,
was 261 parts fine, and 27 parts alloy ; at which proportion, a
dollar of 17 dwt. 8 grains, would consist of 377 grains of fine
silver, and 39 grains of alloy. But there is no question that this
standard has been since altered considerably for the worse : to
what precise point, is not as well ascertained as could be wished ;
but, from a computation of the value of dollars in the markets
both of Amsterdam and London (a criterion which cannot mate-
rially mislead), the new dollar appears to contain about 368
grains of fine silver, and that which immediately preceded it
about 374 grains.

In this state of things, there is some difficulty in defining the
dollar which is to be understood as constituting the present
money unit, on the supposition of its being most applicable to
that species of coin. The old Seville piece of 386 grains and 15
mites fine, comports best with the computations of foreign ex-
changes, and with the more ancient contracts respecting landed
property ; but far the greater number of contracts still in opera-
tion concerning that kind of property, and all those of a merely
personal nature, now in force, must be referred to a dollar of a
different kind. The actual dollar, at the time of contracting, is
the only one which can be supposed to have been intended ; and
it has been seen, that, as long ago as the year 1761, there had
been a material degradation of the standard. And even in re-
gard to the more ancient contracts, no person has ever had any
idea of a scruple about receiving the dollar of the day as a full
equivalent for the nominal sum which the dollar originally im-
ported.

A recurrence, therefore, to the ancient dollar, would be in the
greatest number of cases an innovation in fact, and in all, an
innovation, in respect to opinion. The actual dollar in common
circulation, has evidently a much better claim to be regarded as
the actual money unit.

The mean intrinsic value of the different kinds of known dol-
lars, has been intimated as affording the proper criterion. But,
when it is recolleeted that the more ancient and more valuable
ones are not now to be met with at all in circulation, and that

c 11

154 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 34.

the mass of those generally current, is composed of the newest
and most inferior kinds, it will be perceived that even an equa-
tion of that nature, would be a considerable innovation upon the
real present state of things ; which it will certainly be prudent
to approach, as far as may be consistent with the permanent
order designed to be introduced.

An additional reason for considering the prevailing dollar as
the standard of the present money unit, rather than the ancient
one, is, that it will not only be conformable to the true existing
proportion between the two metals in this country, but will be
more conformable to that which obtains in the commercial world
generally.

The difference established by custom in the United States be-
tween coined gold and coined silver, has been stated upon an-
other occasion, to be nearly as 1 to 15.6. This, if truly the case,
would imply that gold was extremely overvalued in the United
States : for the highest actual proportion in any part of Europe,
very little, if at all, exceeds 1 to 15 ; and the average proportion
throughout Europe, is probably not more than about 1 to 14f.
But that statement has proceeded upon the idea of the ancient
dollar. One pennyweight of gold of twenty-two carats fine, at
6s. 8d, and the old Seville piece of 386 grains and 15 mites of
pure silver, at 7s. 6a1., furnish the exact ratio of 1 to 15.6262.
But this does not coincide with the real difference between the
metals in our market, or, which is with us the same thing, in our
currency. To determine this, the quantity of fine silver in the
general mass of the dollars now in circulation, must afford the
rule. Taking the rate of the late dollar of 374 grains, the pro-
portion would be as 1 to 15.11. Taking the rate of the newest
dollar, the proportion would then be as 1 to 14.87. The mean
of the two would give the proportion of 1 to 15 very nearly ;
less than the legal proportions in the coins of Great Britain,
which is as 1 to 15.2 ; but somewhat more than the actual or
market proportion, which is not quite 1 to 15.

The preceding view of the subject does not indeed afford a
precise or certain definition of the present unit in the coins, but
it furnishes data which will serve as guides in the progress of the

Mi. 34.] ESTABLISHMENT OF A MINT. 155

investigation. It ascertains, at least, that the sum in the money
of account of each State, corresponding with the nominal value
of the dollar in such State, corresponds also with 21 grains and
f of a grain, of fine gold ; and with something between 368 and
374 grains of fine silver.

The next inquiry towards a right determination of what
ought to be the future money unit of the United States, turns
upon these questions : Whether it ought to be peculiarly attached
to either of the metals, in preference to the other, or not ; and,
if to either, to which of them ?

The suggestions and proceedings, hitherto, have had for ob-
ject, the annexing of it emphatically to the silver dollar. A re-
solution of Congress, of the 6th of July, 1785, declares that the
money unit of the United States shall be a dollar ; and another
resolution of the 8th of August, 1786, fixes that dollar at 375
grains and 61 hundredths of a grain of fine silver. The same
resolution, however, determines, that there shall also be two gold
coins, one of 216 grains and 268 parts of a grain of pure gold,
equal to ten dollars, and the other of half that quantity of pure
gold, equal to five dollars: And it is not explained, whether
either of the two species of coins, of gold or silver, shall have
any greater legality in payments, than the other. Yet it would
seem that a preference in this particular is necessary to execute
the idea of attaching the unit exclusively to one kind. If each
of them be as valid as the other, in payments to any amount, it
is not obvious in what effectual sense either of them can be
deemed the money unit, rather than the other.

If the general declaration, that the dollar shall be the money
unit of the United States, could be understood to give it a supe-
rior legality in payments, the institution of coins of gold, and
the declaration that each of them shall be equal to a certain num-
ber of dollars, would appear to destroy that inference : And the
circumstance of making the dollar the unit in the money of ac-
count, seems to be rather matter of form than of substance.

Contrary to the ideas which have heretofore prevailed, in
the suggestions concerning a coinage for the United States,
though not without much hesitation, arising from a deference for

156 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 34.

those ideas, the Secretary is, upon the whole, strongly inclined
to the opinion, that a preference ought to be given to neither of
the metals, for the money unit. Perhaps, if either were to be
preferred, it ought to be gold rather than silver.

The reasons are these :

The inducement to such a preference is to render the unit as
little variable as possible ; because on this depends the steady
value of all contracts, and, in a certain sense, of all other pro-
perty. And, it is truly observed, that if the unit'.belong indis-
criminately to both the metals, it is subject to all the fluctuations
that happen in the relative value which they bear to each other.
But the same reason would lead to annexing it to that particular
one, which is itself the least liable to variation, if there be, in
this respect, any discernible difference between the two.

Gold may, perhaps, in certain senses, be said to have greater
stability than silver : as, being of superior value, less liberties
have been taken with it, in the regulations of different countries.
Its standard has remained more uniform, and it has in other res-
pects, undergone fewer changes : as, being not so much an article
of merchandise, owing to the use made of silver in the trade
with the East Indies and China, it is less liable to be influenced
by circumstances of commercial demand. And if, reasoning by
analogy, it could be affirmed, that there is a physical probability
of greater proportional increase in the quantity of silver than in
that of gold, it would afford an additional reason for calculating
on greater steadiness in the value of the latter.

As long as gold, either from its intrinsic superiority as a
metal, from its greater rarity, or from the prejudices of mankind,
retains so considerable a pre-eminence in value over silver, as it
has hitherto had, a natural consequence of this seems to be that
its condition will be more stationary. The revolutions, there-
fore, which may take place in the comparative value of gold and
silver, will be changes in the state of the latter, rather than in
that of the former.

If there should be an appearance of too much abstraction in
any of these ideas, it may be remarked, that the first and most
simple impressions do not naturally incline to giving a preference
to the inferior or least valuable of the two metals.

Mt. 34.] ESTABLISHMENT OF A MINT. 157

It is sometimes observed, that silver ought to be encouraged
rather than gold, as being more conducive to the extension of
bank circulation, from the greater difficulty and inconvenience
which its greater bulk, compared with its value, occasions in the
transportation of it. But bank circulation is desirable, rather as
an auxiliary to, than as a substitute for that of the precious metals,
and ought to be left to its natural course. Artificial expedients
to extend it, by opposing obstacles to the other, are, at least, not
recommended by any very obvious advantages. And, in gene-
ral, it is the safest rule to regulate every particular institution or
object, according to the principles which, in relation to itself, ap-
pear the most sound. In addition to this, it may be observed,
that the inconvenience of transporting either of the metals, is
sufficiently great to induce a preference of bank paper, when-
ever it can be made to answer the purpose equally well.

But, upon the whole, it seems to be most advisable, as has
been observed, not to attach the unit exclusively to either of the
metals; because this cannot be done effectually, without destroy-
ing the office and character of one of them as money, and reduc-
ing it to the situation of a mere merchandise ; which, accordingly,
at different times, has been proposed from different and very re-
spectable quarters ; but which would, probably, be a greater evil
than occasional variations in the unit, from the fluctuations in
the relative value of the metals ; especially, if care be taken to
regulate the proportion between them, with an eye to their
average commercial value.

To annul the use of either of the metals, as money, is to
abridge the quantity of circulating medium, and is liable to all
the objections which arise from a comparison of the benefits of a
full, with the evils of a scanty circulation.

It is not a satisfactory answer to say, that none but the
favored metal would, in this case, find its way into the country,
as in that all balances must be paid. The practicability of this
would, in some measure, depend on the abundance or scarcity of
it in the country paying. Where there was but little, it either
would not be procurable at all, or it would cost a premium to
obtain it ; which, in every case of a competition with others, in

158 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 34.

a branch of trade, would constitute a deduction from the profits of
the party receiving. Perhaps, too, the embarrassments which such
a circumstance might sometimes create, in the pecuniary liquida-
tion of balances, might lead to additional efforts to find a substi-
tute in commodities, and might so far impede the introduction of
the metals. Neither could the exclusion of either of them be
deemed, in other respects, favorable to commerce. It is often,
in the course of trade, as desirable to possess the kind of money,
as the kind of commodities best adapted to a foreign market.

It seems, however, most probable, that the chief, if not the
sole effect of such a regulation, would be to diminish the utility
of one of the metals. It could hardly prove an obstacle to the
introduction of that which was excluded in the natural course of
trade ; because it would always command a ready sale, for the
purpose of exportation to foreign markets. But such an effect,
if the only one, is not to be regarded as a trivial inconveni-
ence.

If, then, the unit ought not to be attached exclusively to either
of the metals, the proportion which ought to subsist between
them, in the coins, becomes a preliminary inquiry, in order to
its proper adjustment. This proportion appears to be, in several
views, of no inconsiderable moment.

One consequence of overvaluing either metal, in respect to
the other, is the banishment of that which is undervalued. If
two countries are supposed, in one of which, the proportion of
gold to silver is as 1 to 16, in the other as 1 to 15, gold being
worth more, silver less, in one than in the other, it is manifest,
that, in their reciprocal payments, each will select that species
which it values least, to pay to the other, where it is valued
most. Besides this, the dealers in money will, from the same
cause, often find a profitable traffic in an exchange of the metals
between the two countries. And hence it would come to pass,
if other things were equal, that the greatest part of the gold
would be collected in one, and the greatest part of the silver
in the other. The course of trade might, in some degree,
counteract +Vo, tendency of the difference in the legal propor-
tions, by th market value; but this is so far and so often

Ms. 34.] ESTABLISHMENT OF A MINT. 159

influenced by the legal rates, that it does not prevent their
producing the effect which is inferred. Facts, too, verify the
inference : In Spain and England, where gold is rated higher
than in other parts of Europe, there is a scarcity of silver;
while it is found to abound in France and Holland, where it is
rated higher, in proportion to gold, than in the neighboring
nations. And it is continually flowing from Europe to China
and the East Indies, owing to the comparative cheapness of it in
the former, and dearness of it in the latter.

This consequence is deemed by some not very material ; and
there are even persons, who, from a fanciful predilection to gold,
are wiling to invite it, even by a higher price. But general
utility will best be promoted by a due proportion of both metals.
If gold be most convenient in large payments, silver is best
adapted to the more minute and ordinary circulation.

Bat it is to be suspected, that there is another consequence
more serious than the one which has been mentioned. This is
the diminution of the total quantity of specie which a country
would naturally possess.

It is evident that, as often as a country, which overrates
either of the metals, receives a payment in that metal, it gets a
less actual quantity than it ought to do, or than it would do, if
the rate were a just one.

It is also equally evident, that there will be a continual effort
to make payment to it in that species, to which it has annexed
an exaggerated estimation, wherever it is current at a less pro-
portional value. And it would seem to be a very natural effect
of these two causes, not only that the mass of the precious
metals in the country in question, would consist chiefly of that
kind, to which it had given an extraordinary value, but that it
would be absolutely less, than if they had been duly propor-
tioned to each other.

A conclusion of this sort, however, is to be drawn with great
caution. In such matters, there are always some local and many
other particular circumstances, which qualify and vary the opera-
tion of general principles, even where they are just ; and there
are endless combinations, very difficult to be analyzed, which

160 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 34.

often render principles, that have the most plausible pretensions,
unsound and delusive.

There ought, for instance, according to those which have
been stated, to have been formerly a greater quantity of gold in
proportion to silver in the United States, than there has been ;
because the actual value of gold in this country, compared with
silver, was perhaps higher than in any other. But our situation
with regard to the West Indian islands, into some of which
there is a large influx of silver directly from the mines of South
America, occasions an extraordinary supply of that metal, and
consequently a greater proportion of it in our circulation, than
might have been expected from its relative value.

What influence the proportion under consideration may have
upon the state of prices, and how far this may counteract its
tendency to increase or lessen the quantity of the metals, are
points not easy to be developed ; and yet they are very
necessary to an accurate judgment of the true operation of the
thing.

But, however impossible it may be to pronounce with
certainty, that the possession of a less quantity of specie is a
consequence of overvaluing either of the metals, there is enough
of probability in the considerations which seem to indicate it, to
form an argument of weight against such overvaluation.

A third ill consequence resulting from it is, a greater and
more frequent disturbance of the state of the money unit, by a
greater and more frequent diversity between the legal and
market proportions of the metals. This has not hitherto been
experienced in the United States, but it has been experienced
elsewhere ; and from its not having been felt by us hitherto, it
does not follow that this will not be the case hereafter, when our
commerce shall have attained a maturity which will place it
under the influence of more fixed principles.

In establishing a proportion between the metals, there seems
to be an option of one of two things —

To approach, as nearly as can be ascertained, the mean or
average proportion, in what may be called the commercial
world ; or,

jEt. 34.] ESTABLISHMENT OF A MINT. 161

To retain that which now exists in the United States. As
far as these happen to coincide, they will render the course to be
pursued more plain and more certain.

To ascertain the first, with precision, would require bitter
materials than are possessed, or than could be obtained, without
an inconvenient delay.

Sir Isaac Newton, in a representation to the treasury of Great
Britain, in the year 1717, after stating the particular proportions
in the different countries of Europe, concludes thus : — " By the
course of trade and exchange between nation and nation, in all
Europe, fine gold is to fine silver as 14f- or 15 to 1."

But however accurate and decisive this authority may be
deemed, in relation to the period to which it applies, it cannot
be taken, at the distance of more than seventy years, as a rule
for determining the existing proportion. Alterations have been
since made, in the regulations of their coins, by several nations ;
which, as well as the course of trade, have an influence upon the
market values. Nevertheless, there is reason to believe, that the
state of the matter, as represented by Sir Isaac Newton, is not
very remote from its actual state.

In Holland, the greatest money market of Europe, gold was
to silver, in December, 1789, as 1 to 14.88; and in that of
London, it has been, for some time past, but little different,
approaching, perhaps, something nearer 1 to 15.

It has been seen that the existing proportion between the
two metals, in this country, is about as 1 to 15.

It is fortunate, in this respect, that the innovations of the
Spanish mint have imperceptibly introduced a proportion so
analogous as this is, to that which prevails among the principal
commercial nations ; as it greatly facilitates a proper regulation
of the matter.

This proportion of 1 to 15 is recommended by the particular
situation of our trade, as being very nearly that which obtains
in the market of Great Britain, to which nation our specie is
principally exported. A lower rate for either of the metals, in
our market, than in hers, might not only afford a motive the
more, in certain cases, to remit in specie rather than in commo-

162 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 34.

dities ; but it might, in some others, cause us to pay a greater
quantity of it for a given sum, than we should otherwise do. If
the effect should rather be to occasion a premium to be given
for the metal which was underrated, this would obviate those
disadvantages, but it would involve another — a customary differ-
ence between the market and legal proportions, which would
amount to a species of disorder in the national coinage.

Looking forward to the payments of interest hereafter to be
made to Holland, the same proportion does not appear ineligible.
The present legal proportion in the coins of Holland is stated to
be 1 to 14--*$. That of the market varies somewhat, at different
times, but seldom very widely from this point.

There can hardly be a better rule in any country, for the
legal, than the market proportion, if this can be supposed to
have been produced by the free and steady course of commercial
principles. The presumption, in such case, is, that each metal
finds its true level, according to its intrinsic utility, in the gen-
eral system of money operations.

But it must be admitted, that this argument, in favor of con-
tinuing the existing proportion, is not applicable to the state of
the coins with us. There have been too many artificial and
heterogeneous ingredients, too much want of order in the pecu-
niary transactions of this country, to authorize the attributing
the effects which have appeared to the regular operations of
commerce. A proof of this is to be drawn from the alterations
which have happened in the proportion between the metals
merely by the successive degradations of the dollar, in conse-
quence of the mutability of a foreign mint. The value of gold
to silver appears to have declined wholly from this cause, from
15 1\ to about 15 to 1. Yet, as this last proportion, however
produced, coincides so nearly with what may be deemed the
commercial average, it may be supposed to furnish as good a
rule as can be pursued.

The only question seems to be, whether the value of gold
ought not to be a little lowered to bring it to a more exact level
with the two markets which have been mentioned. But as the
ratio of 1 to 15 is so nearly conformable to the state of those

Mr. 34.] ESTABLISHMENT OF A MINT. 163

markets, and best agrees with that of our own, it will probably
be found the most eligible. If the market of Spain continues to
give a higher value to gold (as it has done in time past) than
that which is recommended, there may be some advantage in a
middle station.

A further preliminary to the adjustment of the future money
unit, is, to determine what shall be the proportion and composi-
tion of alloy in each species of the coins.

The first, by the resolution of the 8th of August, 1786, before
referred to, is regulated at one-twelfth, or in other words, at 1
part alloy to 11 parts fine, whether gold or silver; which appears
to be a convenient rule ; unless there should be some collateral
consideration which may dictate a departure from it. Its corre-
spondency, in regard to both metals, is a recommendation of it,
because a difference could answer no purpose of pecuniary or
commercial utility, and uniformity is favorable to order.

This ratio, as it regards gold, coincides with the proportion,
real or professed, in the coins of Portugal, England, France, and
Spain. In those of the two former, it is real, in those of the two
latter, there is a deduction for what is called remedy of weight and
alloy, which is in the nature of an allowance to the master of the
mint for errors and imperfections in the process, rendering the
coin either lighter or baser than it ought to be. The same thing
is known in the theory of the English mint, where £ of a carat is
allowed. But the difference seems to be, that there, it is merely
an occasional indemnity within a certain limit, for real and un-
avoidable errors and imperfections ; whereas, in the practice of
the mints of France and Spain, it appears to amount to a stated
and regular deviation from the nominal standard. Accordingly,
the real standards of France and Spain are something worse
than 22 carats, or 11 parts in 12 fine.

The principal gold coins in Germany, Holland, Sweden,
Denmark, Poland, and Italy, are finer than those of England
and Portugal, in different degrees, from 1 carat and i to 1 carat
and f , which last is within -J- of a carat of pure gold.

There are similar diversities in the standards of the silver
coins of the different countries of Europe. That of Great

164 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [;Et. 34.

Britain is 222 parts fine, to 18 alloy ; those of the other
European nations vary from that of Great Britain as widely as
from about 17 of the same parts better, to 75 worse.

The principal reasons assigned for the use of alloy, are the
saving of expense in the refining of the metals (which in their
natural state are usually mixed with a portion of the coarser
kinds), and the rendering of them harder as a security against
too great waste by friction or wearing. The first reason, drawn
from the original composition of the metals, is strengthened at
present by the practice of alloying their coins, which has obtain-
ed among so many nations. The reality of the effect to which
the last reason is applicable, has been denied, and experience has
been appealed to, as proving that the more alloyed coins wear
faster than the purer. The true state of this matter may be
worthy of future investigation, though first appearances are in
favor of alloy. In the mean time, the saving of trouble and
expense are sufficient inducements to following those examples
which suppose its expediency. And the same considerations
lead to taking as our models those nations with whom we have
most intercourse, and whose coins are most prevalent in our
circulation. These are Spain, Portugal, England, and France.
The relation which the proposed proportion bears to their gold
coins has been explained. In respect to their silver coins,
it will not be very remote from the mean of their several
standards.

The component ingredients of the alloy in each metal will
also require to be regulated. In silver, copper is the only kind
in use, and it is doubtless the only proper one. In gold, there is
a mixture of silver and copper ; in the English coins consisting
of equal parts ; in the coins of some other countries, varying
from i to § silver.

The reason of this union of silver with copper is this : The
silver counteracts the tendency of the copper to injure the color
or beauty of the coin, by giving it too much redness, or rather a
coppery hue, which a small quantity will produce ; and the cop-
per prevents the too great whiteness which silver alone would
confer. It is apprehended, that there are considerations which

/

JEt. 34.] ESTABLISHMENT OF A MINT. 165

may render it prudent to establish, by law, that the proportion
of silver to copper, in the gold coins of the United States, shall
not be more than |, nor less than £ ; vesting a discretion in some
proper place to regulate the matter within those limits, as expe-
rience in the execution may recommend.

A third point remains to be discussed, as a prerequisite to
the determination of the money unit, which is, whether the ex-
pense of coining shall be defrayed by the public, or out of the
material itself; or, as it is sometimes stated, whether coinage
shall be free, or shall be subject to a duty or imposition ? This
forms, perhaps, one of the nicest questions in the doctrine of
money.

The practice of different nations is dissimilar in this particu-
lar. In England, coinage is said to be entirely free : the mint
price of the metals in bullion, being the same with the value of
them in coin. In France, there is a duty, which has been, if it
is not now, eight per cent. In Holland, there is a difference be-
tween the mint price and the value in the coins, which has been
computed at .96, or something less than one per cent, upon gold;
at 1.48, or something less than one and a half per cent, upon sil-
ver. The resolution of the 8th of August, 1786, proceeds upon
the idea of a deduction of half per cent, from gold, and of two
per cent, from silver, as an indemnification for the expense of
coining. This is inferred from a report of the late Board of
Treasury, upon which that resolution appears to have been
founded.

Upon the supposition that the expense of coinage ought to be
defrayed out of the metals, there are two ways in which it may
be effected : one by a reduction of the quantity of fine gold and
silver in the coins, the other by establishing a difference between
the value of those metals in the coins, and the mint price of
them in bullion.

The first method appears to the Secretary inadmissible. He
is unable to distinguish an operation of this sort, from that of
raising the denomination of the coin — a measure which has been
disapproved by the wisest men of the nations in which it has
been practised, and condemned by the rest of the world. To

166 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 34.

declare that a less weight of gold or silver shall pass for the same
sum, which before represented a greater weight, or to ordain that
the same weight shall pass for a greater sum, are things substan-
tially of one nature. The consequence of either of them, if the
change can be realized, is to degrade the money unit ; obliging
creditors to receive less than their just dues, and depreciating
property of every kind. For it is manifest, that every thing
would, in this case, be represented by a less quantity of gold and
silver than before.

It is sometimes observed, on this head, that, though any arti-
cle of property might, in facty be represented by a less actual
quantity of pure metal, it would nevertheless be represented by
something of the same intrinsic value. Every fabric, it is re-
marked, is worth intrinsically the price of the raw material and
the expense of fabrication ; a truth not less applicable to a piece
of coin than to a yard of cloth.

This position, well founded in itself, is here misapplied. It
supposes, that the coins now in circulation are to be considered
as bullion, or, in other words, as raw material. But the fact is,
that the adoption of them as money, has caused them to become
the fabric ; it has invested them with the character and office of
coins, and has given them a sanction and efficacy, equivalent to
that of the stamp of the sovereign. The prices of all our com-
modities, at home and abroad, and of all foreign commodities in
our markets, have found their level in conformity to this princi-
ple. The foreign coins may be divested of the privilege they
have hitherto been permitted to enjoy, and may of course be left
to find their value in the market as a raw material. But the
quantity of gold and silver in the national coins, corresponding
with a given sum, cannot be made less than heretofore, without
disturbing the balance of intrinsic value, and making every acre
of land, as well as every bushel of wheat, of less actual worth
than in time past. If the United States were isolated, and cut
off from all intercourse with the rest of mankind, this reasoning
would not be equally conclusive. But it appears decisive, when
considered with a view to the relations which commerce has cre-
ated between us and other countries.

Mt. 34.] ESTABLISHMENT OF A MINT. 1G7

It is, however, not improbable, that the effect meditated would
be defeated by a rise of prices proportioned to the diminution of
the intrinsic value of the coins. This might be looked for in
every enlightened commercial country ; but, perhaps, in none
with greater certainty than in this ; because, in none, are men
less liable to be the dupes of sounds ; in none, has authority so
little resource for substituting names for things.

A general revolution in prices, though only nominally, and
in appearance, could not fail to distract the ideas of the commu-
nity, and would be apt to breed discontents as well among all
those who live on the income of their money, as among the
poorer classes of the people, to whom the necessaries of life
would seem to have become dearer. In the confusion of such a
state of things, ideas of value would not improbably adhere to
the old coins, which, from that circumstance, instead of feeling
the effect of the loss of their privilege as money, would, perhaps,
bear a price in the market, relatively to the new ones, in exact
proportion to weight. The frequency of the demand for the
metals to pay foreign balances, would contribute to this effect.

Among the evils attendant on such an operation, are these :
creditors, both of the public and of individuals, would lose a
part of their property ; public and private credit would receive
a wound ; the effective revenues of the Government would be
diminished. There is scarcely any point, in the economy of na-
tional affairs, of greater moment than the uniform preservation
of the intrinsic value of the money unit. On this, the security
and steady value of property essentially depend.

The second method, therefore, of defraying the expense of
the coinage out of the metals, is greatly to be preferred to the
other. This is to let the same sum of money continue to repre-
sent in the new coins exactly the same quantity of gold and sil-
ver as it does in those now current — to allow at the mint such a
price only for those metals as will admit of profit just sufficient
to satisfy the expense of coinage ; to abolish the legal currency
of the foreign coins, both in public and private payments ; and,
of course, to leave the superior utility of the national coins for
domestic purposes, to operate the difference of market value,

168 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 34.

which is necessary to induce the bringing of bullion to the mint.
In this case, all property and labor will still be represented by
the same quantity of gold and silver as formerly ; and the only
change which will be wrought, will consist in annexing the office
of money exclusively to the national coins ; consequently, with-
drawing it from those of foreign countries, and suffering them to
become, as they ought to be, mere articles of merchandise.

The arguments in favor of a regulation of this kind are, first :
That the want of it is a cause of extra expense ; there being,
then, no motive of individual interest to distinguish between the
national coins and bullion, they are, it is alleged, indiscriminately
melted down for domestic manufactures, and exported for the
purposes of foreign trade : and it is added, that when the coins
become light by wearing, the same quantity of fine gold or sil-
ver bears a higher price in bullion than in the coins ; in which
state of things, the melting down of the coins to be sold as bul-
lion is attended with profit ; and from both causes, the expense
of the mint, or, in other words, the expense of maintaining the
specie capital of the nation, is materially augmented.

Secondly. That the existence of such a regulation promotes
a favorable course of exchange, and benefits trade, not only by
that circumstance, but by obliging foreigners, in certain cases, to
pay dearer for domestic commodities, and to sell their own
cheaper.

As far as relates to the tendency of a free coinage to produce
an increase of expense in the different ways that have been
stated, the argument must be allowed to have foundation, both
in reason and in experience. It describes what has been exem-
plified in Great Britain.

The effect of giving an artificial value to bullion, is not, at
first sight, obvious ; but it actually happened at the period imme-
diately preceding the late reformation in the gold coin of the
country just named. A pound troy in gold bullion, of standard
fineness, was then from 19s. 6d. to 25s. sterling dearer than an
equal weight of guineas, as delivered at the mint. The phe-
nomenon is thus accounted for : The old guineas were more than
two per cent, lighter than their standard weight. This weight,

'

JEt. 34.] ESTABLISHMENT OF A MINT. 169

therefore, in bullion, was truly worth two per cent, more than
those guineas. It consequently had, in respect to them, a cor-
respondent rise in the market.

And as guineas were then current by tah, the new ones, as
they issued from the mint, were confounded in circulation with
the old ones ; and by the association, were depreciated below the
intrinsic value, in comparison with bullion. It became of course
a profitable traffic to sell bullion for coin, to select the light pieces,
and re-issue them in currency, and to melt down the heavy ones,
and sell them again as bullion. This practice, besides other incon-
veniences, cost the Government large sums in the renewal of the
coins.

But the remainder of the argument stands upon ground far
more questionable. It depends upon very numerous and very
complex combinations, in which there is infinite latitude for fal-
lacy and error.

The most plausible part of it, is that which relates to the
course of exchange. Experience in France has shown that the
market price of bullion has been influenced by the mint differ-
ence between that and coin ; sometimes to the full extent of the
difference ; and it would seem to be a clear inference, that, when-
ever that difference materially exceeded the charges of remitting
bullion from the country where it existed, to another in which
coinage is free, exchange would be in favor of the former.

If, for instance, the balance of trade between France and
England were at any time equal, their merchants would naturally
have reciprocal payments to make to an equal amount, which, as
usual would be liquidated by means of bills of exchange. If in
this situation the difference between coin and bullion should be,
in the market, as at the mint of France, eight per cent. ; if, also,
the charges of transporting money from France to England,
should not be above two per cent. ; and if exchange should be
at par, it is evident that a profit of six per cent, might be made,
by sending bullion from France to England, and drawing bills
for the amount. One hundred louis d'ors in coin, would pur-
chase the weight of one hundred and eight in bullion ; one hun-
dred of which, remitted to England, would suffice to pay a debt

c 10

170 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 34.

of an equal amount ; and two being paid for the charges of insu-
rance and transportation, there would remain six for the benefit
of the person who should manage the negotiation. But as so
large a profit could not fail to produce competition, the bills, in
consequence of this, would decrease in price, till the profit was
reduced to the minimum of an adequate recompense for the
trouble and risk. And, as the amount of one hundred louis
d'ors in England, might be afforded for ninety-six in France,
with a profit of more than one and a half per cent., bills upon
England might fall, in France, to four per cent, below par ; one
per cent, being a sufficient profit to the exchanger or broker for
the management of the business.

But it is admitted that this advantage is lost, when the balance
of trade is against the nation which imposes the duty in ques-
tion ; because, by increasing the demand for bullion, it brings
this to a par with the coins ; and it is to be suspectedt that where
commercial principles have their free scope, and are well under-
stoo.l, the market difference between the metals in coin and
bullion, will seldom approximate to that of the mint, if the lat-
ter be considerable. It must be not a little difficult to keej) the
money of the world, which can be employed to an equal purpose
in the commerce of the world, in a state of degradation, in com-
parison with the money of a particular country.

This alone would seem sufficient to prevent it : Whenever
the price of coin to bullion, in the market, materially exceeded
the par of the metals, it would become an object to send the
bullion abroad, if not to pay a foreign balance, to be invested in
some other way, in foreign countries, where it bore a superior
value ; an operation by which immense fortunes might be amass-
ed, if it were not that the exportation of the bullion would of
itself restore the intrinsic par. But, as it would naturally have
this effect, the advantage supposed would contain in itself the
principle of its own destruction. As long, however, as the ex-
portation of bullion could be made with profit, which is as long-
as exchange could remain below par, there would be a drain of
the gold and silver of the country.

If any thing can maintain, for a length of time, a material

jEt. 34.] ESTABLISHMENT OF A MINT. 171

difference between the value of the metals in coin and in bullion,
it must be a constant and considerable balance of trade in favor
of the country in which it is maintained. In one situated like
the United States, it would in all probability be a hopeless
attempt. The frequent demand for gold and silver, to pay bal-
ances to foreigners, would tend powerfully to preserve the equi-
librium of intrinsic value.

The prospect is, that it would occasion foreign coins to circu-
late by common consent, nearly at par with the national.

To say that, as far as the effect of lowering exchange is pro-
duced, though it be only occasional and momentary, there is a
benefit the more thrown into the scale of public prosperity, is
not satisfactory. It has been seen, that it may be productive of
one evil, the investment of a part of the national capital in
foreign countries ; which can hardly be beneficial but in a situa-
tion like that of the United Netherlands, where an immense
capital, and a decrease of internal demand, render it necessary to
find employment for money in the wants of other nations ; and,
perhaps on a close examination, other evils may be descried.

One allied to that which has been mentioned is this — taking
France, for the sake of more concise illustration, as the scene.
Whenever it happens that French louis d'ors are sent abroad,,
from whatever cause, if there be a considerable difference be-
tween coin and bullion, in the market of France, it will consti-
tute an advantageous traffic to send back these louis d'ors, and
bring away bullion in lieu of them ; upon all which exchanges,
France must sustain an actual loss of a part of its gold and
silver.

Again, such a difference between coin and bullion may tend
to counteract a favorable balance of trade. Whenever a foreign
merchant is the carrier of his own commodities to France for
sale, he has a strong inducement to bring back specie, instead of
French commodities ; because a return in the latter may afford no
profit, may even be attended with loss ; in the former it will afford
a certain profit. The same principle must be supposed to operate
in the general course of remittances from France to other coun-
tries. The principal question with a merchant, naturally is, in

172 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 34.

what manner can I realize a given sum, with most advantage,
where I wish to place it ? And, in cases in which other commo-
dities are not likely to produce equal profit with bullion, it may
be expected that this will be preferred ; to which the greater cer-
tainty attending the operation must be an additional incitement.
There can hardly be imagined a circumstance less friendly to
trade, than the existence of an extra inducement arising from the
possibility of a profitable speculation upon the articles themselves,
to export from a country its gold and silver, rather than the pro-
ducts of its land and labor.

The other advantages supposed, of obliging foreigners to pay
dearer for domestic commodities, and to sell their own cheaper,
are applied to a situation which includes a favorable balance of
trade. It is understood in this sense — the prices of domestic
commodities (such, at least, as are peculiar to the country), re-
main attached to the denominations of the coins. When a
favorable balance of trade realizes in the market the mint differ-
ence between coin and bullion, foreigners, who must pay in the
latter, are obliged to give more of it for such commodities than
they otherwise would do. Again, the bullion, which is now
obtained at a cheaper rate in the home market, will procure the
same quantity of goods in the foreign market, as before ; which
is said to render foreign commodities cheaper. In this reason-
ing, much fallacy is to be suspected. If it be true, that foreign-
ers pay more for domestic commodities, it must be equally true
that they get more for their own when they bring them them-
selves to market. If peculiar, or other domestic commodities
adhere to the denominations of the coins, no reason occurs why

. foreign commodities of a like character should not do the same
thing ; and, in this case, the foreigner, though he receive only
the same value in coin for his merchandise as formerly, can con-
vert it into a greater quantity of bullion. Whence the nation is
liable to lose more of its gold and silver than if their intrinsic
value in relation to the coins were preserved. And whether the

. gain or the loss will, on the whole, preponderate, would appear to
depend on the comparative proportion of active commerce of the

• one country with the other.

jEt. 34.] ESTABLISHMENT OF A MINT. 173

It is evident, also, that the nation must pay as much gold
and silver as before, for the commodities which it procures
abroad; and whether it obtains this gold and silver cheaper or
not, turns upon the solution of the question just intimated, re-
specting the relative proportion of active commerce between the
two countries.

Besides these considerations, it is admitted in the reasoning,
that the advantages supposed, which depend on a favorable
balance of trade, have a tendency to affect that balance disad
vantageously. Foreigners, it is allowed, will in this case seek
some other vent for their commodities, and some other market
where they can supply their wants at an easier rate. A ten-
dency of this kind, if real, would be a sufficient objection to the
regulation. Nothing which contributes to change a beneficial
current of trade, can well compensate, by particular advantages,
for so injurious an effect. It is far more easy to transfer trade
from a less to a more favorable channel, than, when once trans-
ferred, to bring it back to its old one. Every source of artificial
interruption to an advantageous current, is, therefore, cautiously
to be avoided.

It merits attention, that the able minister, who lately and so
long presided over the finances of France, does not attribute to
the duty of coinage in that country, any particular advantages in
relation to exchange and trade. Though he rather appears an
advocate for it, it is on the sole ground of the revenue it affords,
which he represents as in the nature of a very moderate duty on
the general mass of exportation.

And it is not improbable that, to the singular felicity of situ-
ation of that kingdom, is to be attributed its not having been
sensible of the evils which seem incident to the regulation.
There is, perhaps, no part of Europe which has so little need of
other countries as France. Comprehending a variety of soils
and climates, an immense population, its agriculture in a state of
mature improvement, it possesses within its own bosom, most, if'
not all, the productions of the earth, which any of its most
favored neighbors can boast. The variety, abundance, and ex-
cellence of its wines, constitute a peculiar advantage in its favor. .

174 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 34.

Arts and manufactures are there also in a very advanced state :
some of them, of considerable importance, in higher perfection
than elsewhere. Its contiguity to Spain ; the intimate nature of
its connection with that country — a country with few fabrics of
its own, consequently numerous wants, and the principal recep-
tacle of the treasures of the new world : these circumstances
concur, in securing to France so uniform and so considerable a
balance of trade, as in a great measure to counteract the natural
tendency of any errors which may exist in the system of her
mint ; and to render inferences from the operation of that system
there, in reference to this country, more liable to mislead than
to instruct. Nor ought it to pass unnoticed, that, with all these
advantages, the Government of France has found it necessary 7
on some occasions, to employ very violent methods to compel
the bringing of bullion to the mint — a circumstance which
affords a strong presumption of the inexpediency of the regula-
tion, and of the impracticability of executing it in the United
States.

This point has been the longer dwelt upon, not only because
there is a diversity of opinion among speculative men concern-
ing it, and a diversity in the practice of the most considerable
commercial nations, but because the acts of our own Govern-
ment, under the confederation, have not only admitted the ex-
pediency of defraying the expense of coinage out of the metals
themselves, but upon this idea have both made a deduction from
the weight of the coins, and established a difference between
their regulated value and the mint price of bullion, greater than
would result from that deduction. This double operation in
favor of a principle so questionable in itself, has made a more
particular investigation of it a duty.

The intention, however, of the preceding remarks, is rather
to show that the expectation of commercial advantages ought
not to decide in favor of a duty of coinage, and that, if it should
be adopted, it ought not to be in the form of a deduction from
-the intrinsic value of the coins, than absolutely to exclude the
idea of any difference whatever, between the value of the metals
in coin and in bullion. It is not clearly discerned, that a small

Mt. 34.] ESTABLISHMENT OF A MINT. 175

difference between the mint price of bullion and the regulated
value of the coins would be pernicious, or that it might not even
be advisable, in the first instance, by way of experiment, merely
as a preventive to the melting down and exportation of the
coins. This will, now, be somewhat more particularly con-
sidered.

The arguments for a coinage entirely free, are, that it pre-
serves the intrinsic value of the metals ; that it makes the ex-
pense of fabrication a general instead of partial tax; and that it
tends to promote the abundance of gold and silver, which it
is alleged, will flow to that place where they find the best
price, and from that place where they are in any degree under-
valued.

The first consideration has not much weight, as an objec-
tion to a plan which, without diminishing the quantity of metals
in the coins, merely allows a less price for them in bullion
at the national factory or mint. No rule of intrinsic value is
violated, by considering the raw material as worth less than the
fabric in proportion to the expense of fabrication. And by di-
vesting foreign coins of the privilege of circulating as money,
they become the raw material.

The second consideration has perhaps greater weight. But
it may not amount to an objection, if it be the best method of
preventing disorders in the coins, which it is, in a particular
manner, the interest of those, on whom the tax would fall, to
prevent. The practice of taking gold by weight, which has of
late years obtained in Great Britain, has been found in some de-
gree, a remedy; but this is inconvenient, and may, on that
account, fall into disuse. Another circumstance has had a
remedial operation. This is the delay of the mint. It appears to
be the practice there, not to make payment for the bullion which
is brought to be exchanged for coin, till it either has in fact, or
is pretended to have undergone the process of recoining.

The necessity of fulfilling prior engagements, is a cause or
pretext for postponing the delivery of the coin in lieu of the
bullion. And this delay creates a difference in the market price
of the two things. Accordingly, for some years past, an ounce

176 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 34.

of standard gold, which is worth in coin £3 17s. 10 \d. sterling,
has been in the market of London, in bullion, only .£3 17s. 6d.,
which is within a small fraction of one half per cent. less. Whe-
ther this be management in the mint, to accommodate the bank
in the purchase of bullion, or to effect indirectly something
equivalent to a formal difference of price, or whether it be the
natural course of the business, is open to conjecture.

It, at the same time, indicates that, if the mint were to make
prompt payment; at about half per cent, less than it does at pre-
sent, the state of bullion in respect to coin, would be precisely
the same as it now is. And it would be then certain, that the
Government would save expense in the coinage of gold ; since it
is not probable that the time actually lost in the course of the
year, in converting bullion into coin, can be an equivalent to
half per cent, on the advance, and there will generally be at the
command of the treasury a considerable sum of money waiting
for some periodical disbursement, which, without hazard, might
be applied to that advance.

In what sense a free coinage can be said to promote the
abundance of gold and silver, may be inferred from the instances
which have been given of the tendency of a contrary system to
promote their exportation. It is, however, not probable, that a
very small difference of value between coin and bullion can have
any effect which ought to enter into calculation. There can be
no inducement of positive profit, to export the bullion, as long
as the difference of price is exceeded by the expense of transpor-
tation. And the prospect of smaller loss upon the metals than
upon commodities, when the difference is very minute, will be
frequently overbalanced by the possibility of doing better with
the latter, from a rise of markets. It is, at any rate, certain, that
it can be of no consequence in this view, whether the superiority
of coin to bullion in the market, be produced, as in England, by
the delay of the mint, or by a formal discrimination in the regu-
lated values.

Under an impression that a small difference between the
value of the coin and the mint price of bullion, is the least ex-
ceptionable expedient for restraining the melting down, or expor-

Mt. 34.] ESTABLISHMENT OF A MINT. 177

tation of the former, and not perceiving that, if it be a very
moderate one, it can be hurtful in other respects, the Secretary
is inclined to an experiment of one half per cent, on each of the
metals. The fact which has been mentioned, with regard to the
price of gold bullion in the English market, seems to demon-
strate that such a difference may safely be made. In this case
there must be immediate payment for the gold and silver offered
to the mint. How far one half per cent, will go towards defray-
ing the expense of the coinage, cannot be determined beforehand
with accuracy. It is presumed that, on an economical plan, it
will suffice in relation to gold. But it is not expected that the
same rate on silver will be sufficient to defray the expense
attending that metal. Some additional provision may, therefore,
be found necessary, if this limit be adopted.

It does not seem to be advisable to make any greater differ-
ence in regard to silver than to gold ; because it is desirable that
the proportion between the two metals in the market, should
correspond with that in the coins, which would not be the case
if the mint price of one was comparatively lower than that of
the other ; and because, also, silver being proposed to be rated
in respect to gold, somewhat below its general commercial value,
if there should be a disparity to its disadvantage in the mint
prices of the two metals, it would obstruct too much the bring-
ing of it to be coined, and would add an inducement to export
it. Nor does it appear to the Secretary safe to make a greater
difference between the value of coin and bullion, than has been
mentioned. It will be better to have to increase it, hereafter, if
this shall be found expedient, than to have to recede from too
considerable a difference, in consequence of evils which shall
have been experienced.

It is sometimes mentioned, as an expedient, which, consist-
ently with a free coinage, may serve to prevent the evils desired
to be avoided, to incorporate in the coins a greater proportion
of alloy than is usual ; regulating their value, nevertheless, ac-
cording to the quantity of pure metal they contain. This, it is
supposed, by adding to the difficulty of refining them, would

178 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 34.

cause bullion to be preferred, both for manufacture and expor-
tation.

But strong objections lie against this scheme — an augmenta-
tion of expense ; an actual depreciation of the coin ; a danger
of still greater depreciation in the public opinion ; the facilitating
of counterfeits ; while it is questionable whether it would have
the effect expected from it.

The alloy being esteemed of no value, an increase of it is
evidently" an increase of expense. This, in relation to the gold
coins, particularly, is a matter of moment. It has been noted,
that the alloy in them consists partly of silver. If, to avoid ex-
pense, the addition should be of copper only, this would spoil
the appearance of the coin, and give it a base countenance. Its
beauty would indeed be injured, though in a less degree, even
if the usual proportions of silver and copper should be main-
tained in the increased quantity of alloy.

And, however inconsiderable an additional expenditure of
copper in the coinage of a year may be deemed, in a series of
years it would become of consequence. In regulations which
contemplate the lapse and operation of ages, a very small item
of expense acquires importance.

The actual depreciation of the coin by an increase of alloy,
results from the very circumstance which is the motive to it —
the greater difficulty of refining. In England, it is customary for
those concerned in manufactures of gold, to make a deduction in
the price of four-pence sterling per ounce, of fine gold, for every
carat which the mass containing it, is below the legal standard.
Taking this as a rule, an inferiority of a single carat, or one
twenty-fourth part in the gold coins of the United States, com-
pared with the English standard, would cause the same quantity
of pure gold in them to be worth nearly four-tenths per cent,
less than in the coins of Great Britain. This circumstance would
be likely, in process of time, to be felt in the market of the
United States.

A still greater depreciation, in the public opinion, would
be to be apprehended from the apparent debasement of the coin.
The effects of imagination and prejudice cannot safely be dis-

Mi. 34.] ESTABLISHMENT OF A MINT. 179

regarded in any thing that relates to money. If the beauty of
the coifi be impaired, it may be found difficult to satisfy the
generality of the community, that what appears worst is not
really less valuable ; and it is not altogether certain, that an im-
pression of its being so, may not occasion an unnatural aug-
mentation of prices.

Greater danger of imposition, by counterfeits, is also to be
apprehended from the injury which will be done to the appear-
ance of the coin. It is a just observation, that " the perfection
of the coins is a great safeguard against counterfeits." And it
is evident that the color, as well as the excellence of the work-
manship, is an ingredient in that perfection. The intermixture
of too much alloy, particularly of copper, in the gold coins at
least, must materially lessen the facility of distinguishing, by the
eye, the purer from the baser kind — the genuine from the
counterfeit.

The inefficacy of the arrangement to the purpose intended
to be answered by it, is rendered probable by different con-
siderations. If the standard of plate in the United States should
be regulated according to that of the national coins, it is to be
expected that the goldsmith would prefer these to the foreign
coins, because he would find them prepared to his hand, in the
state which he desires; whereas he would have to expend an
additional quantity of alloy to bring the foreign coins to that
state. If the standard of plate, by law or usage, should be su-
perior to that of the national coins, there would be a possibility
of the foreign coins bearing a higher price in the market ; and
this would not only obstruct their being brought to the mint,
but might occasion the exportation of the national coin in pre-
ference. It is not understood, that the practice of making an
abatement of price for the inferiority of standard, is applicable
to the English mint ; and if it be not, this would also contribute
to frustrating the expected effect from the increase of alloy.
For, in this case, a given quantity of pure metal, in our stand-
ard, would be worth as much there, as in bullion of the Eng-
lish, or any other standard.

Considering, therefore, the uncertainty of the success of the

180 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 34.

expedient, and the inconveniences which seem incident to it, it
would appeal preferable to submit to those of a free coinage. It
is observable, that additional expense, which is one of the prin-
cipal of these, is also applicable to the proposed remedy.

It is now proper to resume and finish the answer to the
first question, in order to which the three succeeding ones have
necessarily been anticipated. The conclusion to be drawn from
the observations which have been made on the subject, is this :
That the unit, in the coins of the United States, ought to cor-
respond with 24 grains and f of a grain of pure gold, and with
371 grains and ^ of a grain of pure silver, each answering to a
dollar in the money of account. The former is exactly agree-
able to the present value of gold, and the latter is within a
small fraction of the mean of the two last emissions of dollars —
the only ones which are now found in common circulation, and
of which the newest is in the greatest abundance. The alloy
in each case to be one-twelfth of the total weight, which will
make the unit 27 grains of standard gold, and 405 grains of
standard silver.

Each of these, it has been remarked, will answer to a dol-
lar in the money of account. It is conceived that nothing
better can be done in relation to this, than to pursue the track
marked out by the resolution of the 8th August, 1786. This
has been approved abroad, as well as at home, and it is certain
that nothing can be more simple and convenient than the deci-
mal subdivisions. There is every reason to expect that the
method will speedily grow into general use, when it shall be
seconded by corresponding coins. On this plan, the unit in the
money of account will continue to be, as established by that
resolution, a dollar ; and its multiples, dimes, cents, and mills,
or tenths, hundredths, and thousandths.

With regard to the number of different pieces which shall
compose the coins of the United States, two things are to be
consulted — convenience of circulation, and cheapness of the
coinage. The first ought not to be sacrificed to the last; but as
far as they can be reconciled to each other, it is desirable to do
it. Numerous and small (if not too minute) subdivisions assist

jEt. 34.] ESTABLISHMENT OF A MINT. 181

circulation ; but the multiplication of the smaller kinds increases
expense ; the same process being necessary to a small as to a
large piece.

As it is easy to add, it will be most advisable to begin with
a small number, till experience shall decide whether any other
kinds are necessary. The following, it is conceived, will be suf-
ficient in the commencement :

One gold piece, equal in weight and value to ten units, or
dollars.

One gold piece, equal to a tenth part of the former, and
which shall be a unit or dollar.

One silver piece, which shall also be a unit or dollar.
One silver piece, which shall be, in weight and value, a
tenth part of the silver unit or dollar.

One copper piece, which shall be of the value of a hundredth
part of a dollar.

One other copper piece, which shall be half the value of the
former.

It is not proposed that the lightest piece of the two gold
coins should be numerous, as, in large payments, the larger the
pieces, the shorter the process of counting, the less risk of mis-
take, and consequently, the greater the safety and the conveni-
ence ; and, in small payments, it is not perceived that any in-
convenience can accrue from an entire dependence on the silver
and copper coins. The chief inducement to the establishment of
the small gold piece, is to have a sensible object in that metal,
as well as in silver, to express the unit. Fifty thousand at a
time in circulation, may suffice for this purpose.

The tenth part of a dollar is but a small piece, and, with the
aid of the copper coins, will probably suffice for all the more
minute uses of circulation. It is less than the least of the silver
coins now in general currency in England.

The largest copper piece will nearly answer to the halfpenny
sterling, and the smallest, of course, to the farthing. Pieces of
very small value, are a great accommodation, and the means of
a beneficial economy to the poor, by enabling ^hem to purchase,
in small portions, and at a more reasonable rate, 4he necessaries of

182 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [At. 34.

which they stand in need. If there are only cents, the lowest
price for any portion of a vendible commodity, however incon-
siderable in quantity, will be a cent ; if there are half cents, it
will be a half cent, and, in a great number of cases, exactly the
same things will be sold for a half cent, which, if there were
none, would cost a cent. But a half cent is low enough for
the minimum of price. Excessive minuteness would defeat ' its
object. To enable the poorer classes to procure necessaries
cheap, is to enable them, with more comfort to themselves, to
labor for less ; the advantages of which need no comment.

The denominations of the silver coins contained in the reso-
lution of the 8th of August, 1786, are conceived to be signifi-
cant and proper. The dollar is recommended by its correspond-
ency with the present coin of that name for which it is designed
to be a substitute, which will facilitate its ready adoption as such,
in the minds of the citizens. The dime, or tenth ; the cent, or
hundredth ; the mill, or thousandth, are proper, because they ex-
press the proportions which they are intended to designate. It
is only to be regretted, that the meaning of these terms will not
be familiar to those who are not acquainted with the language
from which they are borrowed. It were to be wished that the
length, and, in some degree, the clumsiness of some of the cor-
responding terms in English, did not discourage from preferring
them. It is useful to have names which signify the things to
which they belong ; and, in respect to objects of general use, in
a manner intelligible to all. Perhaps it might be an improve-
ment to let the dollar have the appellation either of dollar, or
unit, (which last will be the most significant,) and to substitute
"tenth " for dime. In time, the unit may succeed to the dollar.
The word cent, being in use in various transactions and instru-
ments, will, without much difficulty, be understood as the
hundredth, and the half cent, of course, as the two-hundredth
part.

The eagle is not a very expressive or apt appellation for the
largest gold piece, but nothing better occurs. The smallest of
the two gold coins, may ' e called the dollar, or unit, in common
with the silver piece with which it coincides.

jEt. 34.] ESTABLISHMENT OF A MINT. 183

The volume or size of each piece, is a matter of more conse-
quence than its denomination. It is evident, that the more su-
perficies, or surface, the more the piece will be liable to be injur-
ed by friction, or in other words, the faster it will wear. For
this reason, it is desirable to render the thickness as great, in
proportion to the breadth, as may consist with neatness and
good appearance. Hence, the form of the double guinea, or
double louis d'or, is preferable to that of the half Johannes, for
the large gold piece. The small one cannot well be of any other
size than the Portuguese peice of eight, of the same metal.

As it is of consequence to fortify the idea of the identity of
the dollar, it may be best to let the form and size of the new
one, as far as the quantity of matter (the alloy being less) permits,
agree with the form and size of the present. The diameter
mav be the same.

The tenths may be in a mean between the Spanish 8 and \
of a dollar.

The copper coins may be formed, merely with a view to good
appearance, as, any difference in the wearing that can result
from difference of form, can be of little consequence in reference
to that metal.

It is conceived that the weight of the cent may be eleven
pennyweights, which will about correspond with the value of the
copper, and the expense of coinage. This will be to conform
to the rule of intrinsic value, as far as regard to the convenient
size of the coins will permit ; and the deduction of the expense
•of coinage in this case, will be the more proper, as the copper
coins, which have been current hitherto, have passed, till lately,
for much more than their intrinsic value. Taking the weight,
as has been suggested, the size of the cent may be nearly that
of the piece herewith transmitted, which weighs lOdwt. llgrs.
10m. Two-thirds of the diameter of the cent will suffice for the
diameter of the half cent.

It may, perhaps, be thought expedient, according to general
practice, to make the copper coinage an object of profit, but,
where this is done to any considerable extent, it is hardly pos-
sible to have effectual security against counterfeits. This con-

184 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 34.

sideration, concurring with the soundness of the principle of
preserving the intrinsic value of the money of a country, seems
to outweigh the consideration of profit.

The foregoing suggestions respecting the sizes of the several
coins, are made on the supposition that the Legislature may
think fit to regulate this matter. Perhaps, however, it may be
judged not unadvisable to leave it to Executive discretion.

With regard to the proposed size of the cent, it is to be con-
fessed, that it is rather greater than might be wished, if it could,
with propriety and safety, be made less ; and should the value
of copper continue to decline, as it has done for some time past,
it is very questionable whether it will long remain alone a fit metal
for money. This has led to a consideration of the expediency
of uniting a small proportion of silver with the copper, in order
to be able to lessen the bulk of the inferior coins. For this,
there are precedents in several parts of Europe. In France, the
composition which is called billon, has consisted of one part
silver and four parts copper ; according to which proportion, a
cent might contain seventeen grains, defraying out of the
material the expense of coinage. The conveniency of size is a
recommendation of such a species of coin, but the Secretary is
deterred from proposing it, by the apprehension of counterfeits.
The effect of so small a quantity of silver, in, comparatively, so
large a quantity of copper, could easily be imitated, by a mixture
of other metals of little value, and the temptation to doing it
would not be inconsiderable.

The devices of the coins are far from being matters of indif-
ference, as they may be made the vehicles of useful impressions.
They ought, therefore, to be emblematical, but without losing
sight of simplicity. The fewer sharp points and angles there are,
the less will be the loss by wearing. The Secretary thinks it
best, on this head, to confine himself to these concise and general
remarks.

The last point to be discussed, respects the currency of foreign
coins.

The abolition of this, in proper season, is a necessary part of
the system contemplated for the national coinage. But this it

JEt. 34.] ESTABLISHMENT OF A MINT. 185

will be expedient to defer, till some considerable progress has
been made in preparing substitutes for them. A gradation may,
therefore, be found most convenient.

The foreign coins may be suffered to circulate, precisely upon
their present footing, for one year after the mint shall have com-
menced its operations. The privilege may then be continued for
another year, to the gold coins of Portugal, England, and France,
and to the silver coins of Spain. And these may still be permit-
ted to be current for one year more, at the rates allowed to be
given for them at the mint ; after the expiration of which, the
circulation of all foreign coins to cease.

The moneys which will be paid into the treasury during the
first year, being re-coined, before they are issued anew, will afford
a partial substitute, before any interruption is given to the pre-
existing supplies of circulation. The revenues of the succeeding
year, and the coins which will be brought to the mint in conse-
quence of the discontinuance of their currency, will materially
extend the substitute in the course of that year, and its extension
will be so far increased during the third year, by the facility of
procuring the remaining species to be re-coined, which will arise
from the diminution of their current values, as probably to ena-
ble the dispensing wholly with the circulation of the foreign
coins after that period. The progress which the currency of
bank bills will be likely to have made, during the same time,
will, also, afford a substitute of another kind.

This arrangement, besides avoiding a sudden stagnation of
circulation, will cause a considerable proportion of whatever loss
may be incident to the establishment, in the first instance, to fall,
as it ought to do, upon the Government, and will, probably, tend
to distribute the remainder of it, more equally, among the com-
munity.

It may, nevertheless, be advisable, in addition to the precau*
tions here suggested, to repose a discretionary authority in the
President of the United States, to continue the currency of the
Spanish dollar, at a value corresponding with the quantity of fine
silver contained in it, beyond the period above mentioned, for
the cessation of the circulation of the foreign coins. It is possi-

c 13

186 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 34.

ble, that an exception, in favor of this particular species of coin,
may be found expedient, and it may tend to obviate inconveni-
ences, if there be a power to make the exception, in a capacity
to be exerted, when the period shall arrive. •

The Secretary for the Department of State, in his report to
the House of Representatives, on the subject of establishing a
uniformity in the weights, measures, and coins, of the United
States, has proposed that the weight of the dollar should corres-
pond with the unit of weight. This was done on the supposition
that it would require but a very small addition to the quantity of
metal which the dollar, independently of the object he had in
view, ought to contain, in which he was guided by the resolution
of the 8th of August, 1786, fixing the dollar at 375 grains and 64
hundredths of a grain.

Taking this as the proper standard of the dollar, a small
alteration, for the sake of incorporating so systematic an idea,
would appear desirable. But, if the principles which have been
reasoned from, in this report, are just, the execution of that idea
becomes more difficult. It would, certainly, not be advisable to
make, on that account, so considerable a change in the money
unit, as would be produced by the addition of five grains of sil-
ver to the proper weight of the dollar, without a proportional aug-
mentation of its relative value, and, to make such an augmenta-
tion, would be to abandon the advantage of preserving the
identity of the dollar, or, to speak more accurately, of having the
proposed one received and considered, as a mere substitute for
the present.

The end may, however, be obtained, without either of those
inconveniences, by increasing the proportion of alloy in the sil-
ver coins. But this would destroy the uniformity, in that respect,
between the gold and silver coins. It remains, therefore, to elect
which of the two systematic ideas shall be pursued or relin-
quished; and it may be remarked, that it will be more easy to
convert the present silver coins into the proposed ones, if these
last have the same, or nearly the same proportion of alloy,
than if they have less.

The organization of the mint yet remains to be considered.

jEt. 34.] ESTABLISHMENT OF A MINT. 187

This relates to the persons to be employed, and to the ser-
vices which they are respectively to perform. It is conceived
that there ought to be :

^director of the mint, to have the general superintendence
of the business.

An assay master, or assayer, to receive the metals brought to
the mint, ascertain their fineness, and deliver them to be coined.

A master coiner, to conduct the making of the coins.

A cashier, to receive and pay them out.

An auditor, to keep and adjust the accounts of the mint.

Clerks, as many as the director of the mint shall deem neces-
sary, to assist the different officers.

Workmen, as many as may be found requisite.

A porter.

In several of the European mints, there are various other
officers, but the foregoing are those, only, who appear to be
indispensable. Persons in the capacity of clerks, will suffice
instead of the others, with the advantage of greater economy.

The number of workmen is left indefinite, because, at certain
times, it is requisite to have more than at others. They will,
however, never be numerous. The expense of the establishment
in an ordinary year, will, probably, be from fifteen to twenty
thousand dollars.

The remedy for errors in the weight and alloy of the coins,
must necessarily form a part in the system of a mint ; and the
manner of applying it will require to be regulated. The follow-
ing account is given of the practice in England, in this particular :

A certain number of pieces are taken promiscuously out of
every fifteen pounds of gold coined at the mint, which are depo-
sited, for safe keeping, in a strong box, called the pix. This boxr
from time to time, is opened in the presence of the lord chancel-
lor, the officers of the treasury, and others, and portions are
selected from the pieces of each coinage, which are melted
together, and the mass assayed by a jury of the company of gold-
smiths. If the imperfection and deficiency, both in fineness and
weight, fall short of a sixth of a carat, or 40 grains of pure gold,
upon a pound of standard, the master of the mint is held excusa-

188 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 34.

ble, because, it is supposed, that no workman can reasonably be
answerable for greater exactness. The expediency of some simi-
lar regulation seems to be manifest.

All which is humbly submitted. #

Alexander Hamilton,

Secretary of the Treasury.

TEADE WITH INDIA AND CHINA.

Communicated to the House of Representatives, February 10, 1791.

Treasury Office, February 10, 1791.

The Secretary of the Treasury, in obedience to the order of the
House of Eepresentatives of the twentieth day of January last,
referring to him the petition of the merchants of Philadelphia,
trading to India and China, respectfully reports :

That the subject of said petition involves the consideration of
the general policy which ought to be pursued by the United
States in relation to the trade with India and China, concerning
which, questions of equal delicacy and importance arise, requiring
a more careful and deliberate investigation than can be perform-
ed, consistently with the view of the House of Eepresentatives,
respecting the termination of their present session.

That, under this impression, the Secretary, if permitted by
the House, will defer a report on the said subject, generally, till
the next session of Congress, and will confine himself, for the
present, to a particular article of the said trade, namely : Teas.

That it appears, upon inquiry, that considerable quantities of
Bohea tea have been brought into the United States, from
Europe, notwithstanding the additional duties laid upon that
article, when so imported, by the laws heretofore passed ; which
have contributed both to overstock the market and to reduce
the price below the standard at which it can be afforded by the
merchants trading to China ; producing consequently, a material

^Et. 34.] INDIA AND CHINA TRADE. 189

discouragement to the trade with that country, in which the
article of Bohea tea is one of principal importance.

As an additional and extensive field for the enterprise of our
merchants and mariners, and as an additional outlet for the commo-
dities of the country, the trade to India and China appears to lay
claim to the patronage of the Government, and its proceedings,
hitherto, have countenanced the expediency of granting that
patronage; in pursuance of which principle, the fact, which has
been stated, would seem to render it advisable, for the present,
that a further duty should be laid upon Bohea tea brought from
Europe. Three cents per pound, it is conceived, would be an
adequate increase.

But, to form a satisfactory judgment of the propriety either
of pursuing or extending the system of granting particular
favors to the trade in question, it is necessary that a full and
accurate examination should be had into the nature and tenden-
cy of that trade, in order to ascertain the extent to which it may
require or be entitled to encouragement.

All which is humbly submitted.

Alexander Hamilton,

Secretary of the Treasury.

The Secretary of the Treasury, in obedience to an order of
the House of Bepresentatives of the 26th ultimo, relative to
the petition of Elias Hasket Derby, of the town of Salem,
merchant, respectfully reports :

That he has duly considered the allegations contained in the
said petition, and the prayer thereof.

That he finds an insuperable difficulty in recommending to
the consideration of the House, an act of particular indulgence,
relative to the public dues, in favor of an individual.

That, however, it is true, that the importers of teas, in the
year 1790, have been embarrassed and injured by the difficulty
of immediately obtaining prices adequate to cover the duties
which have been imposed on those articles.

190 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 34.

That an apprehension of such difficulties had induced him to
suggest to the House, in his report of the 13th of December last,
the extension of the credit for the duties thereafter to accrue
upon this article.

From a view of the cases of the petitioner and other im-
porters of teas, by whom representations have been made to
him, the Secretary begs leave to suggest for the consideration of
the House, the propriety of giving a retrospect to that clause, in
the pending bill, which extends, in future, the credit allowed
upon the impost on teas, in favor of all the importers of that
article in the last year.

All which is humbly submitted.

Alexander Hamilton-,

Secretary of the Treasury.

THE DUTCH LOAN.

Communicated to the Senate, February 25, 1791.

Treasury Department, February 24th, 1791.

The Secretary of the Treasury, in obedience to the orders of the
President of the United States, as signified in his speech at the
present session, respectfully informs the Senate and House of
Representatives :

That the terms of the loan of three millions of florins, men-
tioned by the President as having been negotiated in Holland,
are as follow :

The rate of interest is five per cent., but the charges form a
deduction from the principal sum of 4i per cent., which will
occasion the real interest to be paid on the sum actually received
by the United States, to be equal to five and a quarter per cent,

nearly.

The reimbursement is to be made in six equal instalments,
commencing in the year 1800, and ending in the year 1804. But
it is in the option of the United States to reimburse the whole, or

jEt. 34.] DUTCH LOAN. 191

any part of the sum borrowed, at any time they may think
proper.

That the disposition which has been made of the above-
mentioned sum is as follows :

One million five hundred thousand florins have been applied
pursuant to the directions of the President of the United States,
as a payment to France.

A further sum, of about one hundred and sixty thousand
florins, will also have been appropriated towards a payment on
account of the Duch Loans, which became due on the first day
of February last, including a premium of seventy thousand
florins.

The residue is in a situation to be disposed of as may be judg-
ed expedient.

A doubt arises how far this loan may be within the meaning
of the act making provision for the reduction of the public debt,
on account of the limitation of the rate of interest, which, taking
the charges of the loan into calculation, would be somewhat
exceeded ; and though it is presumed that that limitation was
not intended to exclude the addition of the ordinary charges,
yet a point of so much delicacy appears to require legislative
explanation.

The Secretary of the Treasury begs leave to observe that it
is in his judgment highly expedient, and very important to the
general operations of the treasury, that the above-mentioned loan
should be deemed to be included within the meaning of the
aforesaid act. The residue may, in this case, be applied with
material advantage to the purposes of that act, and the part
which has been otherwise applied may be hereafter replaced.

All which is humbly submitted.

Alexander Hamilton,

Secretary of the Treasury.

192 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 34.

SPIEITS FOREIGN AND DOMESTIC.

Draft of an Act repealing after the last day of June next, the
duties heretofore laid upon distilled spirits, imported from
abroad, and laying others in their stead, and also upon spirits
distilled within the the United States and for appropriating the
same. March 3d, 1791.

Arrangement made by the President of the United States,
with respect to the subdivisions of the several districts thereof
into surveys, the appointment of officers and the assignment of
compensations pursuant to the above entitled act. Treasury
Department, October 31, 1791. — [States Papers, Finance, vol. i.,
p. 110.

MANUFACTURES.

Communicated to the House of Representatives, December 5, 1791.

The Secretary of the Treasury, in obedience to the order of the
House of Representatives, of the 15th day of January, 1790,
has applied his attention, at as early a period as his other
duties would permit, to the subject of Manufactures, and
particularly to the means of promoting such as will tend to
render the United States independent on foreign nations, for
military and other essential supplies ; and he thereupon re-
spectfully submits the following report :

The expediency of encouraging manufactures in the United
States, which was not long since deemed very questionable,
appears at this time to be pretty generally admitted. The em-
barrassments which have obstructed the progress of our external

jEt. 34.] MANUFACTURES. 193

trade, have led to serious reflections on the necessity of enlarg-
ing the sphere of our domestic commerce. The restrictive regu-
lations, which, in foreign markets, abridge the vent of the in-
creasing surplus of our agricultural produce, serve to beget an
earnest desire, that a more extensive demand for that surplus
may be created at home ; and the complete success which has
rewarded manufacturing enterprise, in some valuable branches,
conspiring with the promising symptoms which attend some less
mature essays in others, justify a hope, that the obstacles to the
growth of this species of industry are less formidable than they
were apprehended to be ; and that it is not difficult to find, in
its further extension, a full indemnification for any external dis-
advantages, which are or may be experienced, as well as an ac-
cession of resources, favorable to national independence and
safety.

There still are, nevertheless, respectable patrons of opinions
unfriendly to the encouragement of manufactures. The follow-
ing are, substantially, the arguments by which these opinions
are defended.

" In every country (say those who entertain them) agricul-
ture is the most beneficial and productive object of human in-
dustry. This position, generally, if not universally true, applies
with peculiar emphasis to the United States, on account of their
immense tracts of fertile territory, uninhabited and unimproved.
Nothing can afford so advantageous an employment for capital
and labor, as the conversion of this extensive wilderness into
cultivated farms. Nothing, equally with this, can contribute to
the population, strength, and real riches of the country.

" To endeavor, by the extraordinary patronage of govern-
ment, to accelerate the growth of manufactures, is, in fact, to en-
deavor, by force and art, to transfer the natural current of in-
dustry from a more to a less beneficial channel. Whatever has
such a tendency, must necessarily be unwise ; indeed, it can
hardly ever be wise in a government to attempt to give a direc-
tion to the industry of its citizens. This, under the quick- sight-
ed guidance of private interest, will, if left to itself, infallibly
find its own way to the most profitable employment ; and it is by

194 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt .34.

such employment, that the public prosperity will be most effect-
ually promoted. To leave industry to itself, therefore, is, in
almost every case, the soundest as well as the simplest policy.

" This policy is not only recommended to the United States,
by considerations which affect all nations ; it is, in a manner,
dictated to them by the imperious force of a very peculiar situa-
tion. The smallnes of their population compared with their ter-
ritory ; the constant allurements to emigration from the settled
to the unsettled parts of the country : the facility with which the
less independent condition of an artisan can be exchanged for
the more independent condition of a farmer ; these, and similar
causes, conspire to produce, and, for a length of time, must con-
tinue to occasion, a scarcity of hands for manufacturing occupa-
tion, and dearness of labor generally. To these disadvantages
for the prosecution of manufactures, a deficiency of pecuniary
capital being added, the prospect of a successful competition with
the manufactures of Europe, must be regarded as little less than
desperate. Extensive manufactures can only be the offspring of
a redundant, at least of a full population. Till the latter shall
characterize the situation of this country, 'tis vain to hope for
the former.

" If, contrary to the natural course of things, an unseasona-
ble and premature spring can be given to certain fabrics, by
heavy duties, prohibitions, bounties, or by other forced expedi-
ents, this will only be to sacrifice the interests of the commu-
nity to those of particular classes. Besides the misdirection of
labor, a virtual monopoly will be given to the persons employed
on such fabrics; and an enhancement of price, the inevitable
consequence of every monopoly, must be defrayed at the expense
of the other parts of society. It is far preferable, that those per-
sons should be engaged in the cultivation of the earth, and that
we should procure, in exchange for its productions, the commod-
ities with which foreigners are able to supply us in greater
perfection, and upon better terms."

This mode of reasoning is founded upon facts and principles
which have certainly respectable pretensions. If it had govern-
ed the conduct of nations more generally than it has done, there

JEt. 34.] MANUFACTURES. 195

is room to suppose that it might have carried them faster to pros-
perity and greatness than they have attained by the pursuit of
maxims too widely opposite. Most general theories, however,
admit of numerous exceptions, and there are few, if any, of the
political kind, which do not blend a considerable portion of
error with the truths they inculcate.

In order to an accurate judgment how far that which has
been just stated ought to be deemed liable to a similar imputa-
tion, it is necessary to advert carefully to the considerations
which plead in favor of manufactures, and which appear to
recommend the special and positive encouragement of them in
certain cases, and under certain reasonable limitations.

It ought readily to be conceded that the cultivation of the
earth, as the primary and most certain source of national supply ;
as the immediate and chief source of subsistence to man ; as the
principal source of those materials which constitute the nutri-
ment of other kinds of labor ; as including a state most favor-
able to the freedom and independence of the human mind — one,
perhaps, most conducive to the multiplication of the human
species; has intrinsically a strong claim to pre-eminence over
every other kind of industry.

But, that it has a title to any thing like an exclusive predi-
lection, in any country, ought to be admitted with great caution;
that it is even more productive than every other branch of in-
dustry, requires more evidence than has yet been given in support
of the position. That its real interests, precious and important
as, without the help of exaggeration, they truly are, will be
advanced, rather than injured, by the due encouragement of
manufactures, may, it is believed, be satisfactorily demonstrated.
And it is also believed, that the expediency of such encourage-
ment, in a general view, may be shown to be recommended by
the most cogent and persuasive motives of national policy.

It has been maintained, that agriculture is not only the most
productive, but the only productive species of industry. The
reality of this suggestion, in either respect, has, however, not
been verified by any accurate detail of facts and calculations ;
and the general arguments which are adduced to prove it, are
rather subtile and paradoxical, than solid or convincing.

196 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 34.

Those which maintain its exclusive productiveness, are to
this effect :

Labor bestowed upon the cultivation of land, produces
enough, not only to replace all the necessary expenses incurred
in the business, and to maintain the persons who are employed
in it, but to afford, together with the ordinary profit on the stock
or capital of the farmer, a net surplus or rent for the landlord or
proprietor of the soil. But the labor of artificers does nothing
more than replace the stock which employs them (or which
furnishes materials, tools, and wages), and yield the ordinary
profit upon that stock. It yields nothing equivalent to the rent
of land ; neither does it add any thing to the total value of the
whole annual produce of the land and labor of the country.
The additional value given to those parts of the produce of land,
which are wrought into manufactures, is counterbalanced by the
value of those other parts of that produce which are consumed
by the manufacturers. It can, therefore, only be by saving or
parsimony, not by the positive productiveness of their labor, that
the classes of artificers can, in any degree, augment the revenue
of the society.

To this it has been answered :

1. " That, inasmuch as it is acknowledged that manufacturing
labor re-produces a value equal to that which is expended or
consumed in carrying it on, and continues in existence the
original stock or capital employed, it ought, on that account,
alone, to escape being considered as wholly unproductive. That,
though it should be admitted, as alleged, that the consumption of
the produce of the soil, by the classes of artificers or manufac-
turers, is exactly equal to the value added by their labor to the
materials upon which it is exerted, yet, it would not thence
follow, that it added nothing to the revenue of the society, or to
the aggregate value of the annual produce of its land and labor.
If the consumption, for any given period, amounted to a given
sum, and the increased value of the produce manufactured, in
the same period, to a like sum, the total amount of the consump-
tion and production, during that period, would be equal to the
two sums, and consequently double the value of the agricultural

^Jt. 34.] MANUFACTURES. 197

produce consumed ; and, though the increment of value pro-
duced by the classes of artificers should, at no time, exceed the
value of the produce of the land consumed by them, yet, there
would be, at every moment, in consequence of their labor, a
greater value of goods in the market than would exist independ-
ent of it."

2. " That the position, that artificers can augment the revenue
of a society only by parsimony, is true in no other sense than in
one which is equally applicable to husbandmen or cultivators.
It may be alike affirmed of all these classes, that the fund acquir-
ed by their labor, and destined for their support, is not, in an
ordinary way, more than equal to it. And hence, it will follow,
that augmentations of the wealth or capital of the community
(except in the instances of some extraordinary dexterity or
skill), can only proceed, with respect to any of them, from the
savings of the more thrifty and parsimonious."

3. "That the annual produce of the land and labor of a
country can only be increased in two ways — by some improve-
ment in the productive powers of the useful labor which actually
exist within it, or by some increase in the quantity of such labor.
That, with regard to the first, the labor of artificers being capable
of greater subdivision and simplicity of operation than that of
cultivators, it is susceptible, in a proportionably greater degree
of improvement in its productive powers, whether to be derived
from an accession of skill or from the application of ingenious
machinery : in which particular, therefore, the labor employed
in the culture of land can pretend to no advantage over that
engaged in manufactures. That, with regard to an augmentation
of the quantity of useful labor, this, excluding adventitious
circumstances, must depend essentially upon an increase of capital,
which again must depend upon the savings made out of the
revenues of those who furnish or manage that which is at any
time employed, whether in agriculture or in manufactures, or in
any other way."

But, while the exclusive productiveness of agricultural labor
has been thus denied and refuted, the superiority of its produc-
tiveness has been conceded without hesitation. As this con-

198 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 34.

cession involves a point of considerable magnitude, in relation
to maxims of public administration, the grounds on which it
rests are worthy of a distinct and particular examination.

One of the arguments made use of in support of the idea,
may be pronounced both quaint and superficial. It amounts to
this: That, in the productions of the soil, nature co-operates with
man ; and that the effect of their joint labor must be greater than
that of the labor of man alone.

This, however, is far from being a necessary inference. It is
very conceivable, that the labor of man alone, laid out upon
a work requiring great skill and art to bring it to perfection,
may be more productive, in value, than the labor of nature
and man combined, when directed towards more simple opera-
tions and objects; and when it is recollected to what an extent
the agency of nature, in the application of the mechanical
powers, is made auxiliary to the prosecution of manufactures,
the suggestion which has been noticed loses even the appearance
of plausibility.

It might also be observed, with a contrary view, that the
labor employed in agriculture, is, in a great measure, periodical
and occasional, depending on seasons, and liable to various and
long intermissions ; while that occupied in many manufactures is
constant and regular, extending through the year, embracing, in
some instances, night as well as day. It is also probable that
there are, among the cultivators of land, more examples of re-
missness than among artificers. The farmer, from the peculiar
fertility of his land, or some other favorable circumstance, may
frequently obtain a livelihood, even with a considerable degree
of carelessness in the mode of cultivation ; but the artisan can
with difficulty effect the same object, without exerting himself
pretty equally with all those who are engaged in the same
pursuit. And if it may likewise be assumed as a fact, that
manufactures open a wider field to exertions of ingenuity than
agriculture, it would not be a strained conjecture, that the labor
employed in the former, being at once more constant, more
uniform, and more ingenious, than that which is employed in
the latter, will be found, at the same time, more productive.

jEt. 34.] MANUFACTURES. 199

But it is not meant to lay stress on observations of this
nature ; they ought only to serve as a counterbalance to those of
a similar complexion. Circumstances so vague and general, as
well as so abstract, can afford little instruction in a matter of this
kind.

Another, and that which seems to be the principal argument
offered for the superior productiveness of agricultural labor,
turns upon the allegation, that labor employed on manufactures,
yields nothing equivalent to the rent of land ; or to that net
surplus, as it is called, which accrues to the proprietor of the
soil.

Bat this distinction, important as it has been deemed, appears
rather verbal than substantial.

It is easily discernible, that what, in the first instance, is
divided into two parts, under the denominations of the ordinary
profit of the stock of the farmer and rent to the landlord, is, in
the second instance, united under the general appellation of the
ordinary profit on the stock of the undertaker ; and that this
formal or verbal distribution constitutes the whole difference in
the two cases. It seems to have been overlooked, that the land
is itself a stock or capital, advanced or lent by its owner to the oc-
cupier or tenant, and that the rent he receives is only the ordina-
ry profit of a certain stock in land, not managed by the proprietor
himself, but by another, to whom he lends or lets it, and who,
on his part, advances a second capital, to stock and improve the
land, upon which he also receives the usual profit. The rent of
the landlord and the profit of the farmer are, therefore, nothing
more than the ordinary profits of two capitals belonging to
two different persons, and united in the cultivation of a farm :
as, in the other case, the surplus which arises upon any manu-
factory, after replacing the expenses of carrying it on, answers to
the ordinary profits of one or more capitals engaged in the pro-
secution of such manufactory. It is said one or more capitals,
because, in fact, the same thing which is contemplated in the
case of the farm, sometimes happens in that of a manufactory.
There is one, who furnishes a part of the capital or lends a part
of the money by which it is carried on, and another, who carries

200 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 34.

it on with the addition of his own capital. Out of the surplus
which remains after defraying expenses, an interest is paid to the
moneylender, for the portion of the capital furnished by him,
which exactly agrees with the rent paid to the landlord ; and the
residue of that surplus constitutes the profit of the undertaker or
manufacturer, and agrees with what is denominated the ordinary
profits on the stock of the farmer. Both together, make the
ordinary profits of two capitals employed in a manufactory ; as,
in the other case, the rent of the landlord and the revenue of the
farmer compose the ordinary profits of two capitals employed in
the cultivation of a farm.

The rent, therefore, accruing to the proprietor of the land,
far from being a criterion of exclusive productiveness, as has
been argued, is no criterion even of superior productiveness.
The question must still be, whether the surplus, after defraying
expenses of a given capital, employed in the purchase and im-
provement of a piece of land, is greater or less than that of a
like capital, employed in the prosecution of a manufactory; or
whether the whole value produced from a given capital and a
given quantity of labor, employed in one way, be greater or
less than the whole value produced from an equal capital and an
equal quantity of labor, employed in the other way ; or rather,
perhaps, whether the business of agriculture, or that of manu-
factures, will yield the greatest product, according to a compound
ratio of the quantity of the capital, and the quantity of labor,
which are employed in the one or in the other.

The solution of either of these questions is not easy ; it in-
volves numerous and complicated details, depending on an accu-
rate knowledge of the objects to be compared. It is not known
that the comparison has ever yet been made upon sufficient data,
properly ascertained and analyzed. To be able to make it on
the present occasion, with satisfactory precision, would demand
more previous inquiry and investigation, than there has been
hitherto either leisure or opportunity to accomplish.

Some essays, however, have been made towards acquiring the
requisite information ; which have rather served to throw doubt
upon, than to confirm the hypothesis under examination. But

Mt. 34.] MANUFACTURES. 201

it ought to be acknowledged, that they have been too little diver-
sified, and are too imperfect to authorize a definitive conclusion
either way ; leading rather to probable conjecture than to certain
deduction. They render it probable that there are various
branches of manufactures, in which a given capital will yield a
greater total product, and a considerably greater net product,
than an equal capital invested in the purchase and improvement
of lands ; and that there are also some branches, in which both
the gross and the net produce will exceed that of agricultural
industry, according to a compound ratio of capital and labor.
But it is on this last point that there appears to be the greatest room
for doubt. It is far less difficult to infer generally, that the net
produce of capital engaged in manufacturing enterprises is greater
than that of capital engaged in agriculture.

The foregoing suggestions are not designed to inculcate an
opinion that manufacturing industry is more productive than
that of agriculture. They are intended rather to show that the
reverse of this proposition is not ascertained; that the general
arguments, which are brought to establish it, are not satisfactory-
and consequently, that a supposition of the superior productive-
ness of tillage ought to be no obstacle to listening to any substantial
inducements to the encouragement of manufactures, which may
be otherwise perceived to exist, through an apprehension that
they may have a tendency to divert labor from a more to a less
profitable employment.

It is extremely probable, that, on a full and accurate develop-
ment of the matter, on the ground of fact and calculation, it
would be discovered that there is no material difference between
the aggregate productiveness of the one, and of the other kind of
industry ; and that the propriety of the encouragements, which
may, in any case, be proposed to be given to either, ought to be
determined upon considerations irrelative to any comparison of
that nature.

II. But without contending for the superior productiveness of
manufacturing industry, it may conduce to a better judgment of
the policy which ought to be pursued respecting its encourage-

c 14

202 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 34.

merit, to contemplate the subject under some additional aspects,
tending not only to confirm the idea that this kind of industry
has been improperly represented as unproductive in itself, but to
evince, in addition, that the establishment and diffusion of manu-
factures have the effect of rendering the total mass of useful and
productive labor, in a community, greater than it would other-
wise be. In prosecuting this discussion, it may be necessary
briefly to resume and review some of the topics which have been
already touched.

To affirm that the labor of the manufacturer is unproductive,
because he consumes as much of the produce of land as he adds
value to the raw material which he manufactures, is not better
founded, than it would be to affirm that the labor of the farmer,
which furnishes materials to the manufacturer, is unproductive,
because he consumes an equal value of manufactured articles.
Each furnishes a certain portion of the produce of his labor to
the other, and each destroys a correspondent portion of the pro-
duce of the labor of the other. In the mean time, the mainte-
nance of two citizens, instead of one, is going on ; the State has
two members instead of one ; and they, together, consume twice
the value of what is produced from the land.

If, instead of a farmer and artificer, there were a farmer only,
he would be under the necessity of devoting a part of his labor
to the fabrication of clothing, and other articles, which he would
procure of the artificer, in the case of there being such a person ;
and of course he would be able to devote less labor to the culti-
vation of his farm, and would draw from it a proportionably less
product. The whole quantity of production, in this state of
things, in provisions, raw materials, and manufactures, would
certainly not exceed in value the amount of what would be pro-
duced in provisions and raw materials only, if there were an arti-
ficer as well as a farmer.

Again, if there were both an artificer and a farmer, the latter
would be left at liberty to pursue exclusively the cultivation of
his farm. A greater quantity of provisions and raw materials
would, of course, be produced, equal, at least, as has been already
observed, to the whole amount of the provisions, raw materials,

jEt. 34.] MANUFACTURES. 203

and manufactures, which would exist on a contrary supposition.
The artificer, at the same time, would be going on in the produc-
tion of manufactured commodities, to an amount sufficient, not
only to repay the farmer, in those commodities, for the provi-
sions and materials which were procured from him, but to furnish
the artificer himself, with a supply of similar commodities for his
own use. Thus, then, there would be two quantities or values
in existence, instead of one ; and the revenue and consumption
would be double, in one case, what it would be in the other.

If, in place of both of these suppositions, there were supposed
to be two farmers and no artificer, each of whom applied a part
of his labor to the culture of land, and another part to the fabri-
cation of manufactures ; in this case, the portion of the labor of
both, bestowed upon land, would produce the same quantity of
provisions and raw materials only, as would be produced by the
entire sum of the labor of one, applied in the same manner ; and
the portion of the labor of both, bestowed upon manufactures,
would produce the same quantity of manufactures only, as would
be produced by the entire sum of the labor of one, applied in the
same manner. Hence, the produce of the labor of the two farm-
ers would not be greater than the produce of the labor of the
farmer and artificer ; and hence it results, that the labor of the
artificer is as positively productive as that of the farmer, and as
positively augments the revenue of the society.

The labor of the artificer replaces to the farmer that portion
of his labor with which he provides the materials of exchange
with the artificer, and which he would otherwise have been com-
pelled to apply to manufactures ; and while the artificer thus
enables the farmer to enlarge his stock of agricultural industry,
a portion of which he purchases for his own use, he also supplies
himself with the manufactured articles, of which he stands in
need. He does still more. Besides this equivalent, which he
gives for the portion of agricultural labor consumed by him, and
this supply of manufactured commodities for his own consump-
tion, he furnishes still a surplus, which compensates for the use of
the capital advanced, either by himself or some other person, for
carrying on the business. This is the ordinary profit of the

204 HAMILTON'S WORKS. |>Et. 34.

stock employed in the manufactory, and is, in every sense, as
effective an addition to the income of the society as the rent of
land.

The produce of the labor of the artificer, consequently, may
be regarded as composed of three parts ; one, by which the pro-
visions for his subsistence and the materials for his work, are
purchased of the farmer ; one, by which he supplies himself with
manufactured necessaries; and a third, which constitutes the
profit on the stock employed. The two last portions seem to
have been overlooked, in the system which represents manufac-
turing industry as barren and unproductive.

In the course of the preceding illustrations, the products of
equal quantities of the labor of the farmer and artificer have been
treated as if equal to each other. But this is not to be understood
as intending to assert any such precise equality. It is merely a
manner of expression, adopted for the sake of simplicity and
perspicuity. Whether the value of the produce of the labor of
the farmer be somewhat more or less than that of the artificer, is
not material to the main scope of the argument, which, hitherto,
has only aimed at showing, that the one, as well as the other,
occasions a positive augmentation of the total produce and reve-
nue of the society.

It is now proper to proceed a step further, and to enumerate
the principal circumstances from which it may be inferred that
manufacturing establishments not only occasion a positive aug-
mentation of the produce and revenue of the society, but that
they contribute essentially to rendering them greater than they
could possibly be, without such establishments. These circum-
stances are :

1. The division of labor.

2. An extension of the use of machinery.

3. Additional employment to classes of the community not
ordinarily engaged in the business.

4. The promoting of emigration from foreign countries.

5. The furnishing greater scope for the diversity of talents
and dispositions, which discriminate men from each other.

6. The affording a more ample and various field for enter-
prise.

^t. 34.] MANUFACTURES. 205

7. The creating, in some instances, a new, and securing, in
all, a more certain and steady demand for the surplus produce of
the soil.

Each of these circumstances has a considerable influence upon
the total mass of industrious effort in a community ; together,
they add to it a degree of energy and effect, which are not easily
conceived. Some comments upon each of them, in the order in
which they have been stated, may serve to explain their impor-
tance.

1. As to the division of labor.

It has justly been observed, that there is scarcely any thing
of greater moment in the economy of a nation, than the proper
division of labor. The separation of occupations, causes each to
be carried to a much greater perfection, than it could possibly
acquire if they were blended. This arises principally from three
circumstances :

1st. The greater skill and dexterity naturally resulting from
a constant and undivided application to a single object. It is
evident that these properties must increase in proportion to the
separation and simplification of objects, and the steadiness of the
attention devoted to each ; and must be less in proportion to the
complication of objects, and the number among which the atten-
tion is distracted.

2d. The economy of time, by avoiding the loss of it, incident
to a frequent transition from one operation to another of a differ-
ent nature. This depends on various circumstances ; the transi-
tion itself, the orderly disposition of the implements, machines,
and materials, employed in the operation to be relinquished, the
preparatory steps to the commencement of a new one, the inter-
ruption of the impulse, which the mind of the workman acquires,
from being engaged in a particular operation, the distractions,
hesitations, and reluctances, which attend the passage from one
kind of business to another.

3d. An extension of the use of machinery. A man occupied
on a single object will have it more in his power, and will be
more naturally led to exert his imagination, in devising methods

206 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 34.

to facilitate and abridge labor, than if he were perplexed by a
variety of independent and dissimilar operations. Besides this,
the fabrication of machines, in numerous instances, becoming
itself a distinct trade, the artist who follows it has all the advan-
tages which have been enumerated, for improvement in his par-
ticular art ; and, in both ways, the invention and application of
machinery are extended.

And from these causes united, the mere separation of the
occupation of the cultivator from that of the artificer, has the
effect of augmenting the productive powers of labor, and with
them, the total mass of the produce or revenue of a country. In
this single view of the subject, therefore, the utility of artificers
or manufacturers, towards promoting an increase of productive
industry, is apparent.

2. As to an extension of the use of machinery, a point which, though
partly anticipated, requires to he placed in one or two additioncd
lights.

The employment of machinery forms an item of great im-
portance in the general mass of national industry. It is an arti-
ficial force brought in aid of the natural force of man ; and, to
all the purposes of labor, is an increase of hands, an accession of
strength, unencumbered too by the expense of maintaining the
laborer. May it not, therefore, be fairly inferred, that those occu-
pations which give greatest scope to the use of this auxiliary,
contribute most to the general stock of industrious effort, and, in
consequence, to the general product of industry ?

It shall be taken for granted, and the truth of the position
referred to observation, that manufacturing pursuits are suscepti-
ble, in a greater degree, of the application of machinery, than
those of agriculture. If so, all the difference is lost to a commu-
nity, which, instead of manufacturing for itself, procures the
fabrics requisite to its supply, from other countries. The substi-
tution of foreign for domestic manufactures, is a transfer to
foreign nations, of the advantages accruing from the employment
of machinery, in the modes in which it is capable of being em-
ployed, with most utility and to the greatest extent.

jEt. 34.] MANUFACTURES. 207

The cotton-mill, invented in England, within the last twenty
years, is a signal illustration of the general proposition which has
been just advanced. In consequence of it, all the different pro-
cesses for spinning cotton, are performed by means of machines,
which are put in motion by water, and attended chiefly by wo-
men and children ; and by a smaller number of persons, in the
whole, than are requisite in the ordinary mode of spinning. And
it is an advantage of great moment, that the operations of this
mill continue with convenience, during the night as well as
through the day. The prodigious effect of such a machine is
easily conceived. To this invention is to be attributed, essen-
tially, the immense progress which has been so suddenly made
in Great Britain, in the various fabrics of cotton.

3. As to the additional employment of classes of the community not
originally engaged in the particular business.

This is not among the least valuable of the means, by which
manufacturing institutions contribute to augment the general
stock of industry and production. In places where those institu-
tions prevail, besides the persons regularly engaged in them,
they afford occasional and extra employment to industrious indi-
viduals and families, who are willing to devote the leisure result-
ing from the intermissions of their ordinary pursuits to collateral
labors, as a resource for multiplying their acquisitions or their
enjoyments. The husbandman himself experiences a new source
of profit and support, from the increased industry of his wife and
daughters, invited and stimulated by the demands of the neigh-
boring manufactories.

Besides this advantage of occasional employment to classes
having different occupations, there is another, of a nature allied
to it, and of a similar tendency. This is the employment of per-
sons who would otherwise be idle, and in many cases, a burthen
on the community, either from the bias of temper, habit, infirmi-
ty of body, or some other cause, indisposing or disqualifying
them for the toils of the country. It is worthy of particular
remark, that, in general, women and children are rendered more

208 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Ml. 34.

useful, and the latter more early useful, by manufacturing estab-
lishments, than they would otherwise be. Of the number of per-
sons employed in the cotton manufactories of Great Britain, it is
computed that four-sevenths, nearly, are women and children;
of whom the greatest proportion are children, and many of them
of a tender age.

And thus it appears to be one of the attributes of manufac-
tures, and one of no small consequence, to give occasion to the
exertion of a greater quantity of industry, even by the same
number of persons, where they happen to prevail, than would
exist if there were no such establishments.

4. As to the promoting of emigration from foreign countries.

Men reluctantly quit one course of occupation and livelihood
for another, unless invited to it by very apparent and proximate
advantages. Many who would go from one country to another,
if they had a prospect of continuing with more benefit the callings
to which they have been educated, will often not be tempted to
change their situation by the hope of doing better in some other
way. Manufacturers, who, listening to the powerful invitations
of a better price for their fabrics, or their labor, of greater cheap-
ness of provisions and raw materials, of an exemption from the
chief part of the taxes, burthens, and restraints, which they
endure in the old world, of greater personal independence and
consequence, under the operation of a more equal government,
and of what is far more precious than mere religious toleration,
a perfect equality of religious privileges, would probably flock
from Europe to the United States, to pursue their own trades or
professions, if they were once made sensible of the advantages
they would enjoy, and were inspired with an assurance of encou-
ragement and employment, will, with difficulty, be induced to
transplant themselves, with a view to becoming cultivators of
land.

If it be true, then, that it is the interest of the United States
to open every possible avenue to emigration from abroad, it
affords a weighty argument for the encouragement of manu-

iEi. 34.] MANUFACTURES. 209

factures; which, for the reasons just assigned, will have the
strongest tendency to multiply the inducements to it.

Here is perceived an important resource, not only for extend-
ing the population, and with it the useful and productive labor
of the country, but likewise for the prosecution of manufac-
tures, without deducting from the number of hands, which
might otherwise be drawn to tillage ; and even for the indem-
nification of agriculture, for such as might happen to be di-
verted from it. Many, whom manufacturing views would induce
to emigrate, would, afterwards, yield to the temptations which
the particular situation of this country holds out to agricultural
pursuits. And while agriculture would, in other respects, derive
many signal and unmingled advantages from the growth of
manufactures, it is a problem whether it would gain or lose,
as to the article of the number of persons employed in carrying
it on.

5. As to the furnishing greater scope for the diversity of talents and
dispositions, which discriminate men from each other.

This is a much more powerful mean of augmenting the fund
of national industry, than may at first sight appear. It is a just
observation, that minds of the strongest and most active powers
for their proper objects, fall below mediocrity, and labor with-
out effect, if confined to uncongenial pursuits. And it is thence
to be inferred, that the results of human exertion may be im-
mensely increased by diversifying its objects. When all the
different kinds of industry obtain in a community, each indivi-
dual can find his proper element, and can call into activity, the
whole vigor of his nature. And the community is benefited by
the services of its respective members, in the manner in which
each can serve it with most effect.

If there be any thing in a remark often to be met with,
namely, that there is, in the genius of the people of this
country, a peculiar aptitude for mechanic improvements, it would
operate as a forcible reason for giving opportunities to the
exercise of that species of talent, by the propagation of manu-
factures.

210 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 34.

6. As to the affording a more ample and various field for enterprise.

This also is of greater consequence in the general scale of
national exertion, than might, perhaps, on a superficial view be
supposed, and has effects not altogether dissimilar from those of
the circumstance last noticed. To cherish and stimulate the ac-
tivity of the human mind, by multiplying the objects of enter-
prise, is not among the least considerable of the expedients by
which the wealth of a nation may be promoted. Even things
in themselves not positively advantageous, sometimes become
so, by their tendency to provoke exertion. Every new scene
which is opened to the busy nature of man to rouse and exert
itself, is the addition of a new energy to the general stock of
effort.

The spirit of enterprise, useful and prolific as it is, must
necessarily be contracted or expanded, in proportion to the sim-
plicity or variety of the occupations and productions which are
to be found in a society. It must be less in a nation of mere
cultivators, than in a nation of cultivators and merchants ; less
in a nation of cultivators and merchants, than in a nation of cul-
tivators, artificers, and merchants.

7. As to the creating, in some instances, a new, and securing in all,

a more certain and steady demand, for the surplus produce of the
soil.

This is among the most important of the circumstances which
have been indicated. It is a principal mean by which the estab-
lishment of manufactures contributes to an augmentation of the
produce or revenue of a country, and has an immediate and
direct relation to the prosperity of agriculture.

It is evident, that the exertions of the husbandman will be
steady or fluctuating, vigorous or feeble, in proportion to the
steadiness or fluctuation, adequateness or inadequateness of the
markets on which he must depend, for the vent of the surplus
which may be produced by his labor; and that such surplus, in
the ordinary course of things, will be greater or less in the same
proportion.

jEt. 34.] MANUFACTURES. 211

For the purpose of this vent, a domestic market is greatly
to be preferred to a foreign one ; because it is, in the nature of
things, far more to be relied upon.

It is a primary object of the policy of nations, to be able to
supply themselves with subsistence from their own soils ; and
manufacturing nations, as far as circumstances permit, endeavor
to procure from the same source, the raw materials necessary for
their own fabrics. This disposition, urged by the spirit of mono-
poly, is sometimes even carried to an injudicious extreme. It seems
not always to be recollected, that nations, who have neither
mines nor manufactures, can only obtain the manufactured
articles of which they stand in need, by an exchange of the pro-
ducts of their soils; and that, if those who can best furnish
them with such articles, are unwilling to give a due course to
this exchange, they must, of necessity, make every possible
effort to manufacture for themselves ; the effect of which is, that
the manufacturing nations abridge the natural advantages of
their situation, through an unwillingness to permit the agricul-
tural countries to enjoy the advantages of theirs, and sacrifice
the interests of a mutually beneficial intercourse to the vain pro-
ject of selling every thing and buying nothing.

But it is also a consequence of the policy which has been noted,
that the foreign demand for the products of agricultural coun-
tries, is, in a great degree, rather casual and occasional, than
certain or constant. To what extent injurious interruptions of
the demand for some of the staple commodities of the United
States may have been experienced from that cause, must be re-
ferred to the judgment of those who are engaged in carrying
on the commerce of the country ; but, it may be safely affirmed,
that such interruptions are, at times, very inconveniently felt,
and that cases not unfrequently occur, in which markets are so
confined and restricted, as to render the demand very unequal
to the supply.

Independently, likewise, of the artificial impediments which
are created by the policy in question, there are natural causes
tending to render the external demand for the surplus of agri-
cultural nations a precarious reliance. The differences of sea-
HAMILTON'S WORKS.

[jEt. 34.

sons in the countries which are the consumers, make immense
differences in the produce of their own soils, in different years ;
and consequently in the degrees of their necessity for foreign
supply. Plentiful harvests with them, especially if similar ones
occur at the same time in the countries which are the furnishers,
occasion, of course, a glut in the markets of the latter.

Considering how fast, and how much the progress of new
settlements, in the United States, must increase the surplus pro-
duce of the soil, and weighing seriously the tendency of the sys-
tem which prevails among most of the commercial nations of
Europe ; whatever dependence may be placed on the force of na-
tural circumstances to counteract the effects of an artificial policy,
there appear strong reasons to regard the foreign demand for
that surplus, as too uncertain a reliance, and to desire a substi-
tute for it in an extensive domestic market.

To secure such a market there is no other expedient than to
promote manufacturing establishments. Manufacturers, who
constitute the most numerous class, after the cultivators of land,
are for that reason the principal consumers of the surplus of their
labor.

This idea of an extensive domestic market for the surplus
produce of the soil, is of the first consequence. It is, of all
things, that which most effectually conduces to a flourishing state
of agriculture. If the effect of manufactories should be to de-
tach a portion of the hands which would otherwise be engaged
in tillage, it might possibly cause a smaller quantity of lands to
be under cultivation ; but, by their tendency to procure a more
certain demand for the surplus produce of the'soil, they would,
at the same time, cause the lands which were in cultivation to
be better improved and more productive. And while, by their
influence, the condition of each individual farmer would be meli-
orated, the total mass of agricultural production would probably
be increased. For this must evidently depend as much upon
the degree of improvement, if not more, than upon the number
of acres under culture.

It merits particular observation, that the multiplication of
manufactories not only furnishes a market for those articles

Mix: 34.] MANUFACTURES. 213

which have been accustomed to be produced in abundance in a
country ; but it likewise creates a demand for such as were
either unknown, or produced in inconsiderable quantities. The
bowels, as well as the surface of the earth, are ransacked for arti-
cles which were before neglected. Animals, plants, and minerals,
acquire an utility and value which were before unexplored.

The foregoing considerations seem sufficient to establish, as
general propositions, that it is the interest of nations to diversify
the industrious pursuits of the individuals who compose them.
That the establishment of manufactures is calculated not only
to increase the general stock of useful and productive labor, but
even to improve the state of agriculture in particular ; certainly
to advance the interests of those who are engaged in it. There
are other views that will be hereafter taken of the subject, which
it is conceived will serve to confirm these inferences.

III. Previously to a further discussion of the objections to the
encouragement of manufactures, which have been stated, it will
be of use to see what can be said in reference to the particular
situation of the United States, against the conclusions appearing
to result from what has been already offered.

It may be observed, and the idea is of no inconsiderable
weight, that, however true it might be, that a State which, pos-
sessing large tracts of vacant and fertile territory, was, at the
same time, secluded from foreign commerce, would find its in-
terest and the interest of agriculture, in diverting a part of its
population from tillage to manufactures ; yet it will not follow,
that the same is true of a State which, having such vacant and
fertile territory, has, at the same time, ample opportunity of
procuring from abroad, on good terms, all the fabrics of which
it stands in need, for the supply of its inhabitants. The power
of doing this, at least secures the great advantage of a division
of labor, leaving the farmer free to pursue, exclusively, the cul-
ture of his land, and enabling him to procure with its products
the manufactured supplies requisite either to his wants or to his
enjoyments. And though it should be true that, in settled
countries, the diversification of industry is conducive to an in-
HAMILTON'S WORKS.

[JEt. 34.

crease in the productive powers of labor, and to an augmentation
of revenue and capital ; yet it is scarcely conceivable that there
can be any thing of so solid and permanent advantage to an un-
cultivated and unpeopled country, as to convert its wastes into
cultivated and inhabited districts. If the revenue, in the mean
time, should be less, the capital, in the event, must be greater.

To these observations, the following appears to be a satisfac-
tory answer :

1st. If the system of perfect liberty to industry and com-
merce were the prevailing system of nations, the arguments
which dissuade a country, in the predicament of the United
States, from the zealous pursuit of manufactures, would doubt-
less have great force. It will not be affirmed that they might
not be permitted, with few exceptions, to serve as a rule of
national conduct. In such a state of things, each country would
have the full benefit of its peculiar advantages to compensate for
its deficiencies or disadvantages. If one nation were in a condi-
tion to supply manufactured articles, on better terms than an-
other, that other might find an abundant indemnification in a
superior capacity to furnish the produce of the soil. And a free
exchange, mutually beneficial, of the commodities which each
was able to supply, on the best terms, might be carried on be-
tween them, supporting, in full vigor, the industry of each. And
though the circumstances which have been mentioned, and
others which will be unfolded hereafter, render it probable that
nations, merely agricultural, would not enjoy the same degree of
opulence, in proportion to their numbers, as those which united
manufactures with agriculture ; yet the progressive improve-
ment of the lands of the former might, in the end, atone for an
inferior degree of opulence in the mean time ; and in a case in
which opposite considerations are pretty equally balanced, the
option ought, perhaps, always to be in favor of leaving industry
to its own direction.

But the system which has been mentioned, is far from charac-
terizing the general policy of nations. The prevalent one has
been regulated by an opposite spirit. The consequence of it is,

jEt. 34.] MANUFACTURES. 215

that the United States are, to a certain extent, in the situation
of a country precluded from foreign commerce. They can, in-
deed, without difficulty, obtain from abroad the manufactured
supplies of which they are in want ; but they experience numer-
ous and very injurious impediments to the emission and vent
of their own commodities. Nor is this the case in reference to
a single foreign nation only. The regulations of several coun-
tries, with which we have the most extensive intercourse, throw
serious obstructions in the way of the principal staples of the
United States.

In such a position of things, the United States cannot ex-
change with Europe on equal terms ; and the want of recipro-
city would render them the victim of a system which should
induce them to confine their views to agriculture, and refrain
from manufactures. A constant and increasing necessity, on
their part, for the commodities of Europe, and only a partial
and occasional demand for their own, in return, could not but
expose them to a state of impoverishment, compared with the
opulence to which their political and natural advantages author-
ize them to aspire.

Kemarks of this kind are not made in the spirit of complaint.
It is for the nations whose regulations are alluded to, to judge
for themselves, whether, by aiming at too much, they do not
lose more than they gain. It is for the United States to con-
sider by what means they can render themselves least dependent
on the combinations, right or wrong, of foreign policy.

It is no small consolation, that, already, the measures which
have embarrassed our trade, have accelerated internal improve-
ments, which, upon the whole, have bettered our affairs. To
diversify and extend these improvements is the surest and safest
method of indemnifying ourselves for any inconveniences which
those or similar measures have a tendency to beget. If Europe
will not take from us the products of our soil, upon terms con-
sistent with our interest, the natural remedy is to contract, as
fast as possible, our wants of her.

2d. The conversion of their waste into cultivated lands, is
certainly a point of great moment, in the political calcula-

216 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 34.

tions of the United States. But the degree in which this
may possibly be retarded, by the encouragement of manufac-
tories, does not appear to countervail the powerful inducements
to afford that encouragement.

An observation made in another place, is of a nature to have
great influence upon this question. If it cannot be denied, that the
interests, even of agriculture, may be advanced more by having
such of the lands of a State as are occupied, under good cultiva-
tion, than by having a greater quantity occupied under a much
inferior cultivation ; and if manufactories, for the reasons assign-
ed, must be admitted to have a tendency to promote a more
steady and vigorous cultivation of the lands occupied, than
would happen without them, it will follow that they are capable
of indemnifying a country for a diminution of the progress of
new settlements; and may serve to increase both the capital
value, and the income of its lands, even though they should
abridge the number of acres under tillage.

But it does by no means follow, that the progress of new
settlements would be retarded by the extension of manufactures.
The desire of being an independent proprietor of land, is found-
ed on such strong principles in the human breast, that, where
the opportunity of becoming so is as great as it is in the United
States, the proportion will be small of those whose situations
would otherwise lead to it, who would be diverted from it to-
wards manufactures. And it is highly probable, as already in-
timated, that the accessions of foreigners, who, originally drawn
over by manufacturing views, would afterwards abandon them
for agricultural, would be more than an equivalent for those of
our own citizens who might happen to be detached from them.

The remaining objections to a particular encouragement of
manufactures in the United States, now require to be examined.

One of these turns on the proposition, that industry, if left
to itself, will naturally find its way to the most useful and pro-
fitable employment. Whence it is inferred, that manufactures,
without the aid of government, will grow up as soon and as
fast as the natural state of things and the interest of the com-
munity may require.

JEt. 34.] MANUFACTURES. 217

Against the solidity of this hypothesis, in the full latitude of
the terms, very cogent reasons may be offered These have re-
lation to the strong influence of habit and the spirit of imi-
tation ; the fear of want of success in untried enterprises ; the
intrinsic difficulties incident to first essays towards a competition
with those who have previously attained to perfection in the
business to be attempted; the bounties, premiums, and other
artificial encouragements, with which foreign nations second the
exertions of their own citizens, in the branches in which they
are to be rivalled.

Experience teaches, that men are often so much governed
by what they are accustomed to see and practise, that the sim-
plest and most obvious improvements, in the most ordinary oc-
cupations, are adopted with hesitation, reluctance, and by slow
gradations. The spontaneous transition to new pursuits, in a
community long habituated to different ones, may be expected
to be attended with proportionably greater difficulty. When
former occupations ceased to yield a profit adequate to the
subsistence of their followers ; or when there was an absolute
deficiency of employment in them, owing to the superabundance
of hands, changes would ensue ; but these changes would
be likely to be more tardy than might consist with the in-
terest either of individuals or of the society. In many cases
they would not happen, while a bare support could be in-
sured by an adherence to ancient courses, though a resort to
a more profitable employment might be practicable. To pro-
duce the desirable changes as early as may be expedient,
may therefore require the incitement and patronage of govern-
ment.

The apprehension of failing in new attempts, is, perhaps, a
more serious impediment. There are dispositions apt to be at-
tracted by the mere novelty of an undertaking ; but these are
not always those best calculated to give it success. To this it
is of importance that the confidence of cautious, sagacious capi-
talists, both citizens and foreigners, should be excited. And to
inspire this description of persons with confidence, it is essential
that they should be made to see in any project which is new —

c 15

218 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 34.

and for that reason alone, if for no other, precarious — the pros-
pect of such a degree of countenance and support from govern-
ment, as may be capable of overcoming the obstacles inseparable
from first experiments.

The superiority antecedently enjoyed by nations who have
preoccupied and perfected a branch of industry, constitutes a
more formidable obstacle than either of those which have been
mentioned, to the introduction of the same branch into a country
in which it did not before exist. To maintain, between the re-
cent establishments of one country, and the long matured estab-
lishments of another country, a competition upon equal terms,
both as to quality and price, is, in most cases, impracticable.
The disparity, in the one, or in the other, or in both, must neces-
sarily be so considerable, as to forbid a successful rivalship, with-
out the extraordinary aid and protection of government.

But the greatest obstacle of all to the successful prosecution
of a new branch of industry in a country in which it was before
unknown, consists, as far as the instances apply, in the bounties,
premiums, and other aids, which are granted in a variety of cases,
by the nations in which the establishments to be imitated are
previously introduced. It is well known (and particular exam-
ples, in the course of this report, will be cited) that certain na-
tions grant bounties on the exportation of particular commodities,
to enable their own workmen to undersell and supplant all com-
petitors in the countries to which those commodities are sent.
Hence the undertakers of a new manufacture have to contend,
not only with the natural disadvantages of a new undertaking,
but with the gratuities and remunerations which other govern-
ments bestow. To be enabled to contend with success, it is evi-
dent that the interference and aid of their own governments are
indispensable.

Combinations by those engaged in a particular branch of
business, in one country, to frustrate the first efforts to introduce
it into another, by temporary sacrifices, recompensed, perhaps,
by extraordinary indemnifications of the government of such
country, are believed to have existed, and are not to be regarded
as destitute of probability. The existence or assurance of aid

jEt. 34.] MANUFACTURES. 219

from the government of the country in which the business is to
be introduced, may be essential to fortify adventurers against the
dread of such combinations ; to defeat their effects, if formed ;
and to prevent their being formed, by demonstrating that they
must in the end prove fruitless.

Whatever room there may be for an expectation, that the in-
dustry of a people, under the direction of private interest, will,
upon equal terms, find out the most beneficial employment for
itself, there is none for a reliance, that it will struggle against the
force of unequal terms, or will, of itself, surmount all the adven-
titious barriers to a successful competition, which may have been
erected, either by the advantages naturally acquired from prac-
tice, and previous possession of the ground, or by those which
may have sprung from positive regulations and an artificial
policy. This general reflection might alone suffice as an answer
to the objection under examination, exclusively of the weighty
considerations which have been particularly urged.

The objections to the pursuit of manufactures in the United
States, which next present themselves to discussion, represent an
impracticability of success, arising from three causes: scarcity of
hands, dearness of labor, want of capital.

The two first circumstances are, to a certain extent, real ; and,
within due limits, ought to be admitted as obstacles to the suc-
cess of manufacturing enterprise in the United States. But there
are various considerations which lessen their force, and tend to
afford an assurance, that they are not sufficient to prevent the
advantageous prosecution of many very useful and extensive
manufactories.

With regard to scarcity of hands, the fact itself must be ap-
plied with no small qualification to certain parts of the United
States. There are large districts which may be considered as
pretty fully peopled; and which, notwithstanding a continual
drain for distant settlement, are thickly interspersed with flour-
ishing and increasing towns. If these districts have not already
reached the point at which the complaint of scarcity of hands
ceases, they are not remote from it, and are approaching fast to-
wards it; and having, perhaps, fewer attractions to agriculture

220 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 34.

than some other parts of the Union, they exhibit a proportionally
stronger tendency towards other kinds of industry. In these dis-
tricts may be discerned no inconsiderable maturity for manufac-
turing establishments.

But there are circumstances, which have been already noticed,
with another view, that materially diminish, every where, the
effect of a scarcity of hands. These circumstances are, the great
use which can be made of women and children, on which point
a very pregnant and instructive fact has been mentioned — the
vast extension given by late improvements to the employment
of machines — which, substituting the agency of fire and water,
has prodigiously lessened the necessity for manual labor ; the
employment of persons ordinarily engaged in other occupations,
during the seasons or hours of leisure, which, besides giving oc-
casion to the exertion of a greater quantity of labor, by the same
number of persons, and thereby increasing the general stock of
labor, as has been elsewhere remarked, may also be taken into
the calculation, as a resource for obviating the scarcity of hands ;
lastly, the attraction of foreign emigrants. Whoever inspects,
with a careful eye, the composition of our towns, will be made
sensible to what an extent this resource may be relied upon.
This exhibits a large proportion of ingenious and valuable work-
men, in different arts and trades, who, by expatriating from Eu-
rope, have improved their own condition, and added to the in-
dustry and wealth of the United States. It is a natural inference,
from the experience we have already had, that, as soon as the
United States shall present the countenance of a serious prosecu-
tion of manufactures ; as soon as foreign artists shall be made
sensible that the state of things here affords a moral certainty of
employment and encouragement ; competent numbers of Euro-
pean workmen will transplant themselves, effectually to insure
the success of the design. How, indeed, can it otherwise happen,
considering the various and powerful inducements which the
situation of this country offers — addressing themselves to so
many strong passions and feelings, to so many general and par-
ticular interests.

It may be affirmed, therefore, in respect to hands for carrying

jEt. 34.] MANUFACTURES. 221

on manufactures, that we shall, in a great measure, trade upon a
foreign stock, reserving our own for the cultivation of our lands
and the manning of our ships, as far as character and circum-
stances shall incline. It is not unworthy of remark, that the ob-
jection to the success of manufactures, deduced from the scarcity
of hands, is alike applicable to trade and navigation, and yet
these are perceived to flourish, without any sensible impediment
from that cause.

As to the dearness of labor (another of the obstacles alleged),
this has relation principally to two circumstances : one, that which
has been just discussed, or the scarcity of hands; the other, the
greatness of profits.

As far as it is a consequence of the scarcity of hands, it is
mitigated by all the considerations which have been adduced as
lessening that deficiency. It is certain, too, that the disparity in
this respect, between some of the most manufacturing parts of
Europe, and a large proportion of the United States, is not nearly
so great as is commonly imagined. It is also much less in regard
to artificers and manufacturers, than in regard to country labor-
ers ; and while a careful comparison shows that there is, in this
particular, much exaggeration ; it is also evident, that the effect
of the degree of disparity, which does truly exist, is diminished
in proportion to the use which can be made of machinery.

To illustrate this last idea, let it be supposed that the differ-
ence of price, in two countries, of a given quantity of manual la-
bor, requisite to the fabrication of a given article, is as ten ; and
that some mechanic power is introduced into both countries,
which, performing half the necessary labor, leaves only half to
be done by hand ; it is evident that the difference in the cost of
the fabrication of the article in question, in the two countries, as
far as it is connected with the price of labor, will be reduced from
ten to five, in consequence of the introduction of that power.

This circumstance is worthy of the most particular attention.
It diminishes immensely one of the objections most strenuously
urged against the success of manufactures in the United States.

To procure all such machines as are known in any part of
Europe, can only require a proper provision and due pains. The

222 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 34.

knowledge of several of the most important of them is already
possessed. The preparation of them here is, in most cases, prac-
ticable on nearly equal terms. As far as they depend on water,
some superiority of advantages may be claimed, from the uncom-
mon variety and greater cheapness of situations adapted to mill-
seats, with which different parts of the United States abound.

So far as the dearness of labor may be a consequence of the
greatness of profits in any branch of business, it is no obstacle to
its success. The undertaker can afford to pay the price.

There are grounds to conclude, that undertakers of manufac-
tures in this country, can, at this time, afford to pay higher wages
to the workmen they may employ, than are paid to similar work-
men in Europe. The prices of foreign fabrics, in the market of
the United States, which will, for a long time, regulate the prices
of the domestic ones, may be considered as compounded of the
following ingredients : The first cost of materials, including the
taxes, if any, which are paid upon them where they are made ;
the expense of grounds, buildings, machinery, and tools ; the
wages of the persons employed in the manufactory ; the profits
on the capital or stock employed ; the commissions of agents to
purchase them where they are made ; the expense of transporta-
tion to the United States, including insurance and other inciden-
tal charges ; the taxes or duties, if any, and fees of office, which
are paid on their exportation ; the taxes or duties, and fees of of-
fice, which are paid on their importation.

As to the first of these items, the cost of materials, the advan-
tage, upon the whole, is at present on the side of the United
States ; and the difference in their favor must increase, in pro-
portion as a certain and extensive domestic demand shall induce
the proprietors of land to devote more of their attention to the
production of those materials. It ought not to escape observa-
tion, in a comparison on this point, that some of the principal
manufacturing countries of Europe are much more dependent on
foreign supply, for the materials of their manufactures, than
would be the United States, who are capable of supplying them-
selves with a greater abundance, as well as a greater variety of
the requisite materials.

Mt. 34.] MANUFACTURES. 223

As to the second item, the expense of grounds, buildings,
machinery, and tools, an equality, at least, may be assumed ;
since advantages, in some particulars, will counterbalance tem-
porary disadvantages in others.

As to the third item, or the article of wages, the comparison
certainly turns against the United States ; though, as before ob-
served, not in so great a degree as commonly supposed.

The fourth item is alike applicable to the foreign and to the
domestic manufacture. It is, indeed,, more properly a result, than
a particular to be compared.

But, with respect to all the remaining items, they are alone
applicable to the foreign manufacture, and, in the strictest sense,
extraordinaries ; constituting a sum of extra charge on the foreign
fabric, which cannot be estimated at less than from fifteen to
thirty per cent on the cost of it at the manufactory.

This sum of extra charge may confidently be regarded as
more than a counterpoise for the real difference in the price of
labor ; and is a satisfactory proof that manufactures may prosper,
in defiance of it, in the United States.

To the general allegation, connected with the circumstances
of scarcity of hands and dearness of labor, that extensive manu-
factures can only grow out of a redundant or full population, it
will be sufficient to answer generally, that the fact has been
otherwise. That the situation alleged to be an essential condi-
tion of success, has not been that of several nations, at periods
when they had already attained to maturity in a variety of man-
ufactures.

The supposed want of capital for the prosecution of manufac-
tures in the United States, is the most indefinite of the objections
which are usually opposed to it.

It is very difficult to pronounce any thing precise concerning
the real extent of the moneyed capital of a country, and still
more, concerning the proportion which it bears to the objects
that invite the employment of capital. It is not less difficult to
pronounce, how far the effect of any given quantity of money, as
capital, or in other words, as a medium for circulating the indus-
try and property of a nation, may be increased by the very cir-
HAMILTON'S WORKS,

[JEt. 34.

cumstance of the additional motion which is given to it, by new
objects of employment. That effect, like the momentum of de-
scending bodies, may not improperly be represented as in a com-
pound ratio to mass and velocity. It seems pretty certain, that
a given sum of money, in a situation in which the quick impulses
of commercial activity were little felt, would appear inadequate
to the circulation of as great a quantity of industry and property,
as in one in which their full influence was experienced.

It is not obvious why the same objection might not as well be
made to external commerce as to manufactures : since it is mani-
fest, that our immense tracts of land, occupied and unoccupied,
are capable of giving employment to more capital than is actually
bestowed upon them. It is certain that the United States offer
a vast field for the advantageous employment of capital ; but it
does not follow that there will not be found, in one way or ano-
ther, a sufficient fund for the successful prosecution of any species
of industry which is likely to prove truly beneficial.

The following considerations are of a nature to remove all
inquietude on the score of want of capital :

The introduction of banks, as has been shown on another oc-
casion, has a powerful tendency to extend the active capital of a
country. Experience of the utility of these institutions, is mul-
tiplying them in the United States. It is probable that they will
be established wherever they can exist with advantage; and
wherever they can be supported, if administered with prudence,
they will add new energies to all pecuniary operations.

The aid of foreign capital may safely, and with considerable
latitude, be taken into calculation. Its instrumentality has been
long experienced in our external commerce ; and it has begun to
be felt in various other modes. Not only our funds, but our
agriculture, and other internal improvements, have been anima-
ted by it. It has already, in a few instances, extended even to
our manufactures.

It is a well known fact that there are parts of Europe which
have more capital than profitable domestic objects of employ-
ment. Hence, among other proofs, the large loans continually
furnished to foreign States. And it is equally certain, that the

jEt.34.] manufactures. 225

capital of other parts may find more profitable employment in
the United States than at home. And, notwithstanding there
are weighty inducements to prefer the employment of capital at
home, even at less profit, to an investment of it abroad, though
with greater gain, yet these inducements are overruled, either by
a deficiency of employment, or by a very material difference in
profit. Both these causes operate to produce a transfer of foreign
capital to the United States. It is certain, that various objects in
this country hold out advantages, which are with difficulty to be
equalled elsewhere ; and under the increasingly favorable impres-
sions which are entertained of our Government, the attractions
will become more and more strong. These impressions will
prove a rich mine of prosperity to the country, if they are con-
firmed and strengthened by the progress of our affairs. And, to
secure this advantage, little more is now necessary than to foster
industry, and cultivate order and tranquillity at home and abroad.

It is not impossible, that there may be persons disposed to
look, with a jealous eye, on the introduction of foreign capital, as
if it were an instrument to deprive our own citizens of the profits
of our own industry ; but, perhaps, there never could be a more
unreasonable jealousy. Instead of being viewed as a rival, it
ought to be considered as a most valuable auxiliary, conducing
to put in motion a greater quantity of productive labor, and a
greater portion of useful enterprise, than could exist without it.
It is at least evident, that, in a country situated like the United
States, with an infinite fund of resources yet to be unfolded,
every farthing of foreign capital which is laid out in internal
meliorations, and in industrious establishments, of a permanent
nature, is a precious acquisition.

And, whatever be the objects which originally attract foreign
capital, when once introduced, it may be directed towards any
purpose of beneficial exertion which is desired. And to detain
it among us, there can be no expedient so effectual, as to enlarge
the sphere within which it may be usefully employed : though
introduced merely with views to speculations in the funds, it may
afterwards be rendered subservient to the interests of agriculture,
commerce, and manufactures.

226 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 34.

But the attraction of foreign capital for the direct purpose of
manufactures, ought not to be deemed a chimerical expectation.
There are already examples of it, as remarked in another place.
And the examples, if the disposition be cultivated, can hardly
fail to multiply. There are, also, instances of another kind,
which serve to strengthen the expectation. Enterprises for im-
proving the public communications, by cutting canals, opening
the obstructions in rivers, and erecting bridges, have received
very material aid from the same source.

When the manufacturing capitalist of Europe shall advert to
the many important advantages which have been intimated in
the course of this report, he cannot but perceive very powerful
inducements to a transfer of himself and his capital to the United
States. Among the reflections which a most interesting peculi-
arity of situation is calculated to suggest, it cannot escape his ob-
servation, as a circumstance of moment in the calculation, that
the progressive population and improvement of the United States
insure a continually increasing domestic demand for the fabrics
which he shall produce, not to be affected by any external casu-
alties or vicissitudes.

But, while there are circumstances sufficiently strong to au-
thorize a considerable degree of reliance on the aid of foreign
capital, towards the attainment of the object in view, it is satis-
factory to have good grounds of assurance, that there are domes-
tic resources, of themselves adequate to it. It happens that there
is a species of capital, actually existing with the United States,
which relieves from all inquietude, on the score of want of capi-
tal. This is the funded debt.

The effect of a funded debt, as a species of capital, has been
noticed upon a former occasion ; but a more particular elucida-
tion of the point seems to be required, by the stress which is
here laid upon it. This shall, accordingly, be attempted.

Public funds answer the purpose of capital, from the estima-
tion in which they are usually held by moneyed men ; and, con-
sequently, from the ease and dispatch with which they can be
turned into money. This capacity of prompt convertibility into
money, causes a transfer of stock to be, in a great number of

At. 34.] MANUFACTURES. 227

cases, equivalent to a payment in coin. And where it does not
happen to suit the party who is to receive, to accept a transfer
of stock, the party who is to pay is never at a loss to find, else-
where, a purchaser of his stock, who will furnish him, in lieu of
it, with the coin of which he stands in need.

Hence, in a sound and settled state of the public funds, a
man possessed of a sum in them, can embrace any scheme of
business which offers, with as much confidence as if he were
possessed of an equal sum in coin.

This operation of public funds as capital, is too obvious to
be denied ; but it is objected to the idea of their operating as an
augmentation of the capital of the community, that they serve
to occasion the destruction of some other capital, to an equal
amount.

The capital, which alone they can be supposed to destroy, must
consist of —

The annual revenue, which is applied to the payment of in-
terest on the debt, and to the gradual redemption of the princi-
pal ; the amount of the coin, which is employed in circulating
the funds, or, in other words, in effecting the different aliena-
tions which they undergo.

But the following appears to be the true and accurate view
of this matter.

1st. As to the point of the annual revenue requisite for pay-
ment of interest and redemption of principal.

As a determinate proportion will tend to perspicuity in the
reasoning, let it be supposed, that the annual revenue to be ap-
plied, corresponding with the modification of the six per cent,
stock of the United States, is in the ratio of eight upon the hun-
dred ; that is, in the first instance, six on account of interest,
and two on account of principal.

Thus far, it is evident, that the capital destroyed, to the capi-
tal created, would bear no greater proportion than eight to one
hundred. There would be withdrawn, from the total mass of
other capitals, a sum of eight dollars to be paid to the public
creditor ; while he would be possessed of a sum of one hundred
dollars, ready to be applied to any purpose, to be embarked in
HAMILTON'S WORKS.

[Mt. 34.

any enterprise which might appear to him eligible. Here, then,
the augmentation of capital, or the excess of that which is pro-
duced beyond that which is destroyed, is equal to ninety-two
dollars.

To this conclusion, it may be objected, that the sum of eight
dollars is to be withdrawn annually, until the whole hundred is
extinguished ; and it may be inferred, that, in process of time, a
capital will be destroyed equal to that which is at first created.

But it is nevertheless true, that, during the whole of the in-
terval, between the creation of the capital of one hundred dol-
lars, and its reduction to a sum not greater than that of the an-
nual revenue appropriated to its redemption, there will be a
greater active capital in existence than if no debt had been con-
tracted. The sum drawn from other capitals in any one year, will
not exceed eight dollars ; but there will be, at every instant of
time, during the whole period in question, a sum corresponding
with so much of the principal as remains unredeemed, in the
hands of some person or other, employed or ready to be employ-
ed, in some profitable undertaking. There will, therefore, con-
stantly be more capital in capacity to be employed, than capital
taken from employment. The excess, for the first year, has
been stated to be ninety-two dollars ; it will diminish yearly ;
but there always will be an excess, until the principal of the
debt is brought to a level with the redeeming annuity ; that is,
in the case which has been assumed, by Avay of example, to
eight dollars. The reality of this excess becomes palpable, if it
be supposed, as often happens, that the citizen of a foreign
country imports into the United States one hundred dollars for
the purchase of an equal sum of public debt — here is an abso-
lute augmentation of the mass of circulating coin to the extent of
one hundred dollars. At the end of the year, the foreigner is
presumed to draw back eight dollars, on account of his principal
and interest, but he still leaves ninety-two of his original depo-
sit in circulation, as he, in like manner, leaves eighty-four at
the end of the second year, drawing back then, also, the annuity
of eight dollars. And thus the matter proceeds : the capital left
in circulation diminishing, in each year, and coming nearer to

Mt. 34.] MANUFACTURES. 229

the level of the annuity drawn back. There are, however, some
differences in the ultimate operation of the part of the debt
which is purchased by foreigners, and that which remains in the
hands of citizens. But the general effect in each case, though
in different degrees, is, to add to the active capital of the
country.

Hitherto, the reasoning has proceeded on a concession of the
position, that there is a destruction of some other capital, to the
extent of the annuity appropriated to the payment of the in-
terest, and the redemption of the principal of the debt ; but in
this too much has been conceded. There is, at most, a tempo-
rary transfer of some other capital, to the amount of the annuity,
from those who pay, to the creditor, who receives; which he
again restores to the circulation, to resume the offices of a capital.
This he does either immediately, by employing the money in
some branch of industry, or mediately, by lending it to some
other person, who does so employ it, or by spending it on his
own maintenance. In either supposition, there is no destruction
of capital ; there is nothing more than a suspension of its mo-
tion for a time : that is, while it is passing from the hands of
those who pay into the public coffers, and thence, through the
public creditor, into some other channel of circulation. When
the payments of interest are periodical and quick, and made by
the instrumentality of banks, the diversion or suspension of cap-
ital may almost be denominated momentary. Hence the deduc-
tion, on this account, is far less than it at first sight appears to be.

There is, evidently, as far as regards the annuity, no destruc-
tion nor transfer of any other capital than that portion of the
income of each individual, which goes to make up the annuity.
The land which furnishes the farmer with the sum which he is
to contribute, remains the same ; and the like may be observed
of other capitals. Indeed, as far as the tax, which is the object
of contribution (as frequently happens, when it does not oppress
by its weight) may have been a motive to greater exertion in
any occupation, it may even serve to increase the contributory
capital. This idea is not without importance in the general
view of the subject.

230 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. M.

It remains to see what farther deduction ought to be made
from the capital which is created, by the existence of the debt,
od account of the coin which is employed in its circulation. This
is susceptible of much less precise calculation than the article
which has been just discussed. It is impossible to say what
proportion of coin is necessary to carry on the alienations which
any species of property usually undergoes. The quantity,
indeed, varies according to circumstances. But it may still,
without hesitation, be pronounced, from the quickness of the
rotation, or, rather, of the transitions, that the medium of circu-
lation always bears but a small proportion to the amount of the
property circulated. And it is thence satisfactorily deducible,
that the coin employed in the negotiations of the funds, and
which serves to give them activity, as capital, is incomparably
less than the sum of the debt negotiated for the purpose of
business.

It ought not, however, to be omitted, that the negotiation of
the funds becomes itself a distinct business, which employs, and,
by employing, diverts, a portion of the circulating coin from
other pursuits. But, making due allowance for this circumstance,
there is no reason to conclude that the effect of the diversion of
coin, in the whole operation, bears any considerable proportion to
the amount of the capital to which it gives activity. The sum
of the debt in circulation is continually at the command of any
useful enterprise ; the coin itself, which circulates it, is never
more than momentarily suspended from its ordinary functions.
It experiences an incessant and rapid flux and reflux, to and
from the channels of industry, to those of speculations in the
funds.

There are strong circumstances in confirmation of this theory.
The force of moneyed capital, which has been displayed in Great
Britain, and the height to which every species of industry has
grown up under it, defy a solution, from the quantity of coin
which that kingdom has ever possessed. Accordingly, it has
been, coeval with its funding system, the prevailing opinion of
the men of business, and of the generality of the most sagacious
theorists of that country, that the operation of the public funds,

JEt. 34.] MANUFACTURES. 231

as capital, has contributed to the effect in question. Among
ourselves, appearances, thus far, favor the same conclusion.
Industry, in general, seems to have been reanimated. There
are symptoms indicating an extension of our commerce. Our
navigation has certainly, of late, had a considerable spring ; and
there appears to be, in many parts of the Union, a command of
capital, which, till lately, since the Revolution, at least, was
unknown. But, it is, at the same time, to be acknowledged, that
other circumstances have concurred (and in a great degree) in
producing the present state of things, and that the appearances
are not yet sufficiently decisive to be entirely relied upon.

In the question under discussion, it is important to distinguish
between an absolute increase of capital, or an accession of real
wealth, and an artificial increase of capital, as an engine of business,
or as an instrument of industry and commerce. In the first sense,
a funded debt has no pretensions to being deemed an increase of
capital ; in the last, it has pretensions which are not easy to be
controverted. Of a similar nature is bank credit; and, in an
inferior degree, every species of private credit.

But, though a funded debt is not, in the first instance, an
absolute increase of capital, or an augmentation of real wealth ;
yet, by serving as a new power in the operations of industry, it
has, within certain bounds, a tendency to increase the real
wealth of a communit}r, in like manner, as money, borrowed
by a thrifty farmer, to be laid out in the improvement of his
farm, may, in the end, add to his stock of real riches.

There are respectable individuals, who, from a just aversion
to an accumulation of public debt, are unwilling to concede to it
any kind of utility ; who can discern no good to alleviate the ill
with which they suppose it pregnant ; who cannot be persuaded
that it ought, in any sense, to be viewed as an increase of capital,
lest it should be inferred, that, the more debt, the more capital ;
the greater the burthens, the greater the blessings of the com-
munity.

But it interests the public councils to estimate every object
as it truly is ; to appreciate how far the good, in any measure, is
compensated by the ill, or the ill by the good : either of them is
seldom unmixed.

232 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 34.

Neither will it follow that an accumulation of debt is desira-
ble, because a certain degree of it operates as capital. There
may be a plethora in the political as in the natural body ; there
may be a state of things in which any such artificial capital is
unnecessary. The debt, too, may be swelled to such a size as
that the greatest part of it may cease to be useful as a capital,
serving only to pamper the dissipation of idle and dissolute in-
dividuals ; as that the sums required to pay the interest upon it
may become oppressive, and beyond the means which a govern-
ment can employ, consistently with its tranquillity, to raise them ;
as that the resources of taxation to face the debt may have been
strained too far to admit of extensions adequate to exigencies
which regard the public safety.

Where this critical point is, cannot be pronounced ; but it is
impossible to believe that there is not such a point.

And as the vicissitudes of nations beget a perpetual tendency
to the accumulation of debt, there ought to be, in every govern-
ment, a perpetual, anxious, and unceasing effort to reduce that
which at any time exists, as fast as shall be practicable, consist-
ently with integrity and good faith.

Eeasonings on a subject comprehending ideas so abstract and
complex, so little reducible to a precise calculation, as those
which enter into the question just discussed, are always attended
with a danger of running into fallacies. Due allowance ought,
therefore, to be made for this possibility. But, as far as the
nature of the subject admits of it, there appears to be satisfactory
ground for a belief that the public funds operate as a resource of
capital to the citizens of the United States ; and, if they are a
resource at all, it is an extensive one.

To all the arguments which are brought to evince the im-
practicability of success in manufacturing establishments in the
United States, it might have been a sufficient answer to have
referred to the experience of what has been already done. It is
certain that several important branches have grown up and
flourished, with a rapidity which surprises, affording an en-
couraging assurance of success in future attempts. Of these it
may not be improper to enumerate the most considerable :

Mt. 34.] MANUFACTURES. 233

1. Of Skins. — Tanned and tawed leather, dressed skins, shoes,
boots, and slippers, harness and saddlery of all kinds, portman-
teaus and trunks, leather breeches, gloves, muffs, and tippets,
parchment and glue.

2. Of Iron. — Bar and sheet iron, steel, nail rods and nails, im-
plements of husbandry, stoves, pots, and other household utensils,
the steel and iron work of carriages, and for ship building,
anchors, scale beams and weights, and various tools of artificers,
arms of different kinds ; though the manufacture of these last
has of late diminished for want of demand.

3. Of Wood. — Ships, cabinet wares, and turnery, wool and
cotton cards, and other machinery for manufactures and hus-
bandry, mathematical instruments, coopers' wares of every kind.

4. Of Flax and Hemp. — Cables, sail cloth, cordage, twine,
and pack thread.

5. Bricks and coarse tiles, and potters' wares.

6. Ardent spirits and malt liquors.

7. Writing and printing paper, sheathing and wrapping
paper, pasteboard, fullers' or press papers, paper hangings.

8. Hats of fur and wool, and mixtures of both; women's
stuff and silk shoes.

9. Refined sugars.

10. Oils of animals and seeds, soap, spermaceti and tallow
candles.

11. Copper and brass wires, particularly utensils for distillers,
sugar refiners, and brewers; andirons and other articles for
household use, philosophical apparatus.

12. Tin wares for most purposes of ordinary use.

13. Carriages of all kinds.

14. Snuff, chewing and smoking tobacco.

15. Starch and hair-powder.

16. Lampblack, and other painters' colors.

17. Gunpowder.

Besides manufactories of these articles, which are carried on
as regular trades, and have attained to a considerable degree of
maturity, there is a vast scene of household manufacturing,
which contributes more largely to the supply of the community

c 16

234 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 34.

than could be imagined, without having made it an object of
particular inquiry. This observation is the pleasing result of the
investigation to which the subject of this report has led, and is
applicable as well to the Southern as to the Middle and Northern
States. Great quantities of coarse cloths, coatings, serges, and
flannels, linsey woolseys, hosiery of wool, cotton, and thread,
coarse fustians, jeans, and muslins, checked and striped cotton
and linen goods, bed-ticks, coverlets and counterpanes, tow
linens, coarse shirtings, sheetings, towelling, and table linen, and
various mixtures of wool and cotton, and of cotton and flax, are
made in the household way, and, in many instances, to an extent
not only sufficient for the supply of the families in which they
are made, but for sale, and, even, in some cases, for exportation.
It is computed in a number of districts that two-thirds, three-
fourths, and even four-fifths, of all the clothing of the inhabitants,
are made by themselves. The importance of so great a progress
as appears to have been made in family manufactures, within a
few years, both in a moral and political view, renders the fact
highly interesting.

Neither does the above enumeration comprehend all the
articles that are manufactured, as regular trades. Many others
occur, which are equally well established, but which, not being
of equal importance, have been omitted. And there are many
attempts, still in their infancy, which though attended with very
favorable appearances, could not have been properly comprised
in an enumeration of manufactories already established. There
are other articles, also, of great importance, which, though,
strictly speaking, manufactures, are omitted, as being immediate-
ly connected with husbandry : such are flour, pot and pearl
ashes, pitch, tar, turpentine, and the like.

There remains to be noticed an objection to the encourage-
ment of manufactures, of a nature different from those which
question the probability of success. This is derived from its
supposed tendency to give a monopoly of advantages to particu-
lar classes, at the expense of the rest of the community, who, it
is affirmed, would be able to procure the requisite supplies of
manufactured articles on better terms from foreigners than from

jEt. 34.] MANUFACTURES. 235

our own citizens; and who, it is alleged, are reduced to the
necessity of paying an enhanced price for whatever they want,
by every measure which obstructs the free competition of foreign
commodities.

It is not an unreasonable supposition, that measures which
serve to abridge the free competition of foreign articles, have a
tendency to occasion an enhancement of prices ; and it is not to
be denied that such is the effect, in a number of cases ; but the
fact does not uniformly correspond with the theory. A reduc-
tion of prices has, in several instances, immediately succeeded
the establishment of a domestic manufacture. Whether it be
that foreign manufacturers endeavor to supplant, by underselling
our own, or whatever else be the cause, the effect has been such
as is stated, and the reverse of what might have been expected.

But, though it were true that the immediate and certain
effect of regulations controlling the competition of foreign with
domestic fabrics, was an increase of price, it is universally true
that the contrary is the ultimate effect with every successful
manufacture. When a domestic manufacture has attained to per-
fection, and has engaged in the prosecution of it a competent
number of persons, it invariably becomes cheaper. Being free
from the heavy charges which attend the importation of foreign
commodities, it can be afforded, and accordingly seldom never
fails to be sold, cheaper, in process of time, than was the foreign
article for which it is a substitute. The internal competition
which takes place, soon does away every thing like monopoly,
and by degrees reduces the price of the article to the minimum
of a reasonable profit on the capital employed. This accords
with the reason of the thing, and with experience.

Whence it follows, that it is the interest of a community, with
^ view to eventual and permanent economy, to encourage the
growth of manufactures. In a national view, a temporary en-
hancement of price must always be well compensated by a per-
manent reduction of it.

It is a reflection which may with propriety be indulged here,
that this eventual diminution of the prices of manufactured arti-
cles, which is the result of internal manufacturing establishments,

236 HAMILTON'S WORKS. ^Et. 34.

has a direct and very important tendency to benefit agriculture.
It enables the farmer to procure, with a smaller quantity of his
labor, the manufactured produce of which he stands in need, and
consequently increases the value of his income and property.

The objections which are commonly made to the expediency
of encouraging, and to the probability of succeeding in manu-
facturing pursuits, in the United States, having now been dis-
cussed, the considerations, which have appeared in the course of
the discussion, recommending that species of industry to the
patronage of the Government, will be materially strengthened by
a few general, and some particular topics, which have been
naturally reserved for subsequent notice.

1. There seems to be a moral certainty that the trade of a
country, which is both manufacturing and agricultural, will be
more lucrative and prosperous than that of a country which is
merely agricultural.

One reason for this is found in that general effort of nations
(which has been already mentioned) to procure from their own
soils, the articles of prime necessity requisite to their own con-
sumption and use, and which serves to render their demand for
a foreign supply of such articles, in a great degree, occasional
and contingent. Hence while the necessities of nations, exclu-
sively devoted to agriculture, for the fabrics of manufacturing
States, are constant and regular, the wants of the latter for the
products of the former are liable to very considerable fluctua-
tions and interruptions. The great inequalities resulting from
difference of seasons, have been, elsewhere, remarked. This
uniformity of demand on one side, and unsteadiness of it on the
other, must necessarily have a tendency to cause the general
course of the exchange of commodities between the parties, to
turn to the disadvantage of the merely agricultural States. Pe-
culiarity of situation, a climate and soil adapted to the produc-
tion of peculiar commodities, may, sometimes, contradict the
rule, but there is every reason to believe that it will be found, in
the main, a just one.

Another circumstance, which gives a superiority of commer-
cial advantages to States that manufacture as well as cultivate,

,Et. 34.] MANUFACTURES. 237

consists in the more numerous attractions which a more diversi-
fied market offers to foreign customers, and in the greater scope
which it affords to mercantile enterprise. It is a position of indis-
putable truth, in commerce, depending too on very obvious
reasons, that the greatest resort will ever be to those marts where
commodities, while equally abundant, are most various. Each
difference of kind holds out an additional inducement : and it is
a position not less clear, that the field of enterprise must be
enlarged to the merchants of a country, in proportion to the
variety, as well as the abundance of commodities which they find
at home, for exportation to foreign markets.

A third circumstance, perhaps not inferior to either of the
other two, conferring the superiority which has been stated, has
relation to the stagnations of demand for certain commodities,
which, at some time or other, interfere more or less with the sale
of all. The nation which can bring to market but few articles,
is likely to be more quickly and sensibly affected by such stag-
nations, than one which is always possessed of a great variety of
commodities ; the former frequently finds too great a proportion
of its stock of materials for sale or exchange, lying on hand, or is
obliged to make injurious sacrifices to supply its wants of foreign
articles, which are numerous and urgent, in proportion to the
smallness of the number of its own. The latter commonly finds
itself indemnified by the high prices of some articles, for the low
prices of others ; and the prompt and advantageous sale of those
articles which are in demand, enables its merchants the better to
wait for a favorable change in respect to those which are not.
There is ground to believe that a difference of situation, in this
particular, has immensely different effects upon the wealth and
prosperity of nations.

From these circumstances, collectively, two important infer-
ences are to be drawn : one, that there is always a higher proba-
bility of a favorable balance of trade, in regard to countries in
which manufactures, founded on the basis of a thriving agricul-
ture, flourish, than in regard to those which are confined wholly,
or almost wholly, to agriculture ; the other (which is also a con-
sequence of the first), that countries of the former description

238 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 34.

are likely to possess more pecuniary wealth, or money, than
those of the latter.

Facts appear to correspond with this conclusion. The im-
portations of manufactured supplies seem invariably to drain the
merely agricultural people of their wealth. Let the situation of
the manufacturing countries of Europe be compared, in this par-
ticular, with that of countries which only cultivate, and the dis-
parity will be striking. Other causes, it is true, help to account
for this disparity between some of them ; and among these causes,
the relative state of agriculture ; but between others of them, the
most prominent circumstance of dissimilitude arises from the
comparative state of manufactures. In corroboration of the same
idea, it ought not to escape remark, that the West India Islands,
the soils of which are the most fertile, and the nation which, in
the greatest degree, supplies the rest of the world with the pre-
cious metals, exchange to a loss, with almost every other country.

As far as experience, at home, may guide, it will lead to the
same conclusion. Previous to the Eevolution, the quantity of
coin possessed by the colonies which now compose the United
States, appeared to be inadequate to their circulation ; and their
debt to Great Britain was progressive. Since the Eevolution,
the States in which manufactures have most increased, have
recovered fastest from the injuries of the late war, and abound
most in pecuniary resources.

It ought to be admitted, however, in this, as in the preceding
case, that causes irrelative to the state of manufactures, account,
in a degree, for the phenomena remarked. The continual pro-
gress of new settlements has a natural tendency to occasion an
unfavorable balance of trade ; though it indemnifies for the incon-
venience, by that increase of the national capital which flows
from the conversion of waste into improved lands : and the dif-
ferent degrees of external commerce which are carried on by the
different States, may make material differences in the compara-
tive state of their wealth. The first circumstance has reference
to the deficiency of coin, and the increase of debt previous to the
Eevolution ; the last, to the advantages which the most manu-
facturing States appear to have enjoyed over the others, since the
termination of the late war.

JEt. 34.] MANUFACTURES. 239

But the uniform appearance of an abundance of specie, as the
concomitant of a flourishing state of manufactures, and of the
reverse, where they do not prevail, afford a strong presumption
of their favorable operation upon the wealth of a country.

Not only the wealth, but the independence and security of a
country, appear to be materially connected with the prosperity of
manufactures. Every nation, with a view to those great objects,
ought to endeavor to possess within itself, all the essentials of
national supply. These comprise the means of subsistence,
habitation, clothing, and defence.

The possession of these is necessary to the perfection of the
body politic ; to the safety as well as to the welfare of the society.
The want of either is the want of an important organ of political
life and motion ; and in the various crises which await a State, it
must severely feel the effects of any such deficiency. The ex-
treme embarrassments of the United States, during the late war,
from an incapacity of supplying themselves, are still matter of
keen recollection ; a future war might be expected again to exem-
plify the mischiefs and dangers of a situation, to which that
incapacity is still, in too great a degree, applicable, unless changed
by timely and vigorous exertion. To effect this change, as fast
as shall be prudent, merits all the attention and all the zeal of our
public councils : 'tis the next great work to be accomplished.

The want of a navy, to protect our external commerce, as
long as it shall continue, must render it a peculiarly precarious
reliance for the supply of essential articles, and must serve to
strengthen prodigiously the arguments in favor of manufactures.

To these general considerations are added some of a more
particular nature.

Our distance from Europe, the great fountain of manufactured
supply, subjects us, in the existing state of things, to inconve-
nience and loss, in two ways.

The bulkiness of those commodities, which are the chief pro-
ductions of the soil, necessarily imposes very heavy charges on
their transportation to distant markets. These charges, in the
cases in which the nations to whom our products are sent, main,
tain a competition in the supply of their own markets, principally

240 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 34.

fall upon us, and form material deductions from the primitive
value of the articles furnished. The charges on manufactured
supplies, brought from Europe, are greatly enhanced by the same
circumstances of distance. These charges, again, in the cases in
which our own industry maintains no competition in our own
markets, also principally fall upon us, and are an additional cause
of extraordinary deduction from the primitive value of our own
products; these being the materials of exchange for the foreign
fabrics which we consume.

The equality and moderation of individual property, and the
growing settlements of new districts, occasion, in this country, an
unusual demand for coarse manufactures ; the charges of which
being greater in proportion to their greater bulk, augment the
disadvantage which has been just described.

As, in most countries, domestic supplies maintain a very con-
siderable competition with such foreign productions of the soil as
are imported for sale, if the extensive establishment of manufac-
tories in the United States does not create a similar competition
in respect to manufactured articles, it appears to be clearly dedu-
cible, from the considerations which have been mentioned, that
they must sustain a double loss in their exchanges with foreign
nations, strongly conducive to an unfavorable balance of trade,
and very prejudicial to their interests.

These disadvantages press, with no small weight, on the
landed interest of the country. In seasons of peace, they cause a
serious deduction from the intrinsic value of the products of the
soil. In the time of a war, which should either involve our-
selves, or another nation possessing a considerable share of our
carrying trade, the charges on the transportation of our commo-
dities, bulky as most of them are, could hardly fail to prove a
grievous burthen to the farmer, while obliged to depend, in so
great a degree as he now does, upon foreign markets, for the vent
of the surplus of his labor.

As far as the prosperity of the fisheries of the United States
is impeded by the want of an adequate market, there arises
another special reason for desiring the extension of manufactures.
Besides the fish, which, in many places, would be likely to make

jEt. 34.] MANUFACTURES. 241

a part of the subsistence of the persons employed, it is known
that the oils, bones, and skins, of marine animals, are of exten-
sive use in various manufactures. Hence, the prospect of an
additional demand for the produce of the fisheries.

One more point of view only remains, in which to consider
the expediency of encouraging manufactures in the United
States.

It is not uncommon to meet with an opinion, that, though the
promoting of manufactures may be the interest of a part of the
Union, it is contrary to that of another part. The Northern and
Southern regions are sometimes represented as having adverse
interests in this respect. Those are called manufacturing, these
agricultural States ; and a species of opposition is imagined to
subsist between the manufacturing and agricultural interests.

This idea of an opposition between those two interests, is the
common error of the early periods of every country ; but expe-
rience gradually dissipates it. Indeed, they are perceived so
often to succor and befriend each other, that they come at length
to be considered as one — a supposition which has been frequently
abused, and is not universally true. Particular encouragements
of particular manufactures may be of a nature to sacrifice the
interests of landholders to those of manufacturers ; but it is
nevertheless a maxim, well established by experience, and gene-
rally acknowledged, where there has been sufficient experience,
that the aggregate prosperity of manufactures and the aggregate
prosperity of agriculture are intimately connected. In the course
of the discussion which has had place, various weighty considera-
tions have been adduced, operating in support of that maxim.
Perhaps the superior steadiness of the demand of a domestic
market, for the surplus produce of the soil, is, alone, a con-
vincing argument of its truth.

Ideas of a contrariety of interests between the Northern and
Southern regions of the Union, are, in the main, as unfounded
as they are mischievous. The diversity of circumstances, on
which such contrariety is usually predicated, authorizes a directly
contrary conclusion. Mutual wants constitute one of the strong-
est links of political connection ; and the extent of these bears

242 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [ Mr. 34.

a natural proportion to the diversity in the means of mutual
supply.

Suggestions of an opposite complexion are ever to be deplored,
as unfriendly to the steady pursuit of one great common cause,
and to the perfect harmony of all the parts.

In proportion as the mind is accustomed to trace the intimate
connection of interest which subsists between all the parts of a
society, united under the same government, the infinite variety
of channels will serve to circulate the prosperity of each, to and
through the rest — in that proportion will it be little apt to be
disturbed by solicitudes and apprehensions, which originate in
local discriminations.

It is a truth, as important as it is agreeable, and one to which
it is not easy to imagine exceptions, that every thing tending
to establish substantial and permanent order in the affairs of a
country, to increase the total mass of industry and opulence, is
ultimately beneficial to every part of it. On the credit of this
great truth, an acquiescence may safely be accorded, from every
quarter, to all institutions and arrangements which promise a
confirmation of public order and an augmentation of national
resource.

But there are more particular considerations which serve to
fortify the idea that the encouragement of manufactures is the
interest of all parts of the Union. If the Northern and Middle
States should be the principal scenes of such establishments, they
would immediately benefit the more Southern, by creating a
demand for productions, some of which they have in common
with the other States, and others, which are either peculiar to
them, or more abundant, or of better quality, than elsewhere.
These productions, principally, are timber, flax, hemp, cotton,
wool, raw silk, indigo, iron, lead, furs, hides, skins, and coals;
of these articles, cotton and indigo are peculiar to the Southern
States, as are, hitherto, lead and coal ; flax and hemp are, or
may be, raised in greater abundance there, than in the more
Northern States ; and the wool of Virginia is said to be of better
quality than that of any other State — a circumstance rendered
the more probable, by the reflection, that Virginia embraces the

jEt. 34.] MANUFACTURES. 243

same latitudes with the finest wool countries of Europe. The
climate of the South is also better adapted to the production of
silk.

The extensive cultivation of cotton, can, perhaps, hardly be
expected but from the previous establishment of domestic manu-
factories of the article ; and the surest encouragement and vent
for the others, would result from similar establishments in respect
to them.

If, then, it satisfactorily appears, that it is the interest of the
United States, generally, to encourage manufactures, it merits
particular attention, that there are circumstances which render
the present a critical moment for entering, with zeal, upon the
important business. The effort cannot fail to be materially
seconded by a considerable and increasing influx of money, in
consequence of foreign speculations in the funds, and by the dis-
orders which exist in different parts of Europe.

The first circumstance not only facilitates the execution of
manufacturing enterprises, but it indicates them as a necessary
mean to turn the thing itself to advantage, and to prevent its
being eventually an evil. If useful employment be not found for
the money of foreigners, brought to the country to be invested
in purchases of the public debt, it will quickly be re-exported, to
defray the expense of an extraordinary consumption of foreign
luxuries ; and distressing drains of our specie may, hereafter, be
experienced, to pay the interest and redeem the principal of
the purchased debt.

This useful employment, too, ought to be of a nature to pro-
duce solid and permanent improvements. If the money merely
serves to give a temporary spring to foreign commerce ; as it
cannot procure new and lasting outlets for the products of the
country, there will be no real or durable advantage gained. As
far as it shall find its way in agricultural meliorations, in opening
canals, and in similar improvements, it will be productive of sub-
stantial utility. But there is reason to doubt, whether, in such
channels, it is likely to find sufficient employment; and still
more, whether many of those who possess it would be as readily
attracted to objects of this nature, as to manufacturing pursuits,

244 HAMILTON'S WORKS.

[jEt. 34.

which bear greater analogy to those to which they are accus-
tomed, and to the spirit generated by them.

To open the one field, as well as the other, will at least se-
cure a better prospect of useful employment for whatever acces-
sion of money there has been or may be.

There is, at the present juncture, a certain fermentation of
mind, a certain activity of speculation and enterprise, which, if
properly directed, may be made subservient to useful purposes ;
but which, if left entirely to itself, may be attended with perni-
cious effects.

The disturbed state of Europe inclining its citizens to emi-
gration, the requisite workmen will be more easily acquired than
at another time ; and the effect of multiplying the opportunities
of employment to those who emigrate, may be an increase of
the number and extent of valuable acquisitions to the popula-
tion, arts, and industry, of the country.

To find pleasure in the calamities of other nations would be
criminal; but to benefit ourselves, by opening an asylum to
those who suffer in consequence of them, is as justifiable as it
is politic.

A full view having now been taken of the inducements to
the promotion of manufactures in the United States, accom-
panied with an examination of the principal objections which
are commonly urged in opposition, it is proper, in the next
place, to consider the means by which it may be effected, as in-
troductory to a specification of the objects, which, in the present
state of things, appear the most fit to be encouraged, and of the
particular measures which it may be advisable to adopt, in respect
to each.

In order to a better judgment of the means proper to be
resorted to by the United States, it will be of use to advert to
those which have been employed with success in other countries.
The principal of these are :

1. Protecting duties — or duties on those foreign articles which are
the rivals of the domestic ones intended to be encouraged.

Duties of this nature evidently amount to a virtual bounty

JEt. 34.] MANUFACTURES. 245

on the domestic fabrics; since, by enhancing the charges on
foreign articles, they enable the national manufacturers to under-
sell all their foreign competitors. The propriety of this species
of encouragement need not be dwelt upon, as it is not only a
clear result from the numerous topics which have been suggest-
ed, but is sanctioned by the laws of the United States, in a
variety of instances ; it has the additional recommendation of
being a resource of revenue. Indeed, all the duties imposed on
imported articles, though with an exclusive view to revenue,
have the effect, in contemplation, and, except where they fall on
raw materials, wear a beneficent aspect towards the manufactur-
ers of the country.

2. Prohibitions of rival articles, or duties equivalent to prohibitions.

This is another and an efficacious mean of encouraging na-
tional manufactures ; but, in general, it is only fit to be employed
when a manufacture has made such progress, and is in so many
hands, as to insure a due competition, and an adequate supply
on reasonable terms. Of duties equivalent to prohibitions, there
are examples in the laws of the United States ; and there are
other cases, to which the principle may be advantageously ex-
tended, but they are not numerous.

Considering a monopoly of the domestic market to its own
manufacturers as the reigning policy of manufacturing nations,
a similar policy, on the part of the United States, in every pro-
per instance, is dictated, it might almost be said, by the princi-
ples of distributive justice; certainly, by the duty of endeavor-
ing to secure to their own citizens a reciprocity of advantages.

3. Prohibitions of the exportation of the materials of manufactures.

The desire of securing a cheap and plentiful supply for the
national workmen, and where the article is either peculiar to the
country, or of peculiar quality there, the jealousy of enabling
foreign workmen to rival those of the nation with its own ma-
terials, are the leading motives to this species of regulation. It

246 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 34.

ought not to be affirmed, that it is in no instance proper ; but is,
certainly, one which ought to be adopted with great circum-
spection, and only in very plain cases. It is seen at once, that
its immediate operation is to abridge the demand, and keep
down the price of the produce of some other branch of industry
— generally speaking, of agriculture — to the prejudice of those
who carry it on ; and though, if it be really essential to the
prosperity of any very important national manufacture, it may
happen that those who are injured, in the first instance, may be,
eventually, indemnified by the superior steadiness of an exten-
sive domestic market, depending on that prosperity ; yet, in a
matter in which there is so much room for nice and difficult
combinations, in which such opposite considerations combat each
other, prudence seems to dictate that the expedient in question
ought to be indulged with a sparing hand.

4. Pecuniary bounties.

This has been found one of the most efficacious means of en-
couraging manufactures, and is, in some views, the best. Though
it has not yet been practised upon by the Government of the
United States (unless the allowance on the expiration of dried
and pickled fish and salted meat could be considered as a bounty),
and though it is less favored by public opinion than some other
modes, its advantages are these :

1. It is a species of encouragement more positive and direct
than any other, and, for that very reason, has a more immediate
tendency to stimulate and uphold new enterprises, increasing the
chances of profit, and diminishing the risks of loss, in the first
attempts.

2. It avoids the inconvenience of a temporary augmentation
of price, which is incident to some other modes ; or it produces
it to a less degree, either by making no addition to the charges
on the rival foreign article, as in the case of protecting duties, or
by making a smaller addition. The first happens when the
fund for the bounty is derived from a different object (which
may or may not increase the price of some other article, accord-

jEt. 34.] MANUFACTURES. 247

ing to the nature of that object), the second, when the fund is
derived from the same, or a similar object, of foreign manufac-
ture. One per cent, duty on the foreign article, converted iuto
a bounty on the domestic, will have an equal effect with a duty
of two per cent., exclusive of such bounty; and the price of the
foreign commodity is liable to be raised, in the one case, in the
proportion of one per cent. ; in the other in that of two per cent.
Indeed the bounty, when drawn from another source, is calcu-
lated to promote a reduction of price ; because, without laying
any new charge on the foreign article, it serves to introduce a
competition with it, and to increase the total quantity of the
article in the market.

3. Bounties have not, like high protecting duties, a tendency
to produce scarcity. An increase of price is not always the im-
mediate, though, where the progress of a domestic manufacture
does not counteract a rise, it is, commonly, the ultimate effect
of an additional duty. In the interval between the laying of the
duty and the proportional increase of price, it may discourage
importation, by interfering with the profits to be expected from
the sale of the article.

4. Bounties are, sometimes, not only the best, but the only
proper expedient for uniting the encouragement of a new object
of agriculture with that of a new object of manufacture. It is
the interest of the farmer to have the production of the raw ma-
terial promoted by counteracting the interference of the foreign
material of the same kind. It is the interest of the manufacturer
to have the material abundant and cheap. If, prior to the do-
mestic production of the material, in sufficient quantity to sup-
ply the manufacturer on good terms, a duty be laid upon the im-
portation of it from abroad, with a view to promote the raising
of it at home, the interest both of the farmer and manufacturer
will be disserved. By either destroying the requisite supply, or
raising the price of the article beyond what can be afforded to
be given for it by the conductor of an infant manufacture, it is
abandoned or fails, and there being no domestic manufactories
to create a demand for the raw material, which is raised by the
farmer, it is in vain that the competition of the like foreign arti-
cle may have been destroyed.
HAMILTON'S WORKS.

[jEt. 34.

It cannot escape notice, that a duty upon the importation of
an article can no otherwise aid the domestic production of it,
than by giving the latter greater advantages in the home mar-
ket. It can have no influence upon the advantageous sale of the
article produced in foreign markets — no tendency, therefore, to
promote its exportation.

The true way to conciliate these two interests is to lay a duty
on foreign manufactures of the material, the growth of which is
desired to be encouraged, and to apply the produce of that duty,
by way of bounty, either upon the production of the material
itself, or upon its manufacture at home, or upon both. In this
disposition of the thing, the manufacturer commences his enter-
prise under every advantage which is attainable, as to quantity
or price of the raw material ; and the farmer, if the bounty be
immediately to him, is enabled by it to enter into a successful
competition with the foreign material. If the bounty be to the
manufacturer, on so much of the domestic material as he con-
sumes, the operation is nearly the same; he has a motive of
interest to prefer the domestic commodity, if of equal quality,
even at a higher price than the foreign, so long as the difference
of price is any thing short of the bounty which is allowed upon
the article.

Except the simple and ordinary kinds of household manu-
facture, or those for which there are very commanding local
advantages, pecuniary bounties are, in most cases, indispensable
to the introduction of a new branch. A stimulus and a support,
not less powerful and direct, is, generally speaking, essential to
the overcoming of the obstacles which arise from the competi-
tions of superior skill and maturity elsewhere. Bounties are
especially essential in regard to articles upon which those for-
eigners, who have been accustomed to supply a country, are in
the practice of granting them.

The continuance of bounties on manufactures long establish-
ed, must almost always be of questionable policy : because a
presumption would arise, in every such case, that there were
natural and inherent impediments to success. But, in new
undertakings, they are as justifiable as they are oftentimes
necessary.

JEt. 34.] MANUFACTURES. 249

There is a degree of prejudice against bounties, from an ap-
pearance of giving away the public money without an immediate
consideration, and from a supposition that they serve to enrich
particular classes, at the expense of the community.

But neither of these sources of dislike will bear a serious ex-
amination. There is no purpose to which public money can
be more beneficially applied, than to the acquisition of a new
and useful branch of industry ; no consideration more valuable,
than a permanent addition to the general stock of productive
labor.

As to the second source of objection, it equally lies against
other modes of encouragement, which are admitted to be eli-
gible. As often as a duty upon a foreign article makes an addi-
tion to its price, it causes an extra expense to the community,
for the benefit of the domestic manufacturer. A bounty does
no more. But it is the interest of the society, in each case, to
submit to the temporary expense — which is more than compen-
sated by an increase of industry and wealth; by an augmenta-
tion of resources and independence; and by the circumstance
of eventual cheapness, which has been noticed in another place.

It would deserve attention, however, in the employment of
this species of encouragement in the United States, as a reason
for moderating the degree of it in the instances in which it might
be deemed eligible, that the great distance of this country from
Europe imposes very heavy charges on all the fabrics which are
brought from thence, amounting to from fifteen to thirty per
cent, on their value, according to their bulk.

A question has been made concerning the constitutional right
of the Government of the United States to apply this species of
encouragement ; but there is certainly no good foundation for
such a question. The National Legislature has express autho-
rity " to lay and collect taxes, duties, imposts, and excises, to pay
the debts, and provide for the common defence and general
welfare," with no other qualifications than that "all duties, im-
posts and excises, shall be uniform throughout the United
States ; and that no capitation or other direct tax shall be laid,
unless in proportion to numbers, ascertained by a census or enu-

c 17

250 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 34.

meration, taken on the principles prescribed in the constitution,"
and that "no tax or duty shall be laid on articles exported from
any State."

These three qualifications excepted, the power to raise money
is plenary and indefinite, and the objects to which it may be
appropriated, are no less comprehensive than the payment of the
public debts, and the providing for the common defence and
general welfare. The terms "general welfare" were doubtless
intended to signify more than was expressed or imported in
those which preceded ; otherwise, numerous exigencies incident
to the affairs of a nation would have been left without a provi-
sion. The phrase is as comprehensive as any that could have
been used ; because it was not fit that the constitutional autho-
rity of the Union to appropriate its revenues should have
been restricted within narrower limits than the " general wel-
fare;" and because this necessarily embraces a vast variety of
particulars, which are susceptible neither of specification nor of
definition.

It is, therefore, of necessity, left to the discretion of the
National Legislature to pronounce upon the objects which con-
cern the general welfare, and for which, under that description,
an appropriation of money is requisite and proper. And there
seems to be no room for a doubt, that whatever concerns the
general interests of learning, of agriculture, of manufactures,
and of commerce, are within the sphere of the national councils,
as far as regards an application of money.

The only qualification of tlie generality of the phrase in
question, which seems to be admissible, is this : That the object,
to which an appropriation of money is to be made, be general,
and not local ; its operation extending, in fact, or by possi-
bility, throughout the Union, and not being confined to a parti-
cular spot.

No objection ought to arise to this construction, from a sup-
position that it would imply a power to do whatever else should
appear to Congress conducive to the general welfare. A power
to appropriate money with this latitude, which is granted, too,
in express terms, would not carry a power to do any other thing

jEt. 34.] MANUFACTURES. 251

not authorized in the constitution, either expressly or by fair im-
plication.

5. Premiums.

These are of a nature allied to bounties, though distinguish-
able from them in some important features.

Bounties are applicable to the whole quantity of an article
produced, or manufactured, or exported, and involve a corres-
pondent expense. Premiums serve to reward some particular
excellence or superiority, some extraordinary exertion or skill,
and are dispensed only in a small number of cases. But their
effect is to stimulate general effort ; contrived so as to be both
honorary and lucrative, they address themselves to different pas-
sions— touching the chords, as well of emulation as of interest.
They are, accordingly, a very economical mean of exciting the
enterprise of a whole community.

There are various societies, in different countries, whose ob-
ject is the dispensation of premiums for the encouragement of
agriculture, arts, manufactures, and commerce ; and though they
are, for the most part, voluntary associations, with comparatively
slender funds, their utility has been immense. Much has been
done, by this mean, in Great Britain. Scotland, in particular,
owes, materially to it, a prodigious amelioration of condition.
From a similar establishment in the United States, supplied and
supported by the Government of the Union, vast benefits might,
reasonably, be expected. Some further ideas, on this head, shall,
accordingly, be submitted, in the conclusion of this report.

6. The exemption of the materials of manufactures from duty.

The policy of that exemption, as a general rule, particularly in
reference to new establishments, is obvious. It can hardly ever
be advisable to add the obstructions of fiscal burthens to the
difficulties which naturally embarrass a new manufacture ; and
where it is matured, and in condition to become an object of
revenue, it is, generally speaking, better that the fabric, than the
material, should be the subject of taxation. Ideas of proportion

252 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [At. 34.

between the quantum of the tax and the value of the article,
can be more easily adjusted in the former than in the latter case.
An argument for exemptions of this kind, in the United States,
is to be derived from the practice, as far as their necessities have
permitted, of those nations whom we are to meet as competitors
in our own and in foreign markets.

There are, however, exceptions to it, of which some examples
will be given under the next head.

The laws of the Union afford instances of the observance of
the policy here recommended, but it will probably be found ad-
visable to extend it to some other cases. Of a nature, bearing
some affinity to that policy, is the regulation which exempts
from duty the tools and implements, as well as the books,
clothes, and household furniture, of foreign artists, who come to
reside in the United States — an advantage already secured to
them by the laws of the Union, and which it is, in every view,
proper to continue.

7. Drawbacks of the duties which are imposed on the materials of

manufactures.

It has already been observed, as a general rule, that duties on
those materials ought, with certain exceptions, to be forborne.
Of these exceptions, three cases occur, which may serve as ex-
amples. One, where the material is itself an object of general or
extensive consumption, and a fit and productive source of rev-
enue. Another, whe*re a manufacture of a simpler kind, the
competition of which, with a like domestic article, is desired to
be restrained, partakes of the nature of a raw material, from be-
ing capable, by a farther process, to be converted into a manu-
facture of a different kind, the introduction or growth of which
is desired to be encouraged. A third, where the material itself
is a production of the country, and in sufficient abundance to
furnish a cheap and plentiful supply to the national manufac-
turers.

Under the first description comes the article of molasses. It
is not only a fair object of revenue, but, being a sweet, it is just

jEt. 34.] MANUFACTURES. 253

that the consumers of it should pay a duty as well as the con-
sumers of sugar.

Cottons and linens, in their white state, fall under the second
description. A duty upon such as are imported is proper, to
promote the domestic manufacture of similar articles, in the same
state. A drawback of that duty is proper, to encourage the
printing and staining, at home, of those which are brought from
abroad. When the first of these manufactures has attained suffi-
cient maturity in a country to furnish a full supply for the se-
cond, the utility of the drawback ceases.

The article of hemp either now does, or may be expected
soon to, exemplify the third case in the United States.

Where duties on the materials of manufactures are not laid
for the purpose of preventing a competition with some domestic
production, the same reasons which recommend, as a general
rule, the exemption of those materials from duties, would recom-
mend, as a like general rule, the allowance of drawbacks in favor
of the manufacturer. Accordingly, such drawbacks are familiar
in countries which systematically pursue the business of manu-
factures ; which furnishes an argument for the observance of a
similar policy in the United States ; and the idea has been adopt-
ed by the laws of the Union, in the instances of salt and molasses.
It is believed that it will be found advantageous to extend it to
some other articles.

8. The encouragement of new inventions and discoveries at home,
and of the introduction into the United States of such as may have-
been made in other countries ; particularly, those which relate to
machinery.

This is among the most useful and unexceptionable of the
aids which can be given to manufactures. The usual means of
that encouragement are pecuniary rewards, and, for a time, ex-
clusive privileges. The first must be employed, according to the
occasion, and the utility of the invention or discovery. For the
last, so far as respects " authors and inventors," provision has
been made by law. But it is desirable, in regard to improve-

254 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 34.

ments, and secrets of extraordinary value, to be able to extend
the same benefit to introducers, as well as authors and inventors;
a policy which has been practised with advantage in other coun-
tries. Here, however, as in some other cases, there is cause to
regret, that the competency of the authority of the National
Government to the good which might be done, is not without a
question. Many aids might be given to industry, many internal
improvements of primary magnitude might be promoted, by an
authority operating throughout the Union, which cannot be ef-
fected as well, if at all, by an authority confirmed within the
limits of a single State.

But, if the Legislature of the Union cannot do all the good
that might be wished, it is, at least, desirable that all may be
done which is practicable. Means for promoting the introduction
of foreign improvements, though less efficaciously than might be
accomplished with more adequate authority, will form a part of
the plan intended to be submitted in the close of this report.

It is customary with manufacturing nations to prohibit, under
severe penalties, the exportation of implements and machines,
which they have either invented or improved. There are al-
ready objects for a similar regulation in the United States; and
others may be expected to occur, from time to time. The adop-
tion of it seems to be dictated by the principle of reciprocity.
Greater liberality, in such respects, might better comport with
the general spirit of the country ; but a selfish and exclusive
policy, in other quarters, will not always permit the free indul-
gence of a spirit which would place us upon an unequal footing.
As far as prohibitions tend to prevent foreign competitors from
deriving the benefit of the improvements made at home, they tend
to increase the advantages of those by whom they may have been
introduced, and operate as an encouragement to exertion.

9. Judicious regulations for the inspection of manufactured commo-
dities.

This is not among the least important of the means by which
the prosperity of manufactures may be promoted. It is, indeed,

jEt. 34.] MANUFACTURES. 255

in many cases, one of the most essential. Contributing to pre-
vent frauds upon consumers at home, and exporters to foreign
countries ; to improve the quality, and preserve the character of
the national manufactures ; it cannot fail to aid the expeditious
and advantageous sale of them, and to serve as a guard against
successful competition from other quarters. The reputation of the
flour and lumber of some States, and of the potash of others,
has been established by an attention to this point. And the like
good name might be procured for those articles, wheresoever pro-
duced, by a judicious and uniform system of inspection, through-
out the ports of the United States. A like system might also be
extended with advantage to other commodities.

10. The facilitating of pecuniary remittances from place to place —

Is a point of considerable moment to trade in general, and to
manufactures in particular, by rendering more easy the purchase
of raw materials and provisions, and the payment for manufac-
tured supplies. A general circulation of bank paper, which is to
be expected from the institution lately established, will be a most
valuable mean to this end. But much good would also accrue
from some additional provisions respecting inland bills of ex-
change. If those drawn in one State, payable in another, were
made negotiable every where, and interest and damages allowed
in case of protest, it would greatly promote negotiations between
the citizens of different States, by rendering them more secure,
and with it the convenience and advantage of the merchants and
manufacturers of each.

11. Tlie facilitating of the transportation of commodities.

Improvements favoring this object intimately concern all the
domestic interests of a community ; but they may, without im-
propriety, be mentioned as having an important relation to
manufactures. There is, perhaps, scarcely any thing, which has
been better calculated to assist the manufacturers of Great
Britain, than the melioration of the public roads of that king-

256 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.tor. 34.

dom, and the great progress which has been of late made in
opening canals. Of the former, the United States stand much
in need ; for the latter, they present uncommon facilities.

The symptoms of attention to the improvement of inland
navigation which have lately appeared in some quarters, must
fill with pleasure every breast, warmed with a true zeal for the
prosperity of the country. These examples, it is to be hoped,
will stimulate the exertions of the Government and citizens of
every State. There can certainly be no object more worthy of
the cares of the local administrations ; and it were to be wished
that there was no doubt of the power of the National Govern-
ment to lend its direct aid on a comprehensive plan. This is
one of those improvements which could be prosecuted with
more efficacy by the whole, than by any part or parts of the
Union. There are cases in which the general interest will be in
danger to be sacrificed to the collision of some supposed local
interests. Jealousies, in matters of this kind, are as apt to exist,
as they are apt to be erroneous.

The following remarks are sufficiently judicious and pertinent
to deserve a literal quotation :

" Good roads, canals, and navigable rivers, by diminishing
the expense of carriage, put the remote parts of a country more
nearly upon a level with those in the neighborhood of the town.
They are, upon that account, the greatest of all improvements.
They encourage the cultivation of the remote, which must
always be the most extensive circle of the country. They are
advantageous to the town, by breaking down the monopoly of
the country in its neighborhood. They' are advantageous, even
to that part of the country. Though they introduce some rival
commodities into the old market, they open many new markets
to its produce. Monopoly, besides, is a great enemy to good
management, which can never be universally established, but in
consequence of that free and universal competition, which forces
every body to have recourse to it for the sake of self-defence. It
is not more than fifty years ago that some of the counties in the
neighborhood of London petitioned the parliament against the
extension of the turnpike roads into the remoter counties. Those

JEt. 34.] MANUFACTURES. 257

remoter counties, they pretended, from the cheapness of labor,
would be able to sell their grass and corn cheaper in the London
market than themselves, and they would thereby reduce their
rents, and ruin their cultivation. Their rents, however, have
risen, and their cultivation has been improved since that time."

Specimens of a spirit similar to that which governed the coun-
ties here spoken of, present themselves too frequently to the eye
of an impartial observer, and render it a wish of patriotism, that
the body in this country, in whose councils a local or partial
spirit is at least likely to predominate, were at liberty to pursue
and promote the general interest, in those instances in which
there might be danger of the interference of such a spirit.

The foregoing are the principal of the means by which the
growth of manufactures is ordinarily promoted. It is, however,
not merely necessary that the measures of government, which
have a direct view to manufactures, should be calculated to
assist and protect them, but that those which only collaterally
affect them in the general course of the administration, should
be guarded from any peculiar tendency to injure them.

There are certain species of taxes, which are apt to be
oppressive to different parts of the community, and, among
other ill effects, have a very unfriendly aspect towards manufac-
tures. All poll or capitation taxes are of this nature. They
either proceed according to a fixed rate, which operates unequal-
ly and injuriously to the industrious poor, or they vest a discre-
tion, in certain officers, to make estimates and assessments, which
are necessarily vague, conjectural, and liable to abuse. They
ought, therefore, to be abstained from in all but cases of dis-
tressing emergency.

All such taxes (including all taxes on occupations) which
proceed according to the amount of capital supposed to be em-
ployed in a business, or of profits supposed to be made in it, are
unavoidably hurtful to industry. It is in vain that the evil may
be endeavored to be mitigated, by leaving it, in the first instance,
in the option of the party to be taxed, to declare the amount of
his capital or profits.

Men engaged in any trade or business, have commonly
HAMILTON'S WORKS.

[At. 34.

weighty reasons to avoid disclosures, which would expose, with
any thing like accuracy, the real state of their affairs. They
most frequently find it better to risk oppression, than to avail
themselves of so inconvenient a refuge, and the consequence is,
that they often suffer oppression.

When the disclosure, too, if made, is not definitive, but con-
trollable by the discretion, or, in other words, by the passions
and prejudices of the revenue officers, it is not only an ineffectual
protection, but the possibility of its being so, is an additional
reason for not resorting to it.

Allowing to the public officers the most equitable disposi-
tions, yet, where they are to exercise a discretion without
certain data, they cannot fail to be often misled by appearances.
The quantity of business which seems to be going on, is, in a
vast number of cases, a very deceitful criterion of the profits
which are made ; yet it is, perhaps, the best they can have, and
it is the one on which they will most naturally rely. A business,
therefore, which may rather require aid from the Government,
than be in a capacity to be contributory to it, may find itself
crushed by the mistaken conjectures of the assessors of taxes.

Arbitrary taxes, under which denomination are comprised all
those that leave the quantum of the tax to be raised on each
person to the discretion of certain officers, are as contrary to the
genius of liberty as to the maxims of industry. In this light
they have been viewed by the most judicious observers on
Government, who have bestowed upon them the severest
epithets of reprobation, as constituting one of the worst features
usualty to be met with in the practice of despotic governments.

It is certain, at least, that such taxes are particularly inimical
to the success of manufacturing industry, and ought carefully to
be avoided by a government which desires to promote it.

The great copiousness of the subject of this report has in-
sensibly led to a more lengthy preliminary discussion than was
originally contemplated or intended. It appeared proper to in-
vestigate principles, to consider objections, and to endeavor to
establish the utility of the thing proposed to be encouraged,
previous to a specification of the objects which might occur, as

Mt. 34.] MANUFACTURES. 259

meriting or requiring encouragement, and of the measures which
might be proper in respect to each. The first purpose having
been fulfilled, it remains to pursue the second.

In the selection of objects, five circumstances seem entitled
to particular attention. The capacity of the country to furnish
the raw material ; the degree in which the nature of the manu-
facture admits of a substitute for manual labor in machinery ;
the facility of execution ; the extensiveness of the uses to which
the article can be applied ; its subserviency to other interests, par-
ticularly the great one of national defence. There are, however,
objects to which these circumstances are little applicable, which,
for some special reasons, may have a claim to encouragement.

A designation of the principal raw material of which each
manufacture is composed, will serve to introduce the remarks
upon it ; as, in the first place,

IEON.

The manufactures of this article are entitled to pre-eminent
rank. None are more essential in their kinds, nor so extensive
in their uses. They constitute, in whole, or in part, the imple-
ments or the materials, or both, of almost every useful occupa-
tion. Their instrumentality is every where conspicuous.

It is fortunate for the United States that they have peculiar
advantages for deriving the full benefit of this most valuable
material, and they have every motive to improve it with syste-
matic care. It is to be found in various parts of the United
States, in great abundance, and of almost every quality ; and
fuel, the chief instrument in manufacturing it, is both cheap and
plenty. This particularly applies to charcoal ; but there are pro-
ductive coal mines already in operation, and strong indications
that the material is to be found in abundance, in a variety of
other places.

The inquiries to which the subject of this report has led,
have been answered with proofs that manufactories of iron,
though generally understood to be extensive, are far more so
than is commonly supposed. The kinds in which the greatest

260 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. M,

progress lias been made, have been mentioned in another place,
and need not be repeated ; but there is little doubt that every
other kind, with due cultivation, will rapidly succeed. It is
worthy of remark, that several of the particular trades of which
it is the basis, are capable of being carried on without the aid of
large capitals.

Iron-works have greatly increased in the United States, and
are prosecuted with much more advantage than formerly. The
average price, before the Eevolution, was about sixty-four dollars
per ton ; at present, it is about eighty — a rise which is chiefly to
be attributed to the increase of manufactures of the material.

The still further extension and multiplication of such manu-
factures will have the double effect of promoting the extraction
of the metal itself, and of converting it to a greater number of
profitable purposes.

Those manufactures, too, unite, in a greater degree than
almost any others, the several requisites which have been men-
tioned as proper to be consulted in the selection of objects.

The only further encouragement of manufactories of this
article, the propriety of which may be considered as unquestion-
able, seems to be an increase of the duties on foreign rival com-
modities.

Steel is a branch which has already made a considerable pro-
gress, and it is ascertained that some new enterprises, on a more
extensive scale, have been lately set on foot. The facility of
carrying it to an extent which will supply all internal demands,
and furnish a considerable surplus for exportation, cannot be
doubted. The duty upon the importation of this article, which
is, at present, seventy-five cents per cwt. may, it is conceived,
be safely and advantageously extended to one hundred cents.
It is desirable, by decisive arrangements, to second the efforts
which are making in so very valuable a branch.

The United States already, in a great measure, supply them-
selves with nails and spikes. They are able, and ought certainly
to do it, entirely. The first and most laborious operation, in this
manufacture, is performed by water-mills ; and of the persons
afterwards employed, a great proportion are boys, whose early

JEt. 34.] MANUFACTURES. 261

habits of industry are of importance to the community, to the
present support of their families, and to their own future
comfort. It is not less curious than true, that, in certain parts
of the country, the making of nails is an occasional family
manufacture.

The expediency of an additional duty on these articles is in-
dicated by an important fact. About 1,800,000 pounds of them
were imported into the United States, in the course of a year,
ending the 30th of September, 1790. A duty of two cents per
pound would, it is presumable, speedily put an end to so consid-
erable an importation. And it is, in every view, proper that an
end should be put to it.

The manufacture of these articles, like that of some others,
suffers from the carelessness and dishonesty of a part of those
who carry it on. An inspection in certain cases might tend to
correct the evil. It will deserve consideration whether a regula-
tion of this sort cannot be applied, without inconvenience, to the
exportation of the articles, either to foreign countries, or from
one State to another.

The implements of husbandry are made in several States in
great abundance. In many places, it is done by the common
blacksmiths. And there is no doubt that an ample supply for
the whole country can, with great ease, be procured among our-
selves.

Various kinds of edged tools for the use of mechanics are
also made ; and a considerable quantity of hollow wares, though the
business of castings has not yet attained the perfection which
might be wished. It is, however, improving, and as there are
respectable capitals, in good hands, embarked in the prosecution
of those branches of iron manufactories, which are yet in their
infancy, they may all be contemplated as objects not difficult to
be acquired.

To insure the end, it seems equally safe and prudent to ex-
tend the duty, ad valorem, upon all manufactures of iron, or of
which iron is the article of chief value, to ten per cent.

Fire-arms and other military weapons may, it is conceived,
be placed, without inconvenience, in the class of articles rated at

262 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEr. 34.

fifteen per cent. There are, already, mannfactories of these ar-
ticles, which only require the stimulus of a certain demand to
render them adequate to the supply of the United States.

It would, also, be a material aid to manufactures of this na-
ture, as well as a mean of public security, if provision should be
made for an annual purchase of military weapons, of home man-
ufacture, to a certain determinate extent, in order to the forma-
tion of arsenals; and to replace, from time to time, such as
should be drawn for use, so as always to have in store the quan-
tity of each kind which should be deemed a competent supply.

But it may, hereafter, deserve legislative consideration,
whether manufactories of all the necessary weapons of war
ought not to be established, on account of the government itself.
Such establishments are agreeable to the usual practice of
nations, and that practice seems founded on sufficient reason.

There appears to be an improvidence in leaving these es-
sential instruments of national defence to the casual speculations
of individual adventure — a resource which can less be relied
upon, in this case, than in most others ; the articles in question
not being objects of ordinary and indispensable private con-
sumption or use. As a general rule, manufactories on the im-
mediate account of government are to be avoided; but this
seems to be one of the few exceptions which that rule admits,
depending on very special reasons.

Manufactures of steel, generally, or of which steel is the ar-
ticle of chief value, may, with advantage, be placed in the class
of goods rated at seven and a half per cent. As manufactures
of this kind have not yet made any considerable progress, it is a
reason for not rating them as high as those of iron : but, as this
material is the basis of them, and as their extension is not less
practicable than important, it is desirable to promote it by a
somewhat higher duty than the present.

A question arises, how far it might be expedient to permit
the importation of iron, in pigs and bars, free from duty. It
would certainly be favorable to manufactures of the article ; but
the doubt is, whether it might not interfere with its production.

Two circumstances, however, abate, if they do not remove

jEt.34.] manufactures. 263

apprehension, on this score ; one is, the considerable increase of
price which has been already remarked, and which renders it
probable that the free admission of foreign iron would not be
inconsistent with an adequate profit to the proprietors of iron-
works ; the other is the augmentation of demand which would
be likely to attend the increase of manufactures of the article,
in consequence of the additional encouragements proposed to be
given. But caution, nevertheless, in a matter of this kind, is
most advisable. The measure suggested ought, perhaps, rather
to be contemplated subject to the lights of further experience,
than immediately adopted.

COPPER.

The manufactures of which this article is susceptible, are,
also, of great extent and utility. Under this description, those
of brass, of which it is the principal ingredient, are intended to
be included.

The material is a natural production of the country. Mines
of copper have actually been wrought, and with profit to the
undertakers, though it is not known that any are now in this
condition. And nothing is easier than the introduction of it
from other countries, on moderate terms and in great plenty.

Coppersmiths and brass founders, particularly the former,
are numerous in the United States; some of whom carry on
business to a respectable extent.

To multiply and extend manufactories of the materials in
question, is worthy of attention and effort. In order to this, it
is desirable to facilitate a plentiful supply of the materials ; and
a proper mean to this end is, to place them in the class of free
articles. Copper, in plates, and brass, are already in this predic-
ament ; but copper, in pigs and bars, is not ; neither is lapis cal-
aminaris, which, together with copper and charcoal, constitute
the component ingredients of brass. The exemption from duty,
by parity of reason, ought to embrace all such of these articles
as are objects of importation.

An additional duty on brass wares will tend to the general

264 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 34.

end in view. These now stand at five per cent., while those of
tin, pewter, and copper, are rated at seven and a half. There
appears to be a propriety, in every view, in placing brass wares
upon the same level with them ; and it merits consideration,
whether the duty upon all of them ought not to be raised to ten
per cent.

LEAD.

There are numerous proofs that this material abounds in the
United States, and requires little to unfold it to an extent more
than equal to every domestic occasion. A prolific mine of it
has long been open in the south-western parts of Virginia, and
under a public administration, during the late war, yielded a
considerable supply for military use. This is now in the hands
of individuals, who not only carry it on with spirit, but have
established manufactories of it at Eichmond, in the same State.

The duties already laid upon the importation of this article,
either in its unmanufactured or manufactured state, insure it a
decisive advantage in the home market, which amounts to con-
siderable encouragement. If the duty on pewter wares should be
raised, it would afford a further encouragement. Nothing else
occurs as proper to be added.

FOSSIL COAL.

This, as an important instrument of manufactures, may, with-
out impropriety, be mentioned among the subjects of this re-
port.

A copious supply of it would be of great consequence to the
iron branch. As an article of household fuel, also, it is an in-
teresting production, the utility of which must increase in pro-
portion to the decrease of wood, by the progress of settlement
and cultivation. And its importance to navigation, as an im-
mense article of transportation coastwise, is signally exemplified
in Great Britain.

It is known that there are several coal mines in Virginia,
now worked ; and appearances of their existence are familiar in
a number of places.

jEt. 34.] MANUFACTURES. 265

The expediency of a bounty on all this species of coal, of
home production, and of premiums on the opening of new
mines, under certain qualifications, appears to be worthy of par-
ticular examination. The great importance of the article will
amply justify a reasonable expense in this way, if it shall appear
to be necessary to, and shall be thought likely to answer, the
end.

WOOD.

Several manufactures of this article flourish in the United
States. Ships are nowhere built in greater perfection, and cab-
inet wares generally, are made little, if at all, inferior to those of
Europe. Their extent is such as to have admitted of considera-
ble exportation.

An exemption from duty, of the several kinds of wood ordi-
narily used in these manufactures, seems to be all that is requi-
site, by way of encouragement. It is recommended by the con-
sideration of a similar policy being pursued in other countries,
and by the expediency of giving equal advantages to our own
workmen in wood. The abundance of timber, proper for ship
building in the United States, does not appear to be any objec-
tion to it. The increasing scarcity, and growing importance
of that article, in the European countries, admonish the United
States to commence, and systematically to pursue, measures for
the preservation of their stock. Whatever may promote the
regular establishment of magazines of ship timber, is in various
views desirable.

SKINS.

There are scarcely any manufactories of greater importance
than of this article. Their direct and very happy influence upon
agriculture, by promoting the raising of cattle of different kinds,
is a very material recommendation.

It is pleasing, too, to observe the extensive progress they
have made in their principal branches, which are so far matured
as almost to defy foreign competition. Tanneries, in particular,
are not only carried on as a regular business, in numerous in-

c 18

266 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 34.

stances, and in various parts of the country, but they constitute,
in some places, a valuable item of incidental family manufactures.
Representations, however, have been made, importing the
expediency of further encouragement to the leather branch, in
two ways : one by increasing the duty on the manufactures of it,
which are imported ; the other, by prohibiting the exportation
of bark. In support of the latter, it is alleged, that the price of
bark, chiefly in consequence of large exportations, has risen,
within a few years, from about three dollars to four and a half
per cord.

These suggestions are submitted, rather as intimations which
merit consideration, than as matters the propriety of which is
manifest. It is not clear that an increase of duty is necessary ;
and in regard to the prohibitions desired, there is no evidence of
any considerable exportation, hitherto ; and it is most probable
that, whatever augmentation of price may have taken place, is to
be attributed to an extension of the home demand, from the in-
crease of manufactures, and to a decrease of the supply, in conse-
quence of the progress of settlement, rather than to the quantities
which have been exported.

It is mentioned, however, as an additional reason for the pro-
hibition, that one species of the bark usually exported, is in some
sort peculiar to the country, and the material of a very valuable
dye, of great use in some other manufactures, in which the
United States have begun a competition.

There may also be this argument in favor of an increase of
duty. The object is of importance enough to claim decisive en-
couragement, and the progress which has been made, leaves no
room to apprehend any inconvenience on the score of supply,
from such an increase.

It would be of benefit to this branch, if glue, which is now
rated at five per cent., were made the object of an excluding
duty. It is already made, in large quantities, at various tan-
neries, and, like paper, is an entire economy of materials, which,
if not manufactured, would be left to perish. It may be placed,
with advantage, in the class of articles paying fifteen per cent.

jEt. 34.] MANUFACTURES. 267

GRAIN.

Manufactures of the several species of this article have a title
to peculiar favor ; not only because they are, most of them, im-
mediately connected with the subsistence of the citizens, but be-
cause they enlarge the demand for the most precious products of
the soil.

Though flour may, with propriety, be noticed as a manufac-
ture of grain, it were useless to do it, but for the purpose of sub-
mitting the expediency of a general system of inspection, through-
out the ports of the United States ; which, if established upon
proper principles, would be likely to improve the quality of our
flour every where, and to raise its reputation in foreign markets.
There are, however, considerations which stand in the way of
such an arrangement.

Ardent spirits and malt liquors are, next to flour, the two
principal manufactures of grain. The first has made a very ex-
tensive, the last a considerable progress in the United States. In
respect to both, an exclusive possession of the home market
ought to be secured to the domestic manufacturers, as fast as cir-
cumstances will admit. Nothing is more practicable, and nothing
more desirable.

The existing laws of the United States have done much to-
wards attaining this valuable object; but some additions to the
present duties on foreign distilled spirits and foreign malt liquors,
and perhaps an abatement of those on home made spirits, would
more effectually secure it ; and there does not occur any very
weighty objection to either.

An augmentation of the duties on imported spirits would fa-
vor, as well the distillation of spirits from molasses, as that from
grain. And to secure to the nation the benefit of a manufacture,
even of foreign materials, is always of great, though perhaps of
secondary importance.

A strong impression prevails in the minds of those concerned
in distilleries (including, too, the most candid and enlightened),
that greater differences in the rates of duty on foreign and domes-
tic spirits are necessary, completely to secure the successful man-

268 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 34.

ufacture of the latter, and there are facts which entitle this im-
pression to attention.

It is known that the price of molasses, for some years past,
has been successively rising in the West India markets, owing
partly to a competition which did not formerly exist, and partly
to an extension of demand in this country ; and it is evident,
that the late disturbances in those islands, from which we draw
our principal supply, must so far interfere with the production of
the article, as to occasion a material enhancement of price. The
destruction and devastation attendant on the insurrection in His-
paniola, in particular, must not only contribute very much to
that effect, but may be expected to give it some duration. These
circumstances, and the duty of three cents per gallon on molasses,
may render it difficult for the distillers of that material to main-
tain, with adequate profit, a competition with the rum brought
from the West Indies, the quality of which is so considerably
superior.

The consumption of geneva, or gin, in this country, is exten-
sive. It is not long since distilleries of it have grown up among
us to any importance. They are now becoming of consequence,
but being still in their infancy, they require protection.

It is represented that the price of some of the materials is
greater here, than in Holland, from which place large quantities
are brought ; the jDrice of labor considerably greater ; capitals en-
gaged in the business there, much larger than those which are
employed here ; the rate of profits at which the undertakers can
afford to carry it on, much less ; the prejudices in favor of im-
ported gin, strong. These circumstances are alleged to outweigh
the charges which attend the bringing of the article from Europe
to the United States, and the present difference of duty, so as to
obstruct the prosecution of the manufacture with due advantage.

Experiment could, perhaps, alone decide, with certainty, the
justness of the suggestions which are made ; but, in relation to
branches of manufacture so important, it would seem inexpedient
to hazard an unfavorable issue, and better to err on the side of
too great, than of too small a difference in the particular in ques-
tion.

JEt. 34.] MANUFACTURES. 269

It is, therefore, submitted, that an addition of two cents per
gallon be made to the duty on imported spirits of the first class
of proof, with a proportionable increase on those of higher proof;
and that a deduction of one cent per gallon be made from the
duty on spirits distilled within the United States, beginning with
the first class of proof, and a proportionable deduction from the
duty on those of higher proof.

It is ascertained that by far the greatest part of the malt li-
quors consumed in the United States, are the produce of domestic
breweries. It is desirable, and in all likelihood attainable, that
the whole consumption should be supplied by ourselves.

The malt liquors at home, though inferior to the best, are
equal to a great part of those which have been usually imported.
The progress already made is an earnest of what may be accom-
plished. The growing competition is an assurance of improve-
ment. This will be accelerated by measures tending to invite a
greater capital into this channel of employment.

To render the encouragement of domestic breweries decisive,
it may be advisable to substitute to the present rates of duty,
eight cents per gallon, generally ; and it will deserve to be con-
sidered as a guard against evasions, whether there ought not to
be a prohibition of their importation, except in casks of con-
siderable capacity. It is to be hoped, that such a duty would
banish from the market foreign malt liquors of inferior quality,
and that the best kind only would continue to be imported,
till it should be supplanted by the efforts of equal skill or care
at home.

Till that period, the importation, so qualified, would be a
useful stimulus to improvement, and, in the mean time, the pay-
ment of the increased price for the enjoyment of a luxury, in
order to the encouragement of a most useful branch of domestic
industry, could not reasonably be deemed a hardship.

As a further aid to manufactures of grain, though upon a
smaller scale, the articles of starch, hair-powder, and wafers,
may with great propriety be placed among those which are rated
at fifteen per cent. No manufactures are more simple, nor
more completely within the reach of a full supply from domestic

2(T0 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 34.

sources ; and it is a policy as common as it is obvious, to make
them the objects either of prohibitionary duties or of express
prohibition.

FLAX AND HEMP.

Manufactures of these articles have so much affinity to each
other, and they are so often blended, that they may, with ad-
vantage, be considered in conjunction. The importance of the
linen branch to agriculture, its precious effects upon household
industry, the ease with which the materials can be produced at
home, to any requisite extent, the great advances which have
been already made in the coarser fabrics of them, especially in
the family way, constitute claims of peculiar force to the patro-
nage of government.

This patronage may be afforded in various ways ; by promot-
ing the growth of the materials, by increasing the impediments
to an advantageous competition of rival foreign articles, by direct
bounties, or premiums upon the home manufactures.

1st. As to promoting the growth of the materials.

In respect to hemp, something has been already done by the
high duty upon foreign hemp. If the facilities for domestic pro-
duction were not unusually great, the policy of the duty on the
foreign raw material would be highly questionable, as interfering
with the growth or manufactures of it. But making the proper
allowances for those facilities, and with an eye to the future and
natural progress of the country, the measure does not appear,
upon the whole, exceptionable.

A strong wish naturally suggests itself, that some method
could be devised, of affording a more direct encouragement to
the growth both of flax and hemp ; such as would be effectual,
and, at the same time, not attended with too great inconveni-
ences. To this end, bounties and premiums offer themselves to
consideration, but no modification of them has yet occurred,
which would not either hazard too much expense, or operate
unequally, in reference to the circumstances of different parts of
the Union ; and which would not be attended with very great
difficulties in the execution.

jEt. 34.] MANUFACTURES. 271

2d. As to increasing the impediments to an advantageous
competition of rival foreign articles.

To this purpose, an augmentation of the duties on importa-
tion is the obvious expedient, which, in regard to certain articles,
appears to be recommended by sufficient reasons.

The principal of these articles, is sail-cloth — one intimately
connected with navigation and defence ; and of which, a flourish-
ing manufactory is established at Boston, and very promising
ones at several other places.

It is presumed to be both safe and advisable to place this in
the class of articles rated at ten per cent. A strong reason for
it results from the consideration, that a bounty of two pence
sterling, per ell, is allowed in Great Britain, upon the exporta-
tion of the sail-cloth manufactured in that kingdom.

It would likewise appear to be good policy to raise the duty
to seven and a half per cent., on the following articles : Drillings,
osnaburgs, ticklenburgs, dowals, canvass, brown rolls, bagging,
and upon all other linens, the first cost of which, at the place of
exportation, does dot exceed thirty-five cents per yard. A
bounty of twelve and a half per cent, upon an average, on the
exportation of such or similar linens from Great Britain, en-
courages the manufacture of them in that country, and increases
the obstacles to a successful competition in the countries to which
they are sent.

The quantities of tow and other household linens, manufac-
tured in different parts of the United States, and the expectations
which are derived from some late experiments, of being able to
extend the use of labor-saving machines, in the coarser fabrics
of linen, obviate the danger of inconvenience from an increase
of the duty upon such articles, and authorize a hope of speedy
and complete success to the endeavors which may be used for
procuring an internal supply.

3d. As to direct bounties or premiums upon the manufactur-
ed articles.

To afford more effectual encouragement to the manufacture,
and at the same time to promote the cheapness of the article, for
the benefit of navigation, it will be of great use to allow a bounty

272 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 34.

of two cents per yard on all sail-cloth which is made in the United
States, from materials of their own growth. This would also
assist the culture of those materials. An encouragement of this
kind, if adopted, ought to be established for a moderate term of
years, to invite to new undertakings, and to an extension of the
old. This is an article of importance enough to warrant the
employment of extraordinary means in its favor.

COTTON.

There is something in the texture of this material, which
adapts it, in a peculiar degree, to the application of machines.
The signal utility of the mill for spinning of cotton, not long
since invented in England, has been noticed in another place ;
but there are other machines, scarcely inferior in utility, which,
in the different manufactories of this article, are employed, either
exclusively, or with more than ordinary effect. This very im-
portant circumstance recommends the fabrics of cotton, in a more
particular manner, to a country in which a defect of hands con-
stitutes the greatest obstacle to success.

The variety and extent of the uses to which the manufactures
of this article are applicable, is another powerful argument in
their favor.

And the faculty of the United States to produce the raw
material in abundance, and of a quality which, though alleged
to be inferior to some that is produced in other quarters, is
nevertheless capable of being used with advantage in many
fabrics, and is probably susceptible of being carried by a more
experienced culture, to much greater perfection, suggests an
additional and a very cogent inducement to the vigorous pursuit
of the cotton branch, in its several subdivisions.

How much has been already done, has been stated in a pre-
ceding part of this report.

In addition to this, it may be announced, that a society is
forming, with a capital which is expected to be extended to at
least half a million of dollars, on behalf of which, measures are
already in train for prosecuting, on a large scale, the making
and printing of cotton goods.

jEt. 34.] MANUFACTURES. 273

These circumstances conspire to indicate the expediency of
removing any obstructions which may happen to exist, to the
advantageous prosecution of the manufactories in question, and
of adding such encouragements as may appear necessary and
proper.

The present duty of three cents per pound, on the foreign
raw material, is undoubtedly a very serious impediment to the
progress of those manufactories.

The injurious tendency of similar duties, either prior to the
establishment, or in the infancy of the domestic manufacture of
the article, as it regards the manufacture, and their worse than
inutility, in relation to the home production of the material itself,
have been anticipated, particularly in discussing the subject of
pecuniary bounties.

Cotton has not the same pretensions with hemp, to form an
exception to the general rule.

Not being, like hemp, an universal production of the country,
it affords less assurance of an adequate internal supply ; but the
chief objection arises from the doubts which are entertained,
concerning the quality of the national cotton. It is alleged that
the fibre of it is considerably shorter and weaker, than that of
some other places ; and it has been observed, as a general rule,
that the nearer the place of growth to the equator, the better the
quality of the cotton. That which comes from Cayenne, Surinam,
and Demarara, is said to be preferable, even at a material differ-
ence of price, to the cotton of the islands.

While a hope may reasonably be indulged, that, with due
care and attention, the national cotton may be made to approach
nearer than it now does to that of regions somewhat more
favored by climate ; and while facts authorize an opinion that
very great use may be made of it, and that it is a resource which
gives greater security to the cotton fabrics of this country, than
can be enjoyed by any which depends wholly on external
supply, it will certainly be wise, in every view, to let our infant
manufactures have the full benefit of the best materials, on the
cheapest terms. It is obvious that the necessity of having
such materials is proportioned to the unskilfulness and inexpe-

274 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 34.

rience of the workmen employed, who, if inexpert, will not
fail to commit great waste, where the materials they are to
work with are of an indifferent kind.

To secure to the national manufacturers so essential an ad-
vantage, a repeal of the present duty on imported cotton is
indispensable.

A substitute for this, far more encouraging to domestic pro-
duction, will be to grant a bounty on the national cotton, when
wrought at a home manufactory ; to which a bounty on the
exportation of it may be added. Either, or both, would do
much more towards promoting the growth of the article, than
the merely nominal encouragement, which it is proposed to
abolish. The first would also have a direct influence in en-
couraging the manufacture.

The bounty which has been mentioned, as existing in Great
Britain, upon the exportation of coarse linens, not exceeding a
certain value, applies also to certain descriptions of cotton goods
of similar value.

This furnishes an additional argument for allowing to the
national manufactures, the species of encouragement just suggest-
ed, and, indeed, for adding some other aid.

One cent per yard, not less than of a given width, on all goods
of cotton, or of cotton and linen mixed, which are manufactured
in the United States, with the addition of one cent per pound
weight of the material, if made of national cotton, would amount
to an aid of considerable importance, both to the production and
to the manufacture of that valuable article. And it is conceived
that the expense would be well justified by the magnitude of
the object.

The printing and staining of cotton goods is known to be
a distinct business from the fabrication of them. It is one
easily accomplished, and which, as it adds materially to the
value of the article in its white state, and prepares it for a
variety of new uses, is of importance to be promoted.

As imported cottons, equally with those which are made
at home, may be the objects of this manufacture, it will merit
consideration, whether the whole, or a part of the duty, on

vEt.34.] manufactures. 275

the white goods, ought not to be allowed to be drawn back
in favor of those who print or stain them. This measure would
certainly operate as a powerful encouragement to the business ;
and though it may, in a degree, counteract the original fabri-
cation of the articles, it would probably more than compensate
for this disadvantage, in the rapid growth of a collateral branch,
which is of a nature sooner to attain to maturity. When a
sufficient progress shall have been made, the drawback may be
abrogated, and by that time the domestic supply of the articles
to be printed or stained will have been extended.

If the duty of seven and a half per cent, on certain kinds of
cotton goods, were extended to all goods of cotton, or of which
it is the principal material, it would probably more than counter-
balance the effect of the drawback proposed, in relation to the
fabrication of the article. And no material objection occurs to
such an extension. The duty, then, considering all the circum-
stances which attend goods of this description, could not be
deemed inconveniently high ; and it may be inferred, from
various causes, that the prices of them would still continue
moderate.

Manufactories of cotton goods, not long since established at
Beverly, in Massachusetts, and at Providence, in the State of
Ehode Island, and conducted with a perseverance correspond-
ing with the patriotic motives which began them, seem to have
overcome the first obstacles to success: producing corduroys,
velverets, fustians, jeans, and other similar articles, of a quality
which will bear a comparison with the like articles brought from
Manchester. The one at Providence has the merit of being the
first introducing into the United States the celebrated cotton
mill, which not only furnishes materials for that manufactory
itself \ but for the supply of private families, for household manu-
facture.

Other manufactories of the same material, as regular businesses,
have also been begun at different places in the State of Connecti-
cut, but all upon a smaller scale than those above-mentioned.
Some essays are also making in the printing and staining of
cotton goods. There are several small establishments of this
kind, already on foot.

276 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 34.

WOOL.

In a country, the climate of which partakes of so considerable
a proportion of winter, as that of a great part of the United
States, the woollen branch cannot be regarded as inferior to any,
which relates to the clothing of the inhabitants.

Household manufactures of this material are carried on in
different parts of the United States, to a very interesting extent;
but there is only one branch, which, as a regular business, can
be said to have acquired maturity. This is the making of hats.

Hats of wool, and of wool mixed with fur, are made in large
quantities, in different States ; and nothing seems wanting, but
an adequate supply of materials, to render the manufacture
commensurate with the demand.

A promising essay, towards the fabrication of cloths, cassi-
meres, and other woollen goods, is likewise going on, at I In it ford,
in Connecticut. Specimens of the different kinds which are
made, in the possession of the Secretary, evince that these fabrics
have attained a very considerable degree of perfection. Their
quality certainly surpasses any thing that could have been look-
ed for in so short a time, and under so great disadvantages ; and
conspires, with the scantiness of the means, which have been at
the command of the directors, to form the eulogium of that
public spirit, perseverance, and judgment, which have been able
to accomplish so much.

To cherish and bring to maturity this precious embryo, must
engage the most ardent wishes, and proportionable regret, as far
as the means of doing it may appear difficult or uncertain.

Measures which should tend to promote an abundant supply
of wool, of good quality, would probably afford the most effica-
cious aid that present circumstances permit.

To encourage the raising and improving the breed of sheep,
at home, would certainly be the most desirable expedient for
that purpose; but it may not be alone sufficient, especially as it
is, yet, a problem, whether our wool be capable of such a degree
of improvement as to render it fit for the finer fabrics.

Premiums would probably be found the best means of pro-

Mt. 34.] MANUFACTURES. 277

moting the domestic, and bounties the foreign supply. The first
may be within the compass of the institution, hereafter to be sub-
mitted. The last would require a specific legislative provision.
If any bounties are granted, they ought, of course, to be adjusted
with an eye to quality as well as quantity.

A fund for the purpose may be derived from the addition of
two and a half per cent, to the present rate of duty on carpets
and carpeting ; an increase to which the nature of the articles
suggests no objection, and which may, at the same time, furnish
a motive the more to the fabrication of them at home, towards
which some beginnings have been made.

SILK.

The production of this article is attended with great facility
in most parts of the United States. Some pleasing essays are
making in Connecticut, as well towards that, as towards the
manufacture of what is produced. Stockings, handkerchiefs,
ribbons, and buttons, are made, though as yet but in small
quantities.

A manufactory of lace, upon a scale not very extensive, has
been long memorable at Ipswich, in the State of Massachusetts.

An exemption of the material from the duty which it now
pays on importation, and premiums upon the production to be
dispensed under the direction of the institution before alluded to,
seem to be the only species of encouragement advisable at so
early a stage of the thing.

GLASS.

The materials for making glass are found every where. In
the United States there is no deficiency of them. The sands
and stones called tar so, which include flinty and crystalline sub-
stances generally, and the salts of various plants, particularly of
the sea-weed kali, or kelp, constitute the essential ingredients.
An extraordinary abundance of fuel is a particular advantage
enjoyed by this country for such manufactures. They, however,
require large capitals, and involve much manual labor.

278 HAMILTON'S WORKS.

[iEi. 34.

Different manufactories of glass are now on foot in the
United States. The present duty of twelve and a half per cent,
on all imported articles of glass, amounts to a considerable en-
couragement to those manufactories. If any thing in addition
is judged eligible, the most proper would appear to be a direct
bounty on window-glass and black bottles.

The first recommends itself as an object of general conveni-
ence ; the last adds to that character the circumstance of being
.an important item in breweries. A complaint is made of
great deficiency in this respect.

GUNPOWDER.

No small progress has been, of late, made in the manufacture
of this very important article. It may, indeed, be considered
as already established ; but its high importance renders its further
extension very desirable.

The encouragement which it already enjoys, are a duty of
ten per cent, on the foreign rival article, and an exemption of
saltpetre, one of the principal ingredients of which it is com-
posed, from duty. A like exemption of sulphur, another chief
ingredient, would appear to be equally proper. No quantity of
this article has yet been produced from internal sources. The
use made of it in finishing the bottoms of ships, is an additional
inducement to placing it in the class of free goods. Eegulations
for the careful inspection of the article, would have a favorable
tendency.

PAPER.

Manufactories of paper are among those which are arrived
at the greatest maturity in the United States, and are most ade-
quate to national supply. That of paper-hangings, is a branch
in which respectable progress has been made.

Nothing material seems wanting to the further success of this
valuable branch, which is already protected by a competent duty
on similar imported articles.

In the enumeration of the several kinds made subject to that

jEt.34.] manufactures. 279

duty, sheathing and cartridge paper have been omitted. These
being the most simple manufactures of the sort, and necessary
to militarjr supply, as well as ship-building, recommend them-
selves equally with those of other descriptions, to encourage-
ment, and appear to be as fully within the compass of domestic
exertions.

PRINTED BOOKS.

The great number of presses disseminated throughout the
Union, seem to afford an assurance, that there is no need of be-
ing indebted to foreign countries for the printing of the books
which are used in the United States. A duty of ten per cent,
instead of five, which is now charged upon the article, would
have a tendency to aid the business internally.

It occurs as an objection to this, that it may have an unfavor-
able aspect towards literature, by raising the prices of books, in
universal use in private families, schools, and other seminaries
of learning. But the difference, it is conceived, would be with-
out effect.

As to books which usually fill the libraries of the wealthier
classes, and of professional men, such an augmentation of price
as might be occasioned by an additional duty of five per cent.,
would be too little felt to be an impediment to the acquisition.

And with regard to books which may be specially imported
for the use of particular seminaries of learning, and of public
libraries, a total exemption from duty would be advisable, which
would go far towards obviating the objection just mentioned.
They are now subject to a duty of five per cent.

As to the books in most general family use, the constancy
and universality of the demand, would insure exertions to fur-
nish them at home, and the means are completely adequate. It
may also be expected ultimately, in this, as in other cases, that
the extension of the domestic manufacture would conduce to the
cheapness of the article.

It ought not to pass unremarked, that, to encourage the
printing of books, is to encourage the manufacture of paper.

280 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 34.

KEFINED SUGARS AND CHOCOLATE

Are among the number of extensive and prosperous domestic
manufactures.

Drawbacks of the duties upon the materials of which they
are respectively made, in cases of exportation, would have a
beneficial influence upon the manufacture, and would conform
to a precedent which has been already furnished in the instance
of molasses, on the exportation of distilled spirits.

Cocoa, the raw material, now pays a duty of one cent per
pound, while chocolate, which is a prevailing and very simple
manufacture, is comprised in the mass of articles rated at no
more than five per cent.

There would appear to be a propriety in encouraging the
manufacture by a somewhat higher duty on its foreign rival,
than is paid on the raw material. Two cents per pound on
imported chocolate, would, it is presumed, be without incon-
venience.

The foregoing heads comprise the most important of the
several kinds of manufactures which have occurred as requiring,
and, at the same time, as most proper for public encouragement;
and such measures for affording it as have appeared best calcu-
lated to answer the end, have been suggested.

The observations which have accompanied this delineation
of objects, supersede the necessity of many supplementary re-
marks. One or two, however, may not be altogether super-
fluous.

Bounties are, in various instances, proposed, as one species
of encouragement.

It is a familiar objection to them, that they are difficult to
be managed, and liable to frauds. But neither that difficulty
nor this danger seems sufficiently great to countervail the advan-
tages of which they are productive, when rightly applied. And
it is presumed to have been shown, that they are, in some cases,
particularly in the infancy of new enterprises, indispensable.

It will, however, be necessary to guard, with extraordinary

JEt. 34.] MANUFACTURES. '281

circumspection, the manner of dispensing them. The requisite
precautions have been thought of, but to enter into the detail,
would swell this report, already voluminous, to a size too incon-
venient.

If the principle shall not be deemed inadmissible, the means ot
avoiding an abuse of it will not be likely to present insurmount-
able obstacles. There are useful guides from practice in other
quarters.

It shall, therefore, only be remarked here, in relation to this
point, that any bounty which may be applied to the manufacture
of an article, cannot, with safety, extend beyond those manufac-
tories at which the making of the article is a regular trade. It
would be impossible to annex adequate precautions to a benefit
of that nature, if extended to every private family in which the
manufacture was incidentally carried on ; and its beiug a merely
incidental occupation, which engages a portion of time that
would otherwise be lost, it can be advantageously carried on
without so special an aid.

The possibility of a diminution of the revenue may also pre-
sent itself as an objection to the arrangements which have been
submitted.

But there is no truth which may be more firmly relied upon,
than that the interests of the revenue are promoted by whatever
promotes an increase of national industry and wealth.

In proportion to the degree of these, is the capacity of every
country to contribute to the public treasury ; and where the
capacity to pay is increased, or even is not decreased, the only
consequence of measures which diminish any particular resource,
is a change of the object. If, by encouraging the manufacture
of an article at home, the revenue which has been wont to accrue
from its importation should be lessened, an indemnification can
easily be found, either out of the manufacture itself, or from
some other object which may be deemed more convenient.

The measures, however, which have been submitted, taken
aggregately, will, for a long time to come, rather augment than
decrease the public revenue.

There is little room to hope, that the progress of manufac-

c 19

282 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 34.

tures will so equally keep pace with the progress of population,
as to prevent even a gradual augmentation of the product of the
duties on imported articles.

As, nevertheless, an abolition in some instances, and a re-
duction in others, of duties which have been pledged for the pub-
lic debt, is proposed, it is essential that it should be accompanied
with a competent substitute. In order to this, it is requisite that
all the additional duties which shall be laid, be appropriated, in
the first instance, to replace all defalcations which may proceed
from any such abolition or diminution. It is evident, at first
glance, that they will not only be adequate to this, but will
yield a considerable surplus. This surplus will serve —

First. To constitute a fund for paying the bounties which
shall have been decreed.

Secondly. To constitute a fund for the operations of a board
to be established, for promoting arts, agriculture, manufactures,
and commerce. Of this institution, different intimations have
been given in the course of this report. An outline of a plan
for it shall now be submitted.

Let a certain annual sum be set apart, and placed under the
management of commissioners, not less than three, to consist of
certain officers of the Government and their successors in office.

Let these commissioners be empowered to apply the fund
confided to them, to defray the expenses of the emigration of
artists, and manufacturers in particular branches of extraordi-
nary importance • to induce the prosecution and introduction of
useful discoveries, inventions, and improvements, by proportion-
ate rewards, judiciously held out and applied; to encourage by
premiums, both honorable and lucrative, the exertions of indi-
viduals and of classes, in relation to the several objects they are
charged with promoting ; and to afford such other aids to those
objects as may be generally designated by law.

The commissioners to render to the Legislature an annual
account of their transactions and disbursements ; and all such
sums as shall not have been applied to the purposes of their
trust, at the end of every three years, to revert to the treasury.
It may, also, be enjoined upon them not to draw out the money,
but for the purpose of some specific disbursement.

Ml. 34.] MANUFACTURES. 28?>

It may, moreover, be of use to authorize them to receive vol-
untary contributions, making it their duty to apply them to the
particular objects for which they may have been made, if any
shall have been designated by the donors.

There is reason to believe that the progress of particular
manufactures has been much retarded by the want of skilful
workmen. And it often happens, that the capitals employed are
not equal to the purposes of bringing from abroad workmen of
a superior kind. Here, in cases worthy of it, the auxiliary
agency of Government would, in all probability, be useful.
There are also valuable workmen in every branch, who are pre-
vented from emigrating, solely, by the want of means. Occa-
sional aids to such persons, properly administered, might be a
source of valuable acquisitions to the country.

The propriety of stimulating by rewards the invention and
introduction of useful improvements, is admitted without diffi-
culty. But the success of attempts in this way, must evidently
depend much on the manner of conducting them. It is probable
that the placing of the dispensation of those rewards under some
proper discretionary direction, where they may be accompanied
by collateral expedients, will serve to give them the surest effi-
cacy. It seems impracticable to apportion, by general rules.
specific compensations for discoveries of unknown and dispro-
portionate utility.

The great use which may be made of a fund of this nature,
to procure and import foreign improvements, is particularly ob-
vious. Among these, the article of machines would form a most
important item.

The operation and utility of premiums have been adverted to,
together with the advantages which have resulted from their dis-
pensation, under the direction of certain public and private
societies. Of this, some experience has been had, in the instance
of the Pennsylvania Society for the promotion of manufactures
and useful arts ; but the funds of that association have been too
contracted to produce more than a very small portion of the
good to which the principles of it would have led. It may con-
fidently be affirmed, that there is scarcely any thing which has

284 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 35.

been devised, better calculated to excite a general spirit of im-
provement, than the institutions of this nature. They are truly
invaluable.

In countries where there is great private wealth, much may
be effected by the voluntary contributions of patriotic individu-
als ; but in a community situated like that of the United States,
the public purse must supply the deficiency of private resource.
In what can it be so useful, as in prompting and improving the
efforts of industry ?

All which is humbly submitted.

Alexander Hamilton,

Secretary of the Treasury.

ESTIMATES OF EECEIPTS AND EXPENDITURES

FOR 1791-2.

Communicated to the House of Representatives, January 23, 1792.

Treasury Department, January 23, 1792.

The Secretary of the Treasury, in obedience to the order of the
House of Representatives of the 19th instant, respectfully
makes the following report :

At the close of the year 1790, there was a considerable sur-
plus of revenue beyond the objects of expenditure, which had
required a provision to that period ; which surplus, by an act of
the 12th of August in that year, was appropriated to the reduc-
tion of the public debt.

The statement A, herewith submitted, will show in one view
all the sums, which, according to the establishments heretofore
made, and corresponding appropriations, have required, and will
require, to be defrayed, from the beginning of the year 1791, to
the end of the year 1792, amounting together, to seven millions
and eighty-two thousand one hundred and ninety-seven dollars
and seventy-four cents.

jEt. 35.] RECEIPTS AND EXPENDITURES. 285

The statement B will also show, in one view, the net pro-
duct of all the public revenues, for the same period, according
to the best calculation and estimate which can now be formed of
it, amounting to seven millions and twenty -nine thousand seven
hundred and fifty-five dollars and twenty-six cents.

The statement 0 exhibits a summary of the total annual ex-
penditure of the United States, in conformity to existing estab-
lishments, amounting to three millions six hundred and eighty-
eight thousand and forty-three dollars, fifty cents.

The statement B includes a view of the probable product,
during the year 1792, of the existing revenues of the United
States, amounting to three millions seven hundred thousand
dollars.

From these statements will result substantially, the informa-
tion which is desired by the House of Representatives, as far as
it is now in the power of the Secretary to give it.

One or two matters, however, may be proper to be added,
with a view to greater accuracy.

There are certain instances, in which the estimates of appro-
priations have exceeded, and will exceed, the sums actually ex-
pended. Hence the apparent excess of the expenditure, as exhi-
bited in the statement A, beyond the product of the revenue, as
shown in the statement B, will, probably, not be found real.
But the amount of these surplusses or over-estimates cannot be
now ascertained, and it is not likely to be very considerable ;
and because, also, if it should do more than counterbalance the
excess alluded to, it will be safest to set off the surplus against
those contingent demands, which, from time to time, occur.

No deduction has been made from the annual interest on
account of the debt purchased. This has proceeded from a sup-
position that it will be deemed expedient by the Legislature, to
appropriate inviolably the interest of any part of the debt which
shall be, at any time, extinguished, towards the extinction of the
remainder. This point will be more particularly submitted in a
report on the subject of the public debt.
All which is humbly submitted.

Alexander Hamilton,

Secretary of the Treasury.
HAMILTON'S WORKS.

[Mr. 34.

LOANS.

Communicated to the House of Representatives, February 7, 1792.

Treasury Department. January 23. 1792.

Pursuant to the order of the House of Eepresentatives of the
first of November, 1791, directing the Secretary of the Trea-
sury " to report to the House the amount of the subscriptions
to the loans proposed by the act making provision for the
public debt, as well in the debts of the respective States, as
in the domestic debt of the United States, and of the parts
which remain unsubscribed, together with such measures as
are, in his opinion, expedient to be taken on the subject,"
the said Secretary respectfully submits the following report :

The whole amount of the domestic debt
of the United States, principal and interest,
which has been subscribed to the loan pro-
posed concerning that debt, by the act, en-
titled " An act making provision for the
debt of the United States," according to
the statement herewith transmitted, marked
A, and subject to the observations accom-
panying that statement, is, - -

$31,797,481 22

Which, pursuant to the terms of that act, has
been converted into stock bearing an im-
mediate interest of six per cent, per annum, 14,177,450 43

Stock bearing the like interest from the first of

January, 1801, 7,088,727 79

Stock bearing an immediate interest of three per

cent, per annum, 10,531,303 00

Making, together, $31,797,481 22

-St. 35.] LOANS. 287

Of which, there stands to the credit of the trus-
tees of the sinking fund, in consequence of
purchases of the public debt made under
their direction, the sum of - - $1,131,364 76

The unsubscribed residue of the said debt, accord-
ing to the statements herewith transmitted,
marked B and 0, and subject to the obser-
vations accompanying the statement C, ap-
pears to amount to $10,616,604 65

Consisting of registered debt, principal and

interest, - 6,795,815 26

Unsubscribed stock on the books of the com-
missioners of loans for New Jersey, Penn-
sylvania, and Maryland, principal and
interest, - - - 15,674 62

Credits on the books of the treasury, for which
no certificates have been issued, principal
and interest, ------ 107,648 63

Outstanding or floating evidences of debt, esti-
mated, per statement C, at 3,697,466 14

Making, together, $10,616,604 65

Concerning which some further arrangement is necessary.

The greatest part of the registered debt, hitherto unsubscribed?
is owned by citizens of foreign countries, most, if not all of
whom appear now disposed to embrace the terms held out by
the act above mentioned ; extensive orders having been received
from those creditors, to subscribe to the loan, after the time
for receiving subscriptions had elapsed.

A considerable part of the outstanding or floating debt con-
sists of loan-office certificates, issued between the first of Septem-
ber, 1777, and the first of March, 1778, bearing interest on the
nominal sum. Many of the holders of this species of debt have
come in upon the terms of this act, but others have, hitherto,
declined it; alleging that the special nature of their contract

288 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 35.

gives a peculiarity to their case, and renders the commutation
proposed not so fair an equivalent to them, as in other instances.
They also complain, that the act has had, towards them, a com-
pulsory aspect, by refusing the temporary payment of interest,
unless they should exchange their old for new certificates, essen-
tially varying the nature of their contract.

A resolution of Congress of the tenth of September, 1777,
stipulates, in favor of this class of creditors, interest upon the
nominal, instead of the real principal of their debt, until that
principal he discharged. This, certainly renders their contract of
a nature more beneficial than that of other creditors ; but
they are, at the same time, liable to be divested of the extra
benefit it gives them by a payment of their specie dues ; and it
may be observed, that they have actually enjoyed, and by ac-
cepting the terms offered to them, were enabled to realize, ad-'
vantages superior to other creditors. They have been paid in-
terest by bills on France from the tenth of September, 1777, to
the first of March, 1782, while other creditors receive their in-
terest in depreciated bills of the old emissions ; and the terms
of the loan proposed put it in their power to realize the benefit
of interest, on the nominal amount of their respective debts, at
rates from 6 f^ nearly to 10 f-fc per cent, on their real or specie
capital down to the last of December, 1790.

It does not, therefore, appear to have been an unreasonable
expectation, that they, as readily as any other description of pub-
lic creditors, would have acquiesced in a measure calculated for
the accommodation of the Government, under circumstances in
respect to which, it has been demonstrated, by subsequent events,
that the accommodation desired, was consistent with the best
interest of the public creditors. A large proportion of the
parties interested have, indeed, viewed the matter in this light,
and have embraced the proposition. It is probable that the pro-
gress of things will satisfy the remainder that it is equally their
interest to concur, if a further opportunity be afforded. But it
is, nevertheless, for themselves only to judge, how far the equiv-
alent proposed is, in their case, a reasonable and fair one ; how
far any circumstances in their claim may suggest reasons for

Mt. 35.] LOANS. 289

moderation on their part ; or how far any other motives, public
or private, ought to induce an acceptance. And the principles
of good faith require, that their election should be free.

On this ground, the complaint which regards the withhold-
ing of a temporary payment of interest, except on the condi-
tion of surrender of the old certificates for new ones, importing a
contract substantially different, appears, to the Secretary, not
destitute of foundation. He presumes that the operation of that
provision, in the particular case, was not adverted to ; or, that
an exception would have been introduced, as most consonant
with the general spirit and design of the act. Accordingly, the
further measures which will be submitted, will contemplate a
method of obviating the objection in question.

From the consideration that an extension of the time for re-
ceiving subscriptions, upon the terms of the act making provision
for the debt of the United States, is desired by a large propor-
tion of the non-subscribing creditors ; and from the further con-
sideration, that sufficient experience has not yet been had of the
productiveness of a considerable branch of the revenues which
have been established, to afford the light necessary to a final ar-
rangement, it is, in the judgment of the Secretary, advisable to
renew the proposition for a loan in the domestic debt, on the
same terms with the one which has been closed, and to allow
time for receiving subscriptions to it, until the last day of Sep-
tember next, inclusively ; making provision for a temporary
payment of interest, to such who may not think fit to subscribe,
for the year 1792, of the like nature with that which was made
in the same case for the year 1791, except, as to the holders of
loan-office certificates, issued between the first of September,
1777, and the first of March, 1778 ; in respect to whom it is
submitted as proper to dispense with the obligation of exchang-
ing their old certificates for new, as the condition of their re-
ceiving interest in capacity of non-subscribers ; and to allow
them, without such exchange, to receive the same interest, both
for the year 1791, and 1792, as if they had subscribed to the
first loan. It will not be materially difficult so to regulate the
operation at the treasury, as to avoid, in the particular case, that

290 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 35.

danger of imposition by counterfeits, which was the motive to
the general provision for an exchange of certificates.

2. The amount of the subscriptions in the debt of the re-
spective States, within the limits of the sum assumed in each, ap-
pears, by the statement marked D, to be $17,072,834 39, subject
to the observations accompanying that statement. Consequent-
ly the difference between the aggregate of the sums subscribed,
and the aggregate of the sums assumed, is $4,427,665 61. This
difference is to be attributed to several causes — the principal
of which are the following: First, that the sums assumed,
in respect to certain States, exceeded the actual amount of
their existing debts. Second, that, in various instances, a part
of the existing debt was in a form which excluded it from
being received, without contravening particular provisions of
the law ; as in the case of certificates issued after the first day
of January, 1790, in lieu of certificates which had been
issued prior to that period, which was reported upon by the
Secretary on the twenty -fifth day of February last. Third, ig-
norance of, or inattention to, the limitation of time for receiv-
ing subscriptions. It appears that a number of persons lost the
opportunity of subscribing from the one or the other of these
causes.

A strong desire that a further opportunity may be afforded
for subscriptions in the debts of the States, has been manifested
by the individuals interested. And the States of Ehode Island
and New Hampshire have, by the public acts referred to the
Secretary, indicated a similar desire. The affording of such
further opportunity, may either be restricted within the limit,
as to amount, which is contemplated by the act itself, or may re-
ceive an extension which will embrace the residuary debts of the
States.

The first may be considered as nothing more than giving full
effect to a measure already adopted.

The last appears to have in its favor all the leading induce-
ments to what has been already clone. The embarrassments
which might arise from conflicting systems of finance are not
entirely obviated. The efficacious command of the national

JEt. 35.] LOANS. 291

resources for national exigencies, is not unequivocally secured.
The equalizing of the condition of the citizens of every State,
and exonerating those of the States most indebted, from partial
burthens which would press upon them, in consequence of exer-
tions in a common cause, is not completely fulfilled, until the
entire debt of every State, contracted in relation to the war, is em-
braced in one general and comprehensive plan. The inconveni-
ence to the United States of disburthening the States, which are
still encumbered with considerable debts, would bear no propor-
tion to the inconvenience which they would feel, if left to strug-
gle with those debts, unaided.

More general contentment, therefore, in the public mind, may
be expected to attend such an exoneration, than the reverse ; in
proportion as the experience of actual inconvenience would be
greater, though only applicable to parts, in the one, than in the
other case.

With regard to States, parts only of the debts of which have
been assumed, and in proportions short of those which have pre-
vailed, in favor of other States, and short, also, of what would
have resulted from a due apportionment of the entire sum as-
sumed ; the claim to a further assumption is founded on consid-
erations of equal justice, as relative to the measure itself, consid-
ered in a separate and independent light.

But there is a further reason of material weight for an imme-
diate general assumption. Moneyed men, as well foreigners as
citizens, through the expectation of an eventual assumption, or
that, in some shape or other, a substantial provision will be made
for the unassumed residue of the State debts, will be induced to
speculate in the purchase of them. In proportion as the event
is unsettled, or uncertain, the price- of the article will be low, and
the present proprietors will be under disadvantage in the sale.
The loss to them in favor of the purchasers is to be regarded as
an evil ; and as far as it is connected with a transfer to foreigners,
at an undervalue, it will be a national evil. By whatsoever
authority an ultimate provision may be made, there will be an
absolute loss to the community, equal to the total amount of such
undervalue.

292 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 35.

It may appear an objection to the measure, that it will re-
quire an establishment of additional funds by the Government
of the United States. But this does not seem to be a necessary
consequence. The probability is, that, without a supplementary
assumption, an equal or very nearly equal augmentation of funds
will be requisite to provide for greater- balances in favor of certain
States; which would be proportionably diminished by such as-
sumption. The destination, not the quantum of the fund, will,
therefore, be the chief distinction between the two cases.

It may, also, appear an objection to a total assumption, that
the magnitude of the object is not ascertained with precision. It
is not certainly known, what is the sum due in each State ; nor
has it been possible to acquire the information, owing to different
causes. But, though precise data are deficient, there are mate-
rials which will serve as guides. From the returns received at
the treasury, assisted by information in other ways, it may be
stated, without danger of material error, that the remaining debts
of the States, over and above the sums already subscribed, will
not exceed the amounts specified in statement D, accompanying
this report. And that, including sums already subscribed, the
total amount to be ultimately provided for, in the event of a gen-
eral assumption, will not exceed 25,403,362Ty„ dollars, which
would constitute an addition of 3, 903, 3 62 yW dollars to the sum
of 21,500,000 dollars already assumed.

Should a total assumption be deemed eligible, it may, still, be
advisable to assign a determinate sum for each State, that the
utmost limit of the operation may be pre-established ; and it is
necessary, in order to the certainty of a due provision, in proper
time, that interest should not begin to be payable, on the addi-
tional sums assumed, till after the year 1792.

It will occur, that provision has been made for paying to each
State, in trust for its non-subscribing creditors, an interest upon
the difference between the sum assumed for each State, and that
actually subscribed, equal to what would have been payable, if it
had been subscribed.

In the event of a further assumption, either within the limits
already established, or commensurate with the remaining debts

jEt. 35.] LOANS. 293

of the States, it is conceived that it will not be incompatible with
the provision just mentioned, to retain, at the end of each quar-
ter, during the progress of the further subscription, out of the
money directed to be paid to each State, a sum corresponding
with the interest upon so much of its debts as shall have been
subscribed to that period, paying the overplus, if any, to the
State. An absolute suspension of that payment does not appear
consistent with the nature of the stipulation included in that pro-
vision ; for, though the money to be paid to a State be expressly
a trust for the non-subscribing creditors, yet, as it cannot be cer-
tain beforehand, that they will elect to change their condition,
the possibility of it will not justify a suspension of payment to
the State, which might operate as suspension of payment to the
creditors themselves.

A further objection to such a suspension results from the idea,
that the provision in question appears to have a secondary ob-
ject : namely, as a pledge for securing a provision for whatever
balance may be found due to a State, on the general settlement
of accounts. The payment directed to be made to a State is " to
continue until there shall be a settlement of accounts between
the United States and the individual States, and, in case a bal-
ance should then appear in favor of a State, until provision shall
be made for the said balance."

This secondary operation as a pledge or security (consistently
with the intent of the funding act) can only be superseded in
favor of the primary object, & provision for the creditors, and as far
as may be necessary to admit them to an effectual participation
of it. But as whatever money may be paid to a State, is to be
paid over to its creditors, proportional deductions may, with pro-
priety, be made from the debts of those creditors who may here-
after subscribe, so as that the United States may not have to pay
twice for the same purpose.

If it shall be judged expedient either to open again, or extend
the assumption, it will be necessary to vary the description of the
debts which may be subscribed, so as to comprehend all those
which have relation to services or supplies during the war, under
such restrictions as are requisite to guard against abuse.

294 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 35.

In tlie original proposition for an assumption of the State
debts, and in the suggestions now made on the same subject, the
Secretary has contemplated, and still contemplates, as a material
part of the plan, an effectual provision for the sale of the vacant
lands of the United States. He has considered this resource as
an important mean of sinking a part of the debt, and facilitating
ultimate arrangements concerning the residue. If supplementary
funds shall be rendered necessary, by an additional assumption,
the provision will most conveniently be made at the next session
of Congress, when the productiveness of the existing revenues,
and the extent of the sum to be provided for, will be better as-
certained.

There is a part of the public debt of the United States, which
is a cause of some perplexity to the Treasury. It is not compre-
hended within the existing provision for the foreign debt, which
is confined to loans made abroad ; and it is questionable whether
it is to be regarded as a portion of the domestic debt. It is not
only due to fo?*eigners, but the interest upon it is payable, by ex-
press stipulation, in a foreign country; whence it becomes a
matter of doubt, whether it be at all contemplated by the act
making provision for the debt of the United States. The part
alluded to is that which is due to certain foreign officers, who
served the United States during the late war. In consequence
of a resolution of Congress, directing their interest to be paid to
them in France, the certificates which were issued to them spe-
cify, that, "in pursuance of and compliance with a certain reso-
lution of Congress, of the third day of February, 1784, the said
interest is to be paid, annually, at the house of Mons. le Grand,
banker in Paris." Interest has accordingly been paid to them at
Paris, down to the 31st of December, 1788, by virtue of a special
resolution of Congress, of the 20th of August in that year ; since
which period, no payment has been made.

It has been heretofore suggested, as the opinion of the Secre-
tary, that it would be expedient to cause the whole of this de-
scription of debt to be paid off; among other reasons, because it
bears an interest at six per centum per annum, payable abroad,
and can be discharged with a saving. The other reasons alluded

jEt. 35.] LOANS. 295

to are of a nature both weighty and delicate, and too obvious, it
is presumed, to need a specification. Some recent circumstances
have served to strengthen the inducements to the measure. But
if it should, finally, be deemed unadvisable, it is necessary, at
least, that jjrovision should be made for the interest, which is
now suspended, under the doubt that has been stated, and from
the want of authority to remit it pursuant to the contract.

The amount of this debt, with the arrears of interest to the
end of the year 1791, is $220,646 81.

4. The act making provision for the debt of the United States,
has appropriated the proceeds of the Western lands, as a fund
for the discharge of the public debt. And the act making pro-
vision for the reduction of the public debt, has appropriated all
the surplus of the duties on imports and tonnage, to the end of
the year 1790, to the purpose of purchasing the debt at the mar-
ket price, and has authorized the President to borrow the further
sum of two millions of dollars for the same object.

These measures serve to indicate the intention of the Legisla-
ture, as early and as fast as possible, to provide for the extin-
guishment of the existing debt.

In pursuance of that intention, it appears advisable that a
systematic plan should be begun for the creation and establish-
ment of a sinking fund.

An obvious basis of this establishment, which may be imme-
diately contemplated, is the amount of the interest on as much of
the debt as has been, or shall be, from time to time, purchased,
or paid off, or received in discharge of any debt or demand of
the United States, made payable in public securities, over and
above the interest of any new debt, which may be created, in
order to such purchase or payment.

The purchases of the debt, already made, have left a sum of
interest in the treasury, which will be increased by future pur-
chases ; certain sums payable to the United States, in their own
securities, will, when received, have a similar effect. And there
is ground to calculate on a saving upon the operations, which
are in execution with regard to the foreign debt. The sale of
the Western lands, when provision shall be made for it, may be
expected to produce a material addition to such a fund.

296 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 35.

It is therefore submitted, that it be adopted as a principle,
that all interest which shall have ceased to be payable by any of
the means above specified, shall be set apart and appropriated in
the most firm and inviolable manner as a fund for sinking the
public debt, by purchase or payment ; and that the said fund be
placed under the direction of the officers, named in the second
section of the act making provision for the reduction of the pub-
lic debt, to be by them applied towards the purchase of the said
debt, until the annual produce of the said fund shall amount to
two per cent, of the entire portion of the debt which bears a
present interest of six per centum, and thenceforth to be applied
towards the redemption of that portion of the debt, according to
the right which has been reserved to the Government. It will
deserve the consideration of the Legislature, whether this fund
ought not to be so vested, as to acquire the nature and quality of
a proprietary trust, incapable of being diverted without a violation
of the principles and sanctions of property.

A rapid accumulation of this fund would arise from its own
operation ; but it is not doubted, that the progressive develop-
ment of the resources of the country, and a reduction of the rate
of interest, by the progress of public credit, already exemplified
in a considerable degree, will speedily enable the Government to
make important additions to it in various ways. With due
attention to preserve order and cultivate peace, a strong expec-
tation may be indulged that a reduction of the debt of the coun-
try will keep pace with the reasonable hopes of its citizens.
All which is humbly submitted.

Alexander Hamilton,

/Secretary of the Treasury.

[Schedules A, B, C, D, State Papers, Finance, vol. i., pp. 149, 150, 151.]

jEt. 35.] DUTIES ON SPIRITS. 297

SPIEITS, FOEEIGN AND DOMESTIC.

Communicated to the House of Representatives, March 6, 1792.

Treasury Department, March 5, 1792.

In obedience to the orders of the House of Eepresentatives of the
first and second days of November last, the first directing the
Secretary of the Treasury to report to the House such infor-
mation as he may have obtained, respecting any difficulties
which may have occurred, in the execution of the act " re-
pealing, after the last day of June next, the duties heretofore
laid upon distilled spirits, imported from abroad, and laying
others in their stead, and, also, upon spirits distilled within
the United States, and for appropriating the same," together
with his opinion thereupon ; the second directing him to
report to the House whether any, and what, alterations in
favor of the spirits which shall be distilled from articles of the
growth or produce of the United States, or from foreign arti-
cles, within the same, can, in his opinion, be made in the act
for laying duties upon spirits distilled within the United
States, consistently with its main design, and with the main-
tenance of the public faith ; the said Secretary respectfully
submits the following report :

From the several petitions and memorials which have been
referred to the Secretary, as well as from various representations
which have been made to him, it appears that objections have
arisen in different quarters against the above mentioned act,
which have, in some instances, embarrassed its execution, and
inspired a desire of its being repealed ; in others, have induced
a wish that alterations may be made in some of its provisions.

These objections have reference to a supposed tendency of the
act, first, to contravene the principles of liberty ; secondly, to
injure morals ; thirdly, to oppress by heavy and excessive penal-
ties ; fourthly, to injure industry, and interfere with the business
of distilling.

c 20

298 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 35.

As to the supposed tendency of the act to contravene the
principles of liberty, the discussions of the subject which have
had place in and out of the Legislature, supersede the necessity
of more than a few brief general observations.

It is presumed that a revision of the point cannot, in this
respect, weaken the convictions which originally dictated the law.

There can surely be nothing in the nature of an internal duty
on a consumable commodity, more incompatible with liberty, than
in that of an external duty, on a like commodity. A doctrine
which asserts, that all duties of the former kind (usually denomi-
nated excises) are inconsistent with the genius of a free govern-
ment, is too violent, and too little reconcilable with the necessi-
ties of society, to be true. It would tend to deprive the Govern-
ment of what is, in most countries, a principal source of revenue,
and, by narrowing the distribution of taxes, would serve to
oppress particular kinds of industry. It would throw, in the
first instance, an undue proportion of the public burthen on the
merchant and on the landholder.

This is one of those cases in which names have an improper
influence, and in which prepossessions exclude a due attention to
facts.

Accordingly, the law under consideration is complained of,
though free from the features which have served, in other cases,
to render laws on the same subject exceptionable : and, though
the differences have been pointed out, they have not only been
overlooked, but the very things, which have been studiously
avoided in the formation of the law, are charged upon it, and
that, too, from quarters where its operation would, from circum-
stances, have worn the least appearance of them.

It has been, heretofore, noticed, that the chief circumstances
which, in certain excise laws, have given occasion to the charge
of their being unfriendly to liberty, are not to be found in the
act which is the subject of the report, viz. : first, a summary and
discretionary jurisdiction in the excise officers, contrary to the
course of the common law, and in abridgment of the right of
trial by jury ; and secondly, a general jDower, in the same officers,
to search and inspect, indiscriminately, all the houses and build-

At. 35.] DUTIES ON SPIRITS. 299

ings of the persons engaged in the business to which the tax
relates.

As to the first particular, there is nothing in the act, even to
give color to a charge of the kind against it, and, accordingly, it
has not been brought. But, as to the second, a very different
power has been mistaken for it, and the act is complained of as
conferring that very power of indiscriminate search and inspec-
tion.

The fact, nevertheless, is otherwise. An officer, under the act
in question, can inspect or search no house or building, or even
apartment of any house or building, which had not been previ-
ously entered and marked by the possessor, as a place used for
distilling or keeping spirits.

And even the power, so qualified, is only applicable to distil-
leries from foreign materials, and in cities, towns, and villages,
from domestic materials ; that is, only in cases in which the law
contemplates that the business is carried on upon such a scale as
effectually to separate the distillery from the dwelling of the distil-
ler. The distilleries scattered over the country, which form
much the greatest part of the whole, are in no degree subject to
discretionary inspection and search.

The true principles of the objection which may be raised to a
general discretionary power of inspection and search, is, that the
domicil or dwelling of a citizen ought to be free from vexatious
inquisition and intrusion.

This principle cannot apply to a case in which it is put in his
own power to separate the place of his business from the place of
his habitation ; and, by designating the former by visible public
marks, to avoid all intermeddling with the latter.

A distillery seldom forms a part of the dwelling of its proprie-
tor, and even where it does, it depends on him to direct and limit
the power of visiting and search, by marking out the particular
apartments which are so employed.

But the requisition upon the distiller to set marks on the
building or apartments which he makes use of in his business, is
one of the topics of complaint against the law. Such marks are
represented as a dishonorable badge; and thus a regulation,

300 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 35.

designed as much to conform with the feelings of the citizen, as
for the security of the revenue, is converted into matter of objec-
tion.

It is not easy to conceive what maxim of liberty is violated,
by requiring persons who carry on particular trades, which are
made contributory to the revenue, to designate, by public marks,
the places in which they are carried on. There can certainly be
nothing more harmless, or less inconvenient, than such a regula-
tion. The thing itself is frequently done by persons of various
callings, for the information of customers ; and why it should
become a hardship or grievance, if required for a public purpose,
can, with difficulty, be imagined.

The supposed tendency of the act to injure morals, seems to
have relation to the oaths, which are, in a variety of cases, re-
quired, and which are liable to the objection, that they give
occasion to perjuries.

The necessity of requiring oaths is, whenever it occurs, mat-
ter of regret. It is certainly desirable to avoid them as often and
as far as possible ; but it is more easy to desire than to find a
substitute. The requiring of them is not peculiar to the act in
question : they are a common appendage of revenue laws, and
are among the usual guards of those laws, as they are of public
and private rights in courts of justice. They constantly occur in
jury trials, to which the citizens of the United States are so much
and so justly attached. The same objection, in different degrees,
lies against them in both cases, yet it is not perceivable how they
can be dispensed with in either.

It is remarkable, that both the kinds of security to the reve-
nue, which are to be found in the act, the oaths of parties, and
the inspection of officers, are objected to. If they are both to be
abandoned, it is not easy to imagine what security there can be
for any species of revenue, which is to be collected from articles
of consumption.

If precautions of this nature are inconsistent with liberty, and
immoral, as there are very few indirect taxes, which can be collected
without them, the consequence must be, that the entire or almost
entire weight of the public burthens must, in the first instance,

Ml. 35.] DUTIES ON SPIRITS. 301

fall upon fixed and visible property, houses and lands — a conse-
quence which would be found, in experiment, productive of
great injustice and inequality, and ruinous to agriculture.

It has been suggested by some distillers, that both the topics
of complaint which have been mentioned, might be obviated by
a fixed rate of duty, adjusted according to a ratio compounded of
the capacity of each still, and the number and capacities of the
cisterns employed with it ; but this, and every similar method,
are objected to by other distillers, as tending to great inequality,
arising from unequal supplies of the material at different times,
and at different places, from the different methods of distillation
practised by different distillers, and from the different degrees of
activity in the business, which arise from capitals more or less
adequate.

The result of an examination of this point appears to be, that
every such mode, in cases in which the business is carried on
upon an extensive scale, would, necessarily, be attended with
considerable inequalities; and, upon the whole, would be less
satisfactory than the plan which has been adopted.

It is proved by the fullest information, that, in regard to dis-
tillers which are rated in the law, according to the capacity of
each still, the alternative of paying, according to the quality actu-
ally distilled, is received in many parts of the United States as
essential to the equitable operation of the duty. And it is evi-
dent, that such an alternative could not be allowed but upon the
condition of the party rendering upon oath an account of the
quantity of spirits distilled by him, without entirely defeating the
duty.

As to the charge, that the penalties of the act are severe
and oppressive, it is made in such general terms, and so abso-
lutely without the specification of a single particular, that it is
difficult to imagine where it points.

The Secretary, however, has carefully reviewed the provisions
of the act, in this respect, and he is not able to discover any
foundation for the charge.

The penalties it inflicts are in their nature the same with
those which are common in revenue laws, and, in their degree,
comparatively moderate.

302 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 35.

Pecuniary fines, from fifty to five hundred dollars, and forfei-
ture of the article in respect to which there has been a failure to
comply with the law, are the severest penalties inflicted upon
delinquent parties, except in a very few cases : In two, a forfei-
ture of the value of the article is added to that of the article
itself, and in some others, a forfeiture of the ship or vessel,
and of the wagon or other instrument of conveyance, assistant in
a breach of law, is likewise involved.

Penalties like these, for wilful and fraudulent breaches of an
important law, cannot, truly, be deemed either unusual or ex-
cessive. They are less than those which secure the laws of
impost, and as moderate as can promise security to any object of
revenue which is capable of being evaded.

There appears to be but one provision in the law, which
admits of a question whether the penalty prescribed may not
partake of severity. It is that which inflicts the pains of perjury
on any person who shall be convicted of " wilfully taking a false
oath or affirmation in any of the cases in which oaths or affirma-
tions are required by the act."

Precedents in relation to this particular, vary. In many of
them, the penalties are less severe than for perjury, in courts of
justice ; in others, they are the same. The latter are, generally,
of the latest date, and seem to have been the result of experi-
ence.

The United States have, in other cases, pursued the same
principle as in the law in question. And the practice is certain-
ly founded on strong reasons.

1st. The additional security which it gives to the revenue,
cannot be doubted. Many who would risk pecuniary forfeitures
and penalties, would not encounter the more disgraceful punish-
ment annexed to perjury.

2d. There seems to be no solid distinction between one false
oath in violation of law and right and another false oath in
violation of law and right. A distinction in the punishments of
different species of false swearing, is calculated to beget false
opinions concerning the sanctity of an oath ; and by counte-
nancing an impression, that a violation of it is less heinous in the

jEt. 35.] DUTIES ON SPIRITS. 303

cases in which it is less punished, it tends to impair in the mind
that scrupulous veneration for the obligation of an oath, which
ought always to prevail, and not only to facilitate a breach of it
in the cases which the laws have marked with less odium, but
to prepare the mind for committing the crime in other cases.

So far is the law under consideration from being chargeable
with particular severity, that there are to be found in it, marks
of more than common attention, to prevent its operating severely
or oppressively.

The 43rd. section of the act contains a special provision (and
one which, it is believed, is not to be found in any law enacted
in this country, prior to the present constitution of the United
States), by which forfeitures and penalties incurred, without an
intention of fraud or wilful negligence, may be mitigated or
remitted.

This mild and equitable provision is an effectual guard
against suffering or inconvenience, in consequence of unde-
signed transgressions of the law.

The 30th section contains a provision in favor of persons,
who, though innocent, may accidentally suffer by seizures of
their property (as in the execution of the revenue laws sometimes
unavoidably happens), which is, perhaps, entirely peculiar to the
law under consideration. Where there has even been a probable
cause of seizure, sufficient to acquit an officer, the jury are to
assess whatever damages may have accrued from any injury to
the article seized, with an allowance for the detention of it, at
the rate of six per centum per annum of the value, which
damages are to be paid out of the public treasury.

There are other provisions of the act which mark the scru-
pulous attention of the Government to protect the parties con-
cerned from inconvenience and injury, and which conspire to
vindicate the law from imputations of severity or oppression.

The supposed tendency of the act to injure industry, and to
interfere with the business of distilling, is endeavored to be
supported by some general and some special reasons, both
having relation to the effect of the duty upon the manufacture.

Those of the first kind affirm generally, that duties on home

304 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 35.

manufactures are impolitic, because they tend to discourage
them ; that they are particularly so, when they are laid on
articles manufactured from the produce of the country, because
they have, then, the additional effect of injuring agriculture;
that it is the general policy of nations to protect and promote
their own manufactures, especially those which are wrought out
of domestic materials ; that the law in question interferes with
this policy.

Observations of this kind admit of an easy answer. Duties
on manufactures tend to discourage them, or not, according to
the circumstances under which they are laid ; and are impolitic
or not, according to the same circumstances. When a manufac-
ture is in its infancy, it is impolitic to tax it, because the tax
would be both unproductive, and would add to the difficulties
which naturally impede the first attempts to establish a new
manufacture, so as to endanger its success.

But when a manufacture (as in the case of distilled spirits in
the United States) is arrived at maturity, it is as fit an article of
taxation as any other. No good reason can be assigned why the
consumer of a domestic commodity should not contribute some-
thing to the public revenue, when the consumer of a foreign
commodity contributes to it largely. And, as a general rule, it
is not to be disputed, that duties on articles of consumption are
paid by the consumers.

To the manufacture itself, the duty is no injury, if an equal
duty be laid on the rival foreign article. And when a greater
duty is laid upon the latter than upon the former, as in the
present instance, the difference is a bounty on the domestic
article, and operates as an encouragement of the manufacture.
The manufacturer can afford to sell his fabric the cheaper, in
proportion to that difference, and is so far enabled to undersell
and supplant the dealer in the foreign article.

The principle of the objection would tend to confine all
taxes to imported articles, and would deprive the Government
of resources, which are indispensable to a due provision for the
public safety and welfare, contrary to the plain intention of the
constitution, which gives express power to employ those re-

Mr. 35.] DUTIES ON SPIRITS. 305

sources when necessary — a power which is found in all govern-
ments, and is essential to their efficiency, and even to their
existence.

Duties on articles of internal production and manufacture,
form, in every country, the principal sources of revenue. Those
on imported articles can only be carried to a certain extent, with-
out defeating their object, by operating either as prohibitions,
or as bounties upon smuggling. They are, moreover, in some
degree, temporary ; for, as the growth of manufactures diminishes
the quantum of duty on imports, the public revenue, ceasing to
arise from that source, must be derived from articles which the
national industry has substituted for those previously imported.
If the Government cannot then resort to internal means for the
additional supplies, which the exigencies of every nation call for,
it will be unable to perform its duty, or even to preserve its
existence. The community must be unprotected, and the social
compact be dissolved.

For the same reasons that a duty ought not to be laid on an
article manufactured out of the country (which is the point most
insisted upon), it ought not to be laid upon the produce itself,
nor consequently upon the land, which is the instrument of that
produce ; because taxes are laid upon land, as the fund out of
which the income of the proprietor is drawn ; or, in other words,
on account of its produce. There ought, therefore, on the principle
of the objection, to be neither taxes on land, nor the produce of
land, nor on articles manufactured from that produce. And if
a nation should be in a condition to supply itself with its own
manufactures, there could then be very little, or no revenue ; of
course, there must be a want of the essential means of national
justice and national security.

Positions like these, however well meant by those who urge
them, refute themselves, because they tend to the dissolution of
government, by rendering it incapable of providing for the
objects for which it is instituted.

However true the allegation, that it is, and ought to be, the
prevailing policy of nations to cherish their own manufactures,
it is equally true, that nations, in general, lay duties for the

306 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. B5.

purpose of revenue, on their own manufactures; and it is
obvious, to a demonstration, that it may be done without injury
to them. The most successful nations in manufactures have
drawn the largest revenues from the most useful of them. It
merits particular attention, that ardent spirits are an article
which has been generally deemed, and made use of, as one of
the fittest objects of revenue, and to an extent, in other coun-
tries, which bears no comparison with what has been done in
the United States.

The special reasons alluded to, are of different kinds :

1. It is said, that the act in question, by laying a smaller
additional duty on foreign spirits than the duty on home-made
spirits, has a tendency to discourage the manufacture of the
latter.

This objection merits consideration, and, as far as it may
appear to have foundation, ought to be obviated.

The point, however, seems not to have been viewed, in all
its respects, in a correct light.

Before the present constitution of the United States began to
operate, the regulations of the different States, respecting dis-
tilled spirits, were very dissimilar. In some of them, duties
were laid on foreign spirits only ; in others, on domestic as well
as foreign. The absolute duty, in the former instances, and the
difference of duty in the latter, was, upon an average, consider-
ably less than the present difference in the duties on foreign and
home-made spirits. If to this be added, the effect of the uniform
operation of the existing duties throughout the United States, it
is easy to infer, that the situation of our own distilleries is, in the
main, much better, as far as they are affected by the laws, than
it was previous to the passing of any act of the United States
upon the subject. They have, therefore, upon the whole, gained
materially, under the system which has been pursued by the
National Government.

The first law of the United States on this head, laid a duty
of no more than eight cents per gallon on those of Jamaica proof.
The second increased the duty on foreign spirits to twelve cents
per gallon, of the lowest proof, and by certain gradations, to

Mr. 35.]

DUTIES ON SPIRITS. 307

fifteen cents per gallon, of Jamaica proof. The last act places
the duty at twenty cents per gallon, of the lowest proof, and ex-
tends it, by the like gradations, to twenty-five cents per gallon, of
Jamaica proof; laying, also, a duty of eleven cents per gallon on
home-made spirits, distilled from foreign materials of the lowest
proof, with a like gradual extension to fifteen cents per gallon of
Jamaica proof; and a duty of nine cents per gallon on home-
made spirits, distilled from domestic materials of the lowest
proof, with the like gradual extension to thirteen cents per
gallon, of Jamaica proof.

If the transition had been immediate from the first to the last
law, it could not have failed to have been considered as a change
in favor of our own distilleries, as far as the rate of. duty is con-
cerned. The mean duty on foreign spirits, by the first law, was
nine cents ; by the last, the mean extra duty on foreign spirits is,
in fact, about eleven cents, as it regards spirits distilled from
foreign materials, and about thirteen as it regards spirits dis-
tilled from domestic materials. In making this computation, it is
to be adverted to, that the four first degrees of proof mentioned
in the law, correspond with the different kinds of spirits usually
imported, while the generality of those made in the United
States, are of the lowest class of proof.

Spirits from domestic materials, derived a double advantage
from the last law ; that is, from the increased rate of duty on
foreign imported spirits, and from a higher rate of duty on
home-made spirits of foreign materials.

But the intervention of the second law has served to produce,
in some places, a different impression of the business than would
have happened without it. By a considerable addition to the
duties on foreign spirits, without laying any thing on those of
home manufacture, it has served to give to the last law the
appearance of taking away a part of the advantages previously
secured to the domestic distilleries. It seems to have been over-
looked, that the second act ought, in reality, to be viewed only as
an intermediate step to the arrangement finally contemplated by
the legislature ; and that, as part of a system, it has, upon the
whole, operated in favor of the national distilleries. The thing

308 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 35.

to be considered is the substantial existing difference in favor of
the home manufacture, as the law now stands.

The advantage, indeed, to the distillation of spirits from the
produce of the country, arising from the difference between the
duties on spirits distilled from foreign, and those distilled from
domestic materials, is exclusively the work of the last act, and is
an advantage which has not been properly appreciated by those
distillers of spirits from home produce, who have complained of
the law as hurtful to their manufacture.

Causes entirely foreign to the law itself, have also assisted in
producing misapprehension. The approximation of the price of
home-made spirits to that of foreign spirits, which has, of late,
taken place, and which is attributed to the operation of the act
in question, is in a great degree owing to the circumstances
which have tended to raise the price of molasses in the "West
India market, and to an extra importation of foreign spirits prior
to the first of July last, to avoid the payment of the additional
duty which then took place.

It is stated in the petition from Salem, that, previous to the last
act, the price of domestic to foreign spirits was as Is. 9c?. to 3s.
4d of the money of Massachusetts, per gallon, and that, since
that act, it has become as 3s. 3d to 4s. 2d.

It is evident that a rise from Is. 9d. to 3s. 3d. per gallon,
which would be equal to twenty cents, is not to be attributed
wholly to a duty of eleven cents. Indeed, if there were a
concurrence of no other cause, the inference would be very
different from that intended to be drawn from the fact, for it
would evince a profit gained to the distiller of more than
eighty per cent, on the duty.

It is, however, meant to be understood, that this approxima-
tion of prices, occasions a greater importation and consumption
of foreign, and a less consumption of domestic spirits than
formerly. How far this may, or may not be the case, the
Secretary is not now able to say with precision, but no facts
have come under his notice officially, which serve to authenticate
the suggestion; and it must be considered as possible, that
representations of this kind are rather the effect of apprehension

JEt. 35.] DUTIES ON SPIRITS. 309

than of experience. It would even be not unnatural, that a
considerable enhancement of the prices of the foreign article,
should have led to a greater consumption of the domestic article,
as the cheapest of the two, though dearer itself than formerly.

But, while there is ground to believe, that the suggestions
which have been made on this point, are, in many respects,
inaccurate and misconceived, there are known circumstances,
which seem to render advisable, some greater difference between
the duties on foreign and on home-made spirits. These circum-
stances have been noticed in the report of the Secretary, on the
subject of manufactures, and an alteration has been proposed, by
laying two cents in addition, upon imported spirits of the lowest
proof, with a proportional increase on the higher proofs, and by
deducting one cent from the duty on the lowest proof of home-
made spirits, with a proportional diminution in respect to the
higher proofs.

This alteration would bring the proportion of the duties
nearly to the standard which the petitioner, Hendrick Doyer,
who appears likely to be well informed on the subject, represents
as the proper one, to enable the distillation of Geneva to be
carried on with the same advantage as before the passing of the
act. He observes, that the duty on home-made Geneva, being
nine cents, the additional duty on foreign ought to have been
twelve cents. By the alteration proposed, the proportion will be
as ten to eight, which is little different from that of twelve to nine.

It is worthy of remark, that the same petitioner states, that,
previous to the passing of the act of which he complains, he
" could sell his Geneva sixteen and a quarter per cent, under the
price of Holland Geneva, but that he cannot do it at present,
and in future, lower than fourteen per cent." If, as he also
states, the quality of his Geneva be equal to that of Holland,
and, if his meaning be, as it appears to be, that he can now
afford to sell his Geneva lower, by fourteen per cent., than the
Geneva of Holland, it will follow, that the manufacture of that
article is in a very thriving train, even under the present rate of
duties. For a difference of fourteen per cent, in the price, is
capable of giving a decided preference to the sale of the domestic
article.

310 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 35.

2. It is objected, that the duty, by being laid in the first
instance upon the distiller, instead of the consumer, makes a
larger capital necessary to carry on the business ; and, in this
country, where capitals are not large, puts the national distiller
under disadvantages.

But this inconvenience, as far as it has foundation, in the
state of things, is essentially obviated by the credits given.
Where the duty is payable upon the quantity distilled, a credit
is allowed, which cannot be less than six, and may extend to
nine months. Where the duty is charged on the capacity of
the still, it is payable half yearly. Sufficient time is, therefore,
allowed, to raise the duty from the sale of the article : which
supersedes the necessity of a greater capital. It is well known,
that the article is one usually sold for cash, or at a short credit.
If these observations are not applicable to distilleries in the
interior country, the same may be said, in a great degree, of
the objection itself. The course of the business, in that quarter,
renders a considerable capital less necessary than elsewhere.
The produce of the distiller's own farm, or of the neighboring
farms, brought to be distilled upon shares, or compensations in
the article itself, constitute the chief business of the distilleries in
the remote parts of the country. In the comparatively few in-
stances in which they may be prosecuted as a regular business,
upon a large scale, by force of capital, the observations which
have been made, will substantially apply.

The collection of the duty from the distiller, has, on the other
hand, several advantages. It contributes to equality, by charg-
ing the article, in the first stage of its progress, which diffuses
the duty among all classes alike. It the better secures the col-
lection of the revenue, by confining the responsibility to a smaller
number of persons, and simplifying the process. And it avoids
the necessity of so great a number of officers, as would be re-
quired in a more diffuse system of collection, operating immedi-
ately upon purchasers and consumers. Besides, that the latter
plan would tranfer whatever inconveniences may be incident to
the collection from a smaller to a greater number of persons.
3. It is alleged that the inspection of the officers is injurious

Mr. 35.] DUTIES ON SPIRITS. 311

to the business of distilling, by laying open its secrets or mys-
teries.

Different distillers, there is no doubt, practise, in certain
respects, different methods in the course of their business, and
have different degrees of skill. But it may well be doubted
whether, in a business so old and so much diffused as that of
the distillation of spirits, there are at this day secrets of con-
sequence to the possessors. There will, at least, be no hazard
in taking it for granted, that none such exist in regard to the dis-
tillation of rum from molasses or sugar, or of the spirits from
grain usually called whisky, or of brandies from the fruits of
this country. The cases in which the allegations are made with
most color, apply to Geneva, and, perhaps, to certain cordials.

It is probable that the course of the business might and would
always be such as, in fact, to involve no inconvenience on this
score. But, as the contrary is affirmed, and as it is desirable to
obviate complaint as far as it can be done consistently with essen-
tial principles and objects, it may not be unadvisable to attempt
a remedy.

It is to be presumed, that, if any secrets exist, they relate to
a primary process, particularly the mixture of the ingredients ;
this, it is supposable, cannot take a greater time each day, than
two hours. If, therefore, the officers of inspection were enjoined
to forbear their visits to the part of the distillery commonly made
use of for such process, during a space not exceeding two hours
in each day, to be notified by the distiller, there is ground to
conclude that it would obviate the objection.

4. The regulations for marking of casks and vessels, as well
as houses and buildings, also furnish matter of complaint.

This complaint, as it regards houses and buildings, has been
already attended to. But there is a light in which it is made,
that has not yet been taken notice of.

It is said, that the requiring the doors of the apartments, as
well as the outer door of each building, to be marked, imposes
unnecessary trouble.

"V\ hen it is considered, how little trouble or expense attends
the execution of this provision, in the first instance, and that the

312 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 35.

marks once set, will endure for a great length of time, the objec
tion to it appears to be without weight.

But the provision, as it relates to the apartments of buildings,
has for its immediate object the convenience of the distillers
themselves. It is calculated to avoid the very evil of an indis-
criminate search of their houses and buildings, by enabling them
to designate the particular apartments which are employed for the
purposes of their business, and to secure all others from inspec-
tion and visitation.

The complaint, as it respects the marking of casks and ves-
sels, has somewhat more foundation. It is represented (and
upon careful inquiry appears to be true) that, through long
established prejudice, home-made spirits of equal quality with
foreign, if known to be home-made, will not command an equal
price. This particularly applies to Geneva.

If the want of a distinction between foreign and home-made
spirits were an occasion of fraud upon consumers, by imposing
a worse for a better commodity, it would be a reason for contin-
uing it ; but as far as such a distinction gives operation to a
mere prejudice, favorable to a foreign, and injurious to a domes-
tic manufacture, it furnishes a reason for abolishing it.

Though time might be expected to remove the prejudice,
the progress of the domestic manufacture, in the interval, might
be materially checked.

It appears, therefore, expedient to remove this ground of
complaint, by authorizing the same marks and certificates both
for foreign and for home-made Geneva.

Perhaps, indeed, it may not be unadvisable to vest some-
where a discretionary power to regulate the forms of certificates
which are to accompany, and the particular marks which are to
be set upon casks and vessels containing spirits, generally, as may
be found convenient in practice.

Another source of objection with regard to the marking of
casks is, that there is a general prohibition against defacing, or
altering the marks, and a penalty upon doing it, which prevents
the using of the same casks more than once, and occasions waste}
loss, and embarrassment.

jEt. 35.] DUTIES ON SPIRITS. 313

It is conceived that this prohibition does not extend to the
effacing of old marks, and placing of new ones, by the officers of
the revenue, or in their presence, and by their authority. But
as real inconveniences would attend a contrary construction, and
there is some room for question, it appears desirable that all doubt
should be removed by an explicit provision to enable the officer
to efface old marks and substitute new ones, when casks have
been emptied of their former contents and are wanted for new
use.

5. The requisition to keep an account from day to day of the
quantity of spirits distilled, is represented both as a hardship,
and impossible to be complied with.

But the Secretary is unable to perceive that it can justly be
viewed either in the one or in the other light. The trouble of
setting down, in the evening, the work of the day, in a book
prepared for, and furnished to the party, must be inconsiderable,
and the doing of it would even conduce to accuracy in business.

The idea of impracticability must have arisen from some mis-
conception. It seems to involve a supposition that something is
required different from the truth of the fact. Spirits distilled are
usually distinguished into high wines, proof spirits, and low
wines. It is certainly possible to express, each day, the quantity
of each kind produced, and where one kind is converted into
another, to explain it by brief notes, showing in proper columns
the results in those kinds of spirits which are ultimately prepared
for sale.

A revision is now making of the forms at first transmitted,
and it is not doubted that it will be easy to obviate the objection
of impracticability.

On full reflection, the Secretary is of opinion that the requi-
sition in this respect is a reasonable one, and that it is of impor-
tance to the due collection of the revenue, especially in those
cases where, by the alternative allowed in favor of country dis-
tilleries, the oath of a party is the only evidence of the quantity
produced. It is useful in every such case to give the utmost
possible precision to the object which is to be attested.

6. It is alleged as a hardship, that distilleries are held respon-

c 21

314 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 35.

sible for the duties on spirits which are exported, till certain
things, difficult to be performed, are done, in order to entitle the
exporter to the drawback.

This is a misapprehension. The drawback is at all events to
be paid in six months, which is as early as the duty can become
payable, and frequently earlier than it does become payable.
And the Government relies on the bond of the exporter for
a fulfilment of the conditions upon which the drawback is
allowed.

An explanation to the several collectors, of this point, which
has taken place since the complaint appeared, will have removed
the cause of it.

The same explanation will obviate another objection, founded
on the supposition that the bond of the distiller and that of the
exporter are for a like purpose. The latter is merely to secure
the landing of the goods in a foreign country, and will often con-
tinue depending after every thing relative to duty and draw-
back has been liquidated and finished.

7. It is an article of complaint that no drawback is allowed
in case of shipwreck, when spirits are sent from one port to
another in the United States.

There does not occur any objection to a provision for making
an allowance of that kind, which would tend to alleviate mis-
fortune, and give satisfaction.

8. The necessity of twenty-four hours' notice, in order to the
benefit of drawback on the exportation of spirits, and the prohibi-
tion to remove them from a distillery after sunset, except in the
presence of an officer, are represented as embarrassments to
business.

The length of notice required appears greater than is neces-
sary. It is not perceived that any inconvenience could arise from
reducing the time to six hours.

But it is not conceived to be necessary or expedient to make
an alteration in the last mentioned particular. The prohibition
is of real consequence to the security of the revenue. The
course of business will readily adapt itself to it, and the presence
of an officer in extraordinary cases will afford due accommoda-
tion.

JEt. 35.] DUTIES ON SPIRITS. 315

9. It is stated as a hardship, that there is no allowance for
leakage and wastage, in the case of spirits shipped from one State
to another.

The law for the collection of the duties on imports and ton-
nage allows two per cent, for leakage, on spirits imported. A
similar allowance on home-made spirits at the distillery, does not
appear less proper.

10. It is mentioned as a grievance, that distillers are required
to give bond, with surety, for the amount of the duties, and that
the sufficiency of the surety is made to depend on the discretion
of the chief officer of inspection.

The requiring of sureties can be no more a hardship on distil-
lers, than on importing merchants, and every other person to
whom the public afford a credit. It is a natural consequence of
the credit allowed ; and a very reasonable condition of the indul-
gence, which, without this precaution, might be imprudent, and
injurious to the United States.

The party has his option to avoid it by prompt payment of
the duty, and is even entitled to an abatement, which may be
considered as a premium, if he elects to do so.

As to the second point, if sureties are to be given, there must
be some person on the part of the Government to judge of their
sufficiency, otherwise the thing itself would be nugatory; and
the discretion cannot be vested more conveniently for the party,
than in the chief officer of inspection for the survey.

A view has now been taken of most, if not of all, the objec-
tions of a general nature, which have appeared.

Some few, of a local complexion, remain to be attended to.

The representation signed Edward Cook, chairman, as on
behalf of the four most western counties of Pennsylvania, states,
that the distance of that part of the country from a market for its
produce, leads to a necessity of distilling the grain, which is
raised, as a principal dependence of its inhabitants ; which cir-
cumstance, and the scarcity of cash, combine to render the tax in
question unequal, oppressive, and particularly distressing to them.

As to the circumstance of equality, it may safely be affirmed
to be impracticable to devise a tax which shall operate with

316 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [J&r. 35.

exact equality upon every part of the community. Local and
other circumstances will inevitably create disparities, more or less
great.

Taxes on consumable articles have, upon the whole, better
pretensions to equality than any other. If some of them fall
more heavily on particular parts of the community, others of
them are chiefly borne by other parts. And the result is an
equalization of the burthen as far as it is attainable. Of this class
of taxes it is not easy to conceive one which can operate with
greater equality than a tax on distilled spirits. There appears
to be no article, as far as the information of the Secretary goes,
which is an object of more equal consumption throughout the
United States.

In particular districts, a greater use of cider may occasion a
smaller consumption of spirits ; but it will not be found, on a
close examination, that it makes a material difference. A greater or
less use of ardent spirits, as far as it exists, seems to depend more
on relative habits of sobriety or intemperance than on any other
cause.

As far as habits of less moderation, in the use of distilled
spirits, should produce inequality any where, it would certainly
not be a reason with the Legislature either to repeal or lessen a
tax, which, by rendering the article dearer, might tend to restrain
too free an indulgence of such habits.

It is certainly not obvious how this tax can operate particu-
larly unequally upon the part of the country in question. As a
general rule it is a true one, that duties on articles of consump-
tion fall on the consumers, by being added to the price of the
commodity. This is illustrated, in the present instance, by facts.
Previous to the law laying a duty on home-made spirits, the
price of whiskey was about thirty -eight cents ; it is now about
fifty-six cents. Other causes may have contributed in some
degree to this effect, but it is evidently to be ascribed chiefly to
the duty.

Unless, therefore, the inhabitants of the counties which have
been mentioned are greater consumers of spirits than those of
other parts of the country, they cannot pay a greater proportion

At. 35.]

DUTIES ON SPIRITS. 317

of the tax. If they are, it is their interest to become less so. It
depends on themselves, by diminishing the consumption, to
restore equality.

The argument, that they are obliged to convert their grain
into spirits, in order to transportation to distant markets, does not
prove the point alleged. The duty on all they send to those
markets will be paid by the purchasers. They will still pay
only upon their own consumption.

As far as an advance is laid upon the duty, or as far as the
difference of duty, between whiskey and other spirits, tends to
favor a greater consumption of the latter, they, as greater manu-
facturers of the article, supposing this fact to be as stated, will be
proportionably benefited.

The duty on home-made spirits from domestic materials, if
paid by the gallon, is nine cents. From the communications
which have been received, since the passing of the act, it appears
that, paying the rate annexed to the capacity of the still, and
using great diligence, the duty may be, in fact, reduced to six
cents per gallon. Let the average be taken at seven and a half
cents, which is probably higher than is really paid.

Generally speaking, then, for every gallon of whiskey which
is consumed, the consumer may be supposed to pay seven and a
half cents ; but for every gallon of spirits, distilled from foreign
materials, the consumer pays, at least, eleven cents, and for every
gallon of foreign spirits, at least twenty cents. The consumer,
therefore, of foreign spirits, pays nearly three times the duty, and
the consumer of homemade spirits, from foreign materials, nearly
fifty per cent, more duty, on the same quantity, than the con-
sumer of spirits from domestic materials, exclusive of the greater
price, in both cases, which is an additional charge upon each of
the two first mentioned classes of consumers.

When it is considered that 28T parts of the whole quantity of
spirits consumed in the United States are foreign, and ¥'T are of
foreign materials, and that the inhabitants of the Atlantic and
midland counties are the principal consumers of these more
highly taxed articles, it cannot be inferred that the tax under
consideration bears particularly hard on the inhabitants of the
Western country.

318 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 35.

This may serve as an exemplification of a general proposition,
of material consequence, namely, that, if the former descriptions
of citizens are able, from situation, to obtain more for their
produce than the latter, they contribute proportionally more to
the revenue. Numerous other examples, in confirmation of this,
might be adduced.

As to the circumstance of scarcity of money, as far as it
can be supposed to have foundation, it is as much an objection
to any other tax as the one in question. The weight of the
tax is not certainly such as to involve any peculiar difficulty.
It is impossible to conceive that nine cents per gallon on dis-
tilled spirits, which is stating it at the highest, can, from the mag-
nitude of the tax, distress any part of the country, which has an
ability to pay taxes at all — enjoying, too, the unexampled advan-
tage of a total exemption from taxes on houses, lands, or stock.

The population of the United States being about four mil-
lions of persons, and the quantity of spirits annually consumed
between ten and eleven millions of gallons, the yearly propor-
tion to each family, if consisting of six persons, which is a full
ratio, would be about sixteen gallons, the duty upon which
would be less than one dollar and a half. The citizen who is
able to maintain a family, and who is the owner or occupier of a
farm, cannot feel any inconvenience from so light a contribution I
and the industrious poor, whether artisans or laborers, are usually
allowed spirits, or an equivalent, in addition to their wages.

The Secretary has no evidence to satisfy his mind that a real
scarcity of money will be found, on experiment, a serious im-
pediment to the payment of the tax any where. In the quarter
where this complaint has particularly prevailed, the expenditures,
for the defence of the frontier, would seem, alone, sufficient to
obviate it. To this, it is answered, that the contractors for the
supply of the army operate with goods, and not with money.
But this still tends to keep at home whatever money finds its
way there. Nor is it a fact, if the information of the Secretary
be not materially erroneous, that the purchases of the contractors
of flour, meat, &c, are wholly with goods. But, if they were, the
Secretary can aver, that more money has, in the course of the

JEt. 35.] DUTIES ON SPIRITS. 319

last year, been sent into the Western country, from the treasury,
in specie, and bank bills, which answer the same purpose, for the
pay of the troops and militia, and for quartermaster's supplies,
than the whole amount of the tax in the four western counties
of Pennsylvania and the district of Kentucky, is likely to equal
in four or five years. Similar remittances are likely to be made
in future.

Hence, the Government itself furnishes, and, in all probabil-
ity, will continue to furnish, the means of paying its own de-
mands, with a surplus which will sensibly foster the industry
of the parties concerned, if they avail themselves of it, under
the guidance of a spirit of economy and exertion.

Whether there be no part of the United States in which the
objection of want of money may truly exist, in a degree to ren-
der the payment of the duty seriously distressing to the inhabit-
ants, the Secretary is not able to pronounce. He can only ex-
press his own doubt of the fact, and refer the matter to such in-
formation as the members of any district, so situated, may have
it in their power to offer to the legislative body.

Should the case appear to exist, it would involve the ne-
cessity of a measure, in the abstract, very ineligible, that is, the
receipt of the duty in the article itself.

If an alternative of this sort were to be allowed, it would be
proper to make it the duty of the party paying, to deliver the ar-
ticle at the place in each county, where the office of inspection is
kept, and to regulate the price according to such a standard as
would induce a preference of paying in cash, except from a real
impracticability of obtaining it.

In regard to the petition from the district of Kentucky, after
what has been said with reference to other applications, it can
only be necessary to observe, that the exemption which is
sought by that petition is rendered impracticable by an express
provision of the constitution, which declares that " all duties,
imposts, and excises, shall be uniform throughout the United
States."

In the course of the foregoing examination of the objections
which have been made to the law, some alterations have been

320 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.tor. 35.

submitted for the purpose of removing a part of them. The
Secretary will now proceed to submit such further alterations as
appear to him advisable, arising either from the suggestions of
the officers of the revenue or from his own reflections.

1. It appears expedient to alter the distinction respecting
distilleries from domestic materials in cities, towns, and villages,
so as to confine it to one or more stills worked at the same dis-
tillery, the capacity or capacities of which together do not fall
short of four hundred gallons.

The effectual execution of the present provisions respecting
distilleries from home materials in cities, towns, and villages,
would occasion an inconvenient multiplication of officers, and
would, in too great a degree, exhaust the product of the duty in
the expense of collection. It is also probable that the alteration
suggested would also conduce to public satisfaction.

2. The present provisions concerning the entering of stills
are found, by experience, not to be adequate, and, in some in-
stances, not convenient.

It appears advisable that there shall be one office of inspec-
tion for each county, with authority to the supervisor to estab-
lish more than one, if he shall judge it necessary for the accom-
modation of the inhabitants ; and that every distiller, or person
having or keeping a still, shall be required to make entry of the
same at some office of inspection for the county, within a cer-
tain determinate period in each year. It will be proper, also, to
enjoin upon every person, who, residing within the county,
shall procure a still, or who, removing into a county, shall bring
into it a still, within twenty days after such procuring or remo-
val, and before he or she begins to use the still, to make entry at
the office of inspection. Every entry, besides describing the
still, should specify in whose possession it is, and the purpose for
which it is intended, as, whether for sale or for use in distilling ;
and in the case of a removal of the person from another place
into the county, shall specify the place from which the still shall
have been brought. A forfeiture of the still ought, in every
case in which an entry is required, to attend an omission to
enter.

jEt. 35.] DUTIES ON SPIRITS. 321

This regulation, by simplifying the business of entering stills,
would render it easier to comprehend and comply with what is
required, would furnish the. officers with a better rule for ascer-
taining delinquencies, and, by avoiding to them a considerable
degree of unnecessary trouble, will facilitate the retaining of
proper characters in the offices of collectors.

3. It is represented that difficulties have, in some instances,
arisen, concerning the persons responsible for the duty. The
apparent not being always the real proprietor, an opportunity
for collusion is afforded ; and without collusion, the uncertainty
is stated as a source of embarrassment.

It also, sometimes, happens, that certain itinerant persons,
without property, complying with the preliminary requisitions of
the law as to entry, &c, erect and work stills for a time, and be-
fore a half yearly period of payment arrives, remove and evade
the duty.

It would tend to remedy these inconveniencies, if possessors
and proprietors of stills were made jointly and severally liable,
and if the duty were made a specific lien on the still itself; if,
also, the proprietor of the land upon which any still may be
worked should be made answerable for the duty, except where
it is worked by a lawful and bona fide tenant of the land of an
estate not less than for a term of one year, or unless such pro-
prietor can make it appear, that the possessor of the still was,
during the whole time, without his privity or connivance, an in-
truder or trespasser on the land ; and if, in the last place, any dis-
tiller, about to remove from the division in which he is, should
be required, previous to such removal, to pay the tax for the
year, deducting any prior payments, or give bond, with approv-
ed surety, conditioned for the payment of the full sum for which
he or she should be legally accountable to the end of the year,
to the collector of the division to which the removal shall be?
rendering proof thereof, under the hand of the said collector,
within six months after the expiration of the year.

As well with a view to the forfeiture of the stills for non-
entry, as to give effect to a specific lien of the duty (if either or
both of these provisions should be deemed eligible), it will be

322 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JSt. 36.

necessary to enjoin it upon the officers of the revenue to identi-
fy) by proper marks, the several stills which shall have been en-
tered with them.

4. The exemptions granted to stills of the capacity of fifty
gallons and under, by the 36th section of the law, appear, from
experience, to require revision.

Tending to produce inequality, as well as to frustrate the
revenue, they have excited complaint. It appears, at least, ad-
visable, that the obligation to enter, as connected with that of
paying duty, should extend to stills of all dimensions, and that it
should be enforced, in every case, by the same penalty.

5. The 28th section of the act makes provision for the seizure
of spirits, unaccompanied with marks and certificates, in the cases
in which they are required ; but as they are required only in
certain cases, and there is no method of distinguishing the spirits,
in respect to which they are necessary, from those in respect to
which they are not necessary, the provision becomes nugatory,
because an attempt to enforce it would be oppressive. Hence,
not only a great security for the due execution of the law is lost,
but seizures very distressing to unoffending individuals must
happen, notwithstanding great precaution to avoid them.

It would be, in the opinion of the Secretary, of great impor-
tance to provide, that all spirits whatsoever, in casks or vessels
of the capacity of twenty gallons and upwards, should be marked
and certified, on pain of seizure and forfeiture, making it the duty
of the officers to furnish the requisite certificates gratis, to distil-
lers and dealers, in all ' cases in which the law shall have been
complied with.

In those cases in which an occasional recurrence to the offi-
cers for certificates might be inconvenient, blanks may be fur-
nished, to be accounted for. And it may be left to the parties
themselves, in the like cases, to mark their own casks or vessels
in some simple manner, to be defined in the law. These cases
may be designated generally. They will principally relate to
dealers, who, in the course of their business, draw off spirits
from larger to smaller casks, and to distillers, who pay according
to the capacities of their stills.

Mt. 35.] DUTIES ON SPIRITS. 323

As a part of a regulation of this sort, it will be necessary to
require, that, within a certain period, sufficiently long to admit
of time to know and comply with the provision, entry shall be
made, by all dealers and distillers, of all spirits in their respec-
tive possessions, which shall not have been previously marked
and certified, according to law, in order that they may be marked
and certified as old stock.

The regulations here proposed, though productive of some
trouble and inconvenience in the outset, will be, afterwards, a
security both to individuals and to the revenue.

6. At present, spirits may not be imported from abroad in
casks of less capacity than fifty gallons. The size of these casks
is smaller than is desirable, so far as the security of the revenue
is concerned, and there has not occurred any good objection to
confining the importation to larger casks, that is to say, to casks
of not less than ninety gallons. Certainly, as far as respects rum
from the West Indies, it may be done without inconvenience,
being conformable to the general course of business. The result
of examination is, that the exception as to this particular, in fa-
vor of gin, may be abolished. Should any alteration on this
subject take place, it ought not to begin to operate till after the
expiration of the year.

7. There is ground to suppose, that the allowance of draw-
back, without any limitation as to quantity, has been abused. It
is submitted that none be made on any less quantity than one
hundred and fifty gallons.

8. There is danger that facility may be given to illicit impor-
tations, by making use of casks which have been once regularly
marked, and the certificates which have been issued with them,
to cover other spirits than those originally contained in such
casks. Appearances which countenance suspicion, on this point,
have been the subjects of representation from several quarters.

The danger may be obviated by prohibiting the importation
in such marked casks, on pain of forfeiture both of the spirits
and of any ship or vessel in which they may be brought. A
prohibition of this sort does not appear liable to any good objec-
tion.

324 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 35.

9. The duty of sixty cents per gallon of the capacity of a still
was founded upon a computation that a still of any given dimen-
sions, worked four months in the year, which is the usual period
of country distillation, would yield a quantity of spirits, which,
at the rate of nine cents per gallon, would correspond with sixty
cents per gallon of the capacity of the still. It will deserve con-
sideration, whether it will not be expedient to give an option to
country distillers, at the annual entry of their stills, to take out
a license for any portion of the year, which they may respec-
tively think fit, and to pay at the rate of twelve and a half cents
per gallon of the capacity, per month, during such period. This
to stand in lieu of the alternative of paying by the gallon distilled;
it would obviate in this case the necessity of accounting upon
oath, and would leave it in the power of each distiller to cover
the precise time he meant to work his still with a license, and to
pay for that time only. A strict prohibition to distil at any other
time than that for which the license was given would be of course
necessary to accompany the regulation as far as regarded any
such licensed distiller.

The only remaining points which have occurred, as proper to
be submitted to the consideration of the Legislature, respect the
officers of the revenue.

It is represented that, in some instances, from the ill humor
of individuals, the officers have experienced much embarrassment,
in respect to the filling of stills with water, to ascertain their ca-
pacity, which, upon examination, is found the most simple and
practicable mode. The proprietors have, in some instances, not
only refused to aid the officers, but have even put out of their
way the means by which the filling might be conveniently ac-
complished.

It would conduce to the easy execution of the law, and to the
very important purpose of retaining and procuring respectable
characters as collectors, if the proprietors and possessors of stills
were required to aid them in the execution of this part of their
duty, or to pay a certain sum as a compensation for the doing
of it.

The limits assigned in the law, respecting compensations, are
found in practice essentially inadequate to the object.

JEt. 35.] DUTIES ON SPIRITS. 325

This is so far the case, that it becomes the duty of the Secre-
tary to state, that greater latitude in this particular, is indispensa-
ble to the effectual execution of the laiv.

In the most productive divisions, the commissions of the col-
lectors afford but a moderate compensation. In the greatest part
of them, the compensation is glaringly disproportioned to the
service ; in many of them, it falls materially short of the expense
of the officer.

It is believed that, in no country whatever, has the collec-
tion of a similar duty been effected within the limit assigned.
Applying in th^ United States to a single article only, and yielding
consequently a less total product than where many articles are
comprehended, the expense of collection must of necessity be
proportionally greater.

It appears to the Secretary, that seven and a half per cent, of
the total product of the duties on distilled spirits, foreign as well
as domestic, and not less, will suffice to defray the compensations
to officers, and other expenses incidental to the collection of the
duty. This is to be understood as supplemental to the present
custom house expenses.

It is unnecessary to urge to the House of Representatives,
how essential it must be to the execution of the law, in a manner
effectual to the purposes of the Government, and satisfactory to
the community, to secure, by competent, though moderate re-
wards, the diligent services of respectable and trustworthy char-
acters.

All which is humbly submitted.

Alexander Hamilton,

Secretary of the Treasury.

326 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 35.

ADDITIONAL SUPPLIES FOE 1792.

Communicated to the House of Representatives, March 17, 1792.

Treasury Department, March 16, 1792.

The Secretary of the Treasury, pursuant to a resolution of the
House of Representatives, of the 8th instant, directing the
said Secretary to report to the House his opinion of the best
mode of raising the additional supplies, requisite for the en-
suing year, respectfully submits the following report :

The sum which is estimated to be necessary for carrying into
effect the purposes of the act for making further and more effec-
tual provision for the protection of the frontiers of the United
States, beyond the provision made by the act making appropria-
tions for the support of Government, for the year 1792, is
$675,950 08.

The returns which have been received at the treasury, subse-
quent to the Secretary's report of the 23d of January last, among
which are those of some principal ports, afford satisfactory ground
of assurance that the quarter, ending the last of December, was
considerably more productive than it was supposed likely to
prove, authorizing a reliance that the revenues, to the end of the
year 1791, will yield a surplus of $150,000, which may be ap-
plied, in part, of the sum of $675,950 08 cents, above stated to
be necessary.

Provision remains to be made for the residue of this sum,
namely, $525,950 08 cents.

Three expedients occur to the option of the Government, for
providing this sum.

One, to dispose of the interest to which the United States are
entitled in the Bank of the United States. This, at the present
market price of bank stock, would yield a clear gain to the Gov-
ernment, much more than adequate to the sum required.

Another, to borrow the money upon an establishment of

jEt. 35.] ADDITIONAL SUPPLIES. 327

funds, either merely commensurate with the interest to be paid,
or affording a surplus which will discharge the principal by in-
stalments within a short term.

The third is, to raise the amount by taxes.

The first of these three expedients appears to the Secretary
altogether unadvisable.

First. It is his present opinion that it will be found, in vari-
ous respects, permanently the interest of the United States to re-
tain the interest to which they are entitled in the bank. But,

Secondly. If this opinion should not be well founded, it
would be improvident to dispose of it, at the present juncture,
since, upon a comprehensive view of the subject, it can hardly
admit of a doubt, that its future value, at a period not very dis-
tant, will be considerably greater than its present; while the
government will enjoy the benefit of whatever dividends shall
be declared in the interval. And,

Thirdly. Whether it shall be deemed proper to retain or
dispose of this interest, the most useful application of the pro-
ceeds will be as a fund for extinguishing the public debt. A
necessity of applying it to any different object, if it should be
found to exist, would be matter of serious regret.

The second expedient would, in the judgment of the Sec-
retary, be preferable to the first.

For this, the following reason, if there were no other, is pre-
sumed to be conclusive, namely, that the probable increase of
the value of the stock may itself be estimated as a considerable,
if not a sufficient fund for the repayment of the sum which
might be borrowed.

If the measure of a loan should be thought eligible, it is sub-
mitted, as most advisable, to accompany it with a provision
sufficient not only to pay the interest, but to discharge the prin-
cipal within a short period. This will, at least, mitigate the in-
convenience of making an addition to the public debt.

But the result of mature reflection is, in the mind of the
Secretary, a strong conviction that the last of the three expedi-
ents which have been mentioned, is to be preferred to either of
the other two.

328 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 35.

Nothing can more interest the national credit and prosperity,
than a constant and systematic attention to husband all the
means previously possessed, for extinguishing the present debt,
and to avoid, as much as possible, the incurring of any new
debt.

Necessity alone, therefore, can justify the application of any
of the public property, other than the annual revenues, to the cur-
rent service, or to the temporary and casual exigencies of the
country, or the contracting of an additional debt, by loans, to
provide for those exigencies.

Great emergencies, indeed, might exist, in which loans would
be indispensable. But the occasions which will justify them,
must be, truly, of that description.

The present is not of such a nature. The sum to be provided
is not of magnitude enough to furnish the plea of necessity.

Taxes are never welcome to a community. They seldom
fail to excite uneasy sensations, more or less extensive. Hence, a
too strong propensity in the governments of nations to anticipate
and mortgage the resources of posterity, rather than encounter
the inconveniences of an increase of taxes.

But, this policy, when not dictated by very peculiar circum-
stances, is of the worst kind. Its obvious tendency is, by en-
hancing the permanent burthens of the people, to produce lasting
distress, and its natural issue is in national bankruptcy.

It will be happy if the councils of this country, sanctioned by
the voice of an enlightened community, shall be able to pursue
a different course.

Yielding to this impression, the Secretary proceeds to state,
for the consideration of the House, the objects which have oc-
curred to him as most proper to be resorted to, for raising the
requisite sum by taxes.

From the most careful view which he is able to take of all
the circumstances that, at the present juncture, naturally enter
into consideration, he is led to conclude, that the most eligible
mode in which the necessary provision can, at this time, be
made, is, by some additional duties on imported articles.

This conclusion is made with reluctance, for reasons which

Mr. 35.] ADDITIONAL SUPPLIES. 329

were noticed upon a former occasion, and from the reflection that
frequent and unexpected alterations in the rates of duties on the
objects of trade, by inducing uncertainty in mercantile specula-
tions and calculations, are, really, injurious to commerce, and
hurtful to the interests of those who carry it on.

The stability of the duties to be paid by the merchants, is,
in fact, of more consequence to them than their quantum, if
within reasonable bounds.

It were, therefore, much to have been wished, that so early a
resort to new demands, on that class of citizens, could have been
avoided, and, especially, that they could have been deferred until
a general tariff could have been maturely digested, upon princi-
ples which might, with propriety, render it essentially stationary.

But, while there are these motives to regret, there are others
of a consoling tendency, some of which indicate that an aug-
mentation of duties, at the present juncture, may have the effect
of lessening some public evils, and producing some public
benefits.

It is a pleasing fact, if the information of the Secretary be
not very erroneous, that the improved state of the credit of this
country enables our merchants to procure the supplies which
they import from abroad, upon much more cheap and advan-
tageous terms than heretofore; a circumstance which must alle-
viate to them the pressure of somewhat higher rates of duty, and
must contribute, at the same time, to reconcile them to burthens,
which, being connected with an efficacious discharge of the duty
of the Government, are of a nature to give solidity and perma-
nency to the advantages they enjoy under it.

It is certain, also, that a spirit of manufacturing prevails at
this time, in a greater degree than it has done at any antecedent
period ; and, as far as an increase of duties shall tend to second
and aid this spirit, they will serve to promote essentially the in-
dustry, the wealth, the strength, the independence, and the sub-
stantial prosperity of the country.

The returns for a year, ending with the thirtieth of Sep-
tember last, an abstract of which is in preparation to be com-
municated to the Legislature, evince a much increased importa-

c 22
HAMILTON'S WORKS

[Mt. 35.

tion, during that year, greater far than can be referred to a
naturally increasing demand, from the progress of population,
and announce a probability of a more than proportional increase
of consumption ; there being no appearance of an extraordinary
abundance of goods in the market. If, happity, an extension
of the duties shall operate as a restraint upon excessive con-
sumption, it will be a salutary mean of preserving the com-
munity from future embarrassment, public and private. But,
if this should not be the case, it is at least prudent in the
Government to extract from it the resources necessary for cur-
rent exigencies, rather than postpone the burthen to a period
when that very circumstance may cause it to be more grievously
felt.

These different considerations unite with others, which will
suggest themselves, to induce, in the present state of things, a
preference of taxes on imported articles to any other mode of
raising the sum required.

It is, therefore, respectfully submitted, that the existing
duties on the articles hereafter enumerated, be repealed, and
that, in place of them, the following be laid, viz :

WINES.

Madeira, of the quality of London particular, per gallon,

Ditto - - - London market, per
Other Madeira wine, .... per

Sherry, per

St. Lucar, per

Lisbon, per

Oporto, - ... per

Teneriffe and Fayal, ... - per
All other wines, 40 per centum ad valorem.

CENTS

dlon,
do.
do.
do.
do.
do.
do.
do.
SPIRITS.

Those distilled wholly or chiefly from grain.
Of the first class of proof, - - - per gallon,

CENTS.
JEt. 35.] ADDITIONAL SUPPLIES. 331

CENTS.

Of the second class of proof, - - - per gallon, 29

Of the third do. ... per d0# 31

Of the fourth do. ... per da 34

Of the fifth do. - per do. 40

Of the sixth do. - - - per do. 50

OTHER DISTILLED SPIRITS.

Of the second class of proof, and under, per gallon, 24

Of the third do. - - - per do. 27

Of the fourth do. - per do. 31

Of the fifth do. - - per do. 37

Of the sixth do. - - - - per do. 45

Beer, ale, and porter, .... per gallon, 8

Steel, per cwt. 100

Nails, per lb. 2

Cocoa, per do. 2

Chocolate, ------ per do. 3

Playing cards, per pack, 25

Shoes and slippers of silk, 20

Shoes and slippers of stained or colored leather (other

than black), for men and women, - - - - 10

Ditto do. for children, 7

All other shoes and slippers (for men and women), clogs

and golo shoes, 10

All other shoes and slippers for children, - - - 7

ARTICLES AD VALOREM.

15 per cent, ad valorem : —
China wares,
Looking-glass, window, and other glass, and all manufac-

turies of glass, black quart bottles excepted.
Muskets.
Pistols.

332 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 35.

Swords, cutlasses, hangers, and other fire and side arms.

Starch.

Hair powder.

Wafers.

Glue.

10 per cent, ad valorem : —

Cast, slit, and rolled iron, and generally all manufactures
of iron, steel, tin, pewter, copper, brass, or of which
either of these metals is the article of chief value (not
being otherwise particularly enumerated).

Cabinet wares.

Leather, tanned and tawed, and all manufactures of lea-
ther, or of which leather is the article of chief value
(not being otherwise particularly enumerated).

Medicinal drugs, except those commonly used in dying.

Hats, caps, and bonnets, of every sort.

Gloves and mittens.

Stockings.

Millinery, ready made.

Artificial flowers, feathers, and other ornaments for
women's head dresses.

Fans.

Dolls, dressed and undressed.

Toys.

Buttons of every kind.

Carpets and carpeting, mats and floor cloths.

Sail cloth.

Sheathing and cartridge paper.

All powders, pastes, balls, balsams, ointments, oils, waters,
washes, tinctures, essences, liquors, or other prepara-
tion or composition, commonly called sweet-scents,
odors, perfumes, or cosmetics.

All dentifrice, powders, tinctures, preparations, or com-
positions, whatsoever, for the teeth or gums.

Printed books, except those specially imported for a col-
lege, academy, or other public or incorporated seminary

Mt. 35.] ADDITIONAL SUPPLIES. 333

of learning, or institution, which shall be wholly ex-
empted from duty.

The foregoing duties to be permanently established, and to
be appropriated, in the first place, to the payment of the interest
of the public debt ; in the second, to such other grants and ap-
propriations, as have been, heretofore, made ; and in the third,
to the purposes of the act for making further and more effectual
provision for the protection of the frontiers of the United States.

An addition of two and a half per cent, ad valorem to be
made to the duty on all goods, heretofore rated at five per
centum ad valorem.

This addition to be temporary, and accordingly to be so
established as that it shall not continue longer than till the present
Indian war shall terminate, and the expenses of carrying it on
shall have been defrayed, which will of course include the reim-
bursement of any sums that may have been borrowed by way
of anticipation of the product of the duties.

It is represented that the present duty on salt operates un-
equally, from the considerable difference in weight, in propor-
tion to quantity, of different kinds of salt ; a bushel weighing
from about 56 to upwards of 80 weight. It would have an
equalizing effect, if the bushel were defined by weight; ami iJ
56 pounds were taken as the standard, a valuable accession to
the revenue would result.

This regulation is, therefore, submitted as a resource upon
the present occasion. The rate of duty to remain as it is.

It will be a reasonable accommodation to trade, if it is made
a part of this arrangement, to extend the credit for the duty on
salt to a longer term. It is an article, which, from the circum-
stances of its importation, frequently lies on hand for a con-
siderable time ; and in relation to the fisheries, is usually sold
upon a credit of several months.

Some remarks may be proper in regard to the proposed
duties. Those on spirits and wines may appear high. They are,
doubtless, considerable. But there are precedents, elsewhere, of
much higher duties on the same articles. And it is certainly, in

334 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 35.

every view, justifiable to make a free use of them for the pur-
pose of revenue.

"Wines, generally speaking, are the luxury of classes of the
community, who can afford to pay a considerable duty upon
them.

It has appeared advisable to adhere to the idea of a specific
duty per quantity, on all the species of wines in most common
consumption in the country, and those most susceptible of pre-
cise designation, as affording greatest certainty to the revenue ;
and to adopt a general ad valorem rate for other kinds, propor-
tioned to the specific duties. This rate is 40 per cent.

The distinction has proceeded from the difficulty of a precise
enumeration of all the other kinds of wine, which are, and may
be, imported, and of such an adjustment of specific rates, as will
bear some reasonable proportion to the value of the article.
The present lowest rate of duty on wines amounts to 200 and
300 per cent, on the value of certain kinds, which may be con-
sidered as equivalent to a prohibition.

While, therefore, ideas of proportion will be better consulted
than heretofore, by the proposed arrangement, it is probable that
the revenue will be benefited, rather than injured, by a reduc-
tion of the duties on low priced wines.

The considerations which render ardent spirits a proper ob-
ject of high duties, have been repeatedly dwelt upon. It may
be added, that it is a familiar, and a just remark, that the pecu-
liarly low price of ardent spirits, in this country, is a great
source of intemperance.

To bring the price of the article more nearly to a level with
the price of it in other markets, by an increase of duty, while it
will contribute to the advancement of the revenue, cannot but
prove, in other respects, a public benefit.

The rates proposed will be still moderate, compared with
examples in other countries ; and the article is of a nature to en-
able the importer, without difficulty, to transfer the duty to the
consumer.

A discrimination is suggested in respect to duties on spirits
distilled from grain. To this, there have been two inducements ;

tEt. 35.] ADDITIONAL SUPPLIES. 33o

one, that the difference in the duty is conformable to the differ-
ence between the cost of the grain spirits usually imported, and
that of West India rum. Another, that it is in a particular
manner the interest of the United States to favor the distillation
of its own grain, in competition with foreign spirits from the
same material. In the second division of spirits, the first class
of proof is dropped, because none of it comes from the West
Indies, and because any other spirits, usually imported, which
may be of so low a proof, are higher priced, even than some of
the higher proofs of West India spirits. The dropping of that
class of proof, therefore, in this case, is favorable to the revenue,
and favorable to equality.

Several of the other specific duties which are proposed, be-
sides the inducements to them as items of revenue, are strongly
recommended by considerations which have been stated in the
report of the Secretary, on the subject of manufactures. The
same report states inducements to a 15 per cent, duty on some
of the articles which are mentioned, as proper to be comprised
under that rate.

With regard to china and glass, there are two weighty rea
sons . for a comparatively high duty upon them. The use of
them is very limited, except by the wealthier classes ; and both
their bulk, and liability to damage in transportation, are great
securities against evasions of the revenue. It will, however,
merit consideration, whether, for the accommodation of impor-
ters, a longer term of credit ought not to be allowed on these
articles.

A duty of two cents per pound on cocoa is less, in propor-
tion to the value, than the present duty on coffee. As an ex-
tensive article of consumption, it is a productive one of revenue.

The duty on playing cards can give rise to no question
except as to the practicability of a safe collection. In order to
this, it will be proper to superadd certain precautions, which
will readily occur in regulating the details of a bill for the pur-
pose. A similar attention will be requisite in regard to the du-
ties on wines. The employment of marks and certificates may
advantageously be extended to this article.

336 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 35.

The rate of 10 per centum ad valorem, it is hoped, will not
be deemed immoderate in relation to the articles to which it is
proposed to apply it. It is difficult to assign rules for what
ought to be considered as a just standard. But, after the best
consideration which the Secretary has been able to bestow upon
it, he cannot discover that any real inconvenience is likely,
permanently, to result from the extension of that rate to the
cases proposed.

The addition of 2\ per cent, to the duty on the mass of ar-
ticles now rated at five, will constitute an important, though not
an excessive augmentation. Nevertheless, it is proposed that it
shall be only temporary ; and there is reasonable ground of ex-
pectation, that the cause for having recourse to it will not be of
very long continuance.

It will not have escaped the observation of the House, that
the duties which were suggested in the Secretary's report on
that subject, as encouragements to manufactures, are, for the
most part, included among the objects of this report.

It may tend to avoid future embarrassment, if such aboli-
tions and drawbacks as shall be deemed expedient, with a view
to promoting manufactures, shall accompany the establishment
and appropriation of whatever further duties may be laid, for
the object in contemplation. And it may be found convenient
to qualify the appropriation of the surplus which is to be applied
to that object, so as to let in such other appropriations, during
the session, as occurrences may suggest.

An estimate of the additional revenue which may be expect-
ed from the proposed duties is subjoined.

It will occur to the House, that the credit allowed for the du-
ties will require an anticipation of their product by a temporary
loan, for which provision in the law will be requisite.
All which is humbly submitted.

Alexander Hamilton,

Secretary of the Treasury.

Mr. 35.1 REMISSION OF DUTIES. 337

KEMISSION OF DUTIES.

Communicated to the House of Representatives, April 20, 1792.

Treasury Department, April 19, 1792.

The Secretary of the Treasury, to whom was referred the me-
morial of Eliphalet Ladd, respectfully makes the following
report thereupon :

It has been made a question, whether under the laws of the
United States, as they now stand, duties are payable on goods
imported in vessels which have suffered shipwreck in the act of
transportation. A suit, in which this question is involved, is
depending in one of the courts of the United States.

But the terms of the law have rendered it the duty of the
officers of the customs to advance the claim, which has been
done on all the occasions that have hitherto occurred.

The casualty of shipwreck is so affecting a calamity, and is
usually attended with such considerable loss to the concerned,
that the exacting from the sufferers the public dues on the arti-
cles which escape, is apt to be regarded as partaking of severity
and oppression.

The provision for the case of damaged goods is not, always,
a sufficient remedy. It may happen that the goods saved are
not damaged, though a large proportion may have been entirely
lost.

It would seem, upon the whole, expedient, either entirely to
remit the duties in every case of shipwreck, or to vest some-
where a power, either to remit, or abate, according to the cir-
cumstances of each case.

The last would best consist with a due apportionment of the
degree of relief to the degree of suffering. From the rareness
of the casualty, the loss to the revenue, from either arrange-
ment, could not be very material.

338 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 35.

The case stated in. the petition appears to be a strong one for
relief.

All which is humbly submitted.

Alexander Hamilton,

Secretary of the Treasury.

SPIRITS, FOREIGN AND DOMESTIC.

Communicated to Congress, Nov. 22, 1792.

Arrangement made by the President of the United States,
pursuant to an Act of Congress, passed the third day of March,
1791, entitled, " An Act repealing," kc. Title supra, p. 171.

PUBLIC DEBT.

Communicated to the House of Representatives, December 3. 1792.

Treasury Department, November 30. 1792.

In obedience to two resolutions of the House of Representatives,
one of the 21st instant, directing the Secretary of the Trea-
sury to report a plan for the redemption of so much of the
Public Debt as, by the act, entitled " An act making pro-
vision for the debt of the United States," the United States
have reserved the right to redeem ; the other of the 22d in-
stant, directing him to report the plan of a provision for the
reimbursement of a loan, made of the Bank of the United
States, pursuant to the 11th section of the act, entitled "An
act to incorporate the subscribers to the Bank of the United
States ;" the said Secretary respectfully submits the following
report :

The expediency of taking measures for the regular redemp-

^Et. 35.] PUBLIC DEBT. 339

tion of the public debt, according to the right which has been
reserved to the Government, being wisely predetermined, by the
resolution of the House of Eepresentatives, referring the subject
to the Secretary, nothing remains for him, but to endeavor to
select and submit the most eligible means of providing for the
execution of that important object.

With this view, the first inquiry which naturally presents
itself is, whether the existing revenues are, or are not, adequate
to the purpose ?

The estimates which accompany the report of the Secretary,
of the 14th instant, will show that, during the continuance of the
present Indian war, the appropriations for interest, and the de-
mands for the current service, are likely to exhaust the product
of the existing revenues ; though they afford a valuable surplus
beyond the permanent objects of expenditure, which, it is hoped,
ma}r, ere long, be advantageously applied to accelerate the ex-
tinguishment of the debt.

In the mean time, however, and until the restoration of
peace, the employment of that resource, in this way, must, of
necessity, be suspended, and either the business of redemption
must be deferred, or recourse must be had to other expedients.

But, did no such temporary necessity, for resorting to other
expedients, exist, the doing of it would still be recommended by
weighty considerations. It would appear, in the abstract, advi-
sable to leave the surplus of the present revenues free, to be
applied to such casual exigencies as may, from time to time,
occur ; to occasional purchases of the debt, when not exhausted
by such exigencies ; to the payment of interest on any balances
which may be found due to particular States, upon the general
settlement of accounts ; and finally, to the payment of interest
on the deferred part of the debt, when the period for such pay-
ment arrives. There is a reasonable prospect that, if not diverted,
it will be found adequate to the two last important purposes.

Kelinquishing, then, the idea of an immediate application of
the present revenues to the object in view, it remains to examine
what other modes are in the option of the Legislature.

Loans, from time to time, equal to the sums annually re-

340 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 35.

deemable, and bottomed on the same revenues, which are now
appropriated to pay the interest upon those sums, offer them-
selves as one expedient, which may be employed with a degree
of advantage. As there is a probability of borrowing at a lower
rate of interest, a material saving would result ; and even this
resource, if none better could be devised, ought not to be ne-
glected.

But it is obvious that, to rely upon this resource alone, would
be to do little towards the final exoneration of the nation. To
stop at that point would, consequently, be neither provident nor
satisfactory. The interests as well as the expectations of the
Union require something more effectual.

The establishment of additional revenues is the remaining
resource. This, if the business is to be undertaken in earn-
est, is unavoidabl e. And a full confidence may reasonably
be entertained, that the community will see, with satisfaction,
the employment of those means which alone can be effectual, for
accomplishing an end, in itself so important, and so much an
object of general desire. It cannot fail to be universally felt,
that, if the end is to be attained, the necessary means must be
employed.

It can only be expected that care be taken to choose sach as
are liable to fewest objections, and that, in the modifications of
the business in other respects, due regard be had to the present
and progressive circumstances of the country.

Assuming it as the basis of a plan of redemption, that addi-
tional revenues are to be provided, the further inquiry divides
itself into the following branches :

1. Shall a revenue be immediately constituted, equal to the
full sum which may at present be redeemed, according to the
terms of the contract?

2. Shall a revenue be constituted, from year to year, equal
only to the interest of the sum to be redeemed in each year,
coupling with this operation an annual loan, commensurate with
such sum ? Or,

3. Shall a revenue be constituted each year, so much exceed-
ing the interest of the sum to be redeemed, as to be sufficient,

JEr. 35.] PUBLIC DEBT. 341

within a short definite term of time, to discharge the principal
itself; coupling with this operation also, an animal loan, equal
to the sum to be annually redeemed, and appropriating the
revenue created to its discharge, within the term which shall
have been predetermined?

The first plan, besides being completely effectual, would be
eventually most economical ; but considering to what a magni-
tude the revenues of the United States have grown in a short
period, it is not easy to pronounce how far the faculty of paying
might not be strained by any sudden considerable augmentation,
wheresoever immediately placed ; while the rapid progress of
the country in population and resource seems to afford a moral
certainty, that the necessary augmentation may be made with con-
venience, by successive steps, within a moderate term of time,
and invites to temporary and partial suspensions, as capable of
conciliating the reasonable accommodation of the community with
the vigorous prosecution of the main design. For these, and for
other reasons which will readily occur, the course of providing
immediately the entire sum to be redeemed, is conceived not to
be the most eligible.

The second plan, though much more efficacious than that of
annual loans, bottomed on the revenues now appropriated for
the payment of interest on the sums to be redeemed, does not
appear to be sufficiently efficacious. The schedule A will show
the effect of it to the 1st of January, 1802, when the deferred
debt Avill become redeemable in the proportions stipulated. Sup-
posing the investment of the interest which is, each year, liber-
ated, together with that which has been, and will be released by
purchases, pursuant to provisions heretofore made, in the pur-
chase of 6 per cent, stock; a sum of principal, equal to 2,043,837
dollars and 7 cents would be sunk, and a clear annuity, equal to
459,212 dollars and 82 cents would be created, towards further
redemptions; but the fund then necessary for the future progres-
sive redemption of the debt, according to the right reserved,
would be 1,126,616 dollars and 44 cents, exceeding by 667,403
dollars and 62 cents, the amount of the redeeming fund. Some-
thing more effectual than this is certainly desirable, and appears
to be practicable.

342 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEi. 35.

The last of the three plans best accords with the most accu-
rate view which the Secretary has been able to take of the pub-
lic interest.

In its application, it is of material consequence to endeavor
to accomplish these two points : 1st. The complete discharge of
the sums annually redeemable, within the period prefixed, and
the reimbursement, within the same period, of all auxiliary
loans, which may have been made for that purpose. 2ndly. The
constituting, by the expiration of that period, a clear annual
fund, competent to the future redemption of the debt, to the ex-
tent of the right reserved.

The period to which it is conceived the plan ought to refer,
is the first day of January, 1802 ; because then the first payment,
on account of the principal of the deferred debt, may rightfully
be made.

In conformity to these ideas, the following plan is most re-
spectfully submitted; premising, that the sum redeemable for
the first year, of the six per cent, stock, bearing a present
interest, is computed at 550,000 dollars.

Let an annual fund be constituted, during the present session,
equal to 103,199 dollars and six cents, to begin to accrue from
the first of January, 1793. Let the sum of 550,000 dollars be
borrowed upon the credit of this annuity, reimbursable within
five years, that is, by the first of January, 1799. The sum
borrowed to be applied, on the first of January, 1794, to the
first payment on account of the principal of the debt.

The proposed annuity will reimburse the sum borrowed, with
interest, by the first of January, 1799, and will, thenceforth, be
free for any further application.

The sum redeemable the second year, that is, on the first of
January, 1795, is computed at 583,000 dollars.

Let an annual fund be constituted, during the second session
after the present, equal to 109,391 dollars and 60 cents, to begin
to accrue from the first of January, 1794. Let the sum of
583,000 dollars be borrowed upon the credit of this annuity,
reimbursable within five years, that is, by first of January,
1800. The sum borrowed to be applied, on the first of January,

jEt. 35.] PUBLIC DEBT. 343

1795, to the second payment on account of the principal of the
debt.

The proposed annuity will reimburse the sum borrowed, with
interest, by the first of January, 1800, and will be, thenceforth,
free for any further application.

The sum redeemable the third year, that is, on the first of
January, 1796, is computed at 617,980 dollars.

Let an annual fund be constituted, during the third session
after the present, equal to 115,955 dollars and 17 cents, to begin
to accrue from the first of January, 1795. Let the sum of
617,980 dollars be borrowed upon the credit of this annuity,
reimbursable within five years, that is, by the first of January,
1801. The sum borrowed to be applied, on the first of January,

1796, to the third payment on account of the principal of the
debt.

The proposed annuity will reimburse the sum borrowed, with
interest, by the first of January, 1801.

The sum redeemable the fourth year, that is, on the first of
January, 1797, is computed at 655,058 dollars and 80 cents.

Let an annual fund be constituted, during the fourth session
after the present, equal to 122,912 dollars and 48 cents, to begin
to accrue from the first of January, 1796. Let the sum of
655,058 dollars and 80 cents be borrowed upon the credit of this
annuity, reimbursable within five years, that is, by the first of
January, 1802. The sum borrowed to be applied on the first of
January, 1797, to the fourth payment on account of the principal
of the debt.

The proposed annuity will reimburse the sum borrowed, with
interest, by the first of January, 1802.

The sum redeemable the fifth year, that is, on the first of
January, 1798, is computed at 694,362 dollars and 33 cents.

Let an annual fund be constituted, during the fifth session
after the present, equal to 152,743 dollars and 12 cents, to begin
to accrue from the first of January, 1797. Let the sum of
694,362 dollars and 33 cents be borrowed upon the credit of this
annuity, reimbursable within four years, that is, by the first of
January, 1802. The sum borrowed to be applied on the first of

344 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 35.

January, 1798, to the fifth payment on account of the principal
of the debt.

The proposed annuity will reimburse the sum borrowed, with
interest, by the first of January, 1802.

The sum redeemable the sixth year, that is, on the first of
January, 1799, is computed at 786,024 dollars and 7 cents.

Let an annual fund be constituted, during the sixth session
after the present, equal to 197,680 dollars and 20 cents, to begin
to accrue from the first of January, 1798. Let the sum of
736,024 dollars and 7 cents be borrowed upon the credit of this
annuity, reimbursable within three years, that is, by the first of
January, 1802. The sum borrowed to be applied, on the first of
January, 1799, to the sixth payment on account of the principal
of the debt.

The proposed annuity will reimburse the sum borrowed, with
interest, by the 1st of January, 1802.

The sum redeemable the seventh year, that is, on the 1st of
January, 1800, is computed at 780,185 dollars and 52 cents.

Let an annual fund be constituted, during the seventh session
after the present, equal to 272,848 dollars and 88 cents, to begin
to accrue from the 1st of January, 1799. Let the sum of 780,185
dollars and 52 cents be borrowed upon the credit of this annuity,
reimbursable within two years, that is, by the 1st of January,
1802. The sum borrowed to be applied, on the first of January,
1800, to the seventh payment on account of the principal of the
debt.

The proposed annuity will reimburse the sum borrowed, with
interest, by the 1st of January, 1802.

The sum redeemable the eighth year, that is, on the 1st of
January, 1801, is computed at 826,996 dollars and 66 cents.

Let an annual fund be constituted, during the eighth session
after the present, equal to 423,588 dollars and 54 cents, to begin
to accrue from the 1st of January, 1800. Let the sum of 826,996
dollars and 65 cents borrowed upon the credit of this annuity,
reimbursable within one year, that is, on the 1st of January, 1802.
The sum borrowed to be applied, on the 1st of January, 1801, to
the eighth payment on account of the principal of the debt.

^t. 35.] PUBEIC DEBT. 345

The proposed annuity will reimburse the sum borrowed, with
interest, on the 1st of January, 1802.

The sum redeemable the ninth year, that is, on the 1st of
January, 1802, is computed at 1,126,616 dollars and 44 cents.

The then existing means for the discharge of this sum, arising
from the operation of the plan, will be :

1st. The amount of the annuity constituted the third year,
which will have been liberated by reimbursement of the third
loan. 2d. The arrears of interest not previously appropriated,
and which are computed at 200,000 dollars.

There will consequently be a deficiency this year, of 810,661
dollars and 27 cents, which will require to be supplied by a
temporary loan, to be reimbursed out of the surplus of the fund,
which, on the 1st of January, 1802, will exist for future re-
demptions, and which surplus will be sufficient to reimburse this
temporary loan, in about thirteen years and a half.

It may be proper to remark, that this deficiency upon one
year is suffered to exist, to avoid an unnecessary augmentation
of revenue, materially beyond the sum permanently requisite.
No inconvenience ensues, because this temporary deficiency is
made up by the surplus of the permanent fund, within the period
mentioned. And that fund, from the 1st of January, 1802, is
adequate to all future redemptions, in the full proportion per-
mitted by the contract.

The table in the schedule B, herewith submitted, will show,
in one view, the principles and operation of this plan.

The schedule C will exhibit the means of constituting the
several annuities proposed to be established. From it will be
seen, that the proposed annuities are to be composed, partly of
taxes, to* be successively laid, at the respective periods of creat-
ing them, partly of the surplus dividend to be expected on the
stock belonging to the Government, in the Bank of the United
States, beyond the interest to be paid on account of it, and,
partly, of the funds heretofore pledged for the payment of in-
terest, which will have been liberated upon so much of the debt
as will have been extinguished.

c 23

346 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 35.

The respective amounts of the taxes to be severally laid, will
be,

In the first year, .... $43,199 06

In the second year, .... 109,391 60

In the third year, .... 115,955 17

In the fourth year, - - - 102,912 48

In the fifth year, - - - 102,743 12

In the sixth year, .... 107,680 20

In the seventh year, .... 109,649 32

Making together - $691,530 95

The sum which will have been redeemed prior to the 1st day
of January, 1802, will be $5,443,607 37. The sum redeemable
on the 1st of January, 1802, will be $1,126,616 44 ; and the
fund which will, thenceforth, exist for the purpose of future
redemption (as is particularly shown by the schedule D), will
be $1,210,744 34, exceeding the sum strictly necessary by
$84,127 90 — a fund which, including the interest, from year to
year liberated, will, as already intimated, be completely adequate
to the final redemption of the whole amount of the six per cent,
stock (as well the deferred as that bearing a present interest),
according to the right which has been reserved for that purpose.

In the mean time, a further impression will be made upon
the debt, by the investment of the residue of the funds hereto-
fore established, in the purchase of it; and it is hoped, that the
restoration of peace with the Indians will enable the application
of the surplus of the existing revenues, together with the pro-
ceeds of the ceded lands in our Western territory, to the same
object. These, whenever they can be brought into action, will
be important aids, materially accelerating the ultimate re-
demption of the entire debt. The employment of these re-
sources, when it can be done, by increasing the interest fund,
will, proportionably, lessen the necessity of using the resource
of taxation, for creating the proposed annuities — if the Govern-
ment shall judge it advisable to avail itself of the substitute
which may accrue from that circumstance.

Mt. 35.] PUBLIC DEBT. 347

Having now given a general view of the plan which has
appeared, upon the whole, the most eligible, it is necessary,
in the next place, to present to the consideration of the House
the requisite funds for commencing the execution of it. These
will embrace a provision for the first annuity only, that alone
requiring, by the plan, immediate provision. With regard to
a provision for the subsequent annuities, which is proposed to
be successive, the Secretary will content himself with this gen-
eral observation, that he discerns no intrinsic difficulty in making
provision for them, as fast as shall be necessary, with due con-
venience to the people, and consistently with the idea of abstain-
ing from taxing lands and buildings (with the stock and imple-
ments of farms), reserving them as a resource for those great
emergencies which call for a full exertion of all the contributive
faculties of a country.

The following means, for constituting the first annuity, are
respectfully submitted, viz :

Annual surplus of the dividend on the stock of Government
in the Bank of the United States, beyond the interest to be paid
out of the said dividend, estimated at $60,000.

Tax on horses, kept or used for the purpose of riding, or of
drawing any coach, chariot, phaeton, chaise, chair, sulky, or
other carriage for conveyance of persons, excepting and exempting
all horses which are usually and chiefly employed for the purposes
of husbandry, or in drawing wagons, wains, drays, carts, or other
carriages, for the transportation of produce, goods, merchandise,
and commodities, or in carrying burthens in the course of the
trade or occupation of the persons to whom they respectively
belong, and the horses of persons in the military service of the
United States, viz :

For every horse, not above excepted and exempted, at the
rate of one dollar per annum where only one is used or kept by
the same person, with an addition of fifty cents per annum per
horse, where more than one, and not more than two, horses are
kept or used by the same person ; with an addition of one dollar per
annum per horse, where more than two, and not more than four,
are kept or used by the same person ; and, with an addition of

348 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 35.

one dollar and a half dollar per horse, per annum, where more
than four are kept or used by the same person. Provided, That
this addition shall not be made, in respect to horses usually
employed in public stages, for the conveyance of passengers.

This progressive increase of rates on the higher numbers, has
reference to the presumption of greater wealth, which arises from
the possession of such higher numbers.

The product of this tax will, probably, be about equal to the
residue of the proposed annuity, which is $43,199 06. How
near the truth this estimate may prove, experiment alone can,
in so untried a case, decide. An aid to this fund may be derived
from the surplus dividend on the bank stock, for the half year
ending the last of December next, which, it is presumed, will be
not less than $20,000. Should a deficiency appear, upon trial,
it can be supplied by a future provision.

Proper regulations for the collection of this tax will, it is
believed, be found not difficult, if the tax itself shall be deemed
eligible. Its simplicity has been a considerable recommendation
of it, Qualified as it is, it is not likely to fall on any but such
who can afford to pay it. The exemption from the tax, in
regard to horses which are appropriated to the purposes of
husbandry, or of any trade or occupation, or to the transportation
of commodities, seems to obviate all reasonable objection.

If, however, there should appear to the Legislature, reasons
for preferring a tax on carriages for pleasure, which, it may be
observed, will operate on nearly the same description of persons,
the sum required may, it is believed, be produced from the
following arrangements of rates, viz: Upon every coach, the
annual sum of four dollars. Upon every chariot, the annual sum
of three dollars. Upon every other carriage for the conveyance
of persons, having four wheels, the annual sum of two dollars ;
and, upon every chair, sulky, or other carriage for the conveyance
of persons, having less than four wheels, the annual sum of one
dollar.

The collection of this tax will be as simple and easy, and
perhaps more certain, than that which has been primarily sub-
mitted.

JEt. 35.] PUBLIC DEBT. 349

With regard to the second object referred to the Secretary,
namely, the plan of a provision for the reimbursement of the
loan made of the Bank of the United States, pursuant to the
11th section of the act by which it is incorporated, the following
is respectfully submitted, to wit : That power be given, by law,
to borrow the sum due, to be applied to that reimbursement ;
and that so much of the dividend on the stock of the Govern-
ment, in the bank, as may be necessary, be appropriated for
paying the interest of the sum to be borrowed.

From this operation it is obvious that a saving to the Govern-
ment will result, equal to the difference between the interest
which will be payable on the new loan, and that which is pay-
able on the sum now due to the bank. If the proposed loan can
be effected at the rate of those last made in Holland, the net
saving to the Government may be computed at the annual sum
of 35,000 dollars; which saving, whatever it may be, is con-
templated as part of the means for constituting the proposed
annuities.

The benefit of this arrangement will be accelerated, if pro-
vision be made for "the application of the proceeds of any loans,
heretofore obtained, to the payment suggested on the condition
of replacing the sums, which may be so applied, out of the
proceeds of the loan or loans which shall be made pursuant to
the power above proposed to be given.

It will also conduce to the general end in view, if the Legisla-
ture shall think proper to authorize the investment of the funds,
destined for purchases of the debt, in purchases of six per cent,
stock, at the market price, though above par. The comparative
prices of the several kinds of stock have been, and frequently
may be, such as to render it more profitable to make invest-
ments in the six per cents, than in any other species of stock.

All which is humbly submitted.

Alexander Hamilton,

Secretary of the Treasury.

350 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 35.

LOANS.

Communicated to the House of Representatives, January 4, 1793.

In the House of Representatives of the United States,

Monday, December 24, 1792.

Resolved, That the Secretary of the Treasury be directed to
lay before this House, an account of the application of the
moneys borrowed, in Antwerp and Amsterdam, for the United
States, within the present year.

Thursday, December 27.

Resolved, That the President of the United States be re-
quested to cause this House to be furnished with a particular
account of the several sums, borrowed under his authority, by
the United States; the terms on which each loan has been
obtained ; the applications to which any of the moneys have
been made, agreeable to appropriations ; and the balances,
if any, which remain unapplied. In this statement, it is re-
quested that it may be specified at what times interest com-
menced on the several sums obtained, and at what times it was
stopped, by the several payments made.

Treasury Department, January 3, 1793.

Sm:

In obedience to an order of the President of the United
States, I have the honor to transmit sundry statements, Nos. I,
II, III, IV, respecting the several foreign loans, which have
been made under his authority, by the United States, showing,
in conformity to the resolution of the House of Kepresentatives
of the 27th of December, as far as the materials in the possession
of the treasury will now permit, the several particulars specified

Mt. 35.] LOANS. 351

in that resolution; these statements will equally fulfil the object
of the resolution of the House of the 24th of December.
With perfect respect,

I have the honor to be, Sir,

Your most obedient and humble servant,
Alexander Hamilton.
The Honorable the Speaker of the

House of Representatives.

No. I. — Statement of the several sums which have been borrowed for the use of
the United States, by virtue of the Acts of the 4th and 12th of August, 1790, show-
ing the particular application of the moneys to the 1st of January, 1793, inclusively,
and the balance remaining unapplied.

No. II.— Statement showing the particular periods when the bonds were distri-
buted, and the moneys received upon the different loans.

No. III.— A statement of the bills which have been drawn by the Treasurer of
the United States, upon the Commissioners in Amsterdam, showing the application
of the moneys arising from the sales of those bills, and the balance which remains
unapplied.

No. IV.— A particular statement of the bills drawn by the Treasurer of the
United States, showing the different periods when drawn and paid in Amsterdam
and the balance remaining unpaid on the 6th of September, 1792.— [Slate Papers—
Finance, Vol. I., p. 181.]

LOANS.

Communicated to the House of Representatives, January 11, 1793.

Treasury Department, January 10th, 1793.

Sir:

The resolution of the House of Representatives of the 27th
of December last having been considered as contemplating for-
eign loans only, the statements rendered to the House, on the
3d instant, were confined merely to those objects.

But, lest a greater latitude should have been intended by
that resolution, I have the honor to transmit, herewith, a sup-
plementary statement, No. V., which contains the several sums

352 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 36.

that have been borrowed in the United States, under the autho-
rity of the President ; and to be,

With perfect respect, Sir,

Yonr most obedient servant,

Alexander Hamilton,

Secretary of the Treasury.
The Honorable Speaker of the

House of Eepresentatives of the United States.

No. V.— A statement of the moneys which have been borrowed in the United
States, by the Government, and applied pursuant to the several acts of Congress.
— [State Papers— Ibid., Vol. I., p. 185.]

BANK DEPOSITS, SUEPLUS EEVENUE, AND LOANS.

Communicated to the Senate, January 18, 1793.
The Senate passed the following order, January 15, 1793 :

Ordered, That the Secretary of the Treasury lay before the
Senate the account of the United States with the Bank of the
United States, specifying the precise sums, with the dates of the
debits and credits, from the institution of the bank to the day the
return is made.

That the Secretary of the Treasury also lay before the Senate,
an account of the surplus of revenue appropriated to the pur-
chase of the public debt, to the same period, specifying the sums
and dates.

That he lay before the Senate, a statement of the money bor-
rowed by virtue of the law, passed August the 4th, 1790, with
the appropriation of the amount, and the precise dates.

That he lay before the Senate the amount and application of
the money borrowed, by virtue of the law of August the 12th,
1790.

And that he also lay before the Senate, an account exhibiting

Mt. 36.] BANK DEPOSITS, ETC. 353

the probable surplus, and unappropriated revenue of the year
1792, stating, as far as possible, the dates and the sums.

Treasury Department, January 16, 1793.

Sir:

I have the honor to transmit, herewith, pursuant to the order
of the Senate, of yesterday, the following documents, viz:

Books, Nos. 1 and 2,* containing the current cash account,
between the United States and the Bank of the United States,
from the commencement of the operations of that institution,
until this day.

Files, A, B, C, D*

A. Containing a series of accounts, beginning the 16th of
June, 1792, and ending the 5th of January, 1793 ; showing the
cash account of the United States with the office of discount and
deposit of the Bank of the United States at Boston.

B. Containing a series of accounts, beginning the 23d of
Ma}r, 1792, and ending the 5th of January, 1793 ; showing the
cash account of the United States with the office of discount
and deposit of the Bank of the United States at New- York.

C. Containing a series of accounts, beginning the 9th of
August, 1792, and ending the 5th of January, 1793 ; showing-
similar accounts with the office of discount and deposit at Balti-
more.

D. Containing a series of accounts, beginning the 9th of
June, and ending the 22d of December, 1792 ; showing similar
cash accounts with the office of discount and deposit at Charles-
ton.

Statement E, being an abstract of the balances remaining in
the several offices of discount and deposit, at the respective
periods of the last returns.

Statement AB and Nos. 1, 2, 3, being accounts of the sales

* " Books Nos. 1 and 2," and " files A, B, C, D," were returned, and are not now
to be'found.

354 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [At. 36.

of bills on Amsterdam, by the Bank of the United States, and
the several offices of discount and deposit.

These documents fulfil the first object of the order above
mentioned.

Statement F, showing the surplus of revenue appropriated
to the purchase of the public debt. This surplus arose at the
end of the year 1790, and was appropriated by an act of the
12th of August, 1790.

This fulfils the second object of the order, as I understand
its meaning.

Statements (printed) Nos. 1, 2, 3, 4,

-::-

These have been, heretofore, presented to the House of Rep-
resentatives, and show, with as much detail and accuracy as is
now in the power of the treasury, the different loans which
have been made, pursuant to the acts of the 4th and 12th of
August, 1790, and their application as far as it has gone.

These loans having been contracted in virtue of the powers
communicated by both acts, without particular reference to
either, a specification of the loans made upon each is, of course,
not practicable. This mode of proceeding was indicated first,
by an intimation from our bankers in Holland that a distinc-
tion might prove an embarrassment (being a novelty, the rea-
son of which would not be obvious to the money lenders.)
Secondly, by the consideration that, if the loans were made
upon both acts indiscriminately, their application could be regu-
lated as circumstances, from time to time, should render advi-
sable.

These documents fulfil, as far as is practicable, the third and
fourth objects of the order.

Statement Gr, showing the probable unappropriated surplus
of the public revenue, during the year 1792.

This fulfils, as far as can now be done, the last of the objects
comprised in the order of the Senate.

* For these Statements see State Papers, Vol. I. p. 180.

Mi. 36.] BANK DEPOSITS, ETC. 355

But, by way of explanation, I beg leave to refer to the
printed statement D, which accompanied the estimate for the
service of the present year, reported to the House of Kepresen-
tatives on the 14th of November last, and which is herewith
transmitted.

The books, Nos. 1 and 2, the papers contained in the files A,
B, C, and D, and those marked AB, Nos. 1, 2, 3, are originals.
They are sent, rather than transcripts, to avoid delay, as it is
understood that the statements called for have referent to the'
deliberations of the Senate on the bill making appropriations for
the service of the current year.

I suppose it would, be most agreeable to the Senate, to be
enabled, as soon as possible, by the receipt of the information
they have required, to proceed to a decision on that important
subject; and^exposed as I am, to very perplexing dilemmas, for
the want of the requisite appropriations, in consequence of
arrangements which it was my duty to enter into, to be able to
keep pace with the exigencies of the public service, I could not
but feel a solicitude to hasten the communication.

As the originals which have been mentioned are necessary
documents of office, I request that the Senate will be pleased to
cause them to be returned as soon as they shall have answered
the purpose for which they have been required.
With the most perfect respect,

I have the honor to be, &c,

Alexander Hamilton,
) Secretary of the Treasury.

The Vice-President of the United States, and
President of the Senate.

r

356 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [>Et. 36.

LOANS.

Communicated to the House of Representatives, February 4, 1793.

In the House of Representatives of the United States,

Wednesday, January 23, 1793.

Besoived, That the President of the United States be requested
to cause to be laid before this Hou$e, copies of the authorities
under which loans have been negotiated, pursuant to the acts of
the 4th and 12th of August, 1790, together with copies of the
authorities directing the application of the moneys borrowed.

Resolved, That the President of the United States be requested
to cause this House to be furnished with the names of the per-
sons by whom and to whom the respective payments of the
French debt have been made in France, pursuant to the act for
that purpose ; specifying the dates of the respective di'.afts upon
the commissioners in Holland, and the dates of the respective
payments of the debt : A similar statement is requested, respect-
ing the debts to Spain and Holland.

Resolved, That the Secretary of the Treasury be directed to
lay before this House an account, exhibiting half monthly the
balances between the United States and the Bank of the United
States, including the several branch banks, from the commence-
ment of those institutions to the end of the year 1792.

Resolved, That the Secretary of the Treasury be directed to
lay before this House an account of all moneys which '™ay have
come into the sinking fund, from the commencement o\ that in-
stitution to the present time ; specifying the particular fuW from
which they have accrued, and exhibiting, half yearly, thO sums
uninvested, and where deposited.

Resolved, That the Secretary of the Treasury be directed t#
report to this House the balance of all unapplied revenues at tfe
end of the year 1792 ; specifying whether in money or bon'ts>
and noting where the money is deposited : That he also rn^e
report of all unapplied moneys which may have been obtane(*

JEt. 36.] LOANS. 357

by the several loans authorized by law, and where such moneys
are now deposited.

Report of the Secretary of the Treasury, in pursuance of the foregoing

resolutions.

Treasury Department, February 4th, 1793.

Sm:

I have lost no time in preparing, as far as has been prac-
ticable, consistently with the course of facts, the several state-
ments required by the resolutions of the House of Eepresentatives
of the 23d of last month ; and I have concluded to add to them
such further statements as appeared to me necessary to convey
fully the information which is understood to be the object of
those resolutions. It was my first intention to submit these
statements collectively, with such explanatory remarks as the
occasion might demand; but finding, on experiment, from the
extent and variety of the matter involved in the resolutions, that
more time will be requisite for a full development of it than I
had anticipated, considerations of weight in my mind have deter-
mined me to present the different parts of the subject successively.
Among other advantages, incident to this course of proceeding,
will be that of having it in my power to give a more accurate
and mature view of the entire subject, without too great a dere-
liction of the current business of the Department. In executing
the task I propose to myself, I shall rely on the indulgence of
the House to a latitude of observation corresponding with the
peculiar circumstances of the case.

The resolutions, to which I am to answer, were not moved
without a pretty copious display of the reasons on which they
were founded. These reasons are before the public, through the
channel of the press. They are of a nature to excite attention ;
to beget alarm ; to inspire doubts. Deductions of a very extra-
ordinary complexion may, without forcing the sense, be drawn
from them.

I feel it incumbent upon me to meet the suggestions which

358 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 36.

■

have been thrown out, with decision and explicitness. And
while I hope I shall let fall nothing inconsistent with that cor-
dial and unqualified respect which I feel for the House of Kepre-
sentatives ; while I acquiesce in the sufficiency of the motives
that induced on their part the giving a prompt and free coarse
to the investigation proposed; I cannot but resolve to treat the
subject with a freedom which is due to truth, and to the con-
sciousness of a pure zeal for the public interest.

I begin with the last of the four resolutions, because it is that
which seeks information relating to the most delicate and im-
portant of the suggestions that have been hazarded.

Here, however, I have to regret the utter impossibility of a
strict compliance with the terms of the resolution. The practi-
cability of such a compliance would suppose nothing less than
that, since the last day of December, 1792, all the accounts of all
the collectors of the customs and other officers of the revenue,
throughout the whole extent of the United States, could be
digested, made up, and forwarded to the treasury; could be
examined there, settled, and carried into the public books, under
their proper heads ; in a word, that all the accounts of the rev-
enues, receipts, and expenditures, of this extensive country,
could have passed through a complete exhibition, examination,
and adjustment, within the short period of twenty-three days.

It was made (as I presume from the result) satisfactorily to
appear to a committee of the House of Eepresentatives, who
were charged during the last session with framing a direction to
the treasury for bringing forward an annual account of receipts
and expenditures, that the course of public business would not
admit of the rendering of such an account in less than nine
months after the expiration of each year ; in conformity to which
idea, their report was formed, and an order of the House estab-
lished.

I need do nothing more, to evince the impracticability of an
exact compliance with the resolution in question, than to observe,
that it is even more comprehensive (though with less detail) than
the order of the House to which I have alluded.

To evince, nevertheless, my readiness to do all in my power

JEt. 36.] LOANS. 359

towards fulfilling the views of the House, and throwing light
upon the transactions of the Department, I shall now offer to
their inspection sundry statements, marked A, AB,* B, C, D, E,
F, which contain, as far as is at this time possible, the informa-
tion desired, and with sufficient certainty and accuracy to afford
satisfaction on the points of inquiry involved in the resolution.

The statement A shows in abstract the whole of the receipts
into, and expenditures from, the treasury, commencing with the
first of January, and ending with the last of December, 1792,
corresponding with the accounts of the treasurer. These ac-
counts have been regularly settled up to the end of September,
and copies have been laid before the two Houses of Congress.
The account for the quarter terminating with the year has not
yet passed through the forms of settlement, but is under exam-
ination, and will, no doubt, be settled as it stands ; the manner
of conducting the business, and the usual care and accuracy of
the officer concerned, leaving very little room to apprehend mis-
statement or error. A copy of this account is herewith submit-
ted, in the schedule marked C.

This statement takes up the balance of the general account of
receipts and expenditures to the end of the year 1791, as reported
to the House of Eepresentatives within the first week of the
present session, and continuing it down to the end of 1792,
shows a balance then in the treasury of seven hundred and
eighty-three thousand four hundred and forty-four dollars and
fifty-one cents.

The statement B is a more comprehensive document. It is a
general account of income and expenditure. It shows not merely
the actual receipts of money into the treasury, but the whole
amount of the national revenues, from the commencement of the
present Government, to the conclusion of the year 1792, as well
outstanding as collected ; the proceeds of domestic loans ; the
whole amount of the sums which have been drawn into the
United States, on account of the foreign loans; and all other
moneys, from whatever source, which have accrued within the
period embraced by the statement.

* For statement AB, see State Papers, Finance, Vol. I., p. 188.

360 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.tor. 36.

These items form the debit side of the account, amounting to
seventeen millions eight hundred and seventy-nine thousand
eight hundred and twenty-five dollars and thirty-three cents.

The credit side consists of two items : 1. The whole amount
of the actual expenditures to the end of the year 1791, as stated
in the general account of receipts and expenditures before re-
ferred to. 2. The whole amount of the actual expenditures dur-
ing the year 1792, as specified generally in the statement A, and
particularly in the several quarterly accounts of the treasurer,
amounting to twelve millions seven hundred and sixty-five thou-
sand one hundred and twenty-eight dollars and eighty-three
cents.

The balance of this account of income and expenditure is
consequently five millions one hundred and fourteen thousand
six hundred and ninety-six dollars and fifty cents ; which cor-
responds with the excess of the public income (including the
proceeds of loans, foreign and domestic) beyond the actual ex-
penditure, or more properly speaking, disbursement, to the end of
the year 1792. This of course is exclusive of those parts of the
proceeds of foreign loans which have been left in Europe, to be
applied there ; the amount, application, and balance of which,
are exhibited, as far as they are yet known at the treasury, in
the statement No. 1, of my late report on foreign loans.

This balance, as noted in the statement B, is composed of the
following particulars :

1. Cash in the treasury, per statement A, - $783,444 51

2. Cash in the Bank of the United States, and
the offices of discount and deposit of New-
York and Baltimore, not yet passed to the

account of the treasurer, per statement AB, 605,883 08

3. Proceeds of Amsterdam bills remaining in

deposit in the Bank of North America, in-
cluding the sum of one hundred and fifty-
six thousand five hundred and ninety -five
dollars and fifty-six cents, advanced by the
bank, without interest, which is credited in

JEt. 36.] LOANS. 361

tlie general account of receipts and expen-
ditures, statement A, - - - - - 177,998 80

4. Proceeds of Amsterdam bills sold, but not

yet received, - 614,593 02

5. Cash in hands of collectors of customs, per

abstract D, 151,851 25

6. Bonds unpaid at the end of the year one
thousand seven hundred and ninety-two, on
account of the duties on imports and ton-
nage, and falling due between that time and
May, one thousand seven hundred and nine-
ty four, per abstract E, - - - - 2,442,069 15

7. Uncollected residue of duties on spirits dis-
tilled within the United States, per abstract

F, 341,057 19

Making, together, - $5,116,897 00

This aggregate somewhat exceeds the balance of the account,
l}ut, in a case where estimates must necessarily supply the defi-
ciency of ascertained results, differences of this nature are of
course. It is at the same time satisfactory to observe, that the
estimates which have been heretofore communicated are proved,
by the official documents already received, to have been essen-
tially correct.

It will no doubt readily occur to the House, that a very small
part of the excess which has been stated, is a real surplus of
income. There remain to be satisfied, numerous objects of
expenditure, charged upon the fund by the appropriations which
have been made, that cannot fail ultimately to exhaust it, proba-
bly within four or five hundred thousand dollars ; which will be
embraced in the appropriations for the service of the year one
thousand seven hundred and ninety-three. A further explana-
tion on this point is reserved for future communication.

A due comprehension of the statements now presented must
obviate every idea of a balance unaccounted for, in whatever
sense the allegation may have been intended to be made.

c 24

362 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEr. 36.

If there was before any obscurity on the subject, it was cer-
tainly not the fault of this Department. Till the last resolutions,
no call has been made upon it which rendered it proper to
exhibit a general view of the public moneys and funds, or to
show the amount and situation of such as were unapplied. Par-
ticular calls for particular objects were made, which, as I conceive,
were complied with ; but they were not comprehensive enough
to embrace a disclosure of that nature.

It could not therefore with propriety have been alleged, that
there was a balance unaccounted for ; to infer it from documents,
which contained only a part of the necessary information, was
not justifiable. Nor could it otherwise happen, than that con-
clusions, wholly erroneous, would be the consequences of taking
such imperfect data for guides.

It may be of use, by way of elucidation, to point out some of
the most palpable features of the error which has been enter-
tained.

The following items are stated as the basis of the supposed
deficiency :

Eesidue of fhe proceeds of the foreign bills sup-
posed to be unapplied (after deducting the sums
furnished for St. Domingo, and the amount of
the debt to the foreign officers), - - - $1,668,190
Surplus of sinking fund, meaning, I presume, that
part of the surplus of the revenue to the end of
the year 1790, which had not been applied in

purchases, 400,000

Surplus of revenue of the year 1792, as reported, 277,385

2,345,575

Deduct, in bank, meaning, I presume, the balance

of the treasurer's cash account, - - - 790,642

Balance, not accounted for, 1,554,933

It appears, in the first place, to have been overlooked, that,
in statement No. 3, of my late report concerning foreign loans,

JEt. 36.] LOANS. 363

mention is made that, on the 3d of January, there remained to be
received of the proceeds of the foreign bills, six hundred and
thirty-two thousand one hundred and thirty-two dollars and two
cents ; consequently, that sum could not be considered as in
the treasury, and ought to be deducted from the supposed defi-
ciency.

Among the official papers, which it is intimated were con-
sulted, was an original account, rendered by the Bank of the
United States, of the sales of Amsterdam bills, showing a sum of
six hundred and five thousand eight hundred and eighty-three
dollars and eight cents, as having been received by the bank and
two of its offices of discount and deposit, for the proceeds of
those bills. Had the document been understood, it would have
been known, that this sum was in bank over and above the
balance of the treasurer's cash account; and this also would have
served to account for a large part of the supposed deficiency ;
namely, six hundred and five thousand eight hundred and eighty-
three dollars and eight cents. The course of this transaction will
be hereafter explained.

But, among the misconceptions which have obtained, what
relates to the surplus of revenue of the year 1792, is not the
least striking. The laws inform (and consequently no informa-
tion on that point from this Department could have been neces-
sary) that credits are allowed upon the duties on imports, of four,
six, nine, twelve months, and, in some cases, of two years.
Reason dictates, that a surplus, in such case, must be considered
as postponed in the collection or receipt, till all the appropriations
upon the fund have been first satisfied. The account of receipts
and expenditures to the end of 1791, in possession of the House,
shows that, at that time, no less a sum than one million eight
hundred and twenty-eight thousand two hundred and eighty-nine
dollars and twenty-eight cents of the antecedent duties were
outstanding in bonds. How then could it have happened, that
the surplus of 1792 was sought for in the treasury, at the very
instant of the expiration of the year ? I forbear to attempt to trace
the source of a mistake so extraordinary !

Let me, however, add, that, of the surplus in question, one

364 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mi. 36.

hundred and seventy-two thousand five hundred and eighty -four
dollars and eighty-two cents are not payable till April and May,
1794, as will be seen by the abstract E.

Thus have I not only furnished a just and affirmative view
of the real situation of the public account, but have likewise
shown, I trust in a conspicuous manner, fallacies enough in the
statement, from which the inference of an unaccounted for
balance is drawn, to evince that it is one tissue of error. In this
I might have gone still further, there being scarcely a step of
the whole process which is not liable to the imputation of misap-
prehension. But I wish not unnecessarily to weary the patience
of the House.

Another circumstance, to which importance has been given,
and which was noticed in connection with the suggestion last
discussed, is a disagreement between a memorandum in the
treasurer's bank-book, and the statement reported by me of the
amount of bills drawn at the treasury upon the foreign fund. A
disagreement no doubt exists, and to the extent of five millions
seven hundred and sixty thousand one hundred and thirty-eight
florins or guilders.

But the following circumstances contain the solution of this
disquieting appearance.

There will be found in the statement A two several credits,
each for two millions of dollars, as for moneys received into the
treasury, with corresponding debits of equal sums, as for moneys
paid out of the treasury.

But neither the one nor the other did in reality take place.
The whole is a mere operation, to accomplish the purposes of
the eleventh section of the " act to incorporate the subscribers to
the Bank of the United States," without an inconvenient and
unnecessary displacement of funds.

That section authorizes a subscription to the stock of the
bank, on account of the Government, not exceeding in amount
two millions of dollars, and provides for the payment of it out of
the moneys which should be borrowed by virtue of either of the
acts of the fourth and twelfth of August, 1790; the first making
provision for the public debt, the last for reducing it ; enjoining,

jEt. 36.] LOANS. 365

at the same time, that a loan should be made of the bank to an
equal amount, to replace the moneys which were to be applied
to the payment of the subscription.

It is evident, that nothing could have been more useless (at
the same time that it would have been attended with obvious
disadvantages to the Government), than actually to draw from
Europe, out of the moneys borrowed there, the sum necessary
for the payment of the subscription to the bank, and again to
remit, out of the loan which was to be obtained of the bank, a
sufficient sum to replace such moneys, or such part of them as
may have been destined for the foreign object. Loss upon
exchange, in consequence of overstocking the market with bills ;
loss in interest, by the delays incident to the operation ; and
which would necessarily have suspended the useful employment
of the funds for a considerable time : these are some of the
disadvantages to the Government. To the bank alone could
any benefit have accrued ; which would have been in propor-
tion to the delay in restoring or applying the fund to its primi-
tive destination. Such an operation, therefore, could only have
been justified by an indisposition on the part of the bank to faci-
litate the principal object, without the intervention of actual
payment.

But no such disposition existed. On this, as on every other
occasion, a temper liberal towards the Government has charac-
terized the conduct of the directors of that institution.

It was accordingly proposed by me, and agreed to by them,
that the object to be accomplished should be carried into effect
by a merely formal arrangement. In this, however, it was
necessary to consult the injunctions of law, and the principles
of the constitution of the treasury department.

These points then were to be effected : a payment of the sub-
scription money, to vest the government with the property of
the stock ; possession of the means of paying it, which were to
be derived from the foreign fund, and of course were first to be
in the treasury before payment could be made ; the replacing
what should be taken from that fund, by a loan of the bank.

The following plan for these purposes was devised and exe-
cuted, by previous concert :

366 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 36.

The treasurer drew bills upon our commissioners in Amster-
dam for the sums requisite to complete the payment on account
of the subscription. These bills were purchased by the bank,
and warrants in favor of the treasurer upon the bank served, to
place the proceeds in the treasury. Warrants afterwards issued
upon the treasurer, in favor of the bank, for the amount of the
subscription money, which was receipted for on the part of the
bank, as paid. Other warrants then issued in favor of the trea-
surer upon the bank, for equal sums, as upon account of a loan
to the Government, which warrants were satisfied by a re-delivery
to the treasurer of the bills that had been drawn upon the com-
missioners. In the last place, warrants were drawn upon the
treasurer, to replace the moneys supposed by the arrangement to
be drawn from the foreign fund, which perfected the operation.
But, from the detail which has been given, it will be seen that,
in fact, no moneys were either withdrawn from, or returned to,
that fund. The bills were cancelled, annexed to the warrants,
and are lodged in the treasury as vouchers of the transaction.

These bills were for two separate sums, each two millions
four hundred and seventy-five thousand guilders, equal to a
million of dollars ; the payment having been divided into two
parts, upon certain equitable considerations, relative to the divi-
dend of the first half year.

This transaction explains four millions nine hundred and
fifty thousand guilders, of the sum which forms the disagree-
ment between the memorandum in the treasurer's bank book,
and the statement reported by me.

The residue is thus explained : The sum of one million two
hundred and thirty-seven thousand five hundred guilders,
directed to be drawn for, on the thirtieth of November, was
directed to be comprised in one or more bills, as the bank should
desire. It was at first placed in one bill ; but this bill was after-
wards returned, with a request that it might be converted into
smaller sums. The bill returned was cancelled ; and, in lieu of
it, there had been furnished, prior to the 1st of January, of the
present year, nine hundred and thirty-four thousand five hun-
dred guilders ; the balance, three hundred and three thousand,

jEt. 36.] LOANS. 367

then remaining to be furnished. The sum of nine hundred and
thirty-four thousand five hundred guilders, consequently appears
twice in the memorandum.

These two sums, of four millions five hundred and ninety
thousand, and nine hundred and thirty-four thousand guilders,
exceed the difference in question, by one hundred and twenty-
four thousand three hundred and sixty-two guilders.

The treasurer informs me, that there are two bills not included
in the memorandum ; one for one hundred and twenty-three
thousand seven hundred and fifty, and the other for six hundred
and twelve guilders ; which make up the above mentioned
excess. The former of these two bills was furnished to the
Secretary of State for the purpose contemplated by the third
section of the act of the last session, entitled " An act making
certain appropriations therein specified."

Is it not truly matter of regret, that so formal an explanation,
on such a point, should have been made requisite ? Could no
personal inquiry, of either of the officers concerned, have super-
seded the necessity of publicly calling the attention of the House
of Eepresentatives to an appearance, in truth, so little signifi-
cant ? Was it seriously supposable that there could be any real
difficulty in explaining that appearance, when the very disclosure
of it proceeded from a voluntary act of the head of this depart-
ment?

With perfect respect,

I have the honor to be, sir,
Your most obedient and most humble servant,

Alexander Hamilton,
Secretary of the Treasury.

The Hon. Jonathan Trumbull, Esq.

Speaker of the House of Representatives.

P. S. Another statement of income and expenditure having
been made, which presents the subject under another aspect,
but agreeing in the result with the statement B, is herewith also
submitted, marked B a.

For Schedule see State Papers, Finance, Vol. I., p. 196.

368 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JBx. 36.

LOANS.

Communicated to the Senate, February 6, 1793.

Treasury Department, February 6, 1793.

Sir:

In pursuance of the first part of the order of the Senate, of
the 23d of January past, I have the honor to send, herewith,
sundry statements, marked A, AB, B, B a, D, E, F,* and I beg
the permission of the Senate to add the copy of a letter dated
yesterday, which served to transmit duplicates of the same doc-
uments to the House of Eepresentatives, and which contains
some explanations of them, a repetition of which, here, will be,
thereby, rendered unnecessary. The document C, referred to in
that letter, was also sent to the House of Eepresentatives, but
being of considerable length, a duplicate is not yet ready ; and
I did not think it advisable to detain the other papers till it was
ready.

The documents, now transmitted, will answer the whole of the
inquiry contained in the first part of the order, above referred
to, except what regards a distribution of the expenditures, under
each head of appropriation, which is in preparation, and will be
forwarded as soon as it can be ready.

The situation in which I am placed, renders further delay abso-
lutely necessary, to the fulfilment of the second part of the order.

There is a point in my letter of the 16th of January to the
Senate, concerning which, some explanation is requisite. I
stated, as one motive to the joint negotiation of the loans, under
both acts, " an intimation from our bankers in Holland, that a
distinction might prove an embarrassment, being a novelty, the
reason of which would not be obvious to the money lenders."
This was done from memory, without recurrence to documents,
and in a degree of hurry occasioned by my anxiety for the
speedy passing of the appropriation bill, and upon a revision,

* For these statements, see State Papers, Finance, Vol. I , pp. 187-190; 195-200.

jEt. 36.] LOANS. 369

proves to be not accurate. The mistake arose in the following
manner. My original idea was, to maintain a separation between
the two acts. This will appear from my letter of the 28th of
August, 1790, to our bankers, in which I express a desire that
they would endeavor to place part of the first loan upon one act,
and another part upon the other act. But they did not carry
this idea into execution, for the reason assigned in their answer,
now before the Senate ; which is, that the subdivision proposed
would, under the circumstances of the case, tend to excite spec-
ulations and doubts among the money lenders.

But, prior to the receipt of their answer, I had made further
inquiry, and had reflected more on the subject. The result of
my inquiry was, that the money lenders, having been accus-
tomed to lend on the general credit of the Government borrow-
ing, with a sort of general pledge of its revenues and resources,
the attempt to bottom a loan upon any particular law, might, as
a novelty, occasion some hesitation and embarrassment among
them ; especially, as they are known to be a description of men,
much influenced by habit and precedent ; and the conclusions,
from more full reflection, were, that the distinguishing of the
loans with reference to each act, might not only embarrass the
business, in the first stages of negotiation, but might interfere with
an application of the proceeds of the loans, in the most conve-
nient and beneficial manner, according to circumstances.

On these considerations, I abandoned my original intention,
and in my first instruction to Mr. Short, was silent on the point.

These different positions of the subject in the mind, at differ-
ent times, and what actually took place, with regard to the first
loan, produced some confusion in the recollection of facts, and
led me to assign as a cause, what had been only a collateral cir-
cumstance, and to ascribe to the bankers, intimations, or rather
information, which I had received from other quarters.

I submit this explanation of the matter to the candor of the
Senate, and have the honor to be, with perfect respect,

Sir, your most obedient servant,

Alexander Hamilton.

The Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.

370 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 36.

Treasury Department, February 5, 1793.

Sir:

By order of the President of the United States, I have the
honor to transmit herewith :

1. Copies of a power given by him, to the Secretary of the
Treasury for the time being, dated the 28th of August, 1790, for
the negotiation of the loans authorized by the laws of the 4th
and 12th of August, 1790, and of certain instructions relative
thereto, dated on the same day.

2. Copies of an authority, founded upon the power of the
President, from me to William Short, Esquire, dated the 1st of
September, 1790, and of sundry letters from me, to the said
William Short, of dates from the 29th of May, 1790, to the 31st
of December, 1792, inclusively, relating to the negotiation and
application of the above mentioned loans.

3. Originals of sundry letters, from William Short, to me,
under dates from the 2d of December, 1790, to the 2d of No-
vember, 1792, inclusively, relating to the same subject.

4. Copy of an authority from me, to Messrs. Wilhem and
John Willinks, Nicholaas and J. Van Staphorst, and Hubbard,
bankers of the United States, at Amsterdam, dated the 28th of
August, 1790, relating to the first of the loans made under the
above mentioned acts, and copies of sundry letters to the said
bankers, of dates from the 28th of August, 1790, to the 31st of
December, 1792, inclusively.

5. Originals of sundry letters, from the said bankers, to me,
of dates from the 25th of January, 1790, to the 5th of Novem-
ber, 1792.

6. Copies of sundry letters, of dates from the 18th of June, to
the 24th of September, 1792, inclusively, between (x. Morris, and
W. Short, Esquires, having relation to the above subjects.

The general power from the President .to the Secretary of the
Treasury, of the 28th of August, 1790, and the communications
from William Short, Esquire, who has been the only commis-
sioner, would, it is presumed, have fulfilled the terms of the
resolution of the Senate of the 23d of last month, and are trans-
mitted, pursuant to the request contained in that resolution.

Mt. 36.] LOANS. 371

But the President has been pleased to direct the transmission
of the other documents, also, in the supposition that they will
serve to throw light upon the general subject of that resolution.
With perfect respect, I have the honor to be, Sir, yours, &c.

Alexander Hamilton,
Secretary of the Treasury.
The Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.

[Note. Of the papers referred to in this report, none are now to be found, ex-
cept those published with the Secretary's second report, of the 13th February,
1793, which follows.]

LOANS.

Communicated to the House of Representatives, February 13, 1793.

Sir:

The next most important article of inquiry involved in
the resolutions of the House of Kepresentatives of the 23d of
January last, and in the observations which have been made
respecting the conduct of this Department, relates to the loans
negotiated under the acts of the fourth and twelfth of August,
one thousand seven hundred and ninety.

The papers which have been transmitted to the House by
order of the President, disclose the following particulars —

1. That the immediate superintendence of the business of the
loans was confided to the Department of the Treasury, being
naturally connected with it. This trust, besides the original in-
structions for regulating the execution of it, which have been
communicated, was of course subject to such directions, from
time to time, as the President should think fit to give, or as oc-
casions should require. A considerable latitude of discretion,
nevertheless, from the very nature of the case, attended it, so as
justly to leave, on the head of this Department, a complete

372 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 36.

responsibility in all instances, where special exceptions do not
appear.

2. That the first loan which was obtained, was undertaken and
completed by the agency of Wilhem and Jan Willink, and Ni-
cholaas and Jacob Van Staphorst and Hubbard, who, both under
the former and present Government, have been, and are, the
bankers of the United States, at Amsterdam.

3. That, with the single exception of the first loan, William
Short, Esq., then charge des affaires at the court of France, now
resident minister at the Hague, was constituted the sole agent of
this Department for carrying into effect the powers confided to
it ; with this qualification only, that, if any negotiation with a
Prince or State, to whom any part of the debt to be discharged
by the loans was due, should be requisite, the same was to be
carried on through the person who, in capacity of minister,
charge des affaires, or otherwise, then was, or thereafter might be,
charged with transacting the affairs of the United States with
such Prince or State.

4. That all payments, which have been made out of the
proceeds of the loans, have been made by the immediate and
special order of Mr. Short, except those upon the bills of the
Treasurer for the moneys drawn to this country, and those to the
money lenders in Holland ; which were made in course by our
bankers, at the periods they respectively became due. This
consequently embraces all the payments to France ; the very last
of which, though agreed for by Mr. Morris, in consequence of
his having been employed for a special purpose by Mr. Short,
was not, and could not, be completed, but by the same immediate
and special direction of Mr. Short.

It moreover appears, from the same papers, and more fully
from the correspondence at large, now before the Senate, that,
except in the particular instance which has been just stated,
with regard to Mr. Morris, there has been no other agency in
the whole business, than that of Mr. Short, and of the bankers
at Amsterdam and Antwerp, whom he necessarily employed as
instruments in the negotiations with the money lenders, and in
the receipt and disbursement of the moneys borrowed. These,

JEt. 36.] LOANS. 373

as already mentioned, were, at Amsterdam, the two houses of
Wilhcm and Jan Willink, and of Nicholaas and Jacob Van
Staphorst and Hubbard ; at Antwerp, a Mr. G. De Wolf was the
banker.

It may not be without its uses to add, that the moneys pro-
ceeding from the loans have constantly remained in the hands of
the respective bankers, till they have been paid over to the cre-
ditors ; namely, the French treasury, or their bankers, the money
lenders or their representatives, the holders of the bills drawn from
this country by the treasurer. Neither Mr. Short nor Mr. Morris
has ever had possession of a single guilder. The latter, indeed,
has never even had power over one, excepting merely a sum of
105,000 guilders, by letter of mine, dated the 18th September
last, placed at his disposal for paying, at Paris, according to
stipulation, the interest on the debt due to foreign officers. The
fact is, and it is so demonstrated by the correspondence already
referred to, that I never wrote a line to Mr. Morris, on the sub-
ject of the loans or their proceeds, but in reference to the case
just mentioned, of the interest payable to foreign officers, in re-
spect to which, local situation governed.

One more circumstance only is necessary to be noticed in this
place, with a view to the elucidation intended. It is this : that
the last payment, though originating prior to the change in the
political position of France, of the 10th of August last, not hav-
ing been consummated till the 6th of September following, fell,
of course, under the disposition of those then in possession of the
power of the nation.

It could not but have been unexpected to me, that exception
should be taken to the report lately made by me on the subject
of foreign loans, for the omission of details which I did not, at
the time, and do not yet, conceive to have been called for, by the
terms of the resolutions upon which it was founded. The re-
quest addressed to the President, by those resolutions, was, that
he would cause to be laid before the House, a particular account
of the sums borrowed, under his authority, by the United States ;
the terms on which each loan was obtained ; the applications which
had been made of the moneys, agreeably to appropriations ; the

374 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 36.

balances, if any, which remained unapplied ; specifying, also, at
what times interest commenced on the several sums obtained, and
at what times it was stopped by the several payments made. It
was not natural to imagine that these expressions were designed
to comprehend a specification of the precise authorities under which
the loans were negotiated, of the names of the persons, by whom
they were negotiated, of the particular place or places where the
balance unexpended of the sums that had been drawn for to the
United States, were deposited. Still less natural was it for me to
anticipate surmises, which could give to such particulars the
shadow of importance. But, as animadversions have attended
the omission of those details, I ought to regard it as an admoni-
tion to me to be more full and precise in my present communica-
tion— a motive which co-operates with my desire to throw all
possible light upon the subject.

The first general circumstance which requires to be noticed
and explained, after the particulars that have been communicat-
ed, is this : that all the loans which have been hitherto obtained
have been made under the authority of both acts, without par-
ticular reference to either.

The idea originally entertained was to conduct them on a
different plan, founding each loan upon one or the other of the
acts, as will be seen by my letter of the 28th of August, 1790, to
our bankers at Amsterdam ; at the same time that it will appear,
from the same letter, that the separation did not appear to me a
matter of consequence, and that I anticipated the possibility of a
difficulty in adhering to it in the particular case. That difficulty
proved, in the opinion of the bankers, to be of sufficient moment
to render the arrangement contemplated, under the circumstances
of the case, unadvisable, as they inform me in their answer to the
above-mentioned letter.

But, prior to the receipt of that answer, further inquiry and
reflection had determined me to abandon my original idea, as
' likely to produce embarrassment and inconvenience, both in the
negotiation of the loans, and in the application of their proceeds.
It was, accordingly, concluded to let the loans proceed indiscrim-
inately, upon both acts.

jEt. 36.] LOANS. 375

These loans were to have reference to two purposes : first,
the reimbursement of the foreign debt ; second, the purchase of
the domestic debt at its market price.

There were weighty reasons for carrying on both these ope-
rations concurrently. The arrears to France had been a consid-
erable time accumulating. It was, in every sense, proper that a
reimbursement of them should begin, without delay, and desi-
rable, for obvious reasons, that it should go on without any very
considerable chasms or intermissions. This manner of proceed-
ing could not but have the fairest chance of being the most satis-
factory and convenient to France; unless, indeed, the business
were to have proceeded upon the principle of an entire postpone-
ment of the domestic object to that of the reimbursement.

But very cogent reasons rendered this course not the most
eligible ; the early commencement of purchases of the debt was a
matter of real and great importance.

It was important in two relations : as it regarded the advan-
tages to the Government, from redeeming a portion of the debt
at low prices ; and still more, as it regarded the savings to the
country from raising the price of stock on foreign purchasers;
the beneficial influence upon the credit of the nation, abroad and
at home, to be expected from a quick appreciation of the public
obligations ; the benefit to the public creditors in general, and to
the most meritorious classes of them in particular, which would
result from the same cause; all which objects were suggested
from the treasury, as motives to the provision respecting pur-
chases, and are evidently contemplated in the preamble of the
act which makes that provision.

Exclusive of the other advantages which have been cited,
and which are of a nature truly precious and important, that of
preventing foreigners from acquiring the property of our citizens,
at a great undervalue, is too obvious not to be estimated, as it
ought to be, at first sight. It cannot require argument to show
how great an evil it was, that foreigners should be able to ac-
quire, with nine or ten, that for which the country would ulti"
mately have to pay them twenty, with full interest in the inter-
val ; nor how much it merited the attention of the Government
to prevent or lessen so serious an evil.

376 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 36.

But the influences which the purchases by the Government
may have had upon this event may not be equally obvious. It
is, however, not difficult to be traced. Price naturally keeps
pace with competition and demand; whatever increases the
latter, necessarily tends to an augmentation of the former.
Merely, then, as another purchaser, by adding to the competi-
tion and demand, the purchases of the Government were calcu-
lated to influence a rise of price. But they had an effect more
than proportioned to their real extent. Imagination has much
to do in all such questions, and in scarcely any thing so much
as in what relates to public funds. Experience proves that it is
here exerted with uncommon effort. The appearance of the
Government, as a purchaser, has not failed to excite the expec-
tation of a greater demand than was real, because the extent of
the resources, to be employed, might be very great, and was
unknown ; which, by stimulating the zeal of those who wanted
to buy, lest the price should rise suddenly and considerably upon
them, and by encouraging those who wanted to sell, under the
hope of a better price, to hold back the commodity, has, in both
ways, generally contributed to give a spring to the market.
Prices once raised, when founded on intrinsic value, tend to
maintain themselves ; because those who have given them are,
for the most part, interested in keeping them up; and every
new impulse which they receive, serves to carry them rapidly
to their just level.

Those who have been most attentive to the operation of the
public purchases will have the least doubt that they had a ma-
terial agency in accelerating the appreciation of the public stock.

An inquiry naturally arises here, Were the moneys which
were drawn from Europe, on account of the foreign loans, the
instrument of the purchases to which these beneficial effects are
ascribed ?

I answer, that these purchases are to be attributed to the in-
strumentality of that fund ; that, had it not been for this resource,
they could not have been made at the early periods when most
of them were made. The course of the transaction will be fully,
and with more propriety, explained in another place.

Mt. 36.] LOANS. 377

An attention to both objects — to the reimbursements to
France, and to the purchases of the debt, rendered expedient a
submission even of the first loan. Considerations of the moment
seconded those of a general nature, to induce an immediate pay-
ment to that country. The loan had been undertaken without
previous authority from hence, with a view to such payment :
this was known, and a correspondent expectation excited. The
immediate situation of the French finances rendered a payment,
at the particular juncture, more than ordinarily interesting. In
such a state of things, there could be no hesitation about apply-
ing a large part of the loan to that object. Another part of it
was, of necessity, applied to the payment of the sums that were
falling due on the Dutch loans; and it is presumed that the
reasons which have been assigned, will appear to have been
sufficiently powerful to have dictated the drawing of a part of it
to the United States.

Accordingly, a million and a half of the three millions bor-
rowed were appropriated to France ; something more than eight
hundred thousand guilders were drawn for here, and the remain-
der of the loan was left to be disbursed in Holland.

It shall not be concealed, though I am aware that the ac-
knowledgment may be a subject of criticism, that the conduct
which was pursued, both with regard to this and to the succeed-
ing loan, was, in some degree, influenced by a collateral consid-
eration. The Government had but just adopted a plan for the
restoration of public credit. The periodical payment of interest
was to commence on the 1st of April, 1791. A considerable part
of the revenue, out of which the moneys were to arise, was only
to begin to accrue on the 1st of January preceding. This rev-
enue was liable to credits of four, six, and twelve months.

How far its eventual product would answer expectation ; how
far the punctuality of payments could be relied upon ; were
points unascertained, and which required, to their ascertainment,
much more experience than had been obtained. In such a situ-
ation it was not only natural, but necessary, for an administrator
of the finances to doubt ; and, doubting, it was his duty to call
to the aid of the public credit every auxiliary which it was in his
c 25

378 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 36.

power to command. He was bound to reflect, that a failure in
any stipulated payment would be fatal to the dawning credit of
the country ; to the reputation of the Government, just beginning
to rise. That a wound inflicted upon either, at so early a stage,
under all the circumstances of opposition to the constitution,
which had existed in the community, would have been deeply
felt, and might either not have admitted of a cure at all, or not
till after a length of time, and a series of mischiefs ; that it could
not but be an important service rendered to the country to ward
off so great a misfortune, by the temporary use of any extraordi-
nary resource which might be at hand, till time was given for
more effectual provision.

If, in the course of such reflections, a doubt had occurred
about the strict regularity of what was contemplated as a possible
resort, a mind sufficiently alive to the public interest, and suffi-
ciently firm in the pursuit of it, would have dismissed that doubt,
as an obstacle, suggested by a pusillanimous caution, to the exer-
cise of those higher motives, which ought ever to govern a man,
invested with a great public trust. It would have occurred, that
there was reasonable ground to rely, that the necessity of the
case, and the magnitude of the occasion, would insure a justifica-
tion, and that, if the contrary should happen, there remained still
the consolation of having sacrificed personal interest and tran-
quillity, no matter to what extent, to an important public in-
terest, and of having avoided the humiliation which would have
been justly due to an opposite and to a feeble conduct.

The disposition which was resolved upon with regard to the
first loan, involved, necessarily, a decision of the point, that the
loans might be placed on the joint foundation of both acts. That
loan having been undertaken, as already mentioned, without
previous authority, and, consequently, without a particular eye
to either act, it was probable that it would be found too late to
make an apportionment of one part of the sum borrowed to one
act, of another part to the other act. In that case, the distribu-
tive application of the fund to the different objects, was to be
relinquished, or the possibility was to be admitted of the loan
being left to stand upon the authority of both acts. The same

jEt. 36.] LOANS. 379

disposition of the first loan, will, also, illustrate the convenience
and expediency of the plan which was finally adopted, that is, of
placing the loans on the basis of both acts.

The idea of a concurrent execution of both the objects to
which the loans were destined, could not, conveniently, have
been pursued, upon the plan of a separation of the loans, which,
to be effectual, would include the strict application of the pro-
ceeds of each, to the purposes of the particular act upon which
it was founded.

Amsterdam was naturally looked to, as the great scene of the
intended loans. There, as every where else, there is but a certain
quantity of money floating in the market, from time to time,
beyond the necessary demands of trade and industry, seeking
for employment in loans. This quantity, of course, varies at
different periods, from a variety of causes. Of the quantity at
any time afloat, but a certain proportion can be commanded by
any one borrowing power, owing to the competition of other
borrowers, who have, each, their connections, through their
bankers, with different sets of undertakers and money lenders.
Nor is it always that considerable loans can be had, at any rate.
There are certain seasons only, when they are practicable.

To have brought two loans upon the market at one time, as
an opportunity of borrowing offered, which must have been the
case in order to make concurrent provision for both the objects
in question, if the principle of a separation of the loans had
been adopted, would have been to exhibit to the money lenders
a very unusual appearance. With men known to be much
influenced by precedent and habit, such an appearance could not
have failed to prove a source of speculation and conjecture, and
might have led to a confused idea that the wants of the United
States were excessive — a supposition by no means calculated to
promote their credit. It would, moreover, have been a departure
from that simplicity of procedure, which, where numbers are
concerned, is always of moment to a right conception of the
business to be accomplished, and ought not to be abandoned but
for reasons of real utility and weight.

To have instituted the loans successively, founding each upon

380 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 36.

one or the other of the acts, would have had a tendency to
occasion longer intervals between the payments to France than
was desirable. The intervention of a loan for the purpose of
purchases, would have created, of course, a very considerable
chasm. It may be objected, that such chasms did happen on the
plan which was pursued. This is true, in two instances; but the
most material of the two proceeded from casualties foreign to the
plan itself, which are detailed in the correspondence more than
once alluded to.

It is possible, too, that a separation of the loans might have
rendered it less easy to take advantage of a state of the market,
favorable to their extension at a particular juncture. The loan
to be brought on the market might relate to the purchase of the
debt. The moment might be favorable to a more considerable
loan than was within the limits prescribed for that object, and
the opportunity might slip before a second could be instituted.
In this business, moments are often of importance, and are to be
embraced with promptitude and dexterity.

Thus, it appears that, in different ways, the negotiation of the
loans might have been embarrassed by their separation.

But the most obvious, if not the most serious of the inconven-
iences which would have attended it, respects the application of
the sums borrowed. This could not, then, have been moulded
as the interest or policy of the Government might dictate. A
loan for the purchase of the debt might have been made, under
prospects promising a ready and beneficial investment of it ; but,
before the investment was made, a change of the market might
render it ineligible, involving the alternative, either of a disad-
vantageous investment, or of leaving, perhaps, a large sum of
money a long time unemployed. Such a state of things might
have produced, to the banks, an advantage, and, to the Govern-
ment, a loss, of magnitude sufficient to give color to a surmise
that the public interest had been sacrificed to the profit of those
institutions. The contrary course has essentially avoided that
evil, which, in this, and in other instances, would have been
incident, in a far greater degree, to the modes of proceeding,
contrasted with those that have been pursued, than has, in reality,
attended them.

JEt. 36.] LOANS. 381

Or, political considerations might have rendered it advisable
to transfer the application of the fund from one object to the
other.

Of this, the case of St. Domingo presents an example. It
might have happened, on the plan of separate loans, that there
was no fund in hand but for the purchase of the debt. Then, on
the principle of that plan, there would have been no fund^in the
disposition of the Executive, applicable to the other object,
which would have embarrassed the performance of a duty
towards a friendly Power, and, in a way which included the
positive advantage to the country, of paying, directly, a part of
its foreign debt, in its own productions.

Such were the embarrassments avoided, and such the conven-
iences secured, by the plan of making the loans indiscriminately,
upon the authority of both acts.

In the opposite plan, I can discern no counterbalancing
advantage nor convenience.

Consequently, if both are equally legal, there can be no
doubt which of them ought to have been preferred.

If there be any want of legality in the plan which has been
pursued, I was not, at the time, and am not yet, sensible of it.

I know of no rule which renders it illegal in an agent, hav-
ing, from the same principal, two authorities to borrow money,
whether for one, or different purposes, to unite the loans he may
make, upon the foundation of both authorities, provided the
terms of them be consistent with both or either of his commis-
sions. If the purposes are different, it will be incumbent upon
him to take care that the application of the moneys borrowed
makes the proper separation, and, doing this, he will have ful-
filled his trust. To test this position, it seems only necessary to
ask, whether the principal, in such case, would not be fully bound
to the lenders? •

In reflecting, originally, upon the regularity of the proceed-
ing meditated, there was but one source of hesitation — the dif-
ference in the funds upon which the loans were to rest. But,
the following reasoning satisfied the scruple : Tl^e pledging of
particular funds, is for the security of the lenders. If they are

382 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [At. 36.

willing to waive the special security, by lending on the general
credit of the Government, or to dispense with the preference of
one fund to another, where two are pledged, by lending indis-
criminately on the credit of both, the one or the other circum-
stance must be alike indifferent to the Government. The au-
thority will have been well executed, to the extent necessary
for public purposes, and, if any thing remains unexecuted, it will
be in enlargement, not in abridgment of the public rights. It is,
however, presumed, that the practical construction, in the pres-
ent case, will be, that the two funds pledged, will constitute an
aggregate for the joint security of the moneys borrowed upon
both acts.

The second general circumstance respecting the foreign loans,
negotiated under the acts of the 4th and 12th of August, which
requires attention, relates to the terms on which they have been
obtained. These, it appears, have been represented as neither
honorable nor advantageous.

The following facts, witnessed by the correspondence before
the Senate, more than once referred to, and well known to all
who have had opportunities of information, demonstrate that
the terms of those loans have been both honorable and advan-
tageous.

1. There is not one of them, which originated under the
acts, that was not effected upon conditions equally favorable
with those attending the loans of the cotemporary borrowing
Powers, of the most tried resources, and best established credit,
and more favorable than were obtained by some Powers of great
respectability.

2. The United States took a lead in the market, in regard to
the subsequent reductions of interest, having had either earlier
or more complete success than any other borrowing Power.

3. From a rate of five per cenlt interest, and four and a half
per cent, charges, which marked the level of the market when
they begun their loans, they, in the course of a single year,
brought down the terms to four per cent, interest, and five per
cent, charges j that is, from an interest on the net sum received
(including an indemnification for charges) of 5.5012, something

Mt. 36.] LOANS. 383

more than five and a half per cent., to an interest on the like
sum of 4.4951, something less than four and a half per cent.

When this state of things is applied to a Government only
in the third year of its existence, and to a country which had so
recently emerged from a total derangement of its finances, it
would seem impossible to deny that the issue is not only honor-
able, but flattering — unless, indeed, it can be denied, that a
sound and vigorous state of credit is honorable to a nation.

I forbear a comparison between the loans of the present and
of the former Government of this country, because an immense
disparity of circumstances would render it an improper one —
further than to take notice of a very great error, which has
been, upon some occasions, advanced. It has been alleged, to
disparage the management under the present, that the loans of
the former Government, in a situation, comparatively, very dis-
advantageous, have been effected upon equal terms ; and, in
proof of this, an appeal has been made to the loan of 2,000,000
of guilders, at four per cent., which is that of the 9th March,
1784.

Nothing can manifest more clearly than this, the very pre-
cipitate and superficial views with which suggestions on impor-
tant public subjects are sometimes made. The last four per
cent, loan obtained under the existing laws, including charges,
is a real four and a half per cent, loan, or, more exactly, a
4.4951 per cent. loan. The four per cent, loan, of March, 1784,
is a real 6.6468 per cent. loan. The difference, which exceeds
two per cent., arises, principally, from extra premiums and grati-
fications, which were allowed upon this loan, and which are un-
known to the other.

Much praise is, no doubt, due to the exertions which effected
the loans under the former Government. A superiority of merit
shall readily be conceded to them, from the circumstances under
which they were made, and their signal utility in the Kevolution.
But it is not necessary to their eulogium, to affirm, that they
were made, upon equal terms with those of the loans lately ob-
tained, or, to deny the goodness of the terms of the latter. Truth
will not justify the one or the other.

384 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 36.

The facts which have been stated, prove, that the terms of
the loans are advantageous as well as honorable. They are,
comparatively, advantageous, because they are as moderate as
other Powers, in the best credit, have allowed ; and they are
absolutely advantageous, because the highest real, not nominal,
rate of interest, which has been given, does not exceed 5.5012 —
a fraction more than 5i per cent. ; while the lowest real rate is
4.4951 — a fraction less than 4| per cent.

If the question, whether advantageous or not, be tested by
the purposes for which the loans have been made, the conclusion
is equally in their favor. The payments on account of the for-
eign debt were an indispensable obligation. Unless it can be
shown that they might have been derived from another and
more advantageous source, it will follow, that it was the in-
terest of the Government to avail itself of the resource which
has been employed, because it was its duty to discharge its obli-
gations.

It is sometimes urged, that foreign loans, for whatever pur-
pose, are pernicious, because they serve to drain the country of
its specie for the payment of interest, and for the final reimburse-
ment of principal; that it would be preferable, for that reason,
to procure loans at home, even at a higher rate of interest.

To this, several answers may be given, some of a special,
others of a general nature.

In reference to the reimbursement of the foreign debt, it may
be observed, that, as a debt had already been incurred abroad,
upon which interest was payable, the contracting of new loans
there, for the reimbursement of that debt, would leave us, as to
the demand for the exportation of our specie, just where we
originally stood.

Moreover, if the money could have been borrowed at home
for that reimbursement, the remittance of it would have been
ruinous to the country. The mere necessity of remitting, could
not, alone, have increased the foreign demand for our commodi-
ties, so as to deduce, from an extra exportation of them, the re-
quisite means of payment ; and, if our specie was to perform
the office, the country would speedily have been exhausted, to a

^t. 36.] LOANS. 385

degree inconsistent with the support of its commerce and in-
dustry. The quantity of coin in the United States has never
been considerable enough for such an operation.

But this very state of things would have rendered the pro-
curing of the money, from domestic resources, impracticable.
These, it may be safely affirmed, are too limited for extensive
loans, of any considerable degree of permanency.

In the last place : The expedient of domestic loans would not
prevent the evil which is desired to be prevented. Foreigners
would, either in the first instance, bring their moneys to sub-
scribe them to the loans, or, they would afterwards purchase the
stock arising from them ; and, in either case, they would equally
draw away the money of the country on account of their interest
and principal. The only consequence of giving a disproportion-
ate rate of interest for domestic loans, would be, that our specie
would be carried away so much the faster.

Experience having shown, that nations sometimes pay more
regard to their external than to their internal credit, this con-
sideration co-operates with reasons of convenience, to induce
moneyed men abroad, to be content with a lower rate of interest,
stipulated to be paid in their own country, than if the place of
payment be in another country, making even a greater differ-
ance than is an equivalent for the expense and risk of obtaining
remittances.

The clear inference from these observations is, that, with re-
gard to the reimbursement of the foreign debt, no other expedi-
ent than that of foreign loans was practicable or eligible.

The utility of that part of the loans which has reference to
the purchase of the debt, has already been explained in certain
views. So far as their agency has been, hitherto, concerned in
that operation, it is a sufficient demonstration of the advantage
of the measure, to state, that the sum invested in purchases, up
to the period of the last report to Congress, has redeemed what
is equal to an annuity of 6.15 per cent., including, also, the ad-
vantage of sinking a capital more than 50 per cent, greater than
the sum expended.

A valuable profit will arise from the investment of the sums

386 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 36.

on hand, either in a payment to the bank, or in the purchase of
stock. The liberation of an annuity of six per cent, can be
secured, while, upon a great part of the fund which is to effect
it, no more than 4| per cent, is payable, and less than 5£ upon
the other part. The mean of these rates being 5 per cent., an
annual saving of one per cent, may be effected, which, upon
2,000,000 of dollars, interest at 5 per cent., is equal to a capital
or gross sum of 400,000 dollars — an item certainly of no incon-
siderable consequence.

Against the advantages which are claimed in favor of the
loan, it is natural to place the loss of interest incident to the
delays which have attended their application to the purposes for
which they were obtained. This leads to an examination of the
cases of delay, their causes, the circumstances, if any, which
counterbalance them.

There are three instances of material delay : one respecting
the first loan, another the second loan, and a third, a part of the
two last loans.

The first loan, it will be seen, was not applied till a consider-
able time after its commencement. It has been already inti-
mated, that it was undertaken without previous authority from
this country. The motives to the measure are detailed in a
letter from our bankers, of the 25th of January, 1790, a copy of
which accompanies the communications herewith made by order
of the President. A regard to those motives led to an accept-
ance of the loan. Nor could it have been deemed an unfor-
tunate circumstance, that such an auxiliary to the operations of
the treasury had been previously prepared.

The laws authorizing the loans, passed the 4th and 12th of
August. As early as the 28th of that month, the acceptance
above mentioned was communicated, and the application of
1,500,000 florins, in a payment to France, directed. So far, no
time was lost, more than could not have been avoided.

But the bills, for the sum to be brought here, were not
drawn till some months after. This proceeded from an unwil-
lingness to risk the public credit, by drawing before there was a
certainty of funds to answer the drafts. It was not impossible

,Et.36.] loans. 387

that the great delay which had attended the passing of the law, for
borrowing, might have led the bankers to come to some arrange-
ment with the money lenders, for surrendering the moneys paid
in, and terminating the loan. Independent of this source of ap-
prehension, they had expressed themselves, in their letter com-
municating the step they had taken, to this effect: " To spare
the United States all possible advance of interest, while the
money shall remain unappropriated, we shall issue the recipisses
at the option of the buyers to take them so late as they please, on
the expectation the three millions would be placed in a few
months." This, though it announced an expectation that the
moneys would be paid in, in a few months, did not render the
event certain. And as the bankers appeared, from that precau-
tion, to have adverted to the idea of saving the United States an
advance of interest, it was supposable that they might have
found means still further to procrastinate the payments, or a con-
siderable part of them, till they had received a confirmation of
the loan. This policy would have been the more natural, as
they risked the loss of interest themselves, if the transaction
should not have been finally ratified.

Under such circumstances, I thought it most prudent to defer
the drafts till advice was received of the actual progress of the
loans. There was no room to hesitate between the loss of a
small sum in interest, and the danger of committing the public
credit by a premature operation.

The second case of delay relates to the second loan. It was
occasioned by a determination to suspend the orders for its ap-
plication till information was received of its having been con-
tracted for.

One motive to this determination has been already intimated,
namely : the yet untried and immature state of our fiscal arrange-
ments. The general reasoning, on this head, was strengthened
by an occurrence altogether unlooked for, which disclosed itself
on the 23d of August, 1790, eleven days after th'e rising of Con-
gress— an occurrence which they had not contemplated in their
pecuniary dispositions. I allude to the commencement of an
Indian war, which was announced in a letter from Governor St.

388 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEr. 36.

Clair, dated on the above mentioned day, the progressive extent
and consequences of which could, of course, not be foreseen.
Under such circumstances, I judged it for the public interest and
safety to hold the resource, which the prospect of a loan pre-
sented, under the power of the treasury, till advice should be
received of the actual institution of the loan, with intention then
to dispose of it as should appear advisable under a better ma-
tured view of our pecuniary situation and prospects.

Hence the delay which attended the application of the second
loan ; the first, in fact, that originated subsequent to the laws for
borrowing. But, after advice had been received of its having
been set on foot, no time was lost in converting it, with due
dispatch, to its proper uses. There was only not an anticipation
of its application. As early as May 24th, 1791, I wrote a letter
to Mr. Short (a copy of which is in possession of the House),
empowering him to apply the proceeds of all future loans, as
they should accrue, in payments to France, except as to such
sums as therein were, or afterwards should be, previously and
specially reserved. This arrangement was calculated to obviate
the inconvenience of leaving the proceeds of the loans, for any
considerable time, unemployed. At the period of making it, and
not sooner, the public prospects appeared to me sufficiently
unfolded to render a general and permanent disposition free
from hazard. This instruction preceded, in due season, all the
loans subsequent to that of March, 1791.

Whatever delay, therefore, may have attended succeeding
investments for paying the French debt, is not attributable to
this Department : and I think it will not appear that any has
been incurred, in respect to the sums which were destined for
the public service here. In judging of this point, it will be
proper to observe, that a latitude of six months, for making their
payments, has been reserved to the money lenders, though with
liberty to make them earlier. It was, however, necessary for
the treasury to Vegulate its bills according to the possible delay,
lest the}*- should not meet adequate funds. The general policy
adopted, was, to let them fall upon the rear of each loan, this
giving a freer course for early payments to France, and best

jEt. 36.] LOANS. 389

conciliating a certainty of funds for answering the bills with as
little double interest as possible.

It will appear, that, notwithstanding the arrangement which
was made, a considerable time intervened between the two last
payments to France, while there were funds in hand waiting for
employment. It may be expected that the causes of this pro-
crastination, though, as I have said, not imputable to this Depart-
ment, should be unfolded to the House. Particular circumstances,
however, induce me to confine myself to stating generally, that
the delay proceeded, in the first place, from an expectation given
to Mr. Short, and kept up, from time to time, by the French
minister of marine, that a plan would be adopted, to which a
decree of the National Assembly was requisite, for converting a
large sum into supplies for St. Domingo ; which Mr. Short con-
cluded justly must come out of the foreign fund, and consequently
suspended its application in Europe. In the second place, from
a desire to settle, previously to further payments, a definitive
rule, by which the moneys paid should be liquidated and credited
to the United States.

Both the one and the other appears to have been procrasti-
nated from period to period, by the disordered state of French
affairs, and to have finally issued contrary to expectation. It
would be an unnecessary commitment of my opinion to declare
how far the delay appears to me to have been justified by the
causes ; but, being led by the occasion to take notice of it, I think
it improper to send it abroad, liable, perhaps, to misconstruction,
without observing that the inducements appear to me to have
been weighty ; that the delays naturally grew out of the circum-
stances ; and that I am entirely persuaded of the goodness of the
motives which governed. The correspondence before the Senate
contains the particulars of the transaction.

Having pointed out the instances of material delay which
happened, and the causes of them, it remains to state what cir-
cumstances there are to counterbalance the loss on that account.

These circumstances are of two kinds :

1. Gain by exchange in the sale of the bills drawn by the
treasury, and upon the higher rate of interest on the credits

390 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 36.

which were given for those bills, than was payable on the fund
upon which they were drawn.

2. Gain by exchange on the payments to France.

According to my calculation, founded on the best informa-
tion extant, the real par of the metals, between the United States
and Amsterdam, makes a current guilder equal to 35T3/u nine-
tieths of a dollar. The lowest rate which has been obtained
for the bills, has been 36T4T ninetieths, with an allowance of sixty
days credit, without interest. Making a deduction for the in-
terest, the bills were still sold above the true par. In some
instances, they have been sold as high as 40 cents and 7 mills
per guilder, with interest for the whole term of the credit given.

The rate of interest, for the credits allowed upon the bills,
was six per cent. ; the mean interest paid upon the fund, five per
cent. ; producing, consequently, a gain of one per cent.

With regard to the payments to France, if the current rate of
exchange between Paris and Amsterdam, at the moment of each
remittance or payment, were to govern, a large profit would
result to the United States ; but certain equitable considerations
will produce deductions, which will greatly lessen this advantage;
yet, making a liberal allowance for them, there is ground to cal-
culate that a saving may be made in this particular, more than
sufficient to indemnify for the loss of interest.

Hence any positive advantage which will have been otherwise
gained will probably be undiminished by that circumstance.

I proceed, in the next place, to state the views which pre-
vailed, respecting the sums that have been from time to time
drawn for, the purposes they have hitherto answered, and the
further advantages to be expected from the measure.

The direct object of all the sums drawn for, prior to July,
1792, was the purchase of the debt. A collateral consideration,
which operated in the first stages of drawing, has also been men-
tioned. It has likewise been stated, that the early purchases of
the debt are to be ascribed to the instrumentality of the fund
derived from the loans. This idea shall now be explained.

Two mistakes appear to have influenced the impressions which
have been entertained in relation, directly or indirectly, to this

Mt. 36.] LOANS. 391

subject. First, it seems to have been all along forgotten, that a
considerable part of the duties is always outstanding, on account
of the credits which are given ; whence the assertion, that the
sinking fund has continually overflowed from domestic resources.
Second, it seems to have been taken for granted that the pro-
ceeds of the loans have remained apart, distinct from the mass
of the money in the treasury ; while, in truth, the course of
the business has been to turn them over to the treasurer, by
warrants, as they have been received, so as to form a part of the
aggregate, from time to time, appearing in his hands and in his
accounts. The banks have been the agents employed for selling
the bills. Sometimes warrants, on account, have issued upon
them, for the sums accruing from the sales ; at other times the
warrants have been deferred till the whole proceeds of any
parcel have been received, and the accounts of the bank settled
at the treasury ; as the state of the treasury has happened to
render the one or the other most convenient.

The banks of North America and New- York were the agents
for the sale of all the bills which were sold prior to April, 1792,
amounting to 1,006,526 dollars and 36 cents. Of this sum,
361,391 dollars and 34 cents were passed over to the treasury, in
1791; 327,136 dollars and 22 cents, in March, 1792; and 140,000
dollars, in June following; the residue having remained, as here-
tofore stated, in deposit with the Bank of North America, upon
a special consideration. This is exclusive of certain bills furnish-
ed for the use of the Department of State, amounting to 78,766
dollars and 67 cents.

The remainder of the bills which have been sold, beginning
in April, 1792, were sold by the Bank of the United States, and
its branches at New-York and Baltimore. The accounts of the
sales had just been made out for settlement when the present
inquiry began, but warrants had not yet issued for placing the
proceeds in the treasury. It will be remarked, that, from the
terms of credit allowed, they only began to be receivable in
October last, the 26th day of which month, the first return made
by the bank shows a sum of 127,225 dollars and 53 cents receiv-
ed, and that the collection had not been completed when the
accounts of the sales were rendered.

392 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 36.

There are different views of the subject, which will enable
the House to perceive that the possession of the fund in question
was necessary to enable the treasury to furnish the means of
making all the purchases which were made prior to July, 1792.

It is true, that there was a surplus of revenue to the end of
the year 1790, equal to 1,374,656 dollars and 40 cents, which
was appropriated to purchases of the debt; and, from the credits
then given upon the duties, this surplus would naturally come
into the treasury, in the course of the year 1791.

But the Legislature, foreseeing that the revenue of 1791, from
the same cause, could not actually be in the treasury, within that
year, to face the appropriations upon it (which, it is to be observ-
ed, were nearly commensurate with the fund), inserted a clause
in the law appropriating the surplus of 1790 to the purchase of
the debt, which authorized a reservation of so much of that
surplus as might be necessary to make the payments of interest
during 1791, in case of a deficiency in the receipts into the
treasury, on account of the current revenue of the year.

It will appear to the House, upon a recurrence to the
treasurer's quarterly account, ending the 30th September, 1791,
that the balance of cash, then on hand, was 662,233 dollars and
99 cents.

At that time, there had been paid into the treasury, upon
warrants, from the proceeds of the bills drawn upon the foreign
fund, $361,391 dollars and 34 cents ; consequently, the balance
of cash, had it not been for that auxiliary, would have been only
300,842 dollars and 65 cents, considering the whole balance in
the treasury -as representing an equal sum of the proceeds of the
bills.

Even in a time of complete peace, in a country where a small
extent of moneyed capital forbids a reliance upon large pecuniary
aids to be suddenly obtained, a prudent administrator of the
finances could not feel entirely at ease with a less sum, at all times
in the certain command of the treasury, than 500,000 dollars, for
meeting current demands and extra exigencies, which, in the
affairs of a nation, are every moment to be expected. But, with a
war actually on hand, and a possibility of its extension to a more

jEt. 36.] LOANS. 393

serious length, he would be inexcusable in leaving himself with
a less sum at command, unless from an impracticability of doing
otherwise. It would be always his duty to combine two consi-
derations— the chance of extra calls for money, and a possibility
of some failure in the receipts which were expected. Derange-
ments of various kinds may happen in the commercial circle,
capable of interrupting, for a time, the punctual course of pay-
ments to the treasury. It is necessary, to a certain extent, to be
prepared for such casualties.

But, during the year 1791, there was a circumstance which
operated as an additional reason for keeping a respectable sum
always on hand. The loans of the domestic debt were going on,
till the last of September of that year ; while, at the same time,
the interest was in a course of payment. It was, therefore,
always uncertain what sum would be payable at the end of a
quarter, this depending on the eagerness or backwardness of the
public creditors in bringing forward their subscriptions, or their
claims as non-subscribers. The omissions, at the end of a pre-
ceding quarter, might be expected to fall upon a subsequent one ;
and it was necessary to be prepared for that possibility ; of course,
to keep in hand a larger fund for contingent demands. This
necessity extended to the termination of the period for receiving
subscriptions ; because the treasury was to be prepared on the
supposition that the whole of the domestic debt would then be
in a state to receive interest, either as subscribed or unsubscribed.
But this did not, in fact, happen. A part of the sums, which
were presented, were crowded into the last days of the quarter,
and were too late for a dividend. A considerable sum remained,
ultimately, in a form which, according to the terms of the pro-
vision, did not entitle it to interest, either as subscribed or as
unsubscribed debt.

Hence the cash in the treasury, on the 1st of October, 1791,
was, by a considerable sum, greater than was to have been
counted upon, or than might have happened.

The conclusion which results from the foregoing observations,
is this : that the purchases which preceded the 1st of October,
1791, and which amounted to 699,984 dollars and 23 cents in

c 26

394 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 36.

specie, could not have been hazarded, but for the aid of the sums
which had actually accrued from the proceeds of the bills, and
the expectation of those which were to accrue from the yet
uncollected proceeds of others.

Had it not been for this aid, the treasury would have been
left more bare than was consistent with the security of public
credit and the certain execution of the public service.

There is, however, a later period in the state of the treasury,
which will more completely illustrate the idea intended to be
established. This is the 2d of July, 1792.

On that day, the balance of cash in the treasury, comprehend-
ing the cleposites in all the banks, and including a sum of 200,000
dollars, received on loan, of the Bank of the United States, to-
gether with a sum of 220,900 dollars in bills drawn upon domestic
funds, the proceeds of which had not been received, was 623,133
dollars and 61 cents.

Prior to this period, a further sum of 545,902 dollars and 89
cents, arising from the sales of foreign bills, had been placed in
the treasury, by warrants, making, with the former sums placed
there, from the same source, 907,294 dollars and 23 cents.

Had it not been for this auxiliary, and that of the loan from
the bank, the treasury would then have been in arrear 484,160
dollars and 62 cents. It, therefore, necessarily follows, that, for
the purchases to that period, which amounted, in specie, to
942,672 dollars and 54 cents, at least 484,160 dollars and 62
cents must have come from the foreign fund.

But, when it is considered, for the reasons which have been
stated, and which will hereafter be fortified by others, tending as
I conceive to give them conclusive force, that the sum in the
treasury at the period in question, was barely what ought to
have been there for safety, and for a due supply of current
demands ; it will follow that the whole, or nearly the whole of
the purchases, which were made previous to July, 1792, were
made by the means or instrumentality of the foreign fund.

A similar view, extended to the subsequent quarter, will
exhibit this point in a still clearer light. The balance then in
the treasury, including a further loan from the bank of 100,000
dollars, was only 420,914 dollars and 51 cents.

^t. 36.] LOANS. 395

What, then, it may be asked, became of the surplus revenue
to the end of the year 1790? what was the office performed by
that fund during the period in question ?

The answer is, that it served exactly the purpose which was
anticipated by the Legislature. It came in aid of the current
receipts for satisfying the current expenditures of 1791, with
particular reference to the interest of the debt. This will easily
be comprehended when it is recollected that the appropriations
made during 1791, upon the revenues of that year, and some
small surplusses of antecedent appropriations, amounted to three
millions six hundred and thirty-seven thousand and fifty-eight
dollars and thirty-four cents ; that the revenues themselves
amounted to no more than three millions five hundred and fifty-
three thousand one hundred and ninty-five dollars and eighteen
cents ; and that, at the end of 1791, there were outstanding, in
bonds for the duties on imports, besides the chief part of the
proceeds of the duties on spirits distilled within the United
States, then also uncollected, 1,828,269 dollars and 28 cents.

On this point, likewise, of the surplus of revenue to the end
of 1790, it is presumable a misapprehension has been entertained.
It seems to have been supposed, that that surplus, as well as the
proceeds of the foreign fund, have been kept separate and
distinct from the common mass of the moneys appearing from
time to time to be in the treasury.

It has been already observed, that this was not the case with
regard to the foreign fund. It is now proper to add, that it has
not been the case, either, with regard to the surplus in question.
That surplus, as received by the collectors of the customs, has
regularly passed into the treasury, and appears in the quarterly
accounts of the Treasurer for the periods to which they relate.

It is the course of the treasury, resulting from the constitution
of the department, for all moneys from whatever source, to be
brought into it, to constitute an aggregate, subject to the disposi-
tions, prescribed by law. The moneys to be employed in the
sinking fund, have consequently only been separated, as they
have been called for, for actual investment, The only exception
to this, relates to that part of the sinking fund which is created

396 HAMILTON'S WORKS. {Mr. 36.

by the interest of the debt purchased. This has been included
in the quarterly dividends, and covered by the warrants in favor
of the cashiers of the banks for paying those dividends, after
which, they have passed into a distinct account, in the books of
the bank opened with Samuel Meredith, as agent to the commis-
sioners of the sinking fund.

To the foregoing representation, it may seem an objection,
that the purchases to the end of 1791 appear to have been carried
to the account of the surplus at the end of 1790.

The ultimate form which it has been judged convenient to
give to the transaction, in the accounts of the treasury, cannot
change what was truly the course of facts. The proceeds of
the above mentioned surplus and of the foreign loans, formed
together the fund for purchases. In the accounts of the treasury,
the thing was susceptible of various modifications at pleasure.
The two parts of the fund might have been united in one
account, or divided into distinct accounts. Being separated,
moneys issued for purchases might have been legally carried to
either of them.

It was judged most advisable, in the forms of the treasury, to
place the purchases to the end of 1791, to the account of the
domestic fund, because it was calculated to give greater latitude
and energy to the sinking fund. Had not this course been
pursued, the business would have taken the following shape :
the foreign fund, to the extent of the purchases, would have
been exhausted : the whole, or the greater part of the surplus of
1790, would have continued wrapt up in the expenditure of 1791,
not liable to be liberated till the receipts into the treasury should
yield a correspondent surplus beyond the actual disbursements —
which could not have been the case, while the war with the
Indians continues to call for extraordinary expenditures.

From the form into which the thing has been thrown, the
foreign fund has been set free to be applied to further purchases ;
and a necessity produced of anticipating the outstanding duties,
by temporary loans for the current service.

I trust there can be no doubt that the course pursued was
regular, and within the discretion of the Department. I hope,

Mr. 36.] LOANS. 397

also, that it will appear to the House to have been the most
eligible. The expediency of giving the earliest and greatest
possible extent and activity to whatever concerns the sinking
fund, will, it is presumed, unite all opinions.

What has been said hitherto respecting the employment of
the foreign fund, is applicable only to that part of it which was
drawn for, prior to April, 1792 ; the residue standing in a dif-
ferent situation, and requiring a separate examination.

From the statement which has been given, it may be perceived
that the fund in question has neither been idle nor useless. A
confirmation of this will be found in the following details :

The whole sum successively received on account of Amster-
dam bills, up to the 17th of August, 1791, was 361,391 dollars
and 34 cents. The amount of the moneys invested in purchases
prior to that day, was 350,000 dollars, chiefly by anticipation of
those receipts.

The whole sum successively received on account of Amster-
dam bills, from August 17, 1791, to March 1, 1792, was 408,722
dollars and 69 cents. The amount of the moneys invested in
purchases between those periods, was 349,984 dollars and 23
cents, chiefly in the month of September, and by anticipation of
those receipts.

The whole sum successively received on account of Amster-
dam bills, subsequent to the 1st of March, and prior to July,
1792, was 235,412 dollars and 33 cents. The amount of the
moneys invested in purchases between those periods, was 242,688
dollars and 31 cents.

It was stated in my first letter, that 177,998 dollars and 80
cents, of the proceeds of the foreign bills, were left in deposit
with the bank of North America ; and in a note upon statement
B, accompanying that letter, the occasion of it was shewn to be
an advance without interest, made by that bank, for the use
of the Department of War ; which could not yet be covered,
in consequence of a doubt still remaining, whether the fund
appropriated for satisfying that object was adequate to it — the
sufficiency of that fund depending in part on certain unexpended
residues of antecedent appropriations, which it was expected

398 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 36.

would not be finally necessary for satisfying the purposes of
those appropriations.

It is to be remarked, that the delay of the employment of
this part of the proceeds of the foreign fund, has been compen-
sated by a saving of interest on the sum advanced by the bank,
which otherwise must have been procured upon a loan with an
allowance of interest, probably at the time of the advance, at a
rate of 6 per cent.; so that, even in this particular, the fund,
though temporarily suspended from its destination, has not been
idle or unproductive. I reserve for another place some additional
observations and statements, which will be calculated to shew
that opportunities of investing the moneys at any time on hand,
applicable to purchases of the debt, were not suffered to pass
unimproved, and that as much in this respect was done as the
state of the treasury and the state of the market would permit.

It has been said, that a distinct examination would be
proper with regard to the bills which have been drawn upon
the foreign fund, subsequent to March, 1792. I proceed now to
this examination.

The expediency of what has been, in this respect, done,
seems to have been called in question, under a suggestion, that
an application of the fund to purchases had ceased to be advan-
tageous.

The drawing of these bills has been at different periods
influenced by various considerations. A leading motive was
always the purchase of the debt. And a correct view of the
subject will, I doubt not, satisfy the House, that the measure was
recommended by an adequate prospect of advantage.

It is to be observed, that all these drafts were predicated up-
on the two four per cent, loans ; being, as already stated, real
4^ per cent, loans.

There was good ground to presume, that opportunities would
be found of investing the moneys drawn for in purchases which
would yield at least 5 per cent, with a possibility of doing still
better. The difference of h per cent, was alone an object of im-
portance ; but it would be coupled with the further benefit of
reducing a principal sum materially exceeding the sum invested.

Mi. 36.] LOANS. 399

When the three per cents are purchased at 12s. in the pound,
there is not only a redemption of an annuity of 5 per cent, but a
sinking of a capital of 20s. for 12. And though this might not be
material, if the market rate of interest should never fall below 5,
because in that case the three per cents might always be purchased
at the same rate ; yet if it should at any time happen, that interest
fell below 5, it would be a gain to the Government to have pur-
chased at 5, in exact proportion to the difference between 5 and
the then market rate. Add to this, that the 3 per cents have
generally a value in the market more than proportioned to the in-
come they produce, which arises from the capacity of the capital to
appreciate even to par. These observations are also for the most
part applicable to the deferred, with this circumstance in addi-
tion, that, when interest begins to be payable on that species of
stock, the money invested, and which, in the mean time, would
have produced five, would then begin to produce to the Govern-
ment 6 per cent, with the advantage of having anticipated the
redemption of a species of stock of right only gradually redeem-
able. Combining these considerations, it appears to be clearly
and even eminently for the interest of the Government to pur-
chase within the limit suggested, with a fund which does not
cost more than 44 per cent.

That this was the view of the subject which governed, is de-
ducible not only from the circumstances of the fact, but from
my letter of the 2d of April, 1792, to Mr. Short, announcing
my intention to draw, in which I assign as the ground of that
intention, " that I considered it for the interest of the United
States to prosecute purchases of the public debt with moneys bor-
rowed on the terms of the last loan," meaning the loan of the
1st of January, 1792, at 4 per cent.

If the event be taken as a criterion, the anticipation will be
more than justified, the present juncture offering an opportunity
for purchases peculiarly advantageous.

But, without insisting on a state of things occasioned by ex-
traordinary circumstances, it was morally certain that the common
course of events would render the operation a beneficial one.
And it would not argue peculiar foresight, if a calculation was

400 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 36.

even made on the effect which the situation and probable pro-
gress of affairs in Europe might produce upon our market. A
pretty general war there, bj extending the demand for money,
would naturally divert from our stocks a portion of what might
otherwise be employed upon them, and effect injuriously their
prices. It is, also, a familiar fact, that, during the winter, in
this country, there is always a scarcity of money in the towns —
a circumstance calculated to damp the prices of stock.

A consideration, which collaterally influenced the drawing of
the latter bills, was the situation of the French colony of St.
Domingo.

This not only produced an early application for a considera-
ble advance, which was promised, but it was to be foreseen, that
still further aids would be indispensable.

Indeed, sundry letters from Mr. Short, the first dated at Parisj
the 28th December, 1791, announced the daily probability of an
arrangement, requiring an advance here of 800,000 dollars for
the use of that colony. A sum of 4,000,000 of livres has in fact
been sucessively stipulated for that object, the greatest part of
which has been actually furnished.

It is known that these supplies could proceed from no other
source than the foreign fund. ■

The payment to the foreign officers of near 200,000 dollars,
by which an interest of 6 per cent, would be released, was
another object for which provision was to be made out of the
same fund.

These several purposes conspired with the object of purchas-
ing the debt to induce the latitude of drawing, which took
place.

But there was still a further inducement which came in aid
of the others. The time for reimbursing the first instalment of
the two millions of dollars due to the bank was approaching,
when, by positive stipulation, the Government would have to
pay two hundred thousand dollars, for which there was no do_
mestic fund that could be spared from the current exigencies,
I thought it incumbent upon this department to have an eye to
placing within the reach of the Legislature the means of fulfill-

Mt. 36.] LOANS. 401

ing this engagement ; the object of which bore a strict analogy
to that for which the two millions authorized by the act making
provision for the reduction of the public debt were to be bor-
rowed.

I did not even scruple to take into the calculation, that if,
from the extent of the draughts upon the foreign fund, there
should happen to be found on hand a larger sum than was ne-
cessary for, or could be advantageously employed .towards the
several purposes which were the immediate and direct objects of
the operation, the surplus would facilitate to the Government a
measure manifestly and unequivocally beneficial — an additional
payment to the bank, on account of a debt, upon which an an-
nual interest of 6 per cent, was payable ; a measure by which a
certain saving of one per cent, to the extent of the payment that
might be made would be accomplished.

The possibility of this application of the fund afforded a
perfect assurance, that the public interest could in no event fail
to be promoted.

I felt myself the more at liberty to do it, because it did not in-
terfere with a complete fulfillment of the public engagements in
regard to the foreign debt. It could be done consistently with
a full reimbursement of all arrears and instalments which had
accrued on account of that debt.

The detail which has been given, comprehends a full expos-
ition of the views and motives that have regulated the conduct
of this Department in relation to those parts of the proceeds of
the foreign loans which have been transferred to the United
States, except as to the last sum of one million two hundred and
thirty seven thousand five hundred florins, directed to be drawn
for on the 30th of November last ; in regard to which, circum-
stances of a special nature co-operated, as is explained in a note
upon the copy of my letter of the 26th of that month, to Mr,
Short, forming a part of the communication herewith made by
order of the president of the United States

The House will perceive, that the variety of matter com-
prised in this letter has not been collected and digested into its
present form, without much labor and unavoidable expense of

402 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEi. 36.

time. I trust they will be sensible, that no delay has been un-
necessarily incurred. It is certain that I have made every ex-
ertion in my power, at the hazard of my health, to comply with
the requisitions of the House as early as possible. And it has
even been done with more expedition than was desirable to se-
cure the perfect accuracy of the communication.

Yet I have still to regret that some part of the subject must
remain to be presented in a subsequent letter. To lessen, how-
ever, the inconvenience of this further delay, I shall transmit
with the present letter, the statements required by the first and
second of the resolutions of the 23d of January, which will be
found in the schedules herewith, marked No. I to V. ; those re-
quired by the last of the resolutions having been already for-
warded.

There remain, however, some particulars to complete the
information contemplated by those resolutions, that must be re-
served for another communication. This I may venture to as-
sure the House will not be deferred beyond the present, or at
least the first day of the ensuing week.

With perfect respect, I have the honor to be, Sir,
Your most obedient and most humble servant,

Alexander Hamilton,

Secretary of the Treasury.

The Honorable the Speaker

of the House of Bepresentatives.

No. I. — A Statement of the appropriation for reducing the Public Debt, con-
stituted by the Act of Congress passed on the 12th day of August, 1790.

No. II. — A Statement of the application of the funds drawn on the appropriation
of the surplus of duties to the end of the year 1790, for the reduction of the Public
Debt.

No. III.— A Statement of the application of the Fund constituted by the Act of
Congress, passed on the 8th of May, 1792, for reducing the Public Debt, arising
from the interest on the sums of said debt purchased, redeemed, and paid into the
Treasury of the United States.

No. IV. — Quarterly Statement of cash in the hands of the Treasurer of the U. S.i
for the year 1791.

No. V.— Statement of cash in the Treasury, during the year 1792, showing the
balance on hand half monthly.— State Papers— Finance, Vol. I., 210 to 214.

JEt. 36.] LOANS. 403

Treasury Department, February 13, 1793.

Sir:

In obedience to an order of the President of the United
States, founded upon the requests contained in two resolutions
of the House of Kepresentatives of the 23d of January last, I
have the honor to lay before the House —

1. The several papers numbered 1, 2, 3, 4, being copies of
the authorities under which loans have been negotiated, pursuant
to the acts of the 4th and 12th of August, 1790.

2. Sundry letters, as per list at foot, from the Secretary of
the Treasury to William Short, Esq , and to Wilhem and J. Wil-
links, N. and J. Van Staphorst and Hubbard, being copies of the
authorities respecting the application of the moneys borrowed.

3. Statement A, showing the names of the persons by whom,
and to whom, the respective payments of the French debt have
been made in Europe, specifying' the dates of the respective pay-
ments, and the sums. With regard to the precise dates of
the respective drafts which may have been drawn, or orders
which may have been given by Mr. Short to our bankers,
for making those payments, they cannot be furnished, not being
known at the treasury. It is, however, to be inferred, from the
correspondence and circumstances, that they preceded but a short
time the respective payments to which they related.

Statement B, showing by whom the payments have been
made, on account of the Dutch loans, the dates, .and the sums.
As to the persons to whom the payments were made, no specifi-
cation is practicable, these being the numerous subscribers to the
several loans, their agents or assignees. It has never been con-
sidered, either under the former or present Government, as inter-
esting to the treasury to know who those individuals were.
Indeed, by the transfers always going on, they are continually
changing. The demand for a communication of their names
would have been unprecedented, and the disclosure, from time
to time, would have been attended with a great deal of useless,
but expensive trouble.

The statement desired, in reference to the Spanish debt, can-
not be furnished. In a note upon statement No. 1, of my

404 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 36.

late report concerning foreign loans, it is mentioned, " that
advice had been received that the payment of this debt was
going on, though it had not been completed." This appears by
letters from Mr. Short, now before the Senate, dated August
30th, and October 9th and 22d. No advice of the completion of
the payment has been since received. All that is known is, that
our bankers were procuring bills under orders from Mr. Short,
for the purpose of remitting to Spain the sum necessary to dis-
charge her debt.

There will be seen a difference in the statement now present-
ed, and No. 1 of my late report, concerning foreign loans, as to
the date of the last payment to France. In one, the 9th of Au-
gust is mentioned, in the other, the 6th of September. The fact
is, that it had its inception some time in August, but was not
perfected till the 6th of September. Mr. Morris, who had been
charged by Mr. Short with endeavoring to adjust, with the
French treasury, the rule by which the payments that had been,
and might be made, should be liquidated into livres, having regard
to certain equitable considerations, made an arrangement with it,
provisionally, for the payment of 1,641,250* florins, and wrote
to Mr. Short, requesting that he would direct the payment to be
completed. There appear to have been two letters from Mr.
Morris on the subject, one dated the 6th, the other the 9th of
August. But Mr. Short, for reasons which he explains in his
correspondence, now before the Senate, did not consummate the
payment till the 6th of September. One statement has reference
to the beginning, the other, to the conclusion of the affair.

I am instructed by the President to observe, that there are
some circumstances in the communications now made, which
would render a public perusal of them not without inconvenience.

With perfect respect, I have the honor to be, sir,

Your most obedient and most humble servant,

Alexander Hamilton,

Secretary of the Treasury.
The Hon. the Speaker of the

House of Representatives.
* 1,625,000 Banco.

jEt. 36.] LOANS. 405

No. 1.

George Washington, President of the United States of America, to
the Secretary of the Treasury for the time being.

By virtue of the several acts, the one, entitled "An act mak-
ing provision for the debt of the United States," and the other,
entitled " An act making provision for the reduction of the
public debt," I do hereby authorize and empower you, by your-
self, or any other person or persons, to borrow, on behalf of the
United States, within the said States, or elsewhere, a sum, or
sums, not exceeding, in the whole, fourteen millions of dollars,
and to make, or cause to be made, for that purpose, such con-
tract, or contracts, as shall be necessary, and for the interest of
the said States, subject to the restrictions and limitations in the
said several acts contained ; and, for so doing, this shall be your
sufficient warrant.

In testimony whereof, I have caused the seal of the United
States to be hereunto affixed.

Given under my hand, at the city of New York, this twenty-
eighth day of August, in the year of our Lord one thou-
sand seven hundred and ninety.

George Washington.

By the President:

Th: Jefferson.

No. 2.

George Washington, President of the United States of America, to
the Secretary of the Treasury for the time being.

Having thought fit to commit to you the charge of borrow-
ing, on behalf of the United States, a sum, or sums, not exceed-
ing, in the whole, fourteen millions of dollars, pursuant to the
several acts, the one, entitled " An act making provision for the
debt of the United States," the other, entitled "An act making
provision for the reduction of the public debt."

406 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 36.

I do hereby make known to you, that, in the execution of
the said trust, you are to observe and follow the orders and
directions following, viz : Except where otherwise especially
directed by me, you shall employ, in the negotiation of any loan
or loans, which may be made in any foreign country, William
Short, Esq. You shall borrow, or cause to be borrowed, on the
best terms which shall be found practicable, (and within the limi-
tations prescribed by law as to time of re-payment and rate
of interest) such sum or sums, as shall be sufficient to discharge,
as well all instalments, or parts of the principal of the foreign
debt which now are due, or shall become payable to the end of
the year one thousand seven hundred and ninety-one, as all
interest and arrears of interest, which now are, or shall become
due, in respect to the said debt, to the same end of the year one
thousand seven hundred and ninety-one. And you shall apply,
or cause to be applied, the moneys which shall be so borrowed,
with all convenient despatch, to the payment of the said instal-
ments, and parts of the principal and interest, and arrears of the
interest of the said debt. You shall not extend the amount of
the loan which you shall make, or cause to be made, beyond the
sum which shall be necessary for completing such payment,
unless it can be done upon terms more advantageous to the
United States than those upon which the residue of the said debt
shall stand or be. But, if the said residue, or any part of the
same, can be paid off by new loans, upon terms of advantage to
the United States, you shall cause such further loans as may be
requisite to that end, to be made, and the proceeds thereof to be
applied accordingly. And for carrying into effect the objects
and purposes aforesaid, I do, hereby, further empower you to
make, or cause to be made, with whomsoever it may concern,
such contract or contracts, being of a nature relative thereto, as
shall be found needful, and conducive to the interest of the
United States.

If any negotiation with any prince or state to whom any part
of the said debt may be due, should be requisite, the same
shall be carried on through the person, who, in capacity of
minister, charge des affaires or otherwise, now is, or hereafter

jEt. 36.] LOANS. 407

shall be charged with transacting the affairs of the United States,
with such prince or state ; for which purpose I shall direct the
Secretary of State, with whom you are in this behalf to consult
and concert, to co-operate with you.

Given under my hand at the city of New York, this twenty-
eighth day of August, in the year of our Lord one thou-
sand seven hundred and ninety.

Geo. Washington.

No. 3.

To all to whom these presents shall come :

Whereas by an act passed the fourth day of August, in this
present year, entitled "An act making provision for the debt of
the United States," it is, among other things, enacted, that the
President of the United States be authorized to cause to be bor-
rowed, on behalf of the United States, a sum or sums, not exceed-
ing in the whole twelve millions of dollars, and that so much of
that sum as may be necessary to the discharge of the said arrears
and instalments, and (if it can be effected upon terms advanta-
geous to the United States) to the paying off the whole of the
said foreign debt, be appropriated solely to those purposes ; and
that the President be, moreover, further authorized to cause to
be made, such other contracts respecting the said debt as shall be
found for the interest of the said States : Provided nevertheless,
that no engagement nor contract shall be entered into, which
shall preclude the United States from reimbursing any sum or
sums borrowed, within fifteen years after the same shall have
been lent or advanced :

And whereas, by another act, passed the twelfth day of Au-
gust, in the present year, entitled "An act making provision for
the reduction of the public debt," it is also, among other things,
enacted, that the President of the United States be authorized to
cause to be borrowed, on behalf of the United States, a sum, or
sums, not exceeding in the whole two millions of dollars, at an
interest not exceeding five per cent :

408 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 36.

And whereas, by virtue of the said several acts, the President
of the United States of America hath been pleased, by a certain
commission or warrant, under his hand, to authorize and empower
the Secretary of the Treasury for the time being, by himself, or any
other person or persons, to borrow, on behalf of the United States,
within the said States, or elsewhere, a sum, or sums, not exceed-
ing, in the whole, fourteen millions of dollars, and to make, or
cause to be made, for that purpose, such contract or contracts as
shall be necessary, and for the interest of the said States, subject to
the restrictions and limitations in the said several acts contained :
And whereas Messrs. Wilhem and Jan Willink, and Nicholaas
and Jacob Van Staphorst, and Hubbard, have, by letter, bearing
date the twenty-fifth day of January, 1790, communicated to
me, that they have entered into a certain provisional agreement
or arrangement, for a loan of three millions of florins, for the
use of the United States of America, bearing an interest of five
per centum per annum, and reimbursable by yearly instalments,
of six hundred thousand florins, commencing in the year one
thousand eight hundred and one, and ending in the year one
thousand eight hundred and five : And whereas it appears to
me for the interest of the said United States to accept the
said loan :

Now, therefore, be it known : That I, Alexander Hamilton,
Secretary of the Treasury of the United States for the time
being, by virtue of the power and authority in me vested, by the
said President of the United States, and in his name, and on be-
half of the United States of America, and to their use, do, by
these presents, accept, agree to, ratify, and confirm, the loan
aforesaid, provisionally undertaken by the said Wilhem and Jan
Willink, and Nicholaas and Jacob Van Staphorst, and Hubbard.
And I do hereby, authorize and empower the said Wilhem and
Jan Willink, and Nicholaas and Jacob Van Staphorst, and Hub-
bard, or, in case of the death of any of them, the survivors, to
borrow, on behalf of the United States, either by way of confir-
mation of the said . provisional agreement, or otherwise, as need
may be, a sum, or sums, not exceeding in the whole, three mil-
lions of florins, subject to the restrictions and limitations in the

jEt. 36.] LOANS. 409

said several acts contained and above recited ; and for that pur-
pose, in the name of the said President, on behalf of the United
States of America, to execute such contracts, obligations, and
instruments, as shall be necessary, and conformable to usage, in
the like cases, and the faith of the United States to pledge for
the performance of the terms thereof ; and if the same shall be
deemed requisite, to stipulate for the ratification thereof by the
President of the United States ; hereby giving and granting to
the said Wilhelm and Jan Willink, and Nicholaas and Jacob
Van Staphorst, and Hubbard, and the survivors of them, all my
power and authority, in the premises, and ratifying, allowing,
and confirming, whatsoever they shall lawfully do therein.

In testimony whereof, I have caused the seal of the treasury to
be affixed to these presents, and have hereunto subscribed
my hand, the twenty-eighth day of August, in the year of
our Lord one thousand seven hundred and ninety.

Alexander Hamilton,

Secretary of the Treasury.

No. 4.

To all to whom these presents shall come :

Whereas, by an act passed the fourth day of August, in this
present year, entitled " An act making provision for the debt of
the United States," it is, among other things, enacted, that the
President of the United States be authorized to cause to be bor-
rowed, on behalf of the United States, a sum, or sums, not ex-
ceeding in the whole twelve millions of dollars, and that so much
of that sum as may be necessary to the discharge of the said
arrears and instalments, and (if it can be effected upon terms
advantageous to the United States) to the paying off the whole
of the said foreign debt, be appropriated solely to those pur-
poses ; and that the President be, moreover, further authorized
to cause to be made, such other contracts respecting the said

c 27

410 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 'S6.

debt, as shall be found for the interest of the said States : Pro-
vided nevertheless, that no engagement nor contract shall be
entered into, which shall preclude the United States from reim-
bursing any sum, or sums borrowed, within fifteen years after
the same shall have been lent or advanced :

And whereas, by another act, passed the twelfth day of Au-
gust, in the present year, entitled " An act making provision for
the reduction of the public debt," it is, also, among other things,
enacted that the President of the United States be authorized
to cause to be borrowed, on behalf of the United States, a sum
or sums not exceeding in the whole two millions of dollars, at an
interest not exceeding five per cent. :

And whereas, by virtue of the said several acts, the Presi-
dent of the United States of America hath been pleased, by a
certain commission or warrant, under his hand, to authorize and
empower the Secretary of the Treasury for the time being, by
himself, or any other person or persons, to borrow, on behalf of
the United States, within the said States, or elsewhere, a sum or
sums, not exceeding, in the whole, fourteen millions of dollars,
and to make, or cause to be made, for that purpose, such con-
tract or contracts as shall be necessary, and for the interest of
the said States, subject to the restrictions and limitations in the
said several acts contained :

Now, therefore, know ye : That I, Alexander Hamilton,
Secretary of the Treasury of the United States for the time being,
by virtue of the said commission, power or warrant, of the Pre-
sident of the United States of America, have authorized and
empowered, and, by these presents, do authorize and empower
William Short, charge des affaires of the United States at the
court of France, to borrow, on behalf of the United States, in
any part of Europe, a sum or sums, not exceeding, in the whole,
fourteen millions of dollars, and to make, or cause to be made,
for that purpose, such contract or contracts as shall be necessary,
and for the interest of the said States ; subject to the restrictions
and limitations in the said several acts contained ; and for so
doing this shall be his sufficient warrant.

Mt. 36.] PUBLIC FUNDS. 411

In testimony whereof, I have caused the seal of the treasury
to be affixed to these presents, and have hereunto sub-
scribed my hand, the first day of September, in the year
of our Lord one thousand seven hundred and ninety.

Alexander Hamilton,

/Secretary of the Treasury.

A. — Statement showing the dates and sums of the respective payments which
have been made on account of the debt clue to France, out of the Dutch and Ant-
werp loans ; and by whom, and to whom, the moneys were remitted or paid.

B. — Statement showing the respective payments which have been made by
William and John Willink. Nicholas and Jacob Von Staphorst, and Hubbard, in
Amsterdam, to individuals, upon the several loans made in Holland, on account of
the United States.

PUBLIC FUNDS.

Communicated to the Senate, February 14, 1793.

Treasury Department, February 14, 1793.

Sir:

I have the honor to transmit, herewith, in further pursuance
of the order of the Senate, of the .23d of January past, three
several statements, marked A, B, C.

A being a general account of revenue and appropriations :
exhibiting, on one side, all the income of the United States,
except from the proceeds of loans, foreign and domestic, to the
end of the year 1792 ; on the other, the respective amounts of all
the appropriations which have been made by law, to the same
period.

B being a general account of appropriations and expenditures
to the same end of the year 1792. This statement takes up the
excess of the appropriations beyond the expenditure, to the end
of the year 1791, as contained in the account of receipts and
expenditures, reported to the House of Eepresentatives during
the present session ; and, including all the subsequent appropri-
ations and expenditures to the end of 1792, shows the balance
unsatisfied of each head of appropriation.

412 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 36.

C being an explanatory statement, for the purpose of showing
a conformity between the aggregate of the balances of appropria-
tions unsatisfied, and the balance of the public income beyond
the public expenditure, to the end of the year 1792, as repre-
sented in the statement B, heretofore reported.

It will be observed, that the most considerable item among
the balances of appropriations, is for interest on the public debt
• — amounting to one million three hundred and ninety-five thou-
sand eight hundred and twenty-four dollars and sixty-five cents.
This happens in three ways. 1st. The interest on the foreign
part of the debt has been paid in Europe, out of the proceeds of
the loans ; the sum paid will consequently require to be replaced
out of the domestic funds, and will operate as if an equal sum
had been transferred here by drafts. 2d. The payment of inter-
est to certain States, upon the difference between their quotas of
the assumed debt, and the sums subscribed upon the first loan,
has been suspended, in consequence of the opening of the second
loan, to avoid a double payment of interest, first to the States
and next to the subscribers, which might otherwise happen. 8d.
There is a part of the public debt which has continued in a form
that has not entitled the holders, under the existing laws, to
receive interest either as subscribers or non-subscribers.

There are certain arrears of interest, on the part of the debt
entitled to interest, which did not come into the accounts of the
year 1792.

This balance of interest, however, will be a real future expen-
diture, as, indeed, will be the case with regard to most of the
other balances of appropriations. There will be surpluses, but
these surpluses cannot exceed, if they equal, the sum mentioned
in my letter of the 4th instant, to the House of Representatives.
With perfect respect, I have the honor to be,
Sir, your obedient servant,

Alexander Hamilton,

Secretary of the Treasury.

To the Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.

* See State Papers, Finance, Vol. I. pp. 218.

^t. 36.] LOANS. 413

A. — Statement of the Revenue of the United States, and appropriations charged
thereon to the end of the year 1792.

B. — General Statement of the Appropriations made hy law, and of the Expen-
ditures of the United States in relation thereto, from the first day of January to the
last day of December, 1792.

C. — Statement exhibiting the Debts charged upon the unexpended and uncol-
lected income of the United States on the last day of the year 1792.

LOANS.

Communicated to the House of Representatives, February 20, 1793.

Treasury Department, February 19, 1793.

Sir:

The last letter which I had the honor to address to the House
of Representatives, contained a pretty fall exposition of the con-
duct and views of this Department, in regard to the foreign loans.
There remain, however, some incidental topics, which it may not
be expedient to pass over in silence.

In order to carry the attention of the House immediately to a
just application of the remarks Avhich will be submitted, it is
necessary to premise, that it is known to have been suggested
that the proceeds of the foreign bills drawn for to this country,
had no object of public utility — answered none — and were cal-
culated merely to indulge a spirit of favoritism towards the Bank
of the United States.

It has already been shown, clearly I trust, that, but for the
instrumentality of the parts of the loan drawn for prior to April,
1792, amounting nearly to one-half of the whole sum, the pur-
chases of the debt which were made to that time, could not have
been made ; and that these purchases, besides being the object
designated by law, for the application of the fund, were productive
of positive and important advantages.

How far the operation could have been influenced by motives
of favor to the Bank of the United States, the following facts
will still more completely decide.

414 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 36.

That bank did not begin its operations till the 12th of Decem-
ber, 1791.

The Banks of North America and New-York were the agents
of the treasury for the sale of the bills in question. They sold
them, collected, and, with the exception which will be presently
stated, disbursed the proceeds.

The receipts on account of those bills began in March, 1791,
and concluded in March, 1792.

On the 31st of December, 1791, as the Treasurer's account
before the House will show, the public cash was deposited as
follows :

In the Bank of the United States, $133,000 00

Bank of North America, 471,972 28

Bank of New-York, 224,677 35

Bank of Massachusetts, 65.578 22

Bank of Maryland, 50,665 29

Bank of Providence, 7,969 61

Making, together, 8953,862 75

There was then also some moneys in the Banks of North
America and New-York, in a course of receipt, which had not
been passed over to the treasurer ; but all the public moneys, of
whatever kind, in the Bank of the United States, are included in
the above sum of 133,000 dollars, which had arisen from the
duties on imports and tonnage.

It appears, then, that, on the 31st of December, 1791, no
transfer for the benefit of the Bank of the United States had
been made ; and that the deposites of the Government there
(exclusive of the proceeds of the bills remaining in the two
banks, of North America and New-York), amounted to little
more than one-fourth of the deposites in the Bank of North
America, and little more than one-half of those in the Bank of
New- York.

As late as the 1st of Februar}r, the State banks continued to
share with the Bank of the United States a large proportion of

Mr. 36.] LOANS. 415

the public deposites. The state of the treasury then was as
follows, viz.:

In the Bank of the United States, $456,278 90

Bank of North America, 151,516 32

Bank of New- York, 128,708 21

Bank of Massachusetts, 71,215 55

Bank of Maryland, 49,583 25

Bank of Providence, 7,969 61

Making, together, $865,271 84

A concentration of the public deposites in the Bank of the
United States was a measure which grew out of the relation
between that establishment and the Government. Yet, instead
of hastening it through favor, it was resolved to let it have a
gradual course ; so as to consult, in a due degree, the conve-
nience of the other banks, and to effect it rather by letting the
public disbursements fall upon the moneys in those banks than
by direct transfer.

But a state of things took place in the month of February,
between the Banks of the United States and North America,
which rendered a more expeditious transfer than was meditated,
for the mutual convenience of the two institutions.

The effect of this was, that the state of the treasury, on the
1st of March, stood as follows :

In the Bank of the United States, $692,959 06
Bank of Massachusetts, 31,769 05

Bank of New-York, 32,352 52

Bank of North America, 31,515 74

Bank of Providence, 8,404 94

Bank of Maryland, 34,752 85

Making, together, $831,754 16

But at this time, there was in the Bank of New- York, from
the proceeds of the foreign bills, 121,984 dollars and 71 cents,
not transferred to the account of the Treasurer.

416 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 36.

This accumulation, however, in the Bank of the United
States, was of very short duration.

On the 1st of April ensuing, the state of the public cash was
as follows :

In the Bank of the United States, $359,643 64

Bank of New- York, 254,930 41

Bank of North America, 31,515 74

Bank of Massachusetts, 37,712 58

Bank of Providence, 7,156 65

Bank of Maryland, 60,418 32

Making, together, $751,377 34

A similar state of things lasted to the 1st of June, compara-
tively more disadvantageous to the Bank of the United States.
The receipts of public revenue continued to go into the Bank of
New- York till the 1st of April, 1792, when a branch of the
Bank of the United States began to operate in that city ; which
is the reason of the sum in the Bank of New- York bearing so
near a proportion to that of the United States, and so far exceed-
ing the Bank of North America. By this time, also, the balance
of the proceeds of foreign bills had been passed to the account of
the Treasurer; yet still remaining in deposit in the Bank of
New-York.

These views of the state of the public cash are conformable to
the treasurer's statement of half-monthly balances, accompanying
my letter of the 13th instant, No. V.

The same statement will show, that a proportion of the public
deposits has continued, since the 1st of April, 1792, in the State
banks ; in those of North America and New- York down to the
end of the period which that statement embraces.

From these details, the following inferences are deducible.

That, as far as any advantages may have accrued from the
deposits on account of the foreign bills drawn prior to April,
1792, they accrued substantially to the Banks of North America
and New- York, not to the Bank of the United States, or to its

Mt. 36.] LOANS. 41

r

branches. That, in transferring the pecuniary concerns of the
Government from the pre-existing banks to that of the United
States and its dependencies, a cautious regard has been paid to
the convenience of the former institutions, and the reverse of a
policy unduly solicitous for the accommodation of the Bank of
the United States has prevailed. Indeed, so much has this been
the case, that it might be proved, if it were proper to enter into
the proof, that a criticism has been brought upon the conduct of
the Department, as consulting less the accommodation of the
last mentioned institution, than was due to its relation to the
Government and to the services expected from it.

But further examination will demonstrate another point ;
which is, that none of the establishments in question have
received any accommodations which were not in perfect coin-
cidence with the public interest, and in the due and proper
course of events.

This examination will be directed towards two objects ; one,
the state of the treasury at the commencement of each quarter,
during the years 1791 and 1792 ; the other, the state of the
market in regard to the prices of stock during the same years.

These periods are selected, because they afford the truest
criterion of the state of the treasury, from time to time, being
those at which the principal public payments are made ; and for
which it is necessary to be prepared by intermediate accumula-
tions.

The state of the treasury at the periods in question, was as
follows :

In the year 1791.

January 1, $569,886 55

March 1, 373,434 53

June 1, 533,638 24

October 1, 662,233 99

In the year 1792.

January 1, 953,862 75

April 1, 751,377 34

July 1, 623,133 61

418 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 36.

October 1, 420,914 51

1793. January 1, 783,212 37

This appears from the statements Nos. 4 and 5, forwarded
with my last letter.

The state of the stock market, during the several quarters of
the same years, was as follows :

First quarter of 1791 —

Six per cents, from 16s.

Three per cents, from 8s.

Deferred, from 8s.

Second quarter of 1791 —

Six per cents, from 17s.

Three per cents, from 9s.

Deferred, from 8s.

Third quarter of 1791 —

Six per cents, from 17s.

Three per cents, from 9s.

Deferred, from 9s.

As early as the 6th of August, the six per cents, had a tem-
porary rise to 21s. but by the 16th, they had fallen to 20s. ; on
the 20th, they had risen to 20s. 6d, and were sometimes above
that rate, but never lower during the rest of the quarter.

As early as the 23d of July, the three per cents, had reached
12s., and were sometimes higher, but never lower during the
rest of the quarter.

On the 23d of July, the deferred also reached 12s., and after-
wards rose to 12s. Qd.

Fourth quarter of 1791 —

Six per cents, from 20s. 4c?.
Three per cents, from 12s. 2c?.
Deferred, from lis. 8c?.

The prices were lowest in the early, and highest in the latter
part of the quarter.

During the whole of the month of December, the deferred

9c?.

to

17s.

6d.

6c?.

to

9s.

4c?.

6c?.

to

9s.

4c?.

to

17s.

9c?.

to

10s.

Id

to

9s.

4c?.

Od

to

21s.

3c?.

9c?.

to

12s.

5c?.

9c?.

to

12s.

10c?.

to

22s.

4c?.

to

13s.

8c?.

to

13s.

6c?.

JEt. 36.]

LOANS. 419

was at 125. 8<£ and upwards ; the greatest part of the time at 13s.
First quarter of 1792 —

Six per cents, from 21s. to 25s.

Three per cents, from 12s. 6d. to 15s.
Deferred, from 12s. to 15s.

The low prices were in the last ten days of March.
Second quarter of 1792 — ■

Six per cents, from 20s.
Three per cents, from 12s.
Deferred, from lis.

Third quarter of 1792—

Six per cents, from 21s.
Three per cents, from 12s.
Deferred, from 12s.

Fourth quarter of 1792 —

Six per cents, from 20s.
Three per cents, from 12s.
Deferred, from lis.

In October, the deferred was ,
prices were in the month of December.

This view of the subject is derived from a statement of prices,
pursuant to actual purchases and sales, furnished by a dealer of
this city, respectable for his intelligence and probity, combined
with the accounts from time to time published in the Gazette of
the United States. The papers marked (A x.) and (B y.) are
transmitted for the more particular information of the House on
this head.

The market prices of stock no doubt varied at other places ;
at some may have been higher, at others lower. At Philadelphia,
too, 'tis believed that small sums were obtainable at particular
periods, from necessitous individuals, below the prices in the
statement.

But there is good ground of reliance, that it is substantially
a just representation of the state of the stock market, during the
periods to which it refers.

The state of the treasury, from the first of January, to the
first of October, 1791, may be said to have been at its proper

to

22s.

6c?.

to

13s.

9d.

6d.

to

13s.

U.

to

22s.

Sd.

U.

to

13s.

6d.

U.

to

13s.

Id.

2d.

to

21s.

9d.

Sd.

to

13s.

6d.

Od,

to

13s.

6d.

at the highest.

The lowest

420 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 36.

level, exhibiting none, or an inconsiderable excess beyond the
sum which has been mentioned as necessary to be there, and
concerning which, a farther explanation has been promised, and
will be given in the course of this letter. The public purchases
in August and September, 1791, amounted to 349,744 dollars
and 99 cents.

In the last quarter of the year 1791, beginning with the
month of November, and the first quarter of the year 1792,
there appears to have been an excess of some magnitude in the
treasury, being from about 250,000 to about 450,000 dollars.
Taking the first quarter of 1792 as the truest criterion (which it
certainly was, because, at the expiration of that quarter, the
payment of interest on the assumed debt began, and was to be
provided for) the real excess ought to be considered as 250,000
dollars ; with the addition of about 80,000 dollars then in the
Bank of North America, from the proceeds of Amsterdam bills,
beyond the advances of the bank for the public service, Avhich
had not been passed into the Treasurer's account. It is proper
to remark, that the course of importations occasions large receipts
in the latter part of each year, which circumstance contributed
to the accumulation in question.

From the last of November to about the 21st of March,
an investment of the excess on hand, in purchases, was im-
practicable.

To enable the House to understand what is meant by saying
that purchases were impracticable during that period, it is
necessary to add, that the prices of stock exceeded the limits
which the commissioners of the sinking fund had prescribed to
themselves. Indeed, a large proportion of the time, those prices
were manifestly artificial, and such as predicted a great fall
not far distant. The delay incurred, was accordingly well
compensated by the prices at which investments were afterwards
made.

From the 21st of March to the 25th of April, purchases were
effected to the extent of 242,688 dollars and 31 cents, in specie;
within 80 or 90,000 dollars of what could have been spared,
consistently with the rule which has been mentioned, as proper
to regulate the arrangements of the treasury.

JEt. 36.] LOANS. 421

But two circumstances operated against a further investment ;
a sudden rise of prices, and a state of temporary disorder in the
two principal mercantile scenes of the country (occasioned by
the excessive speculations that had preceded) which admonished
the treasury to be cautious in its disbursements.

It results from the foregoing view of the subject, that, as
far as any extraordinary sum may appear to have remained
unemployed in the banks a longer term than was desirable, it
proceeded essentially from a state of things which did not permit
its employment, and is in no degree attributable to that spirit of
favoritism towards those establishments, or any of them, which
has been imagined, as the solution of appearances, not rightly
understood, and much overrated.

The only question, then, of which the matter is susceptible,
is this : Was not the state of things, that did take place, to have
been foreseen, so as to have influenced the drawing for a propor-
tionably less sum ?

This question may safely be answered in the negative.

The bills, the proceeds of which contributed to constitute the
excess, which remained unemployed during the two quarters,
were drawn in May, 1791. In that month, the highest prices of
stock were 17s. 2d. for six per cents. 9s. 2d. for three per cents,
and 9s. 3d. for deferred.

No reasonable anticipation, at this juncture, of the progres-
sive rise of stock, could have carried it in so short a time to
the height which it attained, or beyond the limits within
which purchases were deemed advantageous. The rapid and
extraordinary rise which did ensue, was, in fact, artificial and
violent; such as no discreet calculation of probabilities could
have pre-supposed. It, therefore, cannot impeach the prudence
or expediency of having made provision, on a different suppo-
sition, for an extension of purchases.

The proceeds of the bills which were drawn subsequent to
May, only began to be collected about the beginning of February,
and continued in collection until the 29th of March. On the 2d
of February, the sum received amounted to no more than 13,431
dollars and 33 cents.

422 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 36.

These last bills were drawn when the rapid rise of stock
commenced, and were sold upon a credit of three months. It
was a natural conjecture, that a rise so sudden and violent could
not be of long duration ; and that a declension would shortly
succeed, which would afford an opportunity of purchasing with
advantage, and render the intervention of public purchases
advantageous in more than one respect. The event fully corres-
ponded with the anticipation.

With regard to the bills drawn in April last, it has been
stated, that they were directed to be sold upon a credit of six
months ; that those drawn in July, August, and October, were
made payable, one moiety in two, the other moiety in four
months. Hence, with a moderate allowance for delay in the
sales, the period contemplated by the arrangement for the com-
mencement of receipts, was the month of October ; that for their
consummation, the month of February.

The inducements to the drawing of these bills have been
stated. The present examination has relation merely to the
question, whether the bank of the United States, by premedi-
tation of this Department, or subsequent omissions, had enjoyed
any undue advantage from the deposites of the proceeds of the
bills at the end of the year, 1792, the point of time to which this
inquiry has reference.

The statement which has been made, as to the time the
moneys received to that period had remained in deposit, might
alone be relied upon as a sufficient answer. If delinquency
can be attached to the non-employment of one or two hundred
thousand dollars for a few weeks, in the money operations of a
nation, it implies a minuteness of responsibility, which could
never be encountered with prudence, and never will be fulfilled
in practice. The distractions of attention, incident to a great
and complicated scene of business, would alone disappoint the
expectation.

But I have more than this to offer upon the present occasion.
The opportunity for investing the moneys on hand, during the
period in question, was not favorable. This was experienced by
the Treasurer, in his endeavors to invest the fund arising from

Mt. 36.] LOANS. 423

the interest on the purchased debt. There was no part but the
deferred which could be had at all within the limits prescribed.
Several indications of an approaching season, more advantageous
for purchases, were discernible, and a better employment of the
money than at the then prices presented itself to the option of
the Legislature. This mode of employing it, formed, in my
mind, part of a general plan for the regular redemption of the
public debt, according to the right reserved to the Government.
The one per cent, which might be saved, was regarded as one
means of constituting the proposed annuities.

Accordingly, on the 30th of November last, pursuant to a
reference of the 22d of that month, and connected with the plan
of redemption contemplated, I submitted to the House of repre-
sentatives a proposition for applying the moneys in question
towards discharging the debt which the Government owes to the
bank, and upon which an interest of six per cent, is payable.
This was manifestly, at the time of the proposition, the most
profitable use that could be made of the fund. It has been
already stated, that it would produce a saving, if extended to
the whole two millions, worth to the Government an annual sum
of 20,000 dollars— equal to a capital of 400,000 dollars.

This proposition tended to accelerate the employment of the
moneys on hand, in a way the most beneficial to the Government ;
and consequently to shorten the duration of the advantage to
the banks of holding them, by way of deposit. I submit it to
the candor of the House, whether it be not full evidence that
there was no disposition, on my part, to prolong to those institu-
tions a benefit at the expense of the Government.

The proposition itself has not yet received the decision of the
House.

Another ground upon which the suggestion of mismanage-
ment and undue concession to the interest of the banks has been
founded, respects the domestic loans which have been obtained.
Those of them which have been made of the Bank of the United
States, are represented as unnecessary, tending to afford an
emolument to that institution, for which the United States had
no equivalent advantage.

424 HAMILTON'S WORKS.

[Mt. 36.

It will conduce to a correct judgment of this matter, to
resume a point already touched upon, and to add here the
further illustrations of it which have been promised, to wit:
that it ought to be a general principle to have constantly in the
command of the treasury, at its different places of deposit, a sum
of about 500,000 dollars— a principle, too, which must be under-
stood with reference to the beginnings of the quarters of a year,
when the chief public payments are made and making.

The following observations will apply generally to the
balances which appear at the commencement of each quarter.
The greatest part of the interest for the preceding quarter, will
have been then deducted; but a part is always in a different
situation.

The payment of interest upon a public debt, at thirteen
different places, is an operation as difficult and complicated as it
is new. In carrying it into execution, it is of necessity to lodge,
for some time previous to the expiration of each quarter, at
several of the loan offices, drafts of the Treasurer, for the
sums estimated to be necessary at those offices, with blanks
for the direction, and with liberty to the respective officers
to dispose of them upon different places, as a demand accrues.
This arrangement has an eye to two purposes ; to avoid large
previous accumulations at particular points; to facilitate the
placing of the requisite sums, where they are wanted, without
the transportation of specie. The allowing of the drafts to be
disposed of on several places, gives larger scope to a demand for
them, and renders them more easily saleable. But it is a conse-
quence of this, that a part of the drafts are often not placed and
brought into the accounts of the Treasurer, till some time after
the expiration of the quarter. The fund for them of course
appears on hand till the transaction is completed.

Connected with the circumstance of paying the interest upon
the public debt at different places, is this further consequence.
The transfers ■ continually going on from one office to another,
render it impossible to know, at any moment when provision
for the payment of interest is to be made, what sum is requisite
at each place. Estimate must supply the want of knowledge ;

JEt. 36.] LOANS. 425

and, to avoid disappointment any where, the estimate must
always be large, and a correspondent sum placed in the power of
the commissioners. This circumstance alone requires an extra
sum at the different places of payment, which ought not to be
computed at less than 50,000 dollars.

Again, the sums payable on account of the civil list, at
the end of each quarter, which amount to about fifty thousand
dollars, exclusive of what relates to the two Houses of Congress,
are always in a course of payment for some time within the
succeeding quarter. The fund for them consequently appears in
the moneys on hand at the beginning of such quarter.

Again, there are constantly considerable arrears of existing
appropriations, for which demands on the treasury are at every
moment possible ; the times when they will be presented, and
to what extent, at any given time, being in a great degree
contingent. The arrears for the different objects of the War De-
partment, can seldom be estimated at less than 150,000 dollars.

It is presumed to be a clear principle, that the treasury ought
to be always ready to face such arrears as may be claimed at
every instant, or within any short period. An hour's distress or
embarrassment, to make good a public payment, already due.
would be baneful to public credit. It has been a uniform maxim
of the present administration of the treasury never to risk such
distress or embarrassment.

Independently, therefore, of the weighty consideration of
being prepared (especially with a war on hand liable every
moment to greater extension) for future casualties, the mere
satisfaction of arrears ought to cause the constant reservation of
a sum, that would be moderately stated at half the sum which it
has been alleged ought always to be in the treasury. It is to be
observed, that it does not often happen that the current receipts
to be expected in any immediately succeeding quarter, are likely
to exceed the probable expenditure of the quarter. The reverse
is as often the case. Hence the greater necessity of maintaining a
constant surplus.

There are still other considerations of weight, in a just
estimate of the point in question.

c 28

426 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 36.

The sum stated as necessary to be always in the command of
the treasury, is never in fact at the seat of the Government,
where far the greatest part of the public disbursements are to
be made. The depositories of it are the several banks from
Charleston to Boston. The whole sum, therefore, can never be
brought into immediate action, for answering the claims upon
the treasury. No part can be properly viewed as in this situa-
tion, beyond New- York on the one side, and Baltimore on the
other. Whatever part is more remote than those points, ought
not to be regarded as capable of being commanded in less time,
upon an average, than sixty days, making allowance for the
usual delays in the sale of bills, and the usual terms of credit,
which experience has shown to be convenient.

In estimating the effective sum at any time on hand, in the
Bank of the United States, it is necessary to be known, that a
practice for the simplification of the treasurer's bank account,
begun with the Bank of North America, has been continued
with the Bank of the United States, of this nature : The bills
drawn by the Treasurer upon distant places, and deposited with
the bank for sale, are immediately passed to his credit as cash,
though they are allowed to be sold at credits from thirty to sixty
days ; and it is understood, that the proceeds are not demandable
of the bank, till they are collected. Hence the apparent sum in
the Bank of the United States is always greater than the real ;
sometimes to a large amount.

The deductions to be made for this circumstance, are shown
in the treasurer's half monthly statement of balances No. 5,
beginning with the first of June, 1792, and ending with the first
of January, 1793. The period begun with is that when the first
instalment of the loan from the bank was payable, and has been
selected for this reason.

The propriety of these deductions appears to have been
objected to, by anticipation, on two grounds; one, that the bills
deposited answer all the purposes of cash, and ought to be
credited as such, on the receipt of them; the other, that "there
is a regular and constant influx of moneys into the bank, by the
operation of these bills, and that it is not very material whether

Mr. 36.] LOANS. 427

a bill lodged in the bank to-day, should be paid to-day, provided
something like the same sum should be paid in consequence of a
bill lodged in bank one or two months ago, and the bill of to-day
should be paid one or two months hence."

Neither the one nor the other of these two positions is
correct.

In no sense are the notes of the purchasers of the bills, which
are taken payable in thirty, forty-five, and sixty days, the same
thing to a bank as cash. 'Tis evident it could not pay its own
bills with those notes. In this primary particular, therefore, the
comparison fails ; neither could it make discouuts upon the basis
of those notes as cash. Because, every discount gives a right to
a borrower to call and receive in coin, if he pleases, the amount
of the sum discounted. Notes are not coin, nor do they confer
an equal power to pay. It is true, that a bank will, in its
discounts, make some calculation on expected receipts ; but it
can never consider them as equivalent to cash in hand, nor
operate upon them in any degree to the same extent as upon
equal sums in cash. If notes payable at future periods were
equivalent to cash, then every discount made by a bank would
confer a faculty to make another for an equal sum ; for there is
always a note deposited for the sum discounted, and the power
of discounting might, by the mere exercise of it, become infinite.
An hypothesis of this kind will never be acted upon by any
prudent directors of a bank, and could not be long acted upon,
without ruin to the institution. It is to be observed that the
great profitable business of a bank consists in discounting.

There is but one light in which the position under examina-
tion is in any degree founded. It is this, that, were it not for
the instrumentality of the bills, the specie of the bank would be
sometimes remitted for purposes which are answered by the bills.
As often as this happens, they are a substitute to the bank for
cash, because they prevent equivalent sums from being carried
away.

But this only sometimes happens. In numerous instances,
the enterprises to which the bills are subservient, would not be
undertaken at all, were it not for the power of anticipation

428 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 36.

which the credits upon them afford. In many other instances,
the bills of the bank itself would be remitted instead of specie ;
in others, private bills would be substituted ; in others, mutual
credits between the merchants, to be liquidated in the course of
mutual dealings, would supply the call.

Hence it is only true that treasury bills sometimes answer the
purpose of cash to the bank, whence it does not follow that they
ought always to be considered and credited definitively as cash.
It is also true, though in a less degree, that notes deposited with
the bank by individuals, for collection, sometimes answer to it
the purposes of cash ; but it will be readily perceived that it
would be inadmissible, as a general rule, to receive and credit
them as such. 1

Tne effect in both cases would be, that the bank would make
an advance of a present sum ivithout interest, for a sum to be re-
ceived in future.

An arrangement, indeed, has been for some time depending
between the Bank of the United States and the treasury, for
securing to the Government the advantage of an immediate ab-
solute credit for the bills deposited, as so much cash, to be coupled
with some collateral accommodations to the bank. But it has not
yet been carried into effect. The fact heretofore, has been as
stated, and the reasoning, to be just, must proceed on that basis.

The last of the two positions which have been cited, has still
less foundation than the first.

A sum received to-day, for a bill deposited two months past,
can in no view be deemed a substitute for the amount of a bill
deposited to-day to be received two months hence. It is to be re-
membered, that the amount of the first bill was itself credited at
the time of the deposit; and that the sum received to-day on
that account, can only realize the antecedent credit. It cannot re-
present or be an equivalent for the future receipt upon a different
bill. To affirm that it could, is to make one sum the representa-
tive of two. The consequence of the reasoning would be, that
the Government ought to receive the money paid in to-day as a
satisfaction, as well for the bill deposited to-day, as for that
which was deposited two months past.

Mr. 36.] LOANS. 429

Making the proper deductions on account of the bills, the
amount of the effective cash in the banks of Philadelphia, New-
York, and Baltimore was, on the first of June, 587,091 dollars
and 11 cents ; in other banks, there was then also the further
sum of 9,591 dollars and 89 cents, making together 596,683
dollars. The amount of the effective cash on the second of July,
in the banks at Philadelphia, New- York and Baltimore, was
217,234 dollars and 76 cents ; there were then also in the other
banks, 184,998 dollars and 85 cents; making, together, 402,233
dollars and 61 cents. The amount of the effective cash on the
first of October, in the banks at Philadelphia, New-York, and
Baltimore, was 244,394 dollars and 27 cents ; there were then also
in the other banks, 145,420 dollars and 24 cents ; making, to-
gether, 389,814 dollars and 51 cents.

The deductions for bills at the several periods, were, June
first, 157,508 dollars and 33 cents ; July second, 220,900 dollars;
October first, 31,100 dollars ; so that, including the bills at that
epoch, the whole sum in the banks at Philadelphia, New-York,
and Baltimore, amounted to no more than 275,494 dollars and
27 cents; the sums in the other banks, to 145,420 dollars and 24
cents.

On the first of June, there were paid on account of the debt
to France, 100,000 dollars ; the day following, the first instal-
ment of 100,000 dollars, on account of the loan from the bank,
was received. On the 30th of June, the second instalment of
100,000 dollars was received. These two instalments, amounting
to 200,000 dollars, are included in the sum of 217,234 dollars
and 76 cents, which, on the 2d of July, constituted the cash in
all the banks at Philadelphia, New- York, and Baltimore.

About the beginning of August, another instalment on ac-
count of the loan of the bank was received, and on the 29th of
September, another, making, with the preceding ones, 400,000
dollars. This sum was involved in the balance in the treasury
on the first of October, which, it has been seen, did not exceed
in the banks at and near the seat of the Government, including
even unsold and unpaid bills, 275,494 dollars and 27 cents ; and
comprehending the sums in all the other banks, amounted to no
more than 420,914 dollars and 51 cents.

430 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 36.

From the foregoing detail, it appears that, excluding the
200,000 dollars received on loan of the Bank of the United
States, in the month of June, there would have been, on the 2d
of July, 1792, in the command of the treasury at those places,
from which immediate supplies may be derived, no greater sum
than 17,234 dollars and 76 cents; that, excluding the 400,000
dollars, before that time received on loan of the same bank,
there would have been, on the 1st of October, 1792, an absolute
deficiency within the scene described, of 124,505 dollars and 73
cents ; that the whole balance then in the treasury, wheresoever
deposited, amounted only to 420,914 dollars and 51 cents, and,
excluding the loan of the bank, would not have been more
than 20,914 dollars and 51 cents.

There must be some very radical error in my conceptions
of the proper condition of the treasury, if it was not in a suf-
ficiently low state, during the whole period under consideration ;
and if it be not demonstrated, that the moneys taken of the
bank on loan were necessary for the public service, and were
obtained with a due regard to economy.

There are circumstances which still further manifest the at-
tention which has been paid to this point. The powers given
to make loans for domestic purposes at different times, up to
the 8th of May, 1792, comprehend an aggregate of 1,053,355
dollars and 74 cents ; the sums which have been actually obtain-
ed upon interest, amount to no more than 455,000 dollars.

The contract upon which the 400,000 dollars were obtained,
was made the 25th of May, 1792, extending to 523,500 dollars,
and contemplating the payment of 400,000 dollars of that sum
by the bank, in equal monthly instalments, beginning on the 1st
of June, and ending the 1st of September ; the residue on the 1st
of January, 1793.

Previous to the making of that contract, there had been
stipulated to be paid on account of the French debt, for the sup-
plies to St. Domingo, 400,000 dollars, of which one-fourth was
paid in March, another fourth was payable on the 1st of June,
another fourth on the 1st of September, another fourth on the 1st
of December.

JEt. 36.] LOANS. 431

Particular causes rendered it an accommodation to the agents
of France, to postpone and subdivide the September instalment.
A similar postponement took place with regard to the instalment
payable by the bank on the 1st of September, which was not
demanded till the latter end of the month, and the remainder of
the sum contracted for has not yet been demanded. The spirit
of the precaution, which secured to the public the privilege of
making or forbearing its calls, according to circumstances, needs
no comment.

There remain to be noticed two circumstances, which will
serve to throw additional light upon the conduct which has
been observed with regard to the sums from time to time kepi
on hand. A comparison of the sums in the treasury, during the
years 1791 and 1792, will contradict the idea of any disposition
to suffer the public moneys to accumulate, for the benefit of the
Bank of the United States, and its subdivisions, and will at the
same time indicate the general rule which has governed. In
this comparison, it is necessary to recollect that larger operations
were to be performed in 1792.

It may be objected, that the rule laid down has been on
several occasions exceeded. How this has happened at certain
periods, has been explained. But there is a view of the subject
which will throw further light upon it.

The sums which appear on hand at the end of any quarter,
arc always larger on a retrospective than on a previous view. This
proceeds from the following cause :

The judgment to be formed beforehand of the sums which
will be received within any future period, must of necessity be
regulated by the returns in possession of the treasury, at the
time the examination is made. As these come forward with
more or less punctuality, that judgment will be more or less ac-
curate ; but, the appearance on the returns will always be short
of the fact, because a certain number of returns, at any period
of examination, will necessarily be deficient. What does not
appear, must of course be essentially excluded from the calcula-
tion of the receipts to be expected within any near period. Be-
cause the extent of the sums which may have accrued, beyond

432 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 36.

those shown by the returns in hand, is unknown, and it is still
more uncertain in what months the payments of them may fall ;
and the combinations of the treasury, as to the means of fulfil-
ling the- demands upon it, ought to proceed as little as possible
upon conjectures and uncertainties.

Monthly abstracts of the bonds taken at each port, are the
documents which serve to inform the treasury of the progress
of the receipts upon the duties of imports. From these, a
general abstract is made up once a month at the treasury, for
the information of the head of the Department, showing the
amount payable in each month.

But very considerable differences appear from one month to
another. The statement C Z, will serve as an illustration.

It contains a comparison of the sums shown by two suc-
cessive abstracts, one of the 7th of November, the other of the
7th of December last, for a term of ten months, distributed
into monthly subdivisions. The aggregate difference upon the
whole term between the two abstracts, is 495,308 dollars and
73 cents ; upon two months, beginning with November, and
ending with December, it is 151,789 dollars and 40 cents;
upon a quarter beginning with January, and ending with
March, it is 174,471 dollars and 66 cents ; upon a subsequent
quarter, it is 81,055 dollars and 81 cents ; upon a still subsequent
quarter, it is 87,991 dollars and 86 cents.

Hence it is evident, that an arrangement, founded upon the
abstract of the 7th of November, would suppose a receipt dur-
ing any part of the time embraced by it, even the most proxi-
mate, considerably less than would appear by the abstract only
one month later ; and it must always happen, from this circum-
stance, that the actual receipts, while punctuality is preserved,
will exceed the anticipations of them, and that greater balances
will be found to exist at any given period, than could have been
beforehand safely calculated or acted upon. This circumstance,
duly considered, will be a further and powerful justification of the
conduct pursued generally, in relation to the moneys from time
to time kept on hand, and particularly with regard to the loans
of the bank. Low as the state of the treasury appears to have

Mt. 36.] LOANS. 433

been on a retrospective view, when the moneys upon those loans
were called for, the prospect, at each time, must have presented
the appearance of a less competent supply, or a greater defi-
ciency, than was afterwards realized.

I am not sure but that I owe an apology to the House for
taking up so much of its time in obviating the imputation of
partiality or favoritism towards the banks ; the aspect under
which I view it, admonishes me, that I may have annexed to it
greater importance than was intended to be given to it by its
authors.

That a disposition friendly to the accommodation of those insti-
tutions, as far as might be consistent with official duty and the
public interest, has characterized the conduct of the Department,
will not be denied.

No man, placed in the office of the Secretary of the Treasury,
whatever theoretic doubts he may have brought into it, would
be a single month without surrendering those doubts to a full
conviction, that banks are essential to the pecuniary operations
of the Government.

No man, having a practical knowledge of the probable re-
sources of the country, in the article of specie, (which he would
with caution rate beyond the actual revenues of the Govern-
ment), would rely upon the annual collection of four millions
and a half of dollars, without the instrumentality of institutions
that give a continual impulse to circulation, and prevent the
stagnation, to be otherwise expected from locking up from time
to time large sums for periodical disbursements ; to say nothing
of the accommodations, which facilitate to the merchant the pay-
ment of the considerable demands made upon him by the
treasury.

No man, practically acquainted with the pecuniary ability of
individuals, in this country, would count upon finding the
means of those anticipations of the current revenue for the
current service, which have been, and will be necessary, from
any other source than that of the banks.

No prudent administrator of the finances of the country,
therefore, but would yield to the disposition, which has been

434 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 36.

acknowledged, as alike essential to the interest of the Govern-
ment, and to the satisfactory discharge of his trust ; a disposi-
tion which would naturally lead to good offices, within the pro-
per and justifiable bounds.

After the explanation which has been offered, to manifest the
necessity and propriety of the loans made of the bank, it can
scarcely be requisite to enter into a refutation of the process by
which it has been endeavored to establish that the Government
pays seventeen per cent, upon those loans. The state of the
treasury rendered it expedient to borrow the sums which were
borrowed ; they have been duly received, and the rate of in-
terest stipulated upon them is five per cent. The Government
then pays upon them five per cent, and no more.

The history which was given, in my last letter, of the course
and situation of the foreign fund, proves that the supposition
from which the inference, of paying seventeen per cent, upon
the domestic loan, has been drawn, is erroneous. The balances
on hand, at the respective periods in question, are the residues
of the moneys which had been received from every source, in-
cluding the loans, foreign and domestic.

But, if the supposition which appears to have been made,
had been true, it was still impossible that seventeen per cent,
could have been paid. By no construction can the rate be ex-
tended beyond ten. The mean interest of the money borrowed
abroad, including charges, is five per cent. ; the interest stipu-
lated to be paid on the loan from the bank is also five ; the
sum of the two is ten. It is immaterial for what purpose the
foreign fund was obtained, whether to pay to France or to pur-
chase the debt ; the worst consequence that can result is double
not treble interest. The interest payable to France is payable for
moneys borrowed and spent during the war. It can never be
truly said, that that interest is now payable on any existing
fund, whether borrowed in Holland or borrowed in the United
States, or borrowed there and re-borrowed here. It can never
serve to make an addition to the cost or charges of any such
fund. 'Tis payable upon one long since procured and used.

But it is not obvious how the supposition came to be enter-

Mt. 36.] LOANS. 435

tained, that all the moneys drawn here from the foreign fund
. had been borrowed for the payment of the debt to France.
The presumption would seem to have been more natural, that
they had been principally, if not wholly introduced with a view
to purchases of the debt^ and consequently had a more special
reference to the act authorizing a loan for that purpose. And
the fact is, that this was the destination of far the greatest propor-
tion of the sums drawn for. It has been stated that a part had
an eye to the supplies to St. Domingo, and that another part
was introduced with a view to the payment of the foreign
officers.

The additional observations to which I shall request the at-
tention of the House will apply to the course and state of the
sinking fund, concerning which, I transmitted with my last com-
munication, three statements, numbered I, II, III.*

To give a more collected view of this part of the subject, it
may be of use to include here a recapitulation of some ideas,
which have been stated in other places.

It is the course and practice of this Department, for all pub-
lic moneys, from whatever source proceeding, to pass into the
treasury, and there form a common mass ; subject, under the
responsibility of the officers of the Department, to the disposi-
tions which have been prescribed by law.

The surplus at the end of the year 1790, appropriated to the
sinking fund, amounting to 1,374,656 dollars and 40 cents, went,
as it was received, into the treasury.

All the proceeds of the bills drawn upon the foreign fund,
prior to April, 1792, except the sum of 177,998 dollars and 80
cents, left in deposite with the bank of North America, for rea-
sons which have been explained, passed from time to time into
the treasury. The whole amount of the sums paid in is 907,294
dollars and 23 cents.

The proceeds of the bills drawn for, in, and subsequent to,
April, 1792, have not yet passed into the treasury, for reasons
which have been likewise assigned. It would have been done

* For these Statements see State Papers, Vol. I. pp. 210, 211, 212.

436 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 36.

before this time, as far as the receipts had gone, but for the pre-
sent inquiry, which temporarily suspended it. I thought it
best to make no alteration in the state of things, as they
stood when it began, at least till all the information desired had
been given. Measures will now be taken for a settlement of
the accounts, and for a transfer of the proceeds. The whole
amount of those bills, paid and unpaid, including an estimated
sum of interest, will be, as heretofore stated, 1,220,476 dollars
and ten cents.

The whole amount of the bills drawn is 2,305,769 dollars and
13 cents.

Out of the sinking fund composed of the surplus of the rev-
enue, to the end of 1790, and the proceeds of the foreign bills,
there were issued from the treasury, and expended in purchases,
to the end of 1792, 957,770 dollars and 65 cents.

For reasons which have been stated, it was finally deemed
advisable to place those purchases wholly to the account of the
surplus of 1790.

Consequently, there remained on the 1st of January, of the
present year, 416,885 dollars and 75 cents, of the above men-
tioned surplus, unapplied to purchases ; and the whole of the
foreign fund, except the sum of 726,000 dollars paid, and re-
served to be paid, for the use of the colony of St. Domingo, and
the sum of 191,316 dollars and 90 cents paid, and reserved to
be paid, to the foreign officers, became free for future application.
The balance of the proceeds of the bills, after deducting for
those reservations, is 1,388,452 dollars and 22 cents.

Since the 1st of January, 1793, there have been issued, on
account of the foreign fund, for purchases, 284,901 dollars and
89 cents.

The practice has uniformly been, not to separate any of the
moneys belonging to the sinking fund, from the common mass
of the moneys in the treasury, but in proportion to the occa-
sions of investing them in purchases.

Hence the sum of 957,770 dollars and 65 cents, issued pre-
vious to the present year, and the sum of 284,901 dollars and 89
cents, issued during the present year, making, together, 1,242,672

Mr. 36.] LOANS. 437

dollars and 54 cents, are all the moneys which have been
ever separated from the common mass of the treasury, for the
purpose of the sinking fund ; the whole of which, except 49,282
dollars and 74 cents, have been actually expended in purchases.

The unapplied sum remains deposited in the Bank of the
United States, except a small balance of 61 dollars and 76 cents,
in the hands of William Heth.

From the above rule, the part of the sinking fund arising
from interest on the debt extinguished by purchases or other-
wise, is to be excepted. The practice hitherto, has been to in-
clude this interest in the general dividend of each quarter, and
the warrant issued to the cashier of the bank for paying it. The
statement No. 3,* accompanying my last letter, shows the appli-
cation of this fund hitherto.

The law directs that this fund shall be invested within thirty
days after each quarter. This provision began to take effect on
the 1st of July last.

But the investments were not made within the respective
times prescribed. This proceeded partly from the state of the
market, and partly from the regulations adopted by the commis-
sioners, who were the Secretary of State, the Attorney General,
and the Secretary of the Treasury.

Their regulations, applying to the two first quarters, limited
the prices to certain rates, and prescribed the mode of sealed
proposals. The Treasurer was appointed agent for the commis-
sioners.

The proposals, with regard to the first quarter, were receiva-
ble till 28th of July inclusively ; none were offered, as the Treas-
urer reported to me, and nothing was done.

The experiment of sealed proposals was again tried the
second quarter, with somewhat more, though with but little suc-
cess. The restriction to this mode of proceeding was rescind-
ed, on the last day of the thirty allowed for purchasing, and
some further purchases were made, but the whole sum invested
was only 25,969 dollars and 96 cents.

* For statement III, see State Papers, Vol. I.. Finance, p. 212.

438 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt.36.

The residue of this fund, except some small sums noted at
foot of statement No. 3, was in January past.

The unapplied part of the surplus of 1790 having been ex-
pended in aid of the receipts of 1791, according to the provision
which was made for that purpose, will remain suspended until
the future receipts shall so far exceed the current disbursements as
to produce a surplus for replacing it.

In computing the amount of the unapplied foreign fund, it
is necessary to take into the account the payments made from it
during the years 1791 and 1792, on account of the interest of
the foreign debt.

Provision having been made for paying this interest out of
the domestic revenues, the sums which have been paid on that
account, from the foreign fund, are to be considered in the same
light as if they had been transferred here by drafts.

The amount paid at Amsterdam is 1,633,189 guilders and
two stivers, equal at 36T4T ninetieths per guilder, to 659,874 dol-
lars and 34 cents.

There will be additions to be made, which are not at pre-
sent ascertained.

Adding this sum to the proceeds of the bills, and deducting
the sums paid and to be paid for St. Domingo, and the foreign
officers, and those applied to purchases during the present year,
there will remain a sum of 1,763,424 dollars and 68 cents, sub-
ject to a future application.

Of this sum 1,715,098 dollars and 11 cents will be properly
applicable to the purchase of the debt. But circumstances may
render it eligible to appropriate a part of it towards the dis-
charge of the foreign debt.

From the plan which has been pursued, it is also liable to
this application.

I have the honor to annex to the statements heretofore
transmitted, those in the printed schedules marked A, B,
and 0 *

A exhibits the relative state of revenue and appropriations,

*

* For A, B, and C, see State Papers, Vol. I., Finance, pp. 219 to 222.

At. 36.] LOANS. 439

to the end of 1792. B the relative state of appropriations and
expenditures to the same period ; showing the balance unsatisfied
of each head of appropriation. C, applies these statements to
an explanation of the demands or charges upon the excess of
income, beyond the disbursements, to the end of 1792.

In addition to these are two statements, marked D and E.

D, showing what proportion of the balances unsatisfied of
the several appropriations are likely to be real expenditures,
and what part are not likely to be so. In this, however, in sev-
eral instances, probability must guide, the nature of the thing
not admitting of certainty.

E, showing the cash on hand upon the first of January last,
and likely to be received from that day to the first of April
next, and the sums paid and payable during that period.

The result, founded upon facts, contradicts very essentially
that statement, which aims at showing the ability of the treasury,
besides defraying the current expenses of the quarter, to pay off
two millions to the bank ; still leaving a balance in favor of the
treasury of 664,263 dollars aud 54 cents.

It shows that, after satisfying the demands for which the
treasury is bound to be prepared, including a payment to the
bank of only one tenth part of the 2,000,000, of which the state-
ment alluded to supposes the complete payment ; there would re-
main a balance in favor of the treasury of no more than 664,180
dollars and 89 cents.

It could answer no valuable purpose to delay the House
with a particular examination of the various misapprehensions
which have led to a result so different from the true one. It
will be sufficient, as an example, to state a single instance. It is
assumed as an item in the calculation, that a sum of a million of
dollars will come into the treasury by the first of April, on ac-
'count of the revenue of the current year ; while the probability
is, that the sum received may not exceed ten thousand dollars ;
this presumption of a million is evidently founded upon two
mistakes. 1st. It proceeds on the basis of an annual revenue of
four millions of dollars, and supposes this sum equally distributed
between the different quarters of the year, a million to each

440 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 36.

quarter ; when, in fact, there are two seasons of the year incom-
parably more productive than the other parts of it, viz : Those
portions of the spring and fall which are embraced by the second
and third quarters ; the first and fourth being far less productive.
2d. It supposes all the duties which accrue are immediately paid ;
whereas the cases of prompt payment are confined to those in
which the duties on particular articles imported in one vessel,
by one person or co-partnership, do not exceed 50 dollars ; in
all other instances, a credit not less than four months is allowed,
which carries the payment on the importations, upon the very
first day of the quarter, a month beyond the expiration of it.

If the whole amount of the duties, which accrued during
the first quarter of 1792, in cash and bonds, was no more than
307,163 dollars and 84 cents, adding one seventh for the addi-
tional duties, it ought, by analogy, to be the first quarter of the
present year, 322,472 dollars and 94 cents ; less, in totality, than
the sum which it has been computed would be actually in
money in the treasury, by 677,527 dollars and 6 cents; and less,
by the whole million, nearly, than will probably be in money in
the treasury on that account.

With perfect respect, I have the honor to be, Sir,

Your most obedient and most humble servant,

Alexander Hamilton,
Secretary of the Treasury.

The Hon. the Speaker of the

House of Representatives.

A x. — Markel prices of Public Stocks, taken from actual purchases and sales.

B y. — Prices of the Public Stocks, taken from the Gazette of the U. S.

C Z. — Comparative statement of bonds for duties becoming due from Novem-
ber, 1792, to September. 1793, inclusive, as per monthly abstracts thereof, taken
7th November and 7th December, 1792.

D. — Statement showing the sums of appropriation, to the end of the year 1792,
which will probably not be required to satisfy the same.

E — Probable state of cash, from the last of Dec, 1792, to the 1st of April, 1793.
— See State Papers — Finance, Vol. I. pp. 230 to 834.

[In State Papers, Finance, Vol. I., page 281, may be seen a Report of a
Committee of the House of Representatives, on "The Condition of the Treasury,"
explanatory of the matters to which this, and several of the preceding papers relate.]

-Et. 36.] SPIRITS, DOMESTIC. 441

SPIEITS, DOMESTIC.

Communicated to the House of Representatives, March 2, 1793.

Treasury Department, March 2, 1793.

Sir:

Pursuant to an order of the House of Representatives, of the
8th day of May last, I have the honor to transmit a general state
of the revenue on stills, and on spirits distilled within the United
States, exhibiting the several particulars indicated by the said
order, so far as returns have been received at the Treasury ; to
which I beg leave to add the copy of a letter, of yesterday, from
the Commissioner of the Revenue, transmitting the same to me.
With perfect respect, I have the honor to be, Sir,
Your obedient servant,

Alexander Hamilton,

Secretary of the Treasury.
The Honorable the Speaker

of the House of Representatives.

Treasury Department, Revenue Office, March 1, 1793.

Sir:

I have the honor to transmit to you a general state of the
revenue on domestic distilled spirits, exhibiting, as far as returns
have been received at the Treasury, the several objects contem-
plated by the House of Representatives, in their order of the 8th
of May last. The supervisors of those districts, wherein the dis-
tillation is principally from domestic materials in the country,
were, in many instances, unable to establish collectors, by reason
of the smallness of the compensations under the first act ; and
you will remember, that, from that and other causes, the detailed
information, which was necessary to enable the President to
make the final distributions of the funds assigned for compensa-

c 29

442 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 37.

tions and expenses, could not be collected, so as to complete that
business, till the end of October.

The appointments have since been generally made, and, con-
sequently, this revenue will now take a more orderly course.
I have the honor to be, with great respect, Sir,
Your most obedient servant,

Tench Coxe,

Commissioner of the Revenue.
The Honorable the Secretary
of the Treasury.

SPIRITS, DOMESTIC.

Communicated to the House of Representatives, January 20, 1794.

Treasury Department, January 20. 1794.

Sie :

I have the honor to transmit to the House of Representatives
the copy of a letter to me, from the Commissioner of the Revenue,
on the subject of a return required by an order of the House, of
March last, respecting the revenue arising from spirits distilled
within the United States, and from stills. This letter explains
certain obstacles which still postpone a compliance with that
order, notwithstanding strenuous exertions to be prepared to
fulfil it.

It is hoped that the House, sensible of the embarrassments

which impede the complete arrangement of this branch of the

public revenue, will make due allowances for a delay, which, is

unavoidable, and which will be terminated as speedily as possible.

With perfect respect, I have the honor to be, Sir,

Your most obedient and

Most humble servant,

Alexander Hamilton,

Secretary of the Treasury.
The Honorable the Speaker

of the House, of Representatives.

JEt. 37.] SPIRITS, DOMESTIC. 443

Treasury Department, Revenue Office, January 6th, 1794.

Sir:

The House of Eepresentatives having directed, in March last,
that a return, exhibiting certain details relative to the revenue
arising from spirits distilled in the United States and from
stills, should be made to them by you on the first Monday of the
current month, I have the honor to reiterate to you the measures
which have been taken to procure, in time, the necessary materials.

On the fifteenth day of March last, a number of printed copies
of the resolution of the House was transmitted to each of the
supervisors, annexed to an equal proportion of copies of instruc-
tions from this office, calculated to produce immediate attention
to the subject, and a punctual transmission of the requisite docu-
ments. It appeared expedient to prepare a considerable number
of copies of the letter containing the resolution and the instruc-
tions, in order to facilitate and expedite' the communications from
the supervisors to the subordinate officers in their respective dis-
tricts. To insure the earliest attention to the business, copies of
the same were transmitted to certain of those subordinate officers,
who, from the residence of their respective supervisors, were sub-
jected to delays and hazards in their official correspondence.

Although it was obvious, on the perusal of the resolution of
the House of Eepresentatives, that a punctual transmission of
the ordinary returns and accounts, relative to this branch of the
revenue, would enable the treasury to make up the required
document; yet it appeared absolutely necessary, from obvious
considerations, that it should be the subject of particular com-
munication and instruction.

Notwithstanding these measures, and other subsequent requi-
sitions of a like nature, it does not appear to have been within
the power of several of the supervisors to transmit either the
ordinary returns and accounts of the revenue business, for the
necessary term (which ended on the 30th of June last), nor the
occasional documents, conforming with the views of the House,
and designated in the accompanying instructions from this office.

It is necessary, in justice to some of the supervisors, to

444 HAMILTON'S WORKS

[Mr. 37.

observe that the impediments are partly the opposition to the
revenue from a very small proportion of the citizens of the
United States, and partly the intrinsic difficulties attending the
collection of the numerous small returns of the duty accruing on
stills and on spirits, distilled in places other than cities, towns,
and villages, under the existing provisions of the laws relative
thereto.

I have the honor to be, with great respect, Sir,
Your most obedient servant,

. • '

Tench Coxe,

Commissioner of the Revenue.
The Secretary of the Treasury.

BALANCE IN THE TEEASUEY, AND DOMESTIC

LOANS.

Communicated to the House of Representatives, February 5, 1794.

Treasury Department, February 4, 1794.
The Secretary of the Treasury, pursuant to an order of the House
of Eepresentatives, of the 30th of January last, respectfully re-
ports as follows :

The statement A, herewith transmitted, shows the moneys
now in the treasury, and (as far as official documents hitherto
received furnish information) such further sums as may be ex-
pected to come into it before the first day of April next, and the
probable demands upon the treasury to that time, exhibiting a
deficiency for satisfying those demands, equal to 621,294 dollars
and eighteen cents.

It is to be observed that no materials, of which the treasury
can be possessed, will, at any time, present a view definitively
exact of the matters to which this statement relates. The time
requisite for transmission will always occasion a considerable
arrear of returns, necessary to ascertain what moneys are to be

At. 37.] BALANCE IN TREASURY, ETC. 445

expected within a given period : for example, it is found that the
sum usually outstanding, in bonds, is about two and half millions
of dollars ; yet the returns received at any period rarely exhibit,
beforehand, more than a million and a half. How the remainder
will distribute itself, as to the times of payment, can never even
be conjectured, further than as it is known that, from the course
of importations, and of the credits allowed, the fall and winter
are the periods of the principal receipts on account of the duties.

So, likewise, the disbursements to be made, within a given
period, are, in a degree, liable to uncertainty ; as in the case of
the sum stated to be payable to foreign officers. It is altogether
casual whether the whole, or what proportion of it, will be called
for within the period. Similar, though not equal uncertainty
attends the sum stated for the War Department.

The Secretary begs leave to add, for the more full informa-
tion of the House, that the sums expected to be received, during
the second quarter of this year, are still more inadequate to the
probable expenditure, than those of the current quafter to its
expenditure. The last accounts from Amsterdam strengthen the
probability that a million of florins must be remitted from hence,
towards the payment of an instalment of the capital of the Dutch
debt, payable on the first of June.

The only pending domestic loans are, viz :

1. One made of the Bank of the United States, by

virtue of the act, entitled " An act for raising
a further sum of money for the protection of
the frontiers, and for other purposes therein
mentioned," passed the 2d day of May, 1792, $400,000

2. Another made of the same bank, by virtue of

the act, entitled "An act for making appro-
priations for the support of Government, for •
the year 1793," passed the 28th of February,
1793, - - ... 800,000

Of which the following reimbursements
have been made, viz :

1,200,000

446 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 37.

On account of the first mentioned loan, $100,000

On account of the last mentioned loan, 600,000

700,000

Balance still due, - - $500,000

Both these loans are at a rate of five per cent, interest ; the
first has no definite term of reimbursement; the second was
reimbursable by instalments at fixed periods, the last of which
becomes due the first of March ensuing, and is therefore com-
prised in the statement A.

All which is respectfully submitted.

Alexander Hamilton,

Secretary of the Treasury.

PUBLIC DEBT AND EECEIPTS AND EXPENDITURES.

Communicated to the Senate, February 10, 1794.

Treasury Department, February 6, 1794.

Sir:

Having made the necessary examination into the means
possessed by the treasury, for complying with a late order of
the Senate, and of the time which would be requisite for prepar-
ing them, I have the honor now to communicate the result.

Several custom house returns of exports, amounting to a
large sum, having been rendered for a term longer than a
quarter, it is found impossible to make up that return for the
twelve months, directed by the Senate, in the first paragraph. A
statement, however, for one year, differing therefrom only in one
quarter, is nearly matured. It can be completed in a few days
after the receipt of a quarterly return for the port of Philadelphia,
the custom house business of which was exceedingly deranged
by the late malady.

The detailed statement of imports, for the year ending on the
30th day of June, 1792, required by the second paragraph, can

jEt. 37.] public debt, etc. 447

be made up in about two months, by suspending the formation
of that for the year ending with September, 1792, which, in the
course of the treasury business, was in preparation, and would
have been completed in a few days. This will require eight
extra clerks for two months, and will produce an additional
expense of about six or seven hundred dollars.

The detailed statement of imports, for the year ending on the
30th of June last, also required by the second paragraph, cannot
be made up at present, for want of the returns from the custom
houses.

The returns of tonnage, in the old form, will exhibit what is
required by the third paragraph, and can be made out in the
proper office in a short time.

The two sets of tonnage, required by the fourth paragraph,
can be made out in about six weeks after the preceding docu-
ments shall be completed, as they can be matured at the same
time, by employing four more extra clerks, at an expense of
about two hundred and fifty dollars.

The Senate will perceive, from this, the state of the business,
and will judge whether it is expedient to pursue it in the form
contemplated by the order. Such of the matters required, as
can go on without additional expense, or the derangement of
what is already on hand, are in train. And if no revocation of
the order is speedily received, the other objects, as far as they
are practicable, will also be prosecuted. But I feel it a duty to
use the liberty of taking the present occasion to remark, that it
is extremely to be desired that the two Houses of the Legislature
could fix upon a plan for regulating the returns which they
would choose to have made to them periodically, from the
treasury, that the business might be prosecuted in conformity to
that plan. Congress would then have the information which
they may deem useful, and the treasury could be prepared,
systematically, to furnish it, without any derangement of the
current course of its operation, and without an unnecessary in-
crease of expense. Occasional and desultory calls, frequently
made for returns and statements, which involve complicated
and elaborate investigations, and much clerkship, interfere more

448 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 37.

materially with the regular conducting of the public business,
than can easily be imagined, except by those who have the pro-
gress of it immediately under their eye. They oblige the prin-
cipal officers and the most expert clerks to transfer so much of
their attention from the ordinary and indispensable operations of
the Department, as must render it impossible (if the practice
should continue in the same degree in which it has for some time
existed) for the officers of the Department to be responsible for
the orderly, punctual, and efficacious execution of its primary
and most essential objects. This conclusion has so pressed itself
urjon me, from experience, that I have thought it incumbent
upon me to submit these reflections to the consideration of the
Senate.

With perfect respect, &c.

Alexander Hamilton,

Secretary of the Treasury.

The Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.

LOAN.

Communicated to the House of Representatives. February 25, 1794.

Mr. Sedgwick, from the Committee appointed to report whether
any, and what, sum may be necessary to be loaned, for the
purpose of carrying on the public service, for the year one
thousand seven hundred and ninety-four, made the following
report :

That, in their opinion, it is expedient that the President be
authorized to borrow, on the credit of the United States, a sum
not exeeding one million dollars, if, in his opinion, the public
service shall require it.

Mt. 37.] LOAN. 449

Philadelphia, February 22d, 1794.

Sir :

A committee of the House of Representatives, having in
charge "to report whether any, and what, sum may be necessary
to be loaned, for the purpose of carrying on the public service,
for the year 1794," have directed me to request of you answers
to the following questions :

1. Whether money collected on account of the United States,
and deposited in banks, is, from the time of deposit, considered
as in the treasury ?

2. Are any, and, if any, what, means necessary to subject
money, so deposited, to the control of the Treasurer ?

3. In case money, so deposited, is. not considered as in the
treasury from the time of deposit, who is, from that time, until
it passes in the treasury, responsible to the United States ?

4. Is any money now so deposited, and, if any, is the pro-
bable amount such as to render a present provision for a loan,
inexpedient or unnecessary ?

With much esteem, &c.

Theodore Sedgwick.
The Honorable the Secretary
of the Treasury.

Treasury Department, February 25, 1794.

Sir:

The following are answers to the questions stated in your
letter of the 22d instant, viz :

Answer to question the first.

All moneys collected on account of the United States, and de-
posited in banks, to the credit of the Treasurer, are considered as in the
treasury from the time of deposit. The steady course, with regard
to the standing revenue is, that the money deposited in banks
passes immediately to the credit of the Treasurer. But it is
necessary, to discharge the payers, that receipts of the Treasurer
should be endorsed upon warrants signed by the Secretary,

450 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEr. 37.

countersigned by the Comptroller, and registered by the Register,
which is the course regularly observed.
Answer to question the second.

After moneys are deposited in banks to the credit of the
Treasurer, they are in his control, though they may not legally
be disbursed but upon warrants of the above description. If de-
posited without passing, in the first instance, to the credit of the
Treasurer, the means used for placing them in his custody and
disposal, are warrants of the like kind.
Answer to question the third.

In respect to any moneys of the United States deposited in
banks, but not passed to the credit of the Treasurer, the banks
are considered as directly responsible to the United States ; in
the case of deposits to the credit of the Treasurer, they are re-
sponsible, in the first instance, to him ; ultimately, to the United
States.

Answer to question the fourth.

Only two cases are recollected, in which moneys of the
United States may be considered as having been deposited in
bank, without passing, in the first instance, in the account of the
Treasurer. These relate —

1. To the proceeds of foreign bills sold for the Government,
and received by the bank (all accounts of Avhich are finally closed).

2. To the sum of two hundred thousand dollars, being the
only sum now so deposited, which arises from the last loan had
of the bank. It is left (subject to the eventual decision of the
Legislature) as an offset against the second instalment of the two
million loan from the bank. The effect of the operation will be
this : An interest of six per cent., payable to the bank, upon the
instalment, will be extinguished, from the 31st of December last,
by an interest of five per cent., payable to the bank, upon the
sum borrowed of itself, and left in deposit. And it has been
endeavored, thereby, to preserve consistency and regularity in
the arrangements of the treasury. The first instalment, by leav-
ing in deposit an equal sum of the proceeds of foreign bills, was
considered as effected on the 31st of December, 1792, though
there was not power to consummate the payment till some months

JEt. 37.] LOAN. 451

after. Hence it becomes regular, that each succeeding instalment
should be paid on the last of December of each year. The pro-
visional measure thus adopted, was the only expedient in the
power of the treasury, to reconcile, as far as practicable, conside-
rations relative to the public interest and credit, with legality of
procedure. Neither the sum in deposit, on the one hand, nor
the instalment payable to the bank, on the other, is brought
into the probable state of cash, lately presented to the House of
Eepresentatives, because they balance each other, and leave the
result the same.

There are no existing sources from which moneys can come
into bank, on account of the United States, except from the pro-
ceeds of the revenue, which, as far as known, are comprised in
the statement before the House of Eepresentatives. So that
there is no resource, but a loan, which can supply the deficit of
a receipt, in the course of the present and succeeding quarter,
compared with the .expenditure. Without one, a failure in the
public payments is inevitable.

If what has been said should not give the committee all the
light they desire, it is imagined that personal explanations would
lead more fully to their object, than the course of written in-
terrogatories and answers, which can only partially embrace the
subject, and may procrastinate a right understanding of it.

I am, sir, &c.

Alexander Hamilton.
Theodore Sedgwick, Esq.

Chairman of a Committee.

LOAN.

Communicated to the House of Representatives, April 25, 1794.

Treasury Department, April 25, 1794.

The Secretary of the Treasury, pursuant to the order of the
House of Eepresentatives of the 28th of February, 1794,
respectfully makes the following report :

The paper A, herewith transmitted, is a copy of the contract

452 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 37.

■with the Bank of the United States, respecting the loan of two
millions of dollars, had of that institution, in conformity with a
provision for that purpose, in the act by which it is incorporated.

According to the intent of this contract, as understood by
the Secretary of the Treasury, and the Bank, the first instal-
ment of 200,000 dollars, was payable on the 1st of January,
1793. The Secretary, in a report to the House of representa-
tives, of the 30th of November, 1792, submitted a provision for
reimbursing the loan to the Bank. None was made till the time
for reimbursing the first instalment, as understood between the
treasury and the Bank, had elapsed. On the 1st of January,
1793, the Secretary, by letter, informed the Bank, that he would
leave in deposit, as an offset against that instalment, a sum of
200,000 dollars, till legislative provision should be made concern-
ing the matter. An act of Congress, of the 2d March, 1793,
authorized the payment of this instalment, out of the proceeds
of the foreign loans. But the then Attorney General being of
opinion that, upon the legal construction of the contract, com-
pared with the words of the act, the payment could not be made
till the 25th of June, 1793, the completion of the business ac-
cordingly remained suspended till the 20th of July following,
when a warrant issued to pay over the proceeds of the bills
in deposit, to the treasurer, and another warrant, to pay an
equal sum to the Bank. Interest upon the instalment ceased
on the 31st of December, 1792, by virtue of the deposit.

The foregoing transaction confirmed the principle of paying
each instalment on the last day of the year. The Secretary, in
a report to the House of Eepresentatives, of the 21st December,
1793, submitted a proposition for making provision for the second
instalment. None having been made, he, by a letter to the Bank,
of the 31st of December, 1793, informed that the Legislature,
not having yet had leisure to provide for the second instalment
of the two million loan, he had concluded to suspend calling
into the treasury the last instalment of a loan of 800,000 dollars,
which had been contracted with the Bank ; and that that sum
would remain in deposit, as an offset against the first mentioned
instalment, till provision should be made by law. This business

Mt. 37.] LOAN. 453

still remains in the same situation, no provision having yet been
made by law ; but the effect is to arrest interest, at the rate of
six per cent, upon the sum payable to the Bank, by a fund ob-
tained from the Bank itself, bearing an interest of only 5 per
cent.

All which is humbly submitted.

Alexander Hamilton,

/Secretary of the Treasury.

Agreement between Alexander Hamilton, Secretary of the Treasury of
the United States, by virtue of authority from the President of the
United States, on behalf of the United States, of the one part, and
the President, Directors, and Company, of the Bank of the United
States, of the other part.

Whereas, in and by the act, entitled " An act to incorporate
the subscribers to the Bank of the United States," it is, among
other things, enacted, in the words following: "That it shall be
lawful for the President of the United States, at any time or
times, within eighteen months after the first day of April next,
to cause a subscription to be made to the stock of the said cor-
poration, as part of the aforesaid capital stock of ten millions of
dollars, on behalf of the United States, to an amount not
exceeding two millions of dollars, to be paid out of the mo-
neys which shall be borrowed by virtue of either of the
acts, the one entitled ' An act making provision for the debt
of the United States,' and the other entitled ' An act mak-
ing provision for the reduction of the public debt;' borrow-
ing of the bank an equal sum to be applied to the pur-
poses for which the said moneys shall have been procured,
reimbursable in ten years, by equal annual instalments, or at
any time sooner, or in any greater proportions, that the Govern-
ment may think fit :"

And whereas, for carrying into execution the said provision,

454 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 37.

the President by writing under his hand, bearing date the ninth
day of May last past, did authorize the said Secretary to sub-
scribe by one or more subscriptions, on behalf, and in the name,
of the United States, for such number of shares of and in the
capital stock of the said coloration, as, together, should amount
to two millions of dollars ; and the same to pay for, out of any
moneys which have been, or shall be, borrowed, by virtue of
either of the acts, the one entitled " An act making provision for
the debt of the United States," and the other entitled " An act
making provision for the reduction of the public debt ;" and did
further authorize the said Secretary to borrow of the said corpo-
ration, for, and on account of, the United States, an equal sum,
namely, two millions of dollars, to be applied to the same pur-
poses for which the said moneys shall have been procured, and
to be reimbursable in ten years, by equal annual instalments, or
at any time sooner, or in any greater proportions that the Govern-
ment may think fit : Provided, That the interest thereof should
not exceed the rate of six per centum per annum ; and did also
empower the said Secretary to enter into, and conclude with, the
said corporation, such contracts and agreements as should be ne-
cessary for fulfilling the purposes aforesaid, promising to ratify
whatever he should lawfully do in the premises :

Now, therefore, these presents witness, That it hath been agreed,
and it is hereby agreed, by and between the parties aforesaid, as
follows, to wit:

First. The said Secretary of the Treasury, forthwith,' after
the execution of these presents, shall, pursuant to the authority
to him given, as aforesaid, subscribe, in some proper book, at the
said bank, in the name, and on behalf of, the United States, for
five thousand shares of, and in the capital stock of, the said cor-
poration.

Secondly. The subscription, so to be made, shall be deemed
to have been made on the 20th day of December last past, and
the said United States shall be deemed to have become, on the
said day, and shall be, proprietors of the said five thousand shares
of and in the said capital stock, subject to the conditions and
agreements hereinafter specified.

Mt. 37.] LOAN. 455

Thirdly. The amount of the said five thousand shares, name-
ly, two millions of dollars, shall be payable in moieties ; one
moiety upon the day of the execution of these presents, the
other moiety on the first day of July next.

Fourthly. The said corporation, upon the payment of each of
the said moieties, shall forthwith lend, advance, and pay, a sum
equal to such moiety to the United States, to bear an interest at
the rate of six per centum per annum, subject to the terms of
reimbursement in the act aforesaid specified.

Fifthly. As the dividend upon the said first moiety will begin
to accrue on the said 20th day of December last past, the interest
upon the loan which shall be first made, pursuant to the article
next preceding, that is to say, upon the principal sum of one
million of dollars, shall begin to accrue upon the said 20th day
of December last, and the interest upon, the said second loan of
one million of dollars, shall begin to accrue upon the said first
day of July next.

Sixthly. The interest upon the said loans shall be payable
and paid half-yearly, that is to say, th* first half-yearly payment
shall be made on the first day of July next, and thereafter a half-
yearly payment shall be made on the first days of January and
July, in each year, until the final reimbursement* of the said
loans.

In testimony whereof, the said Secretary hath hereunto sub-
scribed his hand, and caused to be affixed the seal of the
Treasury of the United States, and the said President, Di-
rectors, and Company, have hereunto caused to be affixed
the seal of the said corporation. Done at Philadelphia, the
twenty-fifth day of June, in the year one thousand seven
hundred and ninety-two.

Alexander Hamilton,

Secretary of the Treasury.
Thos. Willing, President.
Attest, John Kean, Cashier.

456 HAMILTON'S WORKS. . [Mt. 38.

PUBLIC CREDIT.

Communicated to the Senate, January 16 and 21, 1795.

Treasury Department, January 16th, 1795.

Sir:

I beg leave, through you, to inform the Senate, that, pur-
suant to the second section of the act establishing the Treasury
Department, which expressly makes it the duty of the Secretary
of the Treasury, "to digest and prepare plans for the improve-
ment and management of the revenue, and for the support of
public credit," I have digested and prepared a plan, on the basis
of the actual revenues, for the further support of public credit,
which is ready for communication to the Senate.

This plan embraces a further provision for the subscribed
debt ; a provision for converting, with the consent of the credit-
ors, the foreign into the domestic debt ; a provision for augment-
ing the sinking fund, so «as to render it commensurate with the
entire debt of the United States ; suggestions for giving effect to
the act of the last session, granting a million of dollars for the
purposes of foreign intercourse ; with some auxiliary propositions.
With perfect respect, I have the honor to be,
Sir, your obedient servant,

Alexander Hamilton,

/Secretary of the Treasury.
To the Yice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.

Treasury Department, January 20, 1795.

Sir:

Agreeably to the order of the Senate, I have the honor to
transmit the plan for the support of public credit, announced
in my letter of the 16th instant, together with sundry statements
connected with it ; and to be

Your most obedient and humble servant,

A. Hamilton.
To the Yice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.

Mr. 38.] PUBLIC CREDIT. 457

The Secretary of the Treasury respectfully makes the following
report to the Senate :

The President of the United States, with that provident con-
cern for the public welfare which characteriezs all his conduct,
was pleased, in his speech to the two Houses of Congress, at the
opening of the present session, to invite their attention to the
adoption of a definitive plan for the redemption of the public debt,
and to the consummation of whatsoever may remain unfinished of
our system of public credit, in order to place that credit, as far as
may be practicable, on grounds which cannot be disturbed, and to
prevent that progressive accumulation of debt, which must ultimately
endanger all government.

It was, at the same time, very justly intimated, that the
period which has elapsed since the commencement of our fiscal
measures (now more than four years), has so far developed our
resources, as to open the way to the important work. And it is
matter of solid consolation, that the result, presenting a state of
our finances, prosperous beyond expectation, solicits the public
councils to enter, with zeal and decision, upon measures com-
mensurate with the greatness of the interests to be promoted.

Under the influence of this conviction, in conformity with the
suggestions of the President, and pursuant to the duty which the
constitution of the department, as by law established, enjoins
upon the Secretary of the Treasury, he has employed himself in
digesting and preparing the materials of a plan for the attain-
ment of the invaluable ends which are recommended. And he
now respectfully submits them to the consideration of Congress.

Towards a clear and distinct conception of the means neces-
sary to the accomplishment of those ends, it will be useful, in the
first place, to review what has been heretofore done. This will
be presented under three heads :

I. The revenues which have been established ;

II. The provisions for funding the debt, and for the pay-
ment of interest upon it ;

c 30

458 HAMILTON'S WORKS. \Mt. 38.

III. The provisions • for reimbursing and extinguishing the
debt.

I. The revenues which have been established appear in the
following acts :

1st. " An act for laying a duty on goods, wares, and mer-
chandises, imported into the United States," passed June the
1st, 1789. This act, as its title imports, lays various specific and
ad valorem rates on all articles (with exception of a few useful to
agriculture and manufactures) imported from foreign countries.
The lowest ad valorem rate is five per cent., with a discount of
ten per cent, in favor of our own bottoms. The duration assigned
these duties was the end of the session of Congress next succeed-
ing the first day of June, 1796.

2d. " An act imposing duties on tonnage," passed July 20,
1789.

This act lays various rates of duty on the tonnage of ships
and vessels entered in the United States from foreign countries,
and, in certain cases, in one part of the United States from
another.

Its duration was indefinite, no limit having been assigned.

3d. " An act imposing duties on the tonnage of ships and ves-
sels," passed July 20, 1790.

This act is a substitute for the one last mentioned, preserving
the same rates of duty, but applying them, in some instances,
differently. It is, like the former, of indefinite duration.

4th. "An act making further provision for the payment of
the debts of the United States," passed August 10, 1790.

This act repeals, after the last of December, 1790, the duties
on imported articles, laid by the act above cited, and substitutes
new, and generally increased, rates, specific and ad valorem.

The lowest ad valorem rate in this, as in the former act, is
five per cent. ; but the number of articles to which it applies, is
much narrowed ; and, instead of a discount in favor of our own
bottoms, an addition of ten per cent, is made, to the disadvantage
of foreign bottoms.

The number of free articles is somewhat extended, in fur-
ther encouragement of agriculture and manufactures.

,Et.38.] public credit. 459

It is declared, that the duties laid by this act shall continue
till the debts and purposes for which they are appropriated shall be
satisfied; reserving, however, a right to Congress to substitute
other duties or taxes of equal value.

5th. " An act to incorporate the subscribers to the Bank of
the United States," passed the 25th of February, 1791.

The second section of this act authorizes the President to
cause a subscription to be made to the stock of the bank, on
account of the United States, to the amount of two millions of
dollars ; and, with a view to the accomplishment of that object^
to borrow of the bank two millions of dollars, to be reimbursed
in ten equal yearly instalments.

The difference between the interest payable on the loan, and
the dividends on the stock, constitutes an item of annual income
to the United States. It is unappropriated.

6th. " An act repealing, after the last day of June next, the
duties heretofore laid upon distilled spirits imported from abroad,
and laying others in their stead ; and, also, upon spirits distilled
within the United States, and for appropriating the same," passed
the 3d of March, 1791.

This act, in conformity with its title, repeals, after June, 1791,
the duties on imported spirits, laid by the act of the 10th of Au-
gust, 1790, and establishes, in lieu of them, higher rates, namely,
from twenty to forty cents per gallon, according to proof. It
also lays duties, to commence at the same time, upon spirits dis-
tilled within the United States ; namely, on those from foreign
materials, from eleven to thirty cents, according to proof; on
those from domestic materials, if distilled in cities, towns, or vil-
lages, from nine to twenty-five cents per gallon, according to
proof; if distilled in other places, it imposes a yearly rate of
sixty cents per gallon of the capacity of each still, with an option
to the distiller to keep and render an account of the produce of
his still, and to pay nine cents per gallon of the quantity of
spirits distilled therein.

These duties are appropriated, primarily, in the same manner,
and to the same purposes, as those laid on imported articles by the act
of the 10th August, 1790, and. are to continue for the same time, with

460 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 38,

the like reservation of a right to substitute other duties or taxes
of equal value. There is a further appropriation, which will be
noticed hereafter.

7th. " An act for raising a further sum of money for the pro-
tection of the frontiers, and for other purposes therein men-
tioned," passed May 2, 1792.

This act repeals, after June, 1792, the former duties on a num-
ber of imported articles, and establishes higher duties in their
stead.

It extends, among other things, the duties on foreign distilled
spirits, laying on those made from grain 28 to 50 cents per gallon ;
on others, 25 to 46 cents per gallon. The appropriation and dura-
tion of these new duties are conformable and co-extensive with those
repealed. There is, likewise, an addition of 2| per cent, to that
class of duties ad valorem, which, before, was rated at 5 per
cent. ; but this additional duty is limited to the term of two
years.

Out of the surplus of these duties, after satisfying the perma-
nent appropriations, certain gross sums are appropriated for the
service of the War Department.

8th. " An act concerning the duties on spirits distilled within
the United States," passed May 8, 1792.

This act repeals, after the last day of June, 1792, the former
duties on spirits distilled within the United States, and on stills,
and, instead of them, establishes lower duties, namely, on those
made of foreign materials, from 10 to 25 cents per gallon, accord-
ing to proof; on those made of domestic materials, if in cities,
towns, or villages, or at distilleries, where the stills, singly or
together, are of the capacity of 400 gallons, or upwards, from 7 to
18 cents per gallon, of the spirits distilled, according to proof;
if made in other places, or at distilleries where the stills are of
inferior capacity, the yearly rate of 54 cents per gallon, of the
capacity of each still. A new option is given to the distiller
which is, instead of paying the yearly rate, to take out licenses
for the monthly employment of his stills, paying, each time, 10
cents per gallon of the capacity of each still.

These new duties are appropriated in the same manner, and for

jEt.38.] public credit. 461

the same purposes, and are to continue for the same time, as those for
which they are substitutes : and to make good any deficiency which,
may accrue from lowering the rates, the surplus of the duties im-
posed by the act of the second of the same month, is appro-
priated.

" An act to promote the progress of useful arts, and to repeal
the act heretofore made for that purpose," passed February 21,
1793.

This act ordains certain fees to be paid, by persons to whom
patents are granted, for inventions, discoveries, or improvements,
and appropriates them to the purpose of defraying clerk hire in the
Department of State. Its duration is indefinite.

9th. "An act to establish the Post Office and post roads,
within the United States," passed May 8, 1794.

This act establishes, to commence on the first of June follow-
ing, various rates of postage on letters, and directs that the Post-
master shall render to the Treasury Department, a quarterly
account of receipts and expenditures, and shall pay, quarterly,
into the treasury, the balance in his hands.

The duration of this act is, also, indefinite. It contains no
appropriation of the sums paid into the treasury.

10th. " An act laying duties upon carriages, for the convey-
ance of persons," passed June 5, 1794.

This act lays different rates of duty, from ten dollars down to
one dollar, upon carriages for the conveyance of persons, kept by or
for any person, for his or her own use, or to be let to hire, or for
the conveying of passengers ; and to guard against misapprehen-
sion, declares, that the duties shall not be construed to extend to
any carriage actually and chiefly employed in husbandry, or for the
transporting or carrying of goods, wares, merchandise, produce, or
commodities.

The duration of the duties is limited to the end of the session
of Congress which shall be next after the term of two years,
from the time of passing the act. It contains no appropriation.

11th. " An act laying duties on licenses for selling wines and
foreign distilled spirituous liquors, by retail," passed June 5, 1794.

This act requires, that every retail dealer in wines, shall take

462 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.tor. 38.

out a yearly license, and shall pay for it a duty of five dollars ;
and that every retail dealer in foreign distilled spirituous liquors,
shall also take out a yearly license, and pay for it a duty of five
dollars. It defines a retail dealer in wines, to be a person who
deals in the selling of wines, to be carried or sent out of the house,
building, or place of his or her dwelling, in less quantities at one
time than thirty gallons, except in the original cask, case, box, or
package, in which it is imported. A retail dealer of spirituous
liquors to be a person who shall deal in the selling of 'foreign dis-
tilled spirituous liquors, to be carried or sent out of the house, build-
ing, or place of his or her dwelling, in less quantities than twenty
gallons, at one time. No difference is made between the dealer
in several kinds of wines, or several kinds of foreign distilled
liquors, and the dealer in one kind.

The same duration is assigned to this act, as to the one last
cited. It is equally without an appropriation.

12th. " An act laying certain duties upon snuff and refined
sugar," passed June 5, 1794.

This act lays a duty of eight cents per pound on all snuff
which, after the 30th of September, 1794, should be manufac-
tured within the United States, and of two cents per pound on
all sugar which, after that day, should be refined within the
United States. The remark made upon the two last recited acts,
is applicable to this, as to the duration of the duties, and the
appropriation of their proceeds.

13th. " An act laying additional duties on goods, wares, and
merchandises, imported into the United States," passed June 7,
1794.

This act lays upon sundry enumerated articles, on their im-
portation from foreign countries, certain specific and ad valorem
rates of duty, in addition to those before charged upon them, and
adds generally, a duty of two and a half per centum on all that
class of articles which were before chargeable with seven and a
half per centum ad valorem. It also prolongs the temporary two
and a half per centum, laid by the act of May 2, 1792, till the
first of January, 1797, to which period the other duties laid by it
are to continue. It contains no appropriation.

jEt.SS;] public credit. 463

14th. " An act laying duties on property sold at auction,"
passed June 9, 1794.

This act lays a duty on sales at auction, by persons licensed
according to the laws of a State, or this act, prohibiting others
from selling at auction, of one-quarter per cent, of the purchase
money arising from the sale of any right, interest, or estate, in
lands, tenements, or hereditaments, utensils in husbandry, farm-
ing stock, or ships and vessels, of one-half per cent, of the pur-
chase money, arising from the sales of any other goods, chattels,
rights, or credits.

The term of these duties is limited to the end of the session
next after the expiration of two years from the time of passing
the act, which also is without an appropriation.

But, by an act entitled "An act making appropriations for
certain purposes therein expressed," passed the same 9th of June,
1794, certain specific sums, amounting together to 1,292,137 dol-
lars 38 cents, are charged upon the proceeds of the revenues
which are created by the five last mentioned acts, and there is a
reservation made out of them of a sum sufficient to pay the inter-
est of whatever moneys may be borrowed pursuant to the act,
entitled " An act making further provision for the expenses
attending the intercourse of the United States with foreign
nations," &c, passed the 20th of March, 1794, which sum is pledged
for the payment of that interest.

These acts comprehend all the current revenues of the
United States. Their product will appear hereafter.

In addition to them, a fund will be derived from the sale of
the public lands in the "Western territory. And there likewise
occur, from time to time, payments into the treasury on account
of old debts ; but these are too casual, and of too little magni-
tude, to be more than cursorily mentioned.

The lands in the Western territory, of which the Govern-
ment of the United States has acquired the right of soil, are
estimated, in a report of the late Secretary of State, to amount to
21,000,000 of acres. This quantity, at twenty cents per acre, the
price upon former occasions contemplated, would yield a sum of
$4,200,000. But it is believed that it would be unsafe to count

464 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

upon so large a sum. Besides the uncertainty as to the propor-
tion which may be of a saleable quality, and as to the price
which may be obtained for it, the boundary line between the
United States and the Indians is understood to be unsettled
with regard to a large part of the tract on which the computa-
tion is made. If it ultimately yields three millions of dollars, it
will probably equal every reasonable expectation.

II. The provisions for funding the debt, and for payment of
interest upon it, are comprised in the following acts :

1st. " An act making provision for the debt of the United
States," passed August 4, 1790.

This act, commonly called the funding act, contains these
several provisions, viz. :

1. It reserves out of the proceeds of the duties on imports
and tonnage, for the support of the Government of the United
States, and their common defence, the yearly sum of 600,000
dollars.

2. It appropriates so much of the same proceeds as should be
necessary, to the payment of interest on foreign loans, before
that time contracted, or which should afterwards be con-
tracted, for discharging the arrears of interest, and the prin-
cipal of antecedent foreign loans, to continue so appropri-
ated, till the debt created by those loans should be fully dis-
charged.

3. It authorizes the President to borrow any sum or sums,
not exceeding $12,000,000, to discharge the arrears of interest
upon, and the instalments of the principal of the foreign debt,
due and to grow due ; and if to be effected on advantageous terms,
to pay off the whole of that debt ; and further authorizes him
to make such other contracts respecting it as should be found
for the interest of the United States, so that no engagement or
contract should preclude from reimbursing the sums borrowed,
within fifteen years after they should be borrowed.

4. In order to adapt the form of the domestic debt to the
then circumstances of the United States, as far as should be
found practicable, " consistently with good faith and the rights of the

Mt. 38.] PUBLIC CREDIT. 465

creditors, which, it truly declares, "could only be done by a volun-
tary loan on their part ," it proposes a loan to the United States,
(directing for that purpose, books for subscriptions to be opened
at the treasury, and by commissioners of loans in the several
States, on the 1st of October, 1790, and to continue for a year),
the sums, subscribed to the loan to be paid in certain enumerated
evidences of the debt of the United States, upon these terms,
viz:

First. That the interest unpaid on the principal of those
evidences, should be computed up to the last of December, 1790.

Second. That, for any sum subscribed and paid in the princi-
pal of the debt, the subscriber should be entitled to one certifi-
cate for a sum equal to two-thirds of the sum subscribed, bearing
an interest of six per cent, per annum, commencing the 1st day
of January, 1791, payable quarter yearly, and subject to redemp-
tion by payments not exceeding, in one year, on account of both
principal and interest, eight dollars upon a hundred of the original
sum so subscribed and paid ; and to another certificate for a sum
equal to the remaining third of that sum, which, after the year
1800, should bear a like interest, payable in like manner, and
subject to a like rate of redemption. But that the United States,
though having a right to redeem in the above-mentioned proportion,
should not be obliged to do it.

Third. That for any sum subscribed and paid in the interest
of the debt, the subscriber should be entitled to a certificate for
a sum equal to the sum subscribed, bearing an interest of three
per cent, per annum, from the said last day of December, 1790,
payable quarter yearly, and redeemable at pleasure, by payment
of the principal.

Fourth. That the new stock created by the said loan, should
be transferable on the books upon which the credit for it should stand
by the proprietor or his attorney ; these books to be either those
kept for the purpose at the treasury, or by commissioners of
loans in the respective States ; a mode being provided for the
transfer from the books at one place to those at another.

Fifth. That the interest should be payable wheresoever the
credit for the stock should exist, when the payment of interest

466 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

should become due ; except that the dividend of interest for any
quarter of a year which should not be demanded before the ex-
piration of a third quarter, should afterwards be demandable
only at the treasury.

• Sixth. That, for the regular payment of the interest on the
several kinds of stock, to arise from the loan, as it should accrue,
including that which is deferred, the proceeds of the public re-
venues, which, before that time, had been, or, during the then
session, should be provided, after reserving, yearly, 600,000
dollars, for the support of the Government of the United States,
and their common defence, and such sum as should be necessary for
payment of interest on the foreign loans before mentioned, should
be, and thereby were, pledged and appropriated, till the final re-
demption of the capital stock.

5. Premising that some of the creditors of the United States
might not think fit to become subscribers to the loan, this act
declares that " nothing contained in it should be construed in any
wise to alter, abridge, or impair the rights of those creditors of the
United States ivho should not subscribe to the loan or the contracts
upon which their respective claims are founded, but that the said
contracts and rights should remain in full force and virtue." And
to obviate all idea of compulsion on the creditors to subscribe, it
allows to non-subscribers, during the pendency of the loan, and
until the end of the year 1791, a rate per centum, on their re-
spective demands, equal to that which is paid to subscribing
creditors; on the sole condition, that the evidences of debt
holden by them, except those which had been issued by the
Register of the Treasury, for the registered debt, should be ex-
changed for other certificates, specifying the specie amount
of those in exchange, for which they were given, and other-
wise of the like tenor with those which had theretofore been
issued by the Eegister of the Treasury, for the registered debt ;
stating, as the grounds of this condition, that some of the cer-
tificates then in circulation, had not been liquidated to specie
value ; that most of them were greatly subject to counterfeit ;
that counterfeits had actually taken place in numerous instances ;
and that embarrassment and imposition might attend the pay-
ment of interest on these certificates in their then form.

Mi. 38.] PUBLIC CREDIT. 467

6. This act likewise proposes another loan, to the amount
of $21,500,000, payable in the principal and interest, indis-
criminately, of the evidences of debt of the respective States,
according to certain quotas, to be conducted in the same man-
ner, and to be open for the same time, as that in the domestic
debt of the United States. The terms of this loan to be :

First. That, for any sum subscribed, the subscriber should
be entitled to one certificate, for a sum equal to four-ninths of
the subscribed sum, bearing an interest of six per centum per
annum, commencing the first day of January, 1791. To another
certificate, for a sum equal to two-ninths of the said subscribed
sum, bearing an interest, after the year 1800, of six per centum
per annum ; and, to a third certificate, for a sum equal to three-
ninths of the said subscribed sum, bearing an interest of three
per centum per annum, commencing on the same first day of
January, 1791 ; the interest, in each case, to be payable in like
manner, and to be subject to the like redemption as that on the
correspondent kinds of stock to be created by this, the said first
mentioned loan. And the stock to be created by this second
loan, to be transferable on the same principles, and in the same
modes, as that produced by the former.

Second. That, for the regular payment of interest on the sev-
eral kinds of stock to arise from this loan, as it should accrue,
including that which is deferred, the proceeds of the public re-
venues, which, before that time, had been, or during the then
session should be, provided, after reserving the aforesaid yearly
sum of $600,000, the sum necessary for payment of interest on the
foreign loans made, and to be made, and the sum necessary fa-
payment of interest on the loan in the domestic debt, should be,
and thereby were, pledged and appropriated ; to continue so
pledged and appropriated until the final redemption of the capital
stock.

7. To secure the due application of these revenues, accord-
ing to the appropriations, an account of them is directed to be
kept, distinct from that of the proceeds of any other revenues,
except such as should be raised to make good a deficiency in
those ; and the faith of the United States is pledged to appropri-

468 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

ate additional and permanent funds, for satisfying such de-
ficiency.

8. The proceeds of the sales of lands in the Western terri-
tory, then belonging, or which thereafter should belong, to the
United States, are pledged and appropriated for the discharge
of the debts which the United States then owed, or by virtue of
that act should owe.

There are several collateral and supplementary provisions,
which are omitted, as immaterial to the intended view of the
subject.

2d. " An act repealing, after the last day of June next, the
duties heretofore laid upon distilled spirits, &c," passed the 3d
of March, 1791.

The proceeds of the duties, laid by this act, are made subject
to the same appropriations, and in the same order of priority,
as those contained in the funding act ; and, to secure their due
application, an account is directed to be kept of them, distinct
from that of any other revenues, except those appropriated by
the funding act.

3d. " An act for raising a further sum of money for the pro-
tection of the frontiers, &c," passed May 2d, 1792.

This act, which, as has been before noticed, increased perma-
nently the duties on certain imported articles, and laid a tem-
porary additional duty on some others, appropriates, primarily,
the proceeds of the permanent augmentations, in the same man-
ner, and to the same purposes, as the antecedent duties were
appropriated ; that is, in conformity with the funding act.

4th. " An act concerning the duties on spirits distilled within
the United States," passed May 8th, 1792.

This act, which lowers the duties on spirits distilled within
the United States, and on stills, appropriates the proceeds of the
reduced duties in the same manner as were the former duties ;
and, to make good whatever deficiency might be occasioned by
the reduction of the rates, pledges, as a substitute, the surplus
of the augmented duties laid by the last cited act.

5th. "An act providing for the payment of the second instal-

^!t. 38.] PUBLIC CREDIT. 469

ment due on a loan made of the Bank of the United States,"
passed June 4th, 1794.

This act, in addition to a provision for paying that second
instalment, appropriates so much of the dividends on the stock
which the United States hold in the bank, as should be neces-
sary to the payment of interest on the capital of a loan of
$2,000,000, had of the bank, pursuant to the 11th section of the
act by which it is incorporated. It also fixes the last day of
December, in each year, as the annual period for the payment of
the successive instalments of that loan.

6th. " An act making provision for the payment of the in-
terest on the balances due to certain States," upon a final set-
tlement of accounts between the United States and the individual
States, passed May 30th, 1794.

This act directs that interest shall be allowed and computed
on the balances to creditor States, from the last of December,
1789, to the last of December, 1794; which, being placed to their
credit respectively, shall bear an interest of three per centum,
per annum, from the period last mentioned.

It further directs that the interest on the principal balances,
to be funded agreeably to the terms of the act for the settlement
of accounts, together with the interest upon the arrears of in-
terest, computed on those balances, and forming a new capital,
shall be payable at the offices of the commissioners of loans
within the States to which the balances are respectively due, and
shall be paid quarter yearly, after the last day of December, 1794,
at the same epochs in each year, at which interest is payable, on
the other parts of the funded debt ; to which end, so much of
the proceeds of the duties on imports and tonnage, as may be
necessary, and as were not otherwise previously appropriated, are
appropriated ; and the faith of the United States is pledged to
provide for any deficiency which may happen by additional and
permanent funds.

There are several acts which prolong, from time to time, the
subscriptions in the domestic and State debts, on the same terms
as by the funding act, those in the domestic debt being continued
down to the last day of December, 1794 ; which acts, together with

470 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

the acts particularly cited, comprise all those that relate to the
funding of the public debt, and the payment of interest there-
upon. The result of these acts is exhibited in the tables A, B, C,
and D, which show the amount of the foreign debt ; that of the
funded debt, the probable amount of that which remains un-
funded, of what composed, and the annual amount of interest
upon the different portions of debt, according to contract, and ac-
cording to the plan of this report.

III. The provisions for reimbursing and redeeming the pub-
lic debt, are contained in the following acts, and are as follows,
viz. :

1st. " An act making provision for the debt of the United
States," passed the 4th of August, 1790.

This act, which is the one that regulates the funding of the
debt, by the last section appropriates the proceeds of the sales of
the lands in the Western territory, then belonging, or thereafter
to belong, to the United States, to the sinking or discharging of
the debts for which the United States then were, or by virtue of
that act should be, holden, to be applied solely to that use, until
they should be fully satisfied.

2d. " An act making provision for the reduction of the pub-
lic debt," passed August 12th, 1790.

This act, premising that it is desirable, by all just and pro-
per means, to effect a reduction of the public debt, and that the
application of the surplus revenue to that object, will not only
contribute to this desirable end, but will be beneficial to the
creditors of the United States, by raising the price of their stock,
and be productive of considerable saving to the United States,
enacts —

1. That the surplus of the duties on imports and tonnage, to
the end of the year 1790, shall be applied to the purchase of the
debt of the United States, at its market price, if not exceeding
the par or true value thereof.

2. That the purchases to be made shall be conducted under
the direction of the President of the Senate, the Chief Justice,
the Secretary of State, the Secretary of the Treasury, and the

JEi. 38.] PUBLIC CREDIT. 471

Attorney General, who, or any three of whom, with the appro-
bation of the President, are authorized to cause them to be made,
in such manner, and under such regulations, as shall appear to
them best calculated to fulfil the intent of this act: Provided
that the same should be made openly, and with due regard to the equal
benefit of the several States.

3. That the accounts of the application of the fund should be
settled as other public accounts, accompanied with returns of the
amount of debt, purchased at the end of each quarter of a year ;
and that a full and exact report of the proceedings of the com-
missioners should be laid before Congress, within the first four-
teen daj^s of each session, including a statement of the disburse-
ments and purchases, specifying the times when, prices at which,
and persons of whom, the purchases were made.

4. That, in addition to this fund, the President should be
authorized to borrow any sum or sums, not exceeding 2,000,000
of dollars, at an interest not exceeding five per centum, to be
applied to purchases of public debt, in like manner, and under
the same direction and regulations as the first mentioned fund :
Provided that, out of the interest of the debt to be purchased, there
should be appropriated, annually, a sum not exceeding eight per
centum of the sums borrowed, towards paying the interest and reim-
bursing the principal of these sums.

But, to guard against the possibility of a deficiency of means
to pay the interest on the debt which was to accrue in the year
1791, authority is given to reserve and apply to that purpose,
out of the first mentioned fund, as much as might be neces-
sary to supply the defect of receipts, during that year, on account
of the duties which should accrue after the year 1790.

3d. " An act repealing, after the last day of June next, the
duties heretofore laid upon distilled spirits, &c," passed the 3d
of March, 1791.

This act appropriates whatever surplus may remain, from
year to year, of the 'proceeds of the duties which it imposes,
after satisfying prior appropriations, to the reduction of the pub-
lic debt, unless such surplus shall be required for the current
public exigencies, and, by special acts of Congress, shall be ap-
propriated thereto.

472 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JE-r.W.

4th. An act supplementary to the act making provision for
the reduction of the public debt," passed the 3d day of March,
1791.

This act declares that the terms of a loan of three millions of
florins, obtained in Holland, bearing five per cent, interest, and
four and a half per cent, for charges, and future loans on the
same terms, should be deemed to be within the meaning of the
act of the 12th of August, 1790.

5th. " An act supplementary to the act making provision for
the debt of the United States," passed May 8, 1792.

This act makes provision for the payment of a debt due to
certain foreign officers who had served the United States (the
interest of which was, by stipulation, payable at Paris), out of
the moneys authorized to be borrowed by the funding act. It
also establishes a permanent sinking fund, to be composed —

1. Of the interest of the public debt purchased, redeemed,
or paid into the treasury, in satisfaction of any debt or demand.

2. Of the surplus, if any, which should remain of moneys ap-
propriated for paying the interest of the public debt, after pay-
ing that interest.

This fund is to be applied, under the direction of the com-
missioners nominated in the act of the 12th of August, with the
like approbation of the President —

First To the purchase of the several species of stock consti-
tuting the debt of the United States, at their respective market
prices, not exceeding the par or true value thereof, and, as
nearly as may be, in equal proportions, until the annual amount
of the fund shall be equal to two per centum of the whole amount
of the outstanding funded stock, bearing a present interest of six per
centum: Thenceforth —

/Second. To the redemption of that stock, according to the right
reserved to the United States, until the whole should be redeemed ;
and, lastly, after such redemption, to the purchase, at its market
price, of any unredeemed debt of the United States ; which pur-
chases are directed to be made at the lowest prices at which they
can be effected by open purchase, or by receiving sealed propo-
sals, to be opened in the presence of the commissioners, or per-

^t. 38.] PUBLIC CREDIT. 473

sons authorized by them to make purchases, and of the persons
making the proposals ; and are to be accounted for at the trea-
sury, and reported to Congress, in the same manner as the pur-
chases before authorized to be made.

6th. " An act making appropriation for the support of Gov-
ernment, for the year 1793."

This act provides that the President of the United States
shall cause so much of the loan made of the Bank of the United
States, pursuant to the 11th section of the act of incorporation,
to be paid off, in sums not less than 50,000 dollars, as, in his
opinion, the state of the treasury may, from time to time, admit,
out of any moneys which may be in the treasury, having due
regard to the exigencies of the Government, and the appropria-
tions made, and to be made, by law.

7th. " An act making provision for the payment of the first
instalment due on a loan made of the Bank of the United
States," passed March 2d, 1793.

This act authorizes the payment of the first instalment of a
loan of two millions of dollars, had of the Bank of the United
States, pursuant to the 11th section of the act by which it is
incorporated, out of the moneys borrowed upon the authority of
the act making provision for the reduction of the public debt.

8th. " An act providing for the payment of the second instal-
ment, due on a loan made of the Bank of the United States,"
passed June 4th, 1794.

This act authorizes the payment of that second instalment, out
of the proceeds of any foreign loans before that time transferred
to the United States. It makes other provisions which have
been noticed under a preceding head.

These acts comprise all the provisions which have been made
for reimbursing and redeeming the debt of the United States.
The result to the last of December, 1794, is presented in the
statement E.

There are two other acts, which, though not falling properly
under either of the foregoing heads, require, from their relation
to the subject, to be brought into view :

1. An act relative to claims against the United States, not
c 31

■
■

474 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 38.

barred by any act of limitation, and which have not been already
adjusted, passed February 12th, 1793.

This act directs that all claims of the description given in the
title shall be presented at the treasury for adjustment, by the 1st
of I ay 1791, or shall be forever after barred ; except those for
loan office certificates, final settlements, indents of interest, Register's
certificates, balances on the books of the treasury, loans of money in
foreign countries, certificates issued under the act, entitled "An act
making provision for the debt of the United States.1'

Such of the claims presented as cannot be admitted in the
course of the treasury, are to be reported to Congress, by the
accounting officers.

Among the claims inadmissible in the ordinary course of the
treasury, is a sum of 90,574 dollars, of the bills of credit, com-
monly called new emission money.

2. An act making further provision for the expenses attend-
ing the intercourse of the United States with foreign nations,
&c, passed March 20th, 1794.

This act appropriates, in addition to former provisions, one
million of dollars for the purposes mentioned in the title, to be
paid out of any moneys which may be in the treasury, not other-
wise appropriated, and to be applied under the direction of the
President of the United States, who is also authorized, if neces-
sary, to borrow the whole, or any part of the sum ; but there is
no special appropriation either for paying the interest or reim-
bursing the principal of the loan.

The act already quoted, of the 9th of June, 1794, entitled
" An act making appropriations for certain purposes therein ex-
pressed," with a view to remedy this defect, appropriates out of
the proceeds of the taxes laid during the last session, such
sum as shall be sufficient to pay the interest on whatever
moneys may be borrowed, pursuant to the act of March 20th,
1794.

The foregoing review of the laws which constitute the fiscal
system of the United States, displays these prominent points as
the leading features of that system :

1st. That all the current revenues of the United States are de-

.Et.38.] public credit. 475

rived from these sources, to wit : Imported articles ; the ton-
nage of ships and vessels ; spirits distilled within the United
States, and stills; the postage of letters ; fees on patents;
dividends of bank stock ; snuff manufactured within the United
States ; sugar refined within the United States ; sales at auc-
tion ; licenses to retail wines and distilled spirits ; carriages
for the conveyance of persons.

2. That, of these revenues, the principal part of the duties
on imported articles, those on the tonnage of ships and vessels,
those on distilled spirits and stills, those on the postage of letters,
patent fees, the dividends on bank stock, are permanent (the
three first being commensurate with the existence of the debt for
the payment of the interest of which they are pledged, the fourth
and fifth having no limit assigned in the laws, and the last being
commensurate with the duration of the property in the stock),
all the others temporary; being limited to continue no longer
than till the end of the session of Congress next after the expi-
ration of two years from the respective times of passing the laws
which established them, except the temporary duties on imports
and tonnage, which are to continue till the 1st of January,
1797.

3d. That the permanent duties on imported articles, the ton-
nage duties, the duties on spirits distilled within the United
States, and on stills, are subject to these permanent dispositions :

1. To an annual reservation of 600,000 dollars, for the support
of the Government of the United States and their common
defence.

2. To an appropriation of so much as may be necessary to
pay the interest on the foreign loans, provided for by the fund-
ing act.

3. To an appropriation of so much as may be necessary to pay
the interest on the stock created by the loan in domestic debt, or
more properly in the original debt of the United States.

4. To an appropriation of so much as may be necessary to
discharge the interest on the stock created by the loan in the
dtbts of the respective States.

5. To an appropriation of so much as may be necessary to

476 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

pay the interest on the balances due to creditor States, which
dispositions establish priorities, according to the order in which
they are here enumerated.

4th. That the surplus, if any, of the duties on spirits distilled
within the United States, and on stills, has an ultimate appro-
priation, that is, to the reduction of the public debt, but that the
surpluses of the other duties have no such ultimate appropriation.

5th. That the duties on the postage of letters, and the net
dividend on bank stock, have no permanent or particular appro-
priation.

6th. That the temporary duties are charged with a specific
sum of 1,292,137 dollars and 38 cents; and with the payment of
interest on a sum of 1,000,000 of dollars, authorized to be borrowed
for the expenses of foreign intercourse.

7t*h. That the whole of the foreign debt, and all that part of
the domestic debt, being now nearly the whole, which consists
of the stock created by the loans in the original debt of the
United States, and in the particular debts of the several States,
and by the balances due to creditor States, are bottomed on cer-
tain specified revenues, pledged or hypothecated for the payment of
the interest upon them; and thus constitute the funded debt of
the United States.

8th. That the funded domestic debt of the United States
consists of three species of stock, one bearing a present interest
of six per cent, per annum ; another bearing a like interest after
the year 1800 ; a third bearing a present interest of three per
centum per annum : the interest in each case payable quarter yearly.

9th. That the six per cent, stock, present and deferred, can
be redeemed in no greater proportion than at the rate of eight
per centum per annum of the original sum, on account both of
principal and interest ; but the three per cent, stock is redeem-
able at pleasure.

10th. That the provision for subscribing to the loan in do-
mestic debt, expired on the last of December, 1794, and that no
further provision has been made for the unsubscribed residue.

11th. That the funding act expressly confirms the contracts and
rights of the creditors of the United States, who shall not think

iET.38.] PUBLIC CREDIT. 477

jit to subscribe to the loan, and gives an expectation to them of fur-
ther and other arrangements, upon the event of the propositions
made to them.

12th. That the proceeds of all the lands of the United States
in the Western territory are appropriated to the redemption of
all that part of the public debt, for which, prior to the funding
act, or by virtue thereof the United States were or are liable.

13th. That, in addition to this, a regular sinking fund has
been successively constituted, to be applied under the direction
of five principal officers of the United States, with the approba-
tion of the President, hitherto composed of three parts : 1st.
The surplus of the duties on imports and tonnage to the end of
1790. 2dly. The proceeds of loans not exceeding 2,000,000 of
dollars, authorized to be borrowed for the purpose (these two
funds to be invested in purchases) ; and 3dly (in which the two
former resolve themselves), the interest on the public debt, pur-
chased, redeemed or paid into the treasury, together with the sur-
pluses, if any, of the moneys appropriated for interest, to be
applied first to purchases of the debt, till the fund is equal to two
per centum of the outstanding stock, bearing a present interest of
six per cent. ; second, to the redemption of that stock, and lastly,
to purchases of any unredeemed residue of the public debt. But
there is reserved out of this fund, a sum not exceeding eight per cen-
tum per annum, towards the payment of interest, and reimburs-
ing of the principal of the loans made for purchases of the debt.

To this recapitulation of the leading features of our fiscal
system, it may be useful to add a summary exhibition of certain
results, which appear more in detail, or are deducible from the
tables or statements annexed to this report.

The particulars and amount of the debt of the United States,
are as follow :

Foreign debt, as per statements

B and C, - - $14,599,129 35

Deduct instalment of foreign

debt in the year 1795, to be

paid out of proceeds of 'for-

478 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

eign loans - - - 853,750 00

$13,745,379 35

Funded domestic debt, viz. :

1. Arising from original do-

mestic debt, subscribed

to loan proposed by
funding act :

Stock bearing a present interest

of six per cent. - - $17,912,138 01

Stock bearing a future interest

of ditto, - 8,538,228 97

Stock bearing an interest of 3

per cent. - 12,275,347 55

2. Arising from State debts

assumed :
Stock bearing a present interest

of 6 per cent. - - - 7,908,374 19
Stock bearing a future interest

of ditto, ---. 3,940,608 96
Stock bearing an interest of 3

per cent. - 5,994,115 70

3. Arising from balances to

creditor States :
Stock bearing a present interest

of 6 per cent. - - - $2,345,056 00
Stock bearing a future interest

of ditto, --- - 1,172,528 00
Stock bearing an interest of 3

per cent. - 703,516 80

-$60,789,914 18

Unsubscribed debt, viz. :

Principal, exclusive of Loan
Office certificates, bearing in-
terest on nominal value, - 1,072,583 40

Interest thereupon, including

indents, - - 452,826 74

Principal of Loan Office certifi-

JEt. 38.]

PUBLIC CREDIT. 479

cates, bearing interest on
nominal sum, - - - 27,935 00

Interest thereon, - - - 7,830 00

. $1,561,175 14

Total unredeemed debt, $76,096,468 67

This is exclusive of a sum of $1,400,000 due to the Bank of
the United States, on account of the loan of $2,000,000 had of
that institution, pursuant to the eleventh section of the act by
which it is incorporated, and which is not included in the mass
of the debt, because it is more than counterbalanced by a greater
value in stock. It is also exclusive of those loans which are
temporary anticipations of the revenue.

The particulars and amount of the annual current revenues
of the United States, are as follow :

APPROPRIATED. PERMANENT.

Duties on imports and tonnage,

domestic, - - $4,199,791 67

Duties on distilled spirits and

stills, - - 400,000 00

Fees on patents, - 660 00

UNAPPROPRIATED.

Postage of letters, - - 29,722 16

Surplus dividends on bank

stock, .... 62,500 00

$4,692,673 83

TEMPORARY.

Temporary duties on imports, 1,479,626 91

INTERNAL.

Duties on snuff, refined sugar,
sales at auction, licenses to
retail spirits and wines, car-
riages for conveyance of

persons, - - ' - - 380,000 00

$1,859*626 91

Total annual current revenue, $6,552,300 74

480 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

The particulars and amount of the annual stated expenditure
of the United States, computing the army and navy establish-
ments on the scale of an Indian and Algerine war, are as follows :

Interest on the foreign debt, - - - $638,480 58

Interest on domestic funded debt, - - 2,339,241 50

Interest on unfunded debt, - - - 66,031 10

Interest on temporary loans, - - - 100,000 00
Expenses of the civil' Government, including

foreign intercourse, .... 475,249 53

Expenses of military land service, - - 1,511,975 29

Expenses of military naval service, - - 441,508 80

Miscellany, - ... 109,357 04

Total annual expenditure, $5,681,843 84

This sum is liable to be increased by the interest which will
begin to accrue on the deferred stock the first of January, 1801 ;
being, on the present amount of that stock, 871,401 dollars and
92 cents.

The annual force of the sinking fund, as depending on ascer-
tained funds, may be stated as follows :

Interest for a year, on sums already carried

to its credit, $68,225 55

Interest for a year, on debts of foreign offi-
cers, in a course of payment, including
arrears of interest to be carried to the
credit of this fund, .... 13,439 49

Interest for a year, on the unexpended sur-
plus of the revenues at the end of the
year 1790, being 411,659 dollars 49 cents,
supposing this to be invested, by pur-
chase, in an equal sum of present six
per cent, stock, 24,699 56

$106,364 60
It is further liable to be increased by an investment in pur-

jEt. 38.] PUBLIC CREDIT. 481

chases of 865,098 dollars 11 cents, which, together with the sums
from that source already invested in purchases and payments,
will amount to 2,000,000 of dollars, the sum authorized to be
borrowed for purchases of the debt.

But, as this auxiliary depends on an operation, not only future,
but, in some degree, casual, it cannot be taken into an estimate
of the actual strength of the fund.

The proceeds of the sales of Western lands, must, also, be
considered as an eventual resource.

There are other contingent sources of augmentation, not com-
puted, because they are contingent. But, on the other hand, the
fund is liable to be reduced, by a sum reserved out of it for the
payment of principal and interest of the two millions authorized
to be borrowed for purchases, not exceeding eight per centum
per annum.

The sum applicable, in the first instance, to the redemption of
that portion of the funded debt which bears a present interest of
6 per centum, excluding that standing to the credit of the com-
missioners of the sinking fund, is as follows :

Of transferable stock, .... $516,410 24

Of untransferable stock, arising from bal-
ances to creditor States, - - - 46,901 12

$563,311 36

The sum applicable, in the first instance, that is, on the 1st
day of January, 1802, to the redemption of that portion of the
funded debt, now called deferred stock, excluding that standing
to the credit of the commissioners of the sinking fund, will be
as follows :

Of transferable stock, - $249,576 75

Of untransferable stock, arising from bal-
ances to creditor States, - - - 23,450 56

$273,027 31

482 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [>E . 38.

These sums would complete the redemption of the whole
amount of the stock to which thej are applicable, within twenty-
three years after the redemption in each case was begun; within
which terms they would discharge the whole of the public debt,
except the foreign debt, the unsubscribed debt, and the three per
cent, stock.

If the redemption of the present 6 per cent, stock commence
the first of January, 1796,' and the redeeming fund be commen-
surate with the whole of the unredeemed stock bearing a present
interest of 6 per cent, and transferable, the revenue set free in the
year 1818, for operations upon the residue of the debt, will be
2,039,394 dollars 36 cents.

If the redemption of the deferred debt commence the first
of January, 1802, when it may rightfully commence, and the
redeeming fund be commensurate with the whole of that stock,
unredeemed and transferable, the revenue set free in the year 1824,
for operations upon the residue of the public debt, if any remain,
will be $998,307 02.

The revenue set free by these successive redemptions, would
be sufficient to redeem the whole of the present foreign debt in
six years ; that is, within a term of twenty-eight years from the
proposed time for commencing the redemption, or the 1st of
January, 1796 ; and, after extinguishing the foreign debt, would
more than discharge the whole of the balances to creditor States,
and the whole of the unfunded debt, in two years more.

If the proceeds of the lands in the Western territory, should
be equal to three million of dollars, and the three per cent, stock
can be purchased at an average of twelve shillings in the pound,
that fund would suffice to pay off the principal of the three per
cent stock, in something more than twenty-five years.

It follows, that, if the force of the sinking fund be rendered
equal, exclusive of the proceeds of the sales of Western lands,
to the redemption of the present unredeemed transferable stock,
commencing the 1st of January, 1796, as to that bearing a
present interest of 6 per centum, and the 1st of January, 1802,
as to that bearing a future interest of 6 per centum ; and if the
proceeds of the sales of Western lands should prove equal to

Mt. 38.] PUBLIC CREDIT. 483

3,000,000 of dollars, and can be brought into action for purchases
of the 3 per cent, stock, at the rate above mentioned, at any time
before the year 1801, the whole of the present debt of the United
States, foreign and domestic (the funds appropriated being,
during the whole period, adequate, in productiveness, and
inviolably applied), would be extinguished in thirty years. And
there would then revert to the United States, an annual income
of 4,435,320 dollars and 89 cents. Some auxiliary provisions,
which will be proposed, may greatly accelerate that result.*

On the basis of the foregoing data, the Secretary of the
Treasury proceeds to submit to the consideration of Congress,
certain propositions, which appear to him necessary to be adopted
to complete our system of public credit. These will be followed
by some explanatory remarks.

I. Proposition-.

That further provision be made, with regard to the yet
unsubscribed debt of the United States, as follows :

1st. Further time to be given, until the end of the year 1795,
to subscribe the same to the loan proposed by the funding act ;
with liberty to the holders to subscribe the arrears of interest up
to that period separately from the principal, reserving that
principal on its original footing.

2d. An appropriation to be made for payment of interest on
so much of the principal (excepting loan office certificates bearing
interest on the nominal value) as, at the end of the year 1795,
shall remain unsubscribed, for the term of one year, according to
the rate or rates stipulated by the original contracts, and for the
payment of ten per centum of the arrears of interest thereupon,
to the same end of the year 1795. This payment to be made on
the 1st of January, 1796, at the treasury, where no particular
place of payment is stipulated, and at such place, where there is
one.

* These results are not stated with fractional correctness, because it is not
necessary to a satisfactory conclusion, and the minuteness of the calculation would
have demanded more time than can conveniently be spared.

484 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 38.

3d. The specie principal of the loan office certificates, which
bear interest on the nominal value, together with the arrears of
interest, to be immediately paid off.

II. Proposition.

That provision be made for taking, upon loan to the United
States, by subscription at the treasury, the outstanding and
unbarred new emission bills of credit, the sums subscribed to be
paid in the principal only of those bills, and the stock of the
new loan to bear an interest of 5 per cent, per annum, payable,
quarter yearly, at the treasury, and redeemable at the pleasure
of the United States, by payment of the principal, with a stipu-
lation to pay the same at the expiration of thirty years. The
loan to be deemed to commence on the first of January, 1796,
and to rest on funds permanently pledged, namely, the perma-
nent revenues.

III. Proposition.

That provision be made for converting, by a new loan, the
whole of our present foreign, into domestic debt, upon these
terms, to wit : that, for any sum subscribed to the new loan, and
paid in the principal of the present foreign debt of the United
States, there be allowed, in addition to the interest now payable
upon such principal, the further yearly interest of | per centum,
or, in lieu thereof, at the option of each subscriber, an equivalent
sum in capital stock, bearing an interest of 5 per centum per
annum. That the whole interest upon the new loan, including
that upon the capital stock, to be given as an equivalent for the
additional \ per cent., shall remain fixed until the first day of
January, 1818, at which time, and not sooner, the principal of
the said new loan, including the said capital stock given as an
equivalent, may and shall be reimbursed, except as to such
subscribers as may prefer a shorter term of reimbursement,
who may elect any term not less than fifteen years. That the
permanent revenues shall be and remain firmly pledged for the
payment of the said interest, until the reimbursement of the said

jEt.38] public credit. 485

principal, to be paid quarter yearly, as that of the present funded-
domestic debt. And, lastly, that the commissioners of the sinking
fund be empowered, with the approbation of the President, to
provide, by new loans, for the reimbursement of any instalment,
or part of principal, of the present foreign debt, or of the loan to
be made thereupon, as aforesaid, either by direct borrowing, or
by sale, in the market, of certificates of stock, so as the said loan,
or the said certificates of stock, shall bear an interest not exceed-
ing 6 per centum per annum, and shall be liable to reimbursement
within a term not exceeding twenty-four years. The interest
upon the capital reimbursed, and, in aid thereof, the permanent
revenues, to be pledged for the interest upon the loans or stock
to be made or created by virtue of the said power.

IV. Proposition.

That the temporary duties on imports be made coextensive,
in duration, with those now permanent, and be appropriated in
like manner; and that the reservation of 600,000 dollars, annually,
out of the duties on imports and tonnage, for the support of the
Government of the United States, and their common defence, be
postponed till after the appropriations for the interest of the
funded debt, foreign and domestic, and for the sinking fund.

V. Proposition.

That the following provisions be added to those heretofore
made, for reimbursing and redeeming the debt of the United
States :

1st. To direct, by law, that so much of the surplus of the
duties on imports and tonnage, to the end of the year 1790, as
shall remain uninvested in purchases, on the 1st day of January,
1796, shall be so invested, one-fourth part within the month of
April, another fourth part within the month of July, another
fourth part within the month of October, in that year, and. the
remainder within the month of January, 1797.

2d. To exonerate the fund established by the act, entitled

486 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

" An act supplementary to the act making provision for the debt
of the United States," passed the 8th of May, 1792, from the
payment of the rate, per annum, which, by the 4th section of
the act of the 12th of August, 1790, entitled " An act making
provision for the reduction of the public debt," is reserved, on
account of the principal and interest of the moneys authorized,
by that act, to be borrowed for purchases of the debt ; charging
the interest of the moneys so borrowed, upon the revenue from
imports and tonnage.

3d. To appropriate to the same fund, so much of the revenue
from imports and tonnage, as, together with the other moneys now
constituting the fund, and which shall accrue to it by virtue of the
foregoing provisions, shall be sufficient, from year to year, with the
interest redeemed, to pay the sums which may, of right, be
annually paid on account of the principal of such funded stock,
as on the 1st day of January, 1796, shall bear a present interest
of 6 per centum per annum, excluding that which shall stand to
the credit of the commissioners of the sinking fund, and that
which shall stand to the credit of particular States, on account
of the balances reported in their favor by the commissioners for
settling accounts between the United States and individual States ;
to continue so appropriated until the whole of the said funded
stock shall be redeemed, and, thenceforth, until the whole residue
of the present debt of the United States, foreign and domestic,
funded and unfunded, shall be redeemed or discharged.

4th. To appropriate to the same fund, the dividends on the
stock of the Bank of the United States, belonging to the United
States, reserving, from time to time, so much thereof as may be
necessary to pay interest on what shall remain unpaid of the loan
had of the said bank, pursuant to the second section of the act
of incorporation, and, also, so much of the duties on imports an d
tonnage, as, together with those dividends (deducting what may be
necessary to pay interest), shall be sufficient, from year to year,
to pay off the instalments of the said loan, hereafter to grow due,
and as (the said instalments being paid) together with any other
moneys which, on the 1st day of January, 1802, may belong to the
said fund, not otherwise appropriated, shall be sufficient, fro n year

JEt. 38.] PUBLIC CREDIT. 487

to year, with the interest redeemed, to pay the sums which may,
of right, be annually paid on account of the principal of such
funded stock, as, at the expiration of the year 1800, shall begin
to bear an interest of six per cent, per annum, excluding that
which shall stand to the credit of the commissioners of the
sinking fund, and that which shall stand to the credit of par-
ticular States, on account of the balances reported in their favor,
by the commissioners for settling accounts between the United
States and individual States ; to continue so appropriated, until,
as well the last mentioned stock, as the instalments of the loan
aforesaid, shall be fully redeemed and discharged, and, thence-
forth, until the whole residue of the present debt of the United
States, foreign and domestic, funded and unfunded, shall be
redeemed and discharged.

5th. To continue the appropriation to the same fund, of the
interest of the stock which shall be redeemed by virtue of the
foregoing provisions (when the full redemption in each case is
completed), until the whole of the present debt of the United
States, foreign and domestic, funded and unfunded, shall be
redeemed, by reimbursement, purchase, or otherwise.

6th. To provide for carrying to the same fund, agreeably to
the appropriation in the funding act, the proceeds of the sales
of the lands of the United States in the Western territory, to be
applied according to the said appropriation.

7th. To appropriate to the same fund, to be employed for
the purposes thereof, all moneys which shall be received for
debts due to the United States, antecedent to the present con-
stitution.

8th. To provide that the surpluses of all the current reve-
nues of the United States, which shall remain at the end of
any calendar year, beyond the amount of the appropriations
charged upon them, and which, during the session of Congress,
commencing next thereafter, shall not be otherwise specially
appropriated or reserved, shall be carried to the fund aforesaid,
to be applied to the purposes thereof.

9th. To provide for paying, annually, out of the said fund,
the sum which may be rightfully paid in each year, towards the

488 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

redemption of the funded stock, which does or shall bear an
interest of six per centum per annum, excluding that which
shall stand to the credit of the commissioners of the sinking fund,
and that which shall stand to the credit of particular States, on
account of the balances reported in their favor by the commis-
sioners for settling accounts between the United States and indi-
vidual States, commencing the redemption of that bearing a
present interest, on the first of January, 1796, and of that to bear
interest after the year 1800, on the first of January, 1802, and
pledging, in the firmest manner, the faith of the United States
to the creditors thereof, that the said fund shall be inviolably
applied to the purpose of redeeming the stock aforesaid, and
afterwards, to the redemption of the whole of the present debt
of the United States, foreign and domestic, funded and unfunded,
until the whole shall be fully redeemed and discharged, and to
be vested in the commissioners of the sinking fund, as property
in trust for the creditors, until the redemption of -the whole of
the present debt of the United States shall be completed.

Provided, always, that, whenever the fund shall be more
than sufficient for paying off, as they accrue, the remaning instal-
ments of the said loan had of the Bank of the United States,
and for the complete and final redemption of the whole of the
aforesaid stock, bearing and to bear an interest of six per cent,
according to the right reserved for that purpose, and also for the
payment of the instalments of the present foreign debt, or of
such new loans as may be made thereupon, pursuant to the third
proposition, and for the reimbursement, purchase, or redemption
of the residue of the present debt of the United States, within
the term of thirty years, it shall be lawful for Congress, if at war
with any foreign European Power, to apply so much of the
excess as they may think fit, the said excess being certified by
the commissioners of the sinking fund, towards the expenses
of such war ; excepting always so much of the said excess as
may be requisite to fulfil any contracts which shall have been
entered into by the commissioners of the sinking fund, pursuant
to the powers vested in them; and provided, that no second
appropriation of any such excess shall derogate from the fund

Mt. 38.] PUBLIC CREDIT. 489

once reserved for the redemption or purchase of the said residue
of the debt, within the said term of thirty years.

10th. To provide that all reimbursements of the capital of
the public debt, foreign and domestic, and of the remaining
instalments of the aforesaid loan of the Bank of the United
States, be made under the superintendence of the commissioners
of the sinking fund, empowering them, with the approbation of
the President of the United States, as the instalments of principal
become due, to borrow, if necessary, the sums requisite to pay
those instalments. Provided, that the ultimate term for the
reimbursement of any loan they may make, shall not exceed
twenty -four years ; the interest thereof to be charged — first, upon
the interest of the instalments which shall be reimbursed by
means thereof, except the instalments of funded six per cent,
stock; secondly, upon the revenue from imports and tonnage, to
make good any deficiency.

VI. Proposition.

That power be given to the commissioners of the sinking
fund, with the approbation of the President, to borrow, from
time to time, such sums as may be necessary in anticipation of
the revenues appropriated for the purpose, not exceeding, in one
year, one million of dollars, to be reimbursed within a year from
the time of each loan, for the payment of the interest which shall
annually accrue on the public debt

The interest upon each loan to be defrayed out of the perma-
nent revenues,

VII. Proposition.

That the internal revenues from snuff and refined sugar,
sales at auction, licenses to sell by retail foreign distilled spirits
and wines, carriages for the conveyance of persons, be continued
to the first day of January, 1800, and that the reimbursement of
the principal of the loan of 1,000,000 dollars, authorized to be
borrowed for defraying the expenses of foreign intercourse, be
charged upon this fund,

c 32

490 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JJt. 38.

VIII. Proposition.

That, in regard to any sum which shall have remained unex-
pended upon any appropriations other than for the payment of
the interest of the funded debt and for the purposes of the
sinking fund, for more than two years after the end of the
calendar year in which the act of appropriation shall have been
passed, such appropriation shall be deemed to cease and deter-
mine— and the sum expended upon it shall be carried to an
account to be denominated "the surplus fund." But no
appropriation shall be so deemed to have ceased or determined,
till after the year 1795, unless it shall appear to the Secretary
of the Treasury that the object of such appropriation has been
fully satisfied ; in which case, it shall be lawful for him to cause
to be carried the unexpended residue thereof to the account
aforesaid.

IX. Proposition.

That provision be made that all priorities, heretofore estab-
lished, in the appropriations for the funded debt, as between the
different parts of said debt, shall, after the year 1796, cease, with
respect to all creditors of the United States who do not, before
the expiration of the period, signify their dissent therefrom ; and
that, thenceforth, with the exception only of the debts of those
creditors who shall so signify their dissent, the revenues charged
with these appropriations shall constitute a common or consoli-
dated fund, chargeable indiscriminately and without priority.

X. Proposition.

That provision be made for calling in all outstanding Loan
Office certificates, certificates called final settlements, and indents
of interest, and for issuing, in lieu of them, other certificates of
equivalent tenor, establishing that all which shall not be pre-
sented for exchange within the term of two years shall be barred.

Mt. 38.] PUBLIC CREDIT. 491

Remarks upon the First Proposition.

The experiment lias now been fully tried, and with nearly
complete success, of the disposition of the public creditors to
accept the terms offered by the funding act. Those who still
decline have probably made a final election to abide by their
original contracts.

It remains to fulfil them. This, the moral obligation of the
contracts, the new and peremptory sanction given to them by the
present Government, and the essential maxims of public credit,
unite to demand ; and, while these cogent motives, affecting inti-
mately the permanent character and general interest of the Uni-
ted States, recommend the measure, there is now no longer any
momentary inducement, from situation, to procrastinate.

The present advanced state of the national finances, and the
inconsiderable magnitude of the still unsubscribed debt, render it
of little, if any, consequence to obtain upon it the temporary
accommodation of deferring the payment of a part of the interest
accruing according to contract. This motive apart, and consider-
ing the approximation of the period when the payment of interest
on the deferred debt is to commence, the chance of benefiting by
a fall of the market rate of interest, incident to a provision for
the debt on the terms of the contract, which make it redeemable
at pleasure, may be found more advantageous to the Govern-
ment, than the partial postponement of interest encumbered with
an abridgment of the right of redemption.

To those who should not rightly appreciate this circumstance,
it might seem an objection, that the provision proposed would
place those creditors, who had not consented to accommodate the
Government, upon a better footing than those who had so con-
sented.

But a scruple of this kind is overruled by several considera-
tions. 1st. It is not improbable that a considerable proportion
of those who may not. have accepted the terms offered by the
funding act, are executors and other trustees, who may have
doubted their power to accept.

2d. Giving the fullest force to the fact which is the ground of

492 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [At. 38.

the objection, it is one of those cases in which the general princi-
ples that constitute the permanent happiness of society, give the
less meritorious advantages over the more meritorious. All the
creditors had a right to conform, or not. Those who have not
done it have only used their right, and it cannot be matter of
objection or prejudice to them. To delay indefinitely a provision
for their claims, according to contract, is to annihilate the con-
tract.

The complying creditors cannot with propriety complain.
They were informed unequivocally that the proposal of a new
loan was referred to their free choice ; that the rights of those who
did not assent would remain unimpaired; and compensations
were offered in the new contracts for the surrender of the old.
A plea that an ultimate provision was not relied upon, could not
be admitted, because it would be to convert a distrust of the faith
of the Government into an argument against its being observed
towards those who had depended upon it.

But the complying creditors actually received valuable con-
siderations for the modification of their claims, instead of annual
provision for their interest, which alone their contracts, as they
stood previous to the funding act, required ; they have had it
secured by adequate funds permanently mortgaged for its payment.

Instead of the stipulated annuity being redeemable at pleasure,
whenever a fall in the market rate of interest should render it
advantageous to pay off the principal, it has acquired a more
fixed character by the relinquishment of the right of the Govern-
ment to redeem, except in certain proportions, and a capacity to
increase in capital value, by a declension of the market rate of
interest.

Instead of receiving their interest in one payment, at the end
of a year, they receive it in quarter yearly portions, which makes
it, in fact, 6.15 per cent, in lieu of the stipulated rate of six per
centum.

On the first point it has been argued that, supposing a steady
preservation of its faith by the Government, it is indifferent to
the creditor whether his demand stands upon the basis of an an-
nual provision, or upon that of mortgaged funds.

JEx. 38.] PUBLIC CREDIT. 493

This is to substitute theory to fact. As well with regard to a
government as to an individual, there is, in the nature of things,
an intrinsic difference between the value of a debt bottomed on
mortgaged funds, and that of a debt resting on what is called, in
the one case, and may be called in the other, personal security.
The degree of this difference, and some of the circumstances on
which it depends, may be different in the two cases, but the
reality of its existence can be denied in neither.

Government, being administered by men, is naturally, like
individuals, subject to particular impulses, passions, prejudices,
vices ; of course to inconstancy of views and mutability of con-
duct.

A kind of property, of which the essence is contract, must
necessarily, therefore, be more or less valuable, because more or
less secure, in proportion as it is little or much exposed to the
influence of that inconstancy or that mutability.

If a provision is to be made by a new resolution every year,
that resolution, being always liable to be affected by momentary
circumstances, is always casual.

If made once for all, it continues, of course, unless revoked
by some positive act, and has for that reason a moral certainty of
stability.

But why, it might be asked, if a disposition unfaithful to the
public engagements, or unfriendly to the public credit, should
exist, would it not operate to produce a violation of a provision
made, as well as to prevent the making of one ?

The two things are widely different. To undo, which is to
act, and in such a case to act with violence, requires more enterprise
and vigor, and presupposes greater energy, or a stronger impulse,
than not to do, or to forbear to act. This is particularly true
where a number of wills is to concur. Many men who will not
rouse to the effort, or encounter the responsibility of doing mis-
chief by positive acts, will readily enough slide into it by a nega-
tive conduct ; that is, by omitting to act. Many men, merely
from easiness of temper or want of active fortitude, will suffer
evil to take place which they neither desire nor would themselves
commit. In collective bodies, votes are necessary to action :

494 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

absences may produce inaction". It often happens, that a ma-
jority of voices could not be had to a resolution to undo or
reverse a thing once done, which there would not be a majority
of voices to do.

This reasoning acquires tenfold force when applied to a com-
plex government like ours ; that is, to a government distributed
into departments, acting through different organs, which must
concur to give it motion ; as, in our constitution, the House of
Eepeesentatives, the Senate, and the President.

In delicate and difficult cases, whether to issue in good or ill,
a suspension of action is far more natural to such a government
than action.

It can hardly happen, that all the branches or parts of it can
be infected at one time with a common passion, or disposition,
manifestly inimical to justice and the public good, as to prostrate
the public credit, by revoking a pledge, given to the creditors.
It is far more probable that such a disposition should, at one
time, possess one part, at another time, another part. Possessing
either part, it might be sufficient to obstruct a provision which
was to be made. Without possessing all the parts, it could not
subvert one which had been made. The last can scarcely be
supposed, except in one of those extraordinary crises of nations
which confound all ordinary calculations.

Hence the value of property in public debt, which rests on
specified and competent funds, firmly pledged for the satisfaction
of the creditor, is intrinsically greater, and to a considerable ex-
tent, than that of property in public debt, which depends on
annual provision. Hence, too, a creditor to whom such a pledge
was not stipulated, may be justly said to have received a com-
pensation for the relinquishment of a portion of his interest.

On the second point, it has been observed, with less plausibi-
lity, that, in this country, where it would be to the advantage of
the creditor to receive his principal, rather than a rate of six per
cent, interest, the abridgment of the right of redemption is of
no value.

1st. The proposition is not universally true.

It depends on the particular situation of a creditor whether it

Mt. 38.]

PUBLIC CREDIT. 495

be his interest to be reimbursed his principal or not. It is be-
lieved, owing to the impunctuality of collections, that in no part
of the United States does fair lending at private interest, upon
real security, net six per cent.

2d. As far as it is true, it does not authorize the inference
which is drawn, because the creditor cannot demand his principal
when it suits him, but must wait till it is convenient for the
government to pay. This convenience might not exist till there
was a fall in the market rate of interest, and then it would not
be the interest of the creditor to receive.

Unable to exact the principal when he pleases, it is a material
point gained to be able to arrest the hand of the government from
paying him, when it is his interest not to receive. It is evident,
that whenever the rate of interest to which he is entitled, shall
exceed the market rate, if he cannot be obliged to receive back
his principal, or take the market rate, his stock must rise in value
in proportion to the difference and degree of its duration.

Nor is an idea which has been entertained, just, that this ad-
vantage is remote and contingent, to accrue only to those who
may be holders at the time of the fall of interest, at the expense
of those who were holders when the funding act passed, many of
whom, as it is alleged, being obliged to alienate then or shortly
after, suffered loss in the sale, from the postponement of a part of
their interest, without benefiting by the supposed equivalents.

The fairness of an equivalent ought never to be tested by the
necessities of particular individuals. It ought to be estimated by
the general principles of value ; by the natural and real opera-
tion of things. Admitting, therefore, the suggestion, as to such
individuals, to be true, it would decide nothing.

But it is not true. The permanency of a high rate of interest,
and the possibility of a future rise of the capital above par, by
the fall of the market rate below the stipulated rate, were, to the
first holders of stock, circumstances of present value.

Foreigners, especially, whose purchases would necessarily
influence the market, would give higher prices for it on these
accounts.

And when to this are added, the funding of the new stock

496 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

and the payment of the interest quarter yearly, there is solid ground
for entertaining an opinion that the stock has, from the earliest
period, borne a better price in the market than upon the principle
of an annual payment of six per cent, on the whole capital de-
pending upon an annual provision.

This opinion would be confirmed, if we should take as a
guide what actually happened in one or more of the States which
made annual provision for the payment of interest upon their
debts, at the stipulated rate of six per cent. With this provision
the market price of their stock rarely exceeded 33 ~ per centum-
It is probable that greater confidence in the ability and con-
stancy of views of the Government of the United States, might
have given a greater value to their stock in a like situation. But
it is not to be doubted that it would have felt, in a great degree,,
a similar effect of that situation.

This may not appear with respect to the small amount of
unsubscribed debt, now to be provided for, and with the ad-
vantage of a confirmation of confidence by experience ; but it
could not have failed to have been very apparent, if the whole
debt had been provided for on this plan.

These observations serve to render it probable that the cred-
itors who have accepted the terms offered by the Government,
have not been injured by the acceptance ; that, if they had
now an option to change their ground for that which is now
proposed for non-subscribers, it would be an ill-judged choice
in them to do it ; and that, upon these, as well as other accounts,
they will have no cause to be dissatisfied with the proposal under
consideration.

Let it be added, that, whether the non-subscribers shall fare
better or not by that proposal than the subscribers, it is the inter-
est of all the public creditors, upon principle and precedent,
that the public faith should be preserved towards those non-
subscribers.

But, at the same time, every consideration connected with
the question, urges that nothing more should be done for non-
subscribers than is positively due to good faith. Accordingly,
the proposition contemplates that their debt shall not he funded,
but that provision shall be annually made.

jEt. 38.] PUBLIC CREDIT. 497

With regard to arrears of interest, a tenth part only is pro-
posed to be paid on the first of January, 1796. At this rate,
they would be paid off in ten years.

In strictness, they ought to be immediately discharged. But,
to have done this on the whole debt, would have been impracti-
cable ; to do it on what now remains unsubscribed, would not
only be unequal, but would, at the present moment, obstruct
arrangements which are conducive to the general interests of the
creditors. The state of the treasury in succeeding years will
enable Congress to decide how far the payment can be accele-
rated. In the mean time, the creditors have an option to sepa-
rate these arrears from the principal, and to fund them at three
per cent., as has been done generally with regard to interest.
The case of a large arrear of interest, arising from the inability of
a former government, which is the present case, is liable to some
peculiar considerations.

A difference is made in the special case of the Loan Office
certificates, which, by contract, are entitled to interest of six per
cent, on the nominal principal, redeemable only by payment of
the specie principal.

This is too disadvantageous a footing for the Government.

The alternative most convenient at this time, is to pay off
the debt, which is proposed. To elude this contract, would be
to sacrifice a very great principle to a very little interest.

The amount will be seen in the statement A.

Remarks on the Second Proposition.

The certificates, or bills of credit, called new emission money,
were emitted pursuant to a resolution of Congress, of the 18th of
March, 1780, which directs them to be emitted upon the funds of
individual States, to bear an interest of five per centum per an-
num, payable in specie, at the redemption of the bills ; or, at the
election of the holder, annually, at the Continental Loan Offices, in
sterling bills, drawn by the United States upon their Commissioners in
Europe, and pledges the faith of the United States for the pay-
ment of the said bills, in case any State on whose funds they shouldbe

498 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

emitted, should, by the events of war, be rendered incapabh to redeem
them ; directing, also, an endorsement to be made upon each bill,
in these words: " The United States insure the payment of the
within bill, and will draw bills of exchange for the interest, an-
nually, if demanded, according to a resolution of Congress, of the
18th of March, 1780."

These resolutions, and the endorsement upon the bills, engage
the absolute promise of the United States for the payment of the
interest indefinitely, and their eventual guarantee of the principal,
in case any State on whose funds the bills should be emitted,
should, by the events of war, be rendered incapable to redeem
them ; which is, in effect, though not in form, an absolute gua-
rantee of the principal : for the United States are bound to pay
the interest perpetually till that is discharged.

Good faith demands that the United States should supply the
omissions of the States which issued the bills, by providing
themselves, at least, for the interest upon them.

But it is not as easy to pronounce on what terms they ought
to be provided for.

On their face, and according to the unrevoked resolutions of
Congress, they are of specie value, equal to their nominal amount,
and bearing five per cent, interest.

But it is known that they were issued by different States, at
different values, fixed by previous laws. The true nature of the
contract, therefore, in fact, and the true equity of the case, are,
from these circumstances, involved in some question.

A compromise by a new agreement, seems the best road
out of the difficulty.

This is the aim of the proposition, which, it is hoped, will,
in the main, reasonably consult all interests.

There have been special references of this subject to the
Secretary, but he purposely declined a report till the expiration
of the term limited by the act, entitled " An act relative to
claims against the United States not barred by any act of limita-
tion, and which have not been already adjusted," passed the 12th
of February, 1793, had obviated a danger to which the business
was exposed. It is now ascertained that the amount for which

JEt. 38.] PUBLIC CREDIT. 499

the United States shall be in future liable, is ninety thousand
five hundred and seventy-four dollars. The sums subscribed to
the loan, will, of course, be a charge against the States which
respectively issued the bills.

Remarks on the Third Proposition.

The payment of interest and instalments of principal of our
foreign debt, in the countries where it was contracted, is found
by experience to be attended with difficulty, embarrassment,
some loss, and a degree of casualty which occasionally puts in
jeopardy the national credit. Loans for reimbursement must be
made beforehand, as the market suits, and necessarily involve
double interest for a greater or less time. The procuring of bills
to be remitted for payment of interest, cannot be depended upon
in coincidence with the periods of payment, which, co-operating
with distance, renders inconvenient anticipations necessary.

The remitting in commodities would be liable to other casual-
ties, and to some peculiar objections; and whatever mode be
adopted, it may be frequently not practicable to deposit in
season the necessary funds on the spot, without great sacrifices.
If, therefore, the place of these payments could, with consent of
the creditors, upon an equitable indemnification to them for the
transfer, be changed to the United States, the operation would
be in various lights beneficial. It has occurred that the present
posture of the affairs of Europe, might favor a plan of this kind,
and perhaps produce some collateral advantages. Under this
idea, an experiment is proposed. The proposed augmentation of
interest is intended as an indemnification for the expense and
hazard of agencies in this country, delays in remittance, incon-
venience of distant negotiation, renunciation of the facilities
which attend the receipt of interest at home, risks of loss by
exchange, &c, and is calculated on a liberal scale, in order to
induce an acceptance of the proposition.

If, instead of an increase of interest, the option of an equivalent
be given by way of premium, in stock bearing an interest of five
per cent., it would have attractions for certain creditors, and

500 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

would facilitate the success of the measure. On strict calculation,
the equivalent would be six dollars and fifty-eight cents per 100
dollars of the principal subscribed. It is not perceived that the
interests of the United States could suffer by allowing the alter-
native. The fixing of the rate of interest, by postponing the
reimbursement to the year 1818, would also be a powerful
inducement. And till the period of reimbursement arrives, any
surplus of the sinking fund which may exist, can be invested
in purchases, so as to prevent the progress of the fund being
arrested.

It could not be necessary to observe, except for the sake of
dispelling jealousy or apprehension on the part of the creditors,
that, ivhile the plan is in experiment, and afterwards, with regard to
all who do not embrace it, every thing is to proceed as heretofore,
and as the contracts respecting the debt require.

The auxiliary proposition of giving power to the commis-
sioners of the sinking fund to remit certificates for sale, is
founded upon a belief that this operation will sometimes be
practicable, where direct loans cannot be effected, and will be
occasionally a more beneficial mode of remittance than by bills
of exchange.

Remark on the Fourth Proposition.

The object of this proposition is to give moral certainty to
the adequateness of the fund for paying the interest upon the
debt, and for its ultimate redemption, making a reasonable
allowance for the casualties to which it is exposed.

Remarks on the Fifth Proposition.

There is no sentiment which can better deserve the serious
attention of the legislators of a country, than the one expressed
in the speech of the President, which indicates the danger to
every government from the progressive accumulation of debt.
A tendency to it is, perhaps, the natural disease of all govern-
ments ; and it is not easy to conceive any thing, more likely than
this, to lead to great and convulsive revolutions of empire.

JEt. 38.] PUBLIC CREDIT. 501

On the one hand, the exigencies of a nation, creating new
causes of expenditure, as well from its own, as from the ambition,
rapacity, injustice, intemperance, and folly, of other nations,
proceed in increasing and rapid succession. On the other, there
is a general propensity in those who administer the affairs of a
government, founded in the constitution of man, to shift off the
burden from the present to a future day — a propensity which
may be expected to be strong in proportion as the form of a
State is popular.

To extinguish a debt which exists, and to avoid the con-
tracting more, are ideas always favored by public feeling and
opinion ; but to pay taxes for the one or the other purpose,
which are the only means of avoiding the evil, is always, more
or less, unpopular. These contradictions are in human nature ;
and happy, indeed, would be the lot of a country that should
ever want men ready to turn them to the account of their own
popularity, or to some other sinister account.

Hence, it is no uncommon spectacle to see the same men
clamoring for occasions of expense, when they happen to be in
unison with the present humor of the community, whether well
or ill directed, declaiming against a public debt, and for the
reduction of it as an abstract thesis ; yet vehement against every
plan of taxation which is proposed to discharge old debts, or
to avoid new, by the defraying expenses of exigencies as they
emerge.

These unhandsome arts throw artificial embarrassment in the
way of the administrators of a Government, and, co-operating
with the desire which they themselves are too apt to feel to conci-
liate public favor, by declining to lay even necessary burthens, or
with the fear of losing it, by imposing them with firmness, serve
to promote the accumulation of debt, by leaving that which
exists without adequate provision for its reimbursement, and by
preventing the levying, with energy, new taxes, when new
occasions of expense occur. The consequence is, that the public
debt swells till its magnitude becomes enormous, and the bur-
thens of the people gradually increase, till their weight becomes
intolerable. Of such a state of things, great disorders in the

502 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

whole political economy, convulsions and revolutions of govern-
ment, are a natural offspring.

There can be no more sacred obligation, then, on the public
agents of a nation, than to guard, with provident foresight and
inflexible perseverance, against so mischievous a result. True
patriotism and genuine policy cannot, it is respectfully presumed,
be better demonstrated by those of the United States, at the
present juncture, than by improving, efficaciously, the very
favorable situation in which they stand, for extinguishing, with
reasonable celerity, the actual debt of the country, and for laying
the foundation of a system which may shield posterity from the
consequences of the usual improvidence and selfishness of its
ancestors, and which, if possible, may give immortality to

PUBLIC CREDIT.

Fortunately for the first object, the circumstances in our
foreign affairs, which, during the last session, impelled to an
extension of the national revenues, have left little more to do
than to apply the existing means with decision and efficacy.

The second object will depend on the establishment of wise
principles in the application, fitted to become a permanent prece-
dent in the fiscal system of the country.

The first report of the Secretary on the subject of the public
debt, of the 9th of January, 1790, suggests the idea of "incorpo-
rating, as a fundamental maxim in the system of public credit of
the United States, that the creation of debt should always be
accompanied with the means of extinguishment; that this is the
true secret for rendering public credit immortal, and that it is difficult
to conceive a situation in which there may not be an adherence to
the maxim;'''1 and it expresses "an unfeigned solicitude, that this
may be attempted by the United States, and that they may com-
mence their measures for the establishment of credit with the
observance of it." *

* It is understood that the Parliament of Great Britain has, within the last four
years, formally adopted, as a standing rule, the principle of incorporating, with
the creation of debt , the means of extinguishment. How much easier must the execu-
tion of this important principle he to the United States, than to a nation which,
before it began, had so deeply mortgaged its resources. Let the United States
never have to regret, hereafter, that they postponed too long so provident a
precaution.

Mr. 38.] PUBLIC CREDIT. 503

No opportunity has been lost by the Secretary, as far as he
could contribute to the event, to reduce this principle to practice :
and important steps towards it have been, from time to time,
taken by the Legislature.

But much remains to be done to give it full effect. The
present state of things encourages and invites to the consum-
mation of the plan. And the Secretary, about to leave the office
he holds, feels it a peculiar duty to make a final effort to promote
that invaluable end.

This is the object of the fifth proposition, aided by the pre-
liminary provisions of the 4th. This proposition aims at two
principal points: 1. To constitute a fund sufficient, in every
supposable event, for extinguishing the whole of the present
debt of the United States, foreign and domestic, in a period not
exceeding thirty years. 2. To fix its destination unchangeably,
by not only appropriating it permanently, under the direction of
commissioners, and vesting it in them as property in trust, but
by making its faithful application a part of the contract with the
creditors.

As to the first point : If the temporary duties on imports be
rendered permanent, the annual reservation of six millions of
dollars postponed ; and if the additional appropriations which
are proposed, be made to the sinking fund ; its intended force
will not only be equal to the effect meant to be produced, but
it may be hoped that there is scarcely a casualty which can
reasonably be taken into calculation, foreign war not excepted,
which will occasion a deficiency in the fund.

The whole amount of the duties on imports and tonnage,
and upon domestic distilled spirits and stills, estimated now to
amount to $6,079,418 58, besides the dividends on bank stock,
and the items which now compose the sinking fund, will then
be appropriated, primarily, to the interest upon the public
debt, and to the sinking fund; which, together, including the
deferred stock, will demand, permanently, from that revenue,
$4,373,836 03— little more than two-thirds of the fund from
which they arise. An expectation may be indulged, that even
foreign war, making due allowance for what will always be

5°4 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 38.

practicable through neutral Powers, would not occasion a de-
falcation in the revenues greater than the difference. This
competency of the fund is an essential idea. The fulfilment of
the object, as far as the uncertainty of human affairs will permit,
ought to be superior to casualty.

The necessity of a reliance on auxiliary provisions, always
precarious in those situations which affect the productiveness of
the public revenues, ought to be, as far as practicable, superseded
by the ample nature of the provision.

As to the second point : The intent is to secure, by all the
sanctions of which the subject is susceptible, an inviolable appli-
cation of the fund, according to its destination. No expedients
more powerful can be devised for this purpose, than to clothe it
with the character of private property, and to engage absolutely
the faith of the Government, by making the application of it to
the object, a part of the contract with the creditors.

But is this necessary ?

Its necessity rests on these cogent reasons : The inviolable
application of an adequate sinking fund is the only practicable
security against an excessive accumulation of debt, and the
essential basis of a permanent national credit.

Experience has shown, in countries the most attentive to the
principles of credit, that a simple appropriation of the sinking
fund is not a complete barrier against its being diverted, when
immediate exigencies press. The causes which have been stated
with another view, tempt the administrators of Government
to lay hold of this resource rather than resort to new taxes.
This indicates the utility of endeavoring to give, by additional
sanctions, inviolability to the fund.

But, will those proposed answer the end ?

They are the most efficacious that can be imagined, and they
are likely to be entirely efficacious. They cannot be disregarded,
without, by breach of faith and contract, destroying credit ; and,
at a juncture, too, when it is most indispensable. The emer-
gencies which induce a diversion of the fund, are those in which
loans, and, consequently, credit, are most needed.

But will it be safe to put the fund so entirely out of the

jEt. 38.] PUBLIC CREDIT. 505

command of the Government ? Mav there not be situations in
which the command of it may be requisite to the safety of the
State ?

This is not conceivable. The amount of the sinking fund
will, in the situations which create extraordinary demands for
money, be always inconsiderable, compared even with a single
year's expenditure. The current revenues of a nation do not, in
such cases, suffice. Plunder or credit must supply the deficiency.
The first presupposes a subversion of all social order. The
second will find its best support and greatest efficacy in adhering
steadily to the principles of such a fund. An annuity of seven
dollars will pay the interest upon, and discharge a capital of one
hundred dollars, bearing six per cent, interest, in thirty-three
and a third years, nearly. The situation of a country must be
not a little exhausted, if it cannot create yearly, by new revenues,
during the continuance of a foreign war, an annuity on the above
scale, sufficient to fund the loans of which it may stand in need.
Ten millions of dollars will, with order and economy, maintain,
in this country, an army of fifty thousand men for a year.
Viewing our geographical position, is there a prospect of any
war expensive beyond this ratio ? If not, an annuity of seven
hundred thousand dollars, created each year of the war, would
suffice. But it would be wise, in such an event, to carry taxation,
in the first instance, to the full extent of the ability of the State,,
which would proportionably contract the necessity for bor-
rowing, and, consequently, the extent of the annuities necessary
for loans.

If a nation can find embarrassment in creating the revenues
requisite on this scale, it must arise from her having reached a
stage when, from the neglect of the principle now inculcated,
the mass of her debt has become so enormous as to strain her
faculties in order to make a provision for it.

The United States are in a situation altogether different. An
inspection of the list of their revenues discovers that they have a
large field of resource unexplored. Their youth, and large tracts
of unsettled lands, and land in the infancy of improvement,
assure them a great and rapid increase of means. Even their
c 33

506 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

actual revenues, without additions, must, with the progress of the
country, considerably increase. And, though war may interrupt,
the temporary interruption being removed by the restoration of
peace, their increasing productiveness, suspended for a time,
must resume its vigor and growth. In a given number of years,
a considerable augmentation is certain.

The Government of this country may, therefore, adopt, fear-
less of future embarrassment, a principle which, being adopted,
will ultimately furnish resources for future exigencies, without
an increase of burthen to the community.

To explain this last idea : It will readily be perceived, that
the funds pledged for paying the interest, and sinking the prin-
cipal of a portion of the debt existing or created at a particular
time, will, within a certain period, extinguish that portion of
debt.

They will then be liberated, and will be ready for any future
use, either to defray current expenditures, or be the basis of new
loans, as circumstances may dictate. And, after a course of time,
it is a reasonable presumption, that the funds, so successively
liberated, will be adequate to new exigencies, as they occur.

Moreover, the last clause of the proposition authorizes the
deriving aid from the sinking fund for new loans, whenever the
state of the fund admits of it, consistently with the accomplish-
ment of its purposes ; that is, when it is sufficient — 1st, to make
good the payments on account of the principal of the debt as
they accrue ; 2d, to purchase in the market all that part of the
public debts of which there is no stipulation of payment by
instalment (as the three per cent, stock), within a period of thirty
years.

This, while it secures the extinction of the existing debt,
within a reasonable term, by preventing too great a proportion
of the public revenue from being tied up by the sinking fund,
gives due weight to the consideration of providing for future
emergencies.

The same consideration has governed in proposing (instead of
the appropriation of a definite sum out of the revenue from
imports and tonnage, which, in certain years, would be greater

iEi. 38.] PUBLIC CREDIT. 507

than will be permanently necessary), that the sum to be applied
out of that revenue shall be so much, from year to year, as, with
the other items of the sinking fund, will suffice for the object.
It has likewise influenced in postponing the redemption of that
stock, which stands to the credit of certain States, in consequence
of the report of the commissioners for settlement of accounts.

Every system of public credit must assume it as a funda-
mental principle, that the resources of the country are equal to
its probable exigencies, and that it will possess ability to pay the
debts which it contracts. If this be so, there is no cause to
hesitate about the inviolable appropriation of funds to the extinc-
tion of an existing debt, within no less a term than thirty years.

Indeed, as before intimated, it cannot be doubted that the
resources of a credit, built upon a foundation so solid as that
which is recommended, will more than replace, even in the ear-
liest stages of our affairs, the use of the additional funds with-
drawn from the command of the Government, to effect it, and,
in the eventual operation, will give a more abundant command
of funds than it can otherwise have. The successive liberation
of the revenues, successively pledged, after accomplishing their
object, will afford resources that may almost be said to be in-
exhaustible.

It should be recollected, too, that the public arrangements
may, under a great pressure, anticipate the approaching period
of such liberation, by intermediate temporary loans, to be re-
placed by those funds when Jhey are free.

This proposition exemplifies, as to the past, the nature of the
maxim which has been supposed capable of giving immortality
to credit, namely: that, with the creation of debt, should be
incorporated the means of extinguishment ; which means are two-
fold: 1. The establishing, at the time of contracting a debt, funds for
the reimbursement of the principal, as well as for the payment of
interest within a determinate period. 2. The making it a part of
the contract, that the fund, so established, shall be inviolably ap-
plied to the object.

It is believed that it would be happy for the United States, if
Congress would adopt this principle as a rule in all future loans

508 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEi. 38.

— never to be departed from ; and a good evidence of this deter-
mination will be, to apply it to the past.

This would be, at the same time, an antidote against what
may be pronounced the most plausible objections to the system
of funding public debts; which are, that, by facilitating the
means of supporting expense, they encourage to enterprises
which produce it ; and, by furnishing in credit a substitute for
revenue, likely to be too freely used, to avoid the odium of lay-
ing new taxes, they occasion a tendency to run in debt. Though
these objections to funding systems, which, giving the greatest
possible energy to public credit, are a great source of national
security, strength, and prosperity, are very similar to those which
speculative men urge against national and individual opulence,
drawn from its abuses; and though, perhaps, upon a careful
analysis of facts, they would be found to have much less support
in them than is imagined, attributing to those systems effects
which are to be ascribed, more truly, to the passions of men, and
perhaps to the genius of particular governments ; yet, as they
are not wholly unfounded, it is desirable to guard, as far as pos-
sible, against the dangers which they suppose, without renoun-
cing the advantages which these systems undoubtedly afford.

It will readily be seen, that the maxim of making concurrent
provision for the principal as well as interest, in the act of con-
tracting debt, if, by precedent and habit, it can be rendered a rule
of administration, by implicating a greater portion of the reve-
nue in every such operation than "would be requisite for a mere
provision for interest, will control proportionably the disposition
to defer the burthen to futurity, and create a greater necessity for
circumspection in incurring expense.

It is, probably, the true expedient for uniting a due regard
to the present accommodation of the community, with a due care
not to overburthen posterity — the full energy of public credit,
with a salutary restraint upon the abuses of it.

To this explanation of the general principles of the fifth pro-
position, it may be proper to add some brief notes on particular
parts of it.

It is proposed that the redemption of the present six per cent.

JEt. 38.] PUBLIC CREDIT. 509

stock shall commence on the 1st of January, 1796. This time
of commencement is recommended by several reasons: 1. It
ought to be such as to admit of sufficient notice to distant credit-
ors. 2. It will favor order, to date the commencement of every
new pecuniary operation, where there is an option, and no
particular reason to the contrary, with the commencement of the
natural year. 3. The moment of payment presupposes that the
annuity to be paid has actually accrued, which will not be the case
till the end of the present year. 4. The small delay, by not for-
cing the means, will facilitate the future execution.

It is a part of the plan, to make provision for reimbursing
the remaining instalments of the two million loan, had of the
Bank of the United States, pursuant to the act of incorporation.
The preceding instalments have been reimbursed out of the pro-
ceeds of foreign loans. This resource cannot, in future, be relied
upon ; and, for such a purpose, it is not as eligible as a domestic
one, though circumstances have hitherto dictated a recurrence to
it. By making the dividends on the stock auxiliary for this pur-
pose to the revenue from taxes, the object is effected with little
more than half the sum from that revenue ; and, in the end, a
fund is formed from the dividends, which, with a small addition,
suffices for the redemption of the deferred stock. As these in-
stalments are yearly falling due, and must be, as they accrue, it
is essential that a provision for them be contemplated in the ge-
neral arrangement requisite to the completion of our system of
credit. There is, perhaps, no easy alternative to what is pro-
posed, except the sale of the stock. But, waiving other weighty
considerations against such a measure, it is, in the view of a true
economy, liable to the most solid objections.

It is morally certain, that the dividends on the stock will in-
crease, and the value of the capital, from this and collateral
causes, more than proportionably. There is no momentary ur-
gency to induce the relinquishment of this future advantage.
To sell at present, would be to abandon the difference without
necessity. It cannot be expedient in a government to part with
a capital, which, at the time, produces as great or a greater
revenue, than can be realized from the proceeds of a sale, how-

510 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

ever invested ; and which has an inherent tendency to future
augmentation. The measure, too, would be to renounce, or les-
sen, a most convenient resource for forming the redeeming fund
of the deferred stock.

It is proposed to carry the proceeds of the sales of the "West-
ern lands to the sinking fund. This is to execute the intention
of the funding act, which has not organized the mode of appli-
cation ; and it has the advantage of combining, in one system,
all the provisions for extinguishing the debt.

It is proposed that all surpluses of revenue shall, at a certain
time, be carried to the use of the sinking fund. This is to ex-
tend and give effect to a principle which has already received the
legislative sanction. It was necessary to fix a time when the
appropriation of the surplus should become absolute, and that
this should be consistent with a due opportunity to provide for
the exigencies of the public service. Both these considerations
have been consulted. This measure has, besides, reference to a
more speedy redemption of the debt, than it appears prudent to
attempt by an absolute appropriation of more extensive funds.
And the legislators of to-day would be entitled to the lasting
gratitude of their country, if they would extend this auxiliary
resource, by all the means which are consistent with a due regard
to the present accommodation of their constituents.

It is proposed to authorize the commissioners of the sinking
fund to provide, by new loans, for the reimbursement of the in-
stalments which, from time to time, accrue. This is on the
ground, that it is essential to the perfection of the system of re-
demption, that all the means of ultimate execution should be orga-
nized in it, and that there should be no need of future provisions.

The last clause of the proposition excepts, from the operation
of that clause, the interest on the six per cent, stock. This is
because that interest is destined to form the accumulations for
paying the successive instalments of the principal of that stock,
which increase each year in a ratio to the interest liberated by
each payment.

The statement E exhibits the course of the sinking fund, as
proposed to be established.

jEt. 38.] PUBLIC CREDIT. 511

Remarks on the Sixth Proposition.

This will be a useful and important provision. It has refer-
ence to a circumstance repeatedly adverted to — the long credits
given upon the principal branches of revenue ; from which it
happens, that, though the fund itself, or the product of the revenue,
is more than adequate to an appropriation, yet the receipts upon
it come too slowly into the treasury, to answer the end, without
anticipation by temporary loans. Its propriety depends on the
principle suggested under the last head, of having all the means
of complete execution organized in the system of public credit.

Remarks on the Seventh Proposition.

It is a good rule of caution, that no more of the public reve-
nues should be rendered permanent, than is necessary to give
moral certainty to the provisions which may be regarded as the
pillars of public credit. This idea will, it is believed, be satis-
fied, by giving permanency to the now temporary duties on
imports. Accordingly, it is only proposed to extend the duties,
mentioned in this proposition, to the year 1800, and thence, to
the end of the next ensuing session of Congress ; which is on
the ground, that they ought to be commensurate in duration
with the objects which they are to accomplish, and no more.

It has been already noticed, that they are at present charge-
able, together with the temporary duties on imports, laid in the
last session, with an appropriation of 1,292,137 dollars and thirty-
eight cents, and with the interest of one million of dollars, au-
thorized to be borrowed with a view to foreign intercourse ;
having a special eye to an object very interesting to the com-
merce and feelings of the United States.

This business wants a further arrangement ; standing, at pre-
sent, upon a vague and inefficient footing. The reimbursement
of the loan is not adequately provided for, neither is the interest,
this being predicated on funds which, in their present form, would
probably expire after a product of two years.

According to the fifth proposition^ the temporary duties on
HAMILTON'S WORKS,

[Mt. 38.

imports, after the above-mentioned appropriation of 1,292,137
dollars and thirty-eight cents shall have been satisfied, will be-
come permanently charged with the interests on the public debt,
the sinking fund, and the annual reservation of six hundred
thousand dollars, for the support of Government.

If the duties mentioned in the sixth proposition are continued
till the first of January, 1800, and the reimbursement of the
principal of the loan, as well as the interest, is referred to them,
two good purposes will be answered : the obtaining the loan will
be facilitated, and its complete reimbursement will be effected
within the term allotted, without an augmentation of the perma-
nent debt of the country. This makes allowance for fulfilling
the appropriation for the current service already charged upon
this fund.

It is presumed to be a conclusive reason in favor of the pro-
position, that it aims at preventing an increase of permanent
debt. If services of this kind, when the United States are at
peace (at least with civilized Powers), are made causes of perma-
nent loans, the progress of new debt will easily exceed the ex-
tinction of old.

It appears desirable that there should be a steady effort, as a
rule of administration, not to increase the permanent debt of the
country by permanent loans, except when it is inevitable, by the
existence of a war with some European Power.

The comparative view of revenue and expenditure (state-
ment F) establishes, satisfactorily, that these duties cannot be
dispensed with, unless there be a sustitute, if the redemption of
the public debt is to be seriously entered upon ; and it is be-
lieved that there cannot be devised objects of revenue more
proper in themselves, nor more generally acceptable to the
people. Whatever interested parties may allege, it seems self-
evident that there can hardly be a reasonable question, except
as to the best mode of collection. The objection, that part of
them falls on manufactures, has no weight. The manufactures
on which they fall are complete luxuries and completely established;
consequently, fit objects of revenue. The increased duties on
the rival foreign articles, are a full protection to the manufacture.

jEt. 38.] PUBLIC CREDIT. 513

Whatever may be the appearances in the infancy of the tax, it is
certain, in principle, that it will finally fall on the consumer, as
generally as duties on imported commodities.

Remarks on the Eighth Proposition.

This is to terminate an embarrassment which has been expe-
rienced. Appropriations are frequently made for objects, the
extent of which is not precisely known, or in a degree casual.
To leave them indefinite, as to time, is sometimes to tie up,
unnecessarily, a portion of the public funds, which may, ulti-
mately, not be wanted at all for the purpose of the original
appropriation.

It will do away this inconvenience, and promote perspicuity
in the treasury accounts of appropriations, if an ultimate period
is fixed when each appropriation shall be deemed to have ceased.
Should further appropriations appear necessary for the same
objects, new estimates can be presented, and new appropriations
made.

The designating an account with a denomination known in
the laws, to which the surpluses are to be carried, will facilitate
future legislative dispositions of the resulting fund. It is, how-
ever, essential to the system, of public credit, that this should be
with the exceptions contained in the proposition.

Remarks on the Ninth Proposition.

This proposition is calculated to give simplicity to the public
accounts of stock and revenue, which will conduce to correctness,
dispatch, and economy. As the revenues are manifestly more
than adequate to the claims of all the creditors, they, none
of them, have any interest in the distinctions which now exist,
and which grew out of the course of the business ; and the rights
of none of them will be affected, because all who choose may
continue on their former ground, by signifying their dissent to
the present plan. It is, however, presumed, there will be no
such dissent.

514 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

Remarks on the Tenth Proposition.

It is important to the fiscal calculations, to ascertain, posi-
tively, the extent of every portion of the public debt. At pre-
sent, the amount of these several items of it is deduced from
accounts of the late war, of various officers and offices ; in some
instances, conducted with little order. There is not, therefore,
sufficient certainty ; indeed, it is probable, from the length of
time that has elapsed without their appearing, that the computed
amount exceeds the real.

Besides, they are, from their nature, subject to forgeries and
counterfeits ; which implies a danger of loss to the public, till
their circulation is finally terminated. The proposition, accord-
ingly, besides the obtaining of better information, aims at ob-
viating this danger.

Allowing sufficient time for bringing them in to be exchanged
for certificates of equivalent tenor, while it is a measure tending
to public information and security, it can be liable to no reason-
able objection on the part of the creditors.

The Secretary of the Treasury has reserved for the conclusion
of this report, a proposition with appears to him of great import-
ance to the public credit, and which, after some preliminary ob-
servations, will be offered to consideration. It relates to the
right of taxing the public funds, and to that of sequestering them
in time of war.

A proposition, on either of those points, would have been
deemed superfluous, had there never been discussions asserting
a right to do the one and the other, and even the expediency of
exercising that right. The negative of both the pretensions, from
the habit of regarding it as incapable of being disputed, had
acquired, in the mind of the Secretary, so much the force of an
axiom, as to have precluded even the mention of the subject in
the plan which he originally submitted for funding the public
debt. He should, otherwise, have thought it an indispensable
duty to suggest, as a matter of primary consequence to the
system of credit contemplated in the plan, the express renunci-
ation of those pretensions ; for they are (as he believes) not only

At. 38.] PUBLIC CREDIT. 515

unwarranted by principle or usage, but subversive of the sound
maxims of public credit. A persuasion that this would always
be a truth granted in the councils of the United States, is his
apology for the omission.

Even now he should think it useless to depart from his
silence on the point, had not the discussions alluded to, created
some alarm in places where all the circumstances are not well
understood, which it is the interest of the country to dispel.
The confidence justly to be reposed in the collective wisdom of
this Government, forbids the supposition, by one acquainted
with its constitution, that the security of the creditor can need,
in this particular, a further sanction. It is presumed to be im-
possible, that any final act can ever give so deep a wound to the
national interest and character, as to derogate from a principle
which may be placed among the most sacred in the administra-
tion of a government.

Is there a right in the Government to tax its own funds ?

The pretence of this right is deduced from the general right
of the legislative power to make all the property of the State
contributory to its exigencies.

But this right is obviously liable to be restricted by the engage-
ments of the Government; it cannot be justly exercised in contra-
vention of them ; they must form an exception. It will not be
denied, that the general right in question could, and would, be
abridged, by an express promise not to tax the funds. This
promise, indeed, has not been given in terms, but it has been
given in substance. "When an individual lends money to the
State, the State stipulates to repay him the principal lent, with a
certain interest, or to pay a certain interest, indefinitely, till the
principal is reimbursed ; or it stipulates something equivalent, in
another form. In our case, the stipulation is in the second form.

To tax the funds, is manifestly either to take, or to keep back,
a portion of the principal or interest stipulated to be paid.

To do this, on whatever pretext, is not to do tchat is expressly
promised; it is not to pay that precise principal, or that precise
interest, which has been engaged to be paid; it is, therefore, to
violate the promise given to the lender.

516 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

But, is not the stipulation to the lender, with a tacit reserva-
tion of the general right of the Legislature to raise contributions
on the property of the State ?

This cannot be supposed — because it involves two contradic-
tory things : an obligation to do, and a right not to do. An obliga-
tion to pay a certain sum, and a right to retain it in the shape of a
tax. It is against the rules, both of law and reason, to admit,
by implication, in the construction of a contract, a principle which
goes in destruction of it.

The Government, by such a construction, would be made to
say to the lender : "I want a sum of money, for a national pur-
pose, which all the citizens ought to contribute proportionably,
but it will be more convenient to them, and to me, to borrow
the money of you. If you will lend it, I promise you faith-
fully, to allow you a certain rate of interest, while I keep the
money, and to reimburse the principal within a determinate pe-
riod, except so much of the one and. the other, as I may think fit to
withhold, in the shape of a tax."

Is such a construction either natural or rational ? Does it
not, in fact, nullify the promise by the reservation of a right not
to perform it ?

Is it to be presumed, without being expressed, that such can
be the understanding of a lender, when he parts with his money
to a Government?

The contrary is so much the more presumable, that nothing
short of an express reservation can support the pretension to
tax the fund.

It may be replied, that the creditor might be willing to rely
upon the equity of the Government, not to abuse its right, by
exacting from him excessive contributions.

This, if true, does not obviate the difficulty of supposing the
coexistence of an obligation and a right, destructive the one of
the other, in interpreting the sense of a contract, when nothing
of the kind is said.

It is possible that a creditor might be willing so to contract ;
yet it is still necessary, in order to determine that he has done
it, to find some provisions or expressions in the contract, indica-

;Et. 38.] public credit. 517

ting the intention, to render what is stipulated compatible with
what is reserved. But it is not probable that an individual
would be willing to lend upon such terms. He would justly
apprehend, that, in great emergencies, a right, having no limit
but the opinion of the party possessed of the power, would be
abused, and that the convenience of laying hold of a fund al-
ready prepared and at hand, supported by a claim of right, would
be a temptation to abuse, not easy to be resisted. However well
disposed to contribute, in common with his fellow -citizens, on all
the ordinary objects of property or income, he would be unwilling
to subject himself to a special burthen, in the peculiar character
of creditor of the State. He would prefer to employ his money
in other ways ; even to lend it to private persons, where it might
be more likely to escape the hand of the fiscal power.
Let the question be tried by another analysis.
Public debt can scarcely, in legal phrase, be defined either
property in possession or in action. It is evidently not the first,
till it is reduced to possession by payment. To be the second,
would suppose a legal power to compel payment by suit. Does
such a power exist ? The true definition of public debt is a pro-
perty subsisting in the faith of the Government. Its essence is prom-
ise. Its definite value depends upon the reliance that the prom-
ise will be definitely fulfilled. Can the Government rightfully
tax its promise ? Can it put its faith under contribution ? Where
or what is the value of the debt, if such a right exist?

Suppose the Government to contract with an individual to
convey to him a hundred acres of land, upon the condition of
paying a hundred dollars. When he came to pay the hundred
dollars and demand his title, could the Government require of
him to pay fifty more as a tax upon the land, before it would
consent to give him the title ? Who would not pronounce this
to be a breach of contract — a fraud — which nothing could dis-
guise ?

This case is parallel with that under examination, with cir-
cumstances that fortify the right of the lending creditor.

The Government agrees with him, that, for one hundred dol-
lars, which he delivers to the Government, it will deliver to

518 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

him, at the end of each year, six dollars. Here the six dollars
to be delivered answer to the land to be conveyed, with this stronger
ground of right, that the consideration for them has actually
been given and received. Yet, when the creditor comes to de-
mand his six dollars, he is told that he cannot have them, except
with the reservation of one dollar as a tax upon the six, or that
he cannot have them, except upon the condition of returning
one dollar as that tax. What is this but to say, that his title to the
money in this case, as to the land in the other, must depend
upon his paying, or allowing a further consideration for it, not
contemplated in the contract ? Can there be a doubt that this,
also, would be a breach of contract — a fraud ?

The true rule of every case of property, founded on contract
with the Government, is this : It must first be reduced into pos-
session, and then it will become subject, in common with other
similar property, to the right of the Government to raise contri-
butions upon it. It may be said that the Government may ful-
fil this principal, by paying the interest with one hand, and tak-
ing back the amount of the tax with the other. But to this the
answer is, that, to comply truly with the rule, the tax must be
upon all the money of the community, not upon the particular
portion of it which is paid to the public creditors ; and it ought,
besides, to be so regulated, as not to include a lien of the tax upon
the fund. The creditor should be no otherwise acted upon,
than as every other possessor of money ; and consequently, the
money he receives from the public, can then only be a fit sub-
ject of taxation, when it is entirely separated, and thrown, undis-
tinguished, into the common mass. A different practice would
amount to an evasion of the principle contended for, and to op-
pression. A rent, or annuity, liable before it passes, or in the
act of passing, or at the moment of passing from one proprietor
to another, to a deduction, or drawback, at the pleasure of the
party from whom it is to pass, is an imaginary thing, destitute
both of shape and substance.

When a Government enters into contract with an individual,
it deposes as to the matter of the contract, its constitutional
authority, and exchanges the character of legislator for that of

JEt. 38.] PUBLIC CREDIT. 519

a moral agent, with the same rights and obligations as an
individual. Its promises may be justly considered as excepted
out of its power to legislate, unless in aid of them. It is, in
theory, impossible to reconcile the two ideas of a promise which
obliges with a power to make a law which can vary the effect of it.
This is the great principle that governs the question, and
abridges the general right of the Government to lay taxes, ex-
cepting out of it a species of property which subsists only in its
promise.

There are persons who, admitting the general rule, conceive
a distinction to exist between a tax upon the funds, which must
be paid at all events, and a tax upon alienations of them, which
will only be paid when they are transferred from one to another.
The latter they think justifiable, because it is in the option of
the creditor to avoid the tax, by avoiding the alienation. But
the difference between the two cases is only a difference in the
degree of violation.

The stock, in its creation, is made transferable. This quality
constitutes a material part of its value, and the existence of it is
a part of the contract with the Government, which has under-
taken, itself, to conduct the operation of transferring by its own
officers, and consequently at its own expense. It is as com-
pletely a breach of contract to derogate from this quality, in
diminution of the value of stock, by encumbering the transfer
with a charge or tax, as it is to take back, in the same shape, a
portion of the principal or interest. It is obvious, too, that this
may be carried so far as essentially to destroy the transferable
capacity. But what is a tax upon transfers, other than the
faculty of taking away from the actual proprietor of stock a
portion of his principal, whenever his interests or his necessities
demand a transfer, in derogation from the full enjoyment of the
right to transfer, and from the express promise of the Govern-
ment to pay to him or his alienee ? For it is upon the seller,
not upon the buyer, that such a tax will fall. And where is
the substantial difference, on the ground of contract, between
this and a direct tax upon the fund itself? The value of it is
as certainly impaired by the one as by the other.

520 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 38.

But shall the proprietor of money in the funds, then, be ex-
empt from his proportion of the burthens which other citizens
bear?

This will not be the consequence of the principle. As a con-
sumer, of which his income is the instrument, he will pay his
proportion of the taxes on consumption. As a holder of any
other species of property procured by that income, or other-
wise, which is liable to a tax, he must also contribute his pro-
portion.

But, without undue refinement, the lender of money to the
public may be affirmed to have paid his tax when he lends his
money.

Belying upon the engagement of the Government, express
or implied, that he will receive what is promised him, without
defalcation, he is content with a less interest than he would take
if subject to any such defalcation, and especially if it was to be
arbitrary as to its extent. In this lower rate of interest he
may be truly said to pay his tax, or to purchase an exemption
from it.

Here, also, we find what is decisive on the point of expedi-
ency.

If the Government had a right to tax its funds, the exercise
of that right would cost much more than it was wortli. The
money lender would exact exorbitant premiums, not omy as an
indemnification for the use which the Government might pro-
bably make of its right, and which, in practice, would be likely
to be qualified by some regard to equality of contribution, but
as an equivalent for insurance against the risk or possibility of a
more extensive use. Hence the Government would be likely to
pay much more in premiums upon its loans, than it would draw
back in taxes ; and the former being supposed but equal to
the latter, there would be no advantage in exercising tie right.

But it will be, perhaps, more safe to affirm, that there would
be no borrowing at all upon such terms. The first pre3edent of
a tax upon the funds might be expected to compel the Govern-
ment to an express renunciation of the right in every future
loan. Solid capitalists would not be much inclined to adventure

JEt. 38.] PUBLIC CREDIT. 521

their money upon so precarious a footing as is implied in a power
of taxing their credits.

These reflections lead readily to an estimate of the impres-
sions which would be produced by the example of an imposition
on the fundss Eegarded either as a positive breach of contract,
or as a deviation from the sound maxims of credit, the effect
upon it would be nearly equally fatal. Whatever might be ex-
cused to a time of revolution, to a defect of means, or to some
extraordinary peculiarity of situation, no excuse would be ad-
mitted for a deliberate departure from principles, at a time, too,
of national prosperity, in a flourishing state of the finances, after
the foundations of a regular system had been laid. The depar-
ture would argue an incorrectness, an instability, or a depravity
of views, calculated to give a lasting shock to public credit.

The United States must, henceforth, tread with the most
cautious steps.

A renunciation of the right, in future, might not speedily
heal the wound which an example of its exercise had given.
Durable suspicions might fasten on the wisdom or the integrity of
the Government, which might occasion to it no inconsiderable loss
and embarrassment, before a course of contrary experience would
obliterate them.

The right of a Government to sequester or confiscate pro-
perty, in its funds, in time of war, involves considerations ana-
logous to those which regard the right of taxing them. Whether
the foreigner be, himself, the original lender, or the proprietor
of stock, in its constitution transferable without discrimination, he
stands upon equal ground with the citizen. He has an equal
claim upon the faith of the Government.

In the second case, as the substitute of the original lender,
the promise made attaches immediately upon him. Indeed, the
certificates which issue upon every transfer, and which may be
called the public bonds, designate him as the creditor, and ex-
pressly invest him with the correspondent rights.

To sequester or confiscate the stock, is as effectually a breach
of the contract to pay, as to absorb it by a tax. It is to anni-

c 34

522 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

hilate the promise, under the sanction of which the foreigner
became a proprietor.

But, does not the general right of war, to seize and confis-
cate enemy property, extend to the property of the citizens of
one nation in the funds of another — the two nations being at
war with each other ?

Resorting to principle as the guide, this question may, on
solid grounds, be answered in the negative.

The right to seize and confiscate individual property, in na-
tional wars, excludes all those cases where the individual de-
rives his title from the enemy sovereign or nation : for the right
to property always implies the right to be protected and secured
in the enjoyment of that property; and a nation, by the very
act of permitting the citizen of a foreign country to acquire pro-
perty within its territory, whether to lands, funds, or to any
other thing, tacitly engages to give protection and security to
that property, and to allow him as full enjoyment of it as any
other proprietor — an engagement which no state of things be-
tween the two nations can justly or reasonably affect. Though
politically right, that, in wars between nations, the property of
private persons, which depend on the laws of their own country,
or on circumstances foreign to the nation ivith which their own is at
vjar, should be subject to seizure and confiscation by the enemy
nation ; yet it is both politically and morally wrong, that this
should extend to property acquired under the faith of the Gov-
ernment, and the laws of that enemy nation.

When the Government enters into a contract with the citizen
of a foreign country, it considers him as an individual in a state
of nature, and contracts with him as such. It does not contract
with him as the member of another society.

The contracts, therefore, with him, cannot be affected by his
political relations to that society. War, whatever right it may
give over his other property, can give none over that which he
derives from those contracts. The character in which they are
made with him, the faith pledged to him personally, virtually
exempt it.

This principle, which seems critically correct, would exempt

jEt. 38.] PUBLIC CREDIT. 523

as well the income as the capital of the property. It protects
the use as effectually as the thing. What, in fact, is property,
but a fiction, without the beneficial use of it ? In many cases,
indeed, the income or annuity is the property itself. And,
though general usage may control the principle, it can only be
as far as the usage clearly goes. It must not be extended by
analogy.

Some of the most approved publicists, admitting the princi-
ple, qualify it with regard to the income of lands, which they
say may be sequestered "to hinder the remittance of it to the
enemy's country."

But the same authority affirms, that a state at war " does
not so much as touch the sums which it owes to the enemy.
Every where, in case of a war, funds credited to the public, are
exempt from confiscation and seizure." These expressions clearly
exclude sequestration as well as confiscation.

The former, no less than the latter, would be inconsistent
with the declarations that a state at war does not so much as
touch the sums which it owes to the enemy, and, that funds cred-
ited to the public are exempt from seizure. And, on full in-
quiry, it is believed that the suggestion, thus understood, is
founded in fact.

Usage, then, however it may deviate in other particulars, in
respect to public funds, concurs with principle in pronouncing,
that they cannot rightfully be sequestered in time of war.

The usages of war, still savor too much of the ferocious
maxims of the times, when war was the chief occupation of man.
Enlightened reason would never have pronounced, that the per-
sons or property of foreigners, found in a country at the break-
ing out of a war between that country and their own, were liable
to any of the rigors which a state of war authorizes against the
persons and goods of an enemy. It would have decreed to
them, an inviolable sanctuary in the faith of those permissions
and those laws, by which themselves and their property had
come under the jurisdiction where they were found. It would
have rejected the treachery of converting the indulgences, and
even rights of a previous state of amity, into snares for innocent
individuals.

524 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

Happily, however, the practice of latter times has left several
of those maxims little more than points of obsolete doctrine.
They still retain their rank in theory ; but usage has introduced
so many qualifications, as nearly to destroy their operation.

This appears from the acknowledgment of writers, from the
barrenness of modern history in examples of the application of
those doctrines, from the opinions known to be generally current
in Europe, and from a variety of articles which are constant for-
mulas in treaties of the present century.

The United States are every way interested in the mitigation
of the rigor of the ancient maxims of war. They cannot better
demonstrate their wisdom, than by their moderation in this
respect. Particularly interested in maintaining, in their greatest
purity and energy, the principles of credit, they cannot too strict-
ly adhere to all the relaxations of those maxims which favor the
rights of creditors. No temporary advantage can compensate for
the evils of a different course of conduct.

Credit, public and private, is of the greatest consequence to
every country. Of this, it might be emphatically called the
invigorating principle. No well informed man can cast a retro-
spective eye over the progress of the United States, from their
infancy to the present period, without being convinced that they
owe, in a great degree, to the fostering influence of credit, their
present mature growth. This credit has been of a mixed nature,
mercantile and public, foreign and domestic. Credit abroad was
the trunk of our mercantile credit, from which issued ramifica-
tions that nourished all the parts of domestic labor and industry.
The bills of credit emitted, from time to time, by the different
local governments, which passed current as money, co-operated
with that resource. Their united force, quickening the energies
and bringing into action the capacities for improvement of a new
country, was highly instrumental in accelerating its growth.

Credit, too, animated and supported by the general zeal, had
a great share in accomplishing, without such violent expedients,
as, generating universal distress, would have endangered the issue,
that Revolution, of which we are so justly proud, and to which
we are so greatly indebted.

JEt. 38.] PUBLIC CREDIT. 525

Credit, likewise, may, no doubt, claim a principal agency in
that increase of national and individual welfare since the establish-
ment of the present Government, which is so generally felt and
acknowledged, though the true causes of it are not as generally
understood. It is the constant auxiliary of almost every public
operation ; has been an indispensable one in those measures by
which our frontiers have been defended ; and it would not be
difficult to demonstrate, that, in a recent and delicate instance,
has materially contributed to the safety of the State.

There can be no time, no state of things, in which credit is
not essential to a nation, especially as long as nations in general
continue to use it as a resource in war. It is impossible for a
country to contend, on equal terms, or to be secure, against the
enterprises of other nations, without being able equally with them
to avail itself of this important resource ; and to a young country,
with moderate pecuniary capital, and not a very various industry,
it is still more necessary than to countries more advanced in
both. A truth not less weighty for being obvious and frequently
noticed.

Public credit has been well defined to be, "a faculty to
borrow, at pleasure, considerable sums on moderate terms ; the
art of distributing, over a succession of years, the extraordinary
efforts, found indispensable in one ; a mean of accelerating the
prompt employment of all the abilities of a nation, and even of
disposing of a part of the overplus of others."

This just and ingenious definition condenses to a point the
principal arguments in favor of public credit, and displays its
immense importance.

Let any man consult the actual course of our pecuniary oper-
ations, and let him then say whether credit be not eminently use-
ful. Let him imagine the expense of a single campaign in a war
with a great European Power; and let him then pronounce
whether credit would not be indispensable. Let him decide
whether it would be practicable, at all, to raise the necessary
sum by taxes within the year, and let him judge what would be
the degree of distress and oppression, which the attempt would
occasion to the community. He cannot but conclude, that war,

526 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.tor. 38.

without credit, would be more than a great calamity — would be
ruin.

But credit is not only one of the main pillars of the public
safety ; it is among the principal engines of useful enterprise and
internal improvement. As a substitute for capital, it is little less
useful than gold or silver, in agriculture, in commerce, in the
manufacturing and mechanic arts.

The proof of this needs no labored deduction. It is matter
of daily experience in the most familiar pursuits. One man
wishes to take up and cultivate a piece of land ; he purchases
upon credit, and, in time, pays the purchase money out of the
produce of the soil improved by his labor. Another sets up in
trade ; in the credit founded upon a fair character, he seeks, and
often finds, the means of becoming, at length, a wealthy merchant.
A third commences business as manufacturer or mechanic, with
skill, but without money. It is by credit, that he is enabled to
procure the tools, the materials, and even the subsistence of
which he stands in need, until his industry has. supplied him
with capital ; and, even then, he derives, from an established
and increased credit, the means of extending his undertakings.

Among the circumstances which recommend credit, and indi-
' cate its importance in the whole system of internal exertion and
amelioration, it is impossible to pass, unnoticed, its unquestion-
able tendency to moderate the rate of interest — a circumstance
of infinite value in all the operations of labor and industry.

If the individual capital of this country has become more ad-
equate to its exigencies than formerly, it is because individuals
have found new resources in the public credit — in the funds to
which that has given value and activity. Let public credit be
prostrated, and the deficiency will be greater than before. Public
and private credit are closely allied, if not inseparable. There is,
perhaps, no example of the one being in a flourishing, where
the other was in a bad state. A shock to public credit, would,
therefore, not only take away the additional means which it has
furnished, but, by the derangements, disorders, distrusts, and
false principles, which it would engender and disseminate, would
diminish the antecedent resources of private credit.

Mt. 38.] PUBLIC CREDIT. 527

The United States possess an immense mass of improvable
matter ; the development of it, continually making, may be said
to enlarge the field of improvement as it progresses ; and, though
the active capital of the country has, no doubt, considerably in-
creased, it is probable that it does not bear, at present, a much
greater proportion to the objects of employment than it has done
at any former period. Credit, upon this hypothesis, of every
kind, is nearly as necessary to us now, as it ever was. But, at
least, it may be affirmed, with absolute certainty, that, to a coun-
try so situated, credit is peculiarly useful and important.

If the United States observe, with delicate caution, the
maxims of credit, as well towards foreigners as their own
citizens, in connection with the general principles of an upright,
stable, and systematic administration, the strong attractions
which they present to foreign capital will be likely to insure
them the command of as much as they may want, in addition to
their own, for every species of internal amelioration.

Can it be doubted, that they would derive from this, in a
course of time, advantages incomparably greater than any, how-
ever tempting, that could partially result from a disregard of
those maxims, or from the exercise of a questionable right,
which should even appear to derogate from them ?

Credit is an entire thing. Every part of it has the nicest
sympathy with every other part; wound one limb, and the
whole tree shrinks and decays.

The security of each creditor is inseparable from the security
of all creditors. The boundary between foreigner and citizen
would not be deemed a sufficient barrier against extending the
precedent of an invasion of the rights of the former to the latter.
The most judicious and cautious would be most apt to reason
thus, and would only look for stronger shades of apparent neces-
sity or expediency to govern the extension. And, in affairs of
credit, the opinion of the judicious and cautious may be expected
to prevail. Hence the Government, by sequestering the property
of foreign citizens in the public funds, at the commencement of a
war, would impair, at least, if not destroy, that credit which is
the best resource in war.

528 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

It is in vain to attempt to disparage credit, by objecting to
its abuses. What is there not liable to abuse or misuse ? The
precious metals, those great springs of labor and industry, are
also the ministers of extravagance, luxury, and corruption.
Commerce, the nurse of agriculture and manufactures, if over-
driven, leads to bankruptcy and distress. A fertile soil, the
principal source of human comfort, not unfrequently begets in-
dolence and effeminacy. Even liberty itself, degenerating into
licentiousness, produces a frightful complication of ills, and
works its own destruction.

It is wisdom, in every case, to cherish whatever is useful,
and guard against its abuse. It will be the truest policy of the
United States, to give all possible energy to public credit, by a
firm adherence to its strictest maxims ; and yet, .to avoid the ills
of an excessive employment of it, by true economy and system
in the public expenditures; by steadily cultivating peace; and
by using sincere, efficient, and persevering endeavors to diminish
present debts, prevent the accumulation of new, and secure the
discharge, within a reasonable period, of such as it may be, at any
time, matter of necessity to contract. It will be wise to cultivate
and foster private credit, by an exemplary observance of the
principles of public credit, and to guard against the misuse of the
former, by a speedy and vigorous administration of justice, and
by taking away every temptation to run in debt, founded in the
hope of evading the just claims of creditors.

As an honorable evidence of this disposition, and with a view
to quiet the alarms which have been excited, and to silence,
for ever, a question which can never be agitated without serious
inconvenience, the Secretary of the Treasury, in the last place,
respectfully submits :

That there be an express renunciation, by law, of all pre-
tension of right to tax the public funds, or to sequester, at any
time, or on any pretext, the property which foreign citizens may
hold therein.

This will be particularly essential to the success of the plan
for converting the foreign into domestic debt; as the present
contracts for the Amsterdam and Antwerp debt contain an

Mt. 38.] IMPROVEMENT OF REVENUE. 529

equivalent stipulation, and there is no prospect that the creditors
would consent to a change, but upon the condition of a like
stipulation.

In the commencement of this report, it was the intention to
submit some propositions for the improvement of the several
branches of the public revenue ; but it is deemed advisable to
reserve this part of the subject for a future communication.

All which is respectfully submitted.

Alexander Hamilton,

Secretary of the Treasury.

IMPROVEMENT OF THE REVENUE.

Communicated to the House of Representatives, Febuary 2, 1795.

Treasury Department, January 31, 1795.

The Secretary of the Treasury respectfully makes the following;
report to the House of Representatives :

According to the present laws, imposing duties on articles
imported into the United States, not much short of one-third of
the whole amount of the duties is derived from articles rated ad
valorem.

In other nations, where this branch of revenue, as with us, is
of principal or very considerable consequence, and where no
peculiarity of situation has tended to keep the rates of duty low,
experience has led to contract more and more the number of ar-
ticles rated ad valorem, and of course to extend the number of
those rated specifically, that is, according to weight, measure, or
other rule of quantity.

The reason of this is obvious. It is to guard against eva-
sions which infallibly happen, in a greater or less degree, where
duties are high. It is impossible for the merchants of any coun-
try to have manifested more probity than those of the United
States, on this subject; and it is firmly believed, that there never
was one in which illicit practices, to the disadvantage of the rev-

530 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

enue, have obtained so little as hitherto in this ; yet, it would be
a delusive expectation, that, with duties so considerable as those
which now exist, a disposition will not be experienced, in some
individuals who carry on our import trade, to evade the pay-
ment of them, and this to an extent sufficient to make it prudent
to guard with circumspection, and by every reasonable precau-
tion, against the success of such attempts. It is needless to re-
peat, that this will contribute as much to the interest of the fair
trader, as to that of the revenue.

It is believed that, in our system, the method of rating ad
valorem could, with convenience, be brought within a much nar-
rower compass ; and it is evident that, to do so, will contribute
materially to the security of the revenue.

The Secretary has not hitherto had leisure to digest the de-
tails of a plan for this purpose ; but, if the idea is approved, it
can be carried with due accuracy into effect, at a future session,
by an order upon the head of this Department to prepare, in the
mean time, a tariff proportioned to the actual rates of duty.

It may also be found expedient, with a similar view, to ad-
just anew the proportional rates of duty, of different kinds or
qualities, of certain articles. This observation is believed to ap-
ply, with particular force, to teas. It would be, in the opinion
•of the Secretary, advisable to throw them into three classes : to
raise somewhat the lowest rate, and to diminish considerably the
higher rates. A persuasion is entertained, founded partly upon
observation of the course of importations, that a regulation of
this kind would benefit the revenue. The same thing might be
conveniently extended to some other articles.

Advantages will also accrue from a re-adjustment of the
rates, in certain cases, by combining several rates on the same
articles, established by different acts, into one rate, and by dis-
missing inconvenient fractions, which serve to perplex the calcu-
lation of the duties. Some alteration in the terms of credit for
duties may, it is conceived, be made with advantage. Where
four months are allowed, three and six months may be substi-
tuted; and three, six, nine, and twelve, or even three, six, niner
twelve, and fifteen, to the cases of six, nine, and twelve months.

Mt. 38.] IMPROVEMENT OF REVENUE. 531

This will apportion the course of receipts more according to the
course of payments, and prevent inconvenient pressures at par-
ticular junctures.

The compensations to inspectors, especially in the ports
where the expense of living is great, and to collectors and sur-
veyors in the less productive ports, urgently demand revision,
in order to an increase of them.

The security of the revenue, in every branch, turns (it will
not be too strong to say) principally upon the officers of the low-
est grade. Hence, it is a policy no less mistaken than common,
to leave those officers without such compensations as will admit
of a proper selection of character, and prevent the temptation,
from indigence, to abuse the trust. It is certain that, in many
places, the present allowance to inspectors, on the most liberal
application of it, is inadequate to those important ends.

A similar reasoning will apply to those officers of the prin-
cipal grades, who, being in districts which produce little, are ill
compensated by the emoluments to which they are at present en-
titled. It cannot escape observation, that the safety of the revenue
must depend on equal fidelity and clue vigilance in all the districts ;
else it may become, in many cases, worth the while to resort to
particular districts, because there is a deficiency of the one or the
other. Besides, that it is in itself just and proper, that all who
are in the public service should receive adequate rewards for
their time, attention, and trouble.

The aggregate expense of collecting the duties on impost
and tonnage, is at present truly moderate — a circumstance
which facilitates the extension of allowances where they are
necessary. The system of the revenue cutters needs revision.
The utility of every institution depends on the competency of
the agents who are to execute it. The present compensations
to officers and men, compared with what may be obtained in
other similar ^nployment, unaided by collateral motives, creates
a degree of embarrassment which very much impairs the useful-
ness of the thing. It would have been, in the judgment of the
Secretary, a great mean of rendering it competent to its object,
if, as was early suggested by him, the officers of the customs had
had rank in the navy of the United States.

532 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

With regard to that branch of revenue which is constituted
by the duties upon spirits distilled within the United States, and
upon stills, it is believed that it would be an improvement, and
one which could be now made without inconvenience, to abolish
the option to pay by the gallon, of the spirits distilled, in the
cases where the duties are charged on the stills. This will leave
the alternative of paying by the year, or for less periods, upon
licenses, at the choice of the party ; an alternative which affords
sufficient accommodation to the difference of circumstances. The
option to pay by the gallon, of the spirits distilled, according to
an account to be rendered on the oath of the party, though ex-
pedient in the first experiment of the law, is objectionable, as a
permanent regulation, in a double view.

The additional discretionary latitude given to compensations
to the officers concerned in the collection of those duties, is re-
stricted to a term which will expire at the end of the next ses-
sion of Congress. It will be essential to extend it, or to fix the
compensations which will have been allowed. It is believed
that further experience will still be useful towards a definitive
legislative adjustment.

Embarrassments are experienced from the want of a concur-
rent authority in these officers, similar to that of the officers of
the customs, to make seizures within each other's surveys or
divisions. On the borders of such as are adjacent, the officers
are exposed to hazard in making seizures, and better opportuni-
ties are afforded of escaping detection.

The revenue to result from the act of the last session, laying
duties upon licenses to retailers of wines and distilled spirits,
may be improved, favorable to proportional equality, by chang-
ing the form.

One license, for selling one or more kinds of wines, puts the
greatest and the smallest dealer upon the same footing, and is so
far inequitable. To class wines into a few obvious and strongly
marked discriminations, and to render a license necessary for
each class, with a duty upon each license, would favor a just
distribution of the tax among great and small dealers, and
would, at the same time, benefit the revenue* The classes may

jEt. 38.] IMPROVEMENT OF REVENUE. 533

be as follows ; 1st. Madeira wine. 2d. Sherry wine. 3d. Port
wine. 4th. Other wines.

To secure the effect of the discrimination in favor of small
dealers, who may be in the practice of selling and sending out
different kinds of wines in small quantities, it may be provided
that not more than one license shall be necessary to any dealer
who never sells or sends out at one time more than three gallons.
And suitable penalties may be annexed to guard the condition
of the exemption.

Similar observations are applicable to licenses to retailers of
spirituous liquors. These may be thrown into three classes: 1st.
Spirits distilled from the grape, commonly called brandy. 2d.
Spirits distilled from the produce of the sugar cane, commonly
called rum. 3d. Other distilled spirits : and there may be a like
provision in favor of dealers who never sell or send out more
than three gallons at one time.

Distillers may be put, in this respect, as to the spirits they
distil, upon the same footing with importers ; that is, they may
be exempt from the license duty ; but it would seem proper to
annex these conditions to the exemption, that they shall not sell
and send out a less quantity, in one cask, vessel, or package, than
ten gallons ; and that they shall not deal in the selling at retail
of an}'- other spirits than those they themselves distil.

Or another rule may be adopted, for proportioning the tax
to the extent of the dealing ; which is, to add to the present rate
of the license certain supplemental rates, according to the yearly
rent or yearly value, by appraisement of the house or building in
which the retailers of wines or spirituous liquors shall carry on
the business.

This has been found, in practice, a convenient, and, upon the
whole, an equitable rule of proportion ; evidently more so than
one license with the same duty to all dealers indiscriminately.

It is a general and a wise national policy, to make these arti-
cles of wine and spirits as contributory to the revenue as can be
made; which can only be effected by subdividing the duties
upon them in the different stages of their passage to the con-
sumer. The branch under consideration might be an important

534 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

one. As it is now regulated it is feared that it may prove of in-
considerable consequence. The confining of the licenses for
selling spirituous liquors to foreign spirits, must give great
facility to evasions. And it has an unequal operation upon differ-
ent portions of the community.

It would promote the object of the act, which imposes duties
on sales at auction, to allow two and a half per centum to each
auctioneer, in lieu of the one per centum allowed by the ninth
section of that act. It is believed that the present allowance is
insufficient to defray the expeuse of clerkship incident to a com-
pliance with the requisitions of the law, which cannot be rendered
less particular or exact without prejudice to the revenue.

The tax upon snuff, according to a rate per pound, will be
liable to very great evasions, without regulations for a close in-
spection of the course of the business. Dispensing with these, it
seems advisable to modify the tax upon a different plan. The
proposition to lay it upon the mortar is as good a substitute as
has occurred. It appears, upon evidence which is credited, that
a snuff mill usually works about one half the year; that is,
one hundred and fifty -six working days in a year ; and yields,
per mortar, of the whole number of mortars contained in a mill,
an average of forty-five pounds of snuff per day. It follows, that
five hundred and sixty -one dollars and sixty-six cents per mor-
tar, per annum, is the equivalent of the present duty of eight
cents per pound. There are objections to this form of the tax;
but, as it appears to be generally desired by the manufacturers,
it seems advisable to forego them ; especially as the present plan
demands far more rigorous precautions for the effectual collection
of the duty than now exist, or than would be deemed expedient.

A similar difficulty attends the tax upon refined sugar ; but
a proper substitute for the present plan is not perceived. It will
fortify the revenue, and produce no undue inconvenience to the
manufacturer, if he be required to annex a ticket or tickets to
each loaf of sugar, specifying the weight in pounds ; and to each
cask, barrel, keg, box, or other package of refined sugar, specify-
ing the contents and weight in pounds, corresponding certificates
or tickets to accompany imported refined sugar. The kinds of

Mr. 38.] IMPROVEMENT IN REVENUE. 535

tickets to be furnished by the respective supervisors, and ac-
counted for to them. The observance of this regulation to be
secured by proper penalties.

The act which lays a duty on carriages for the conveyance of
persons, exempts from the duty carriages usually and chiefly em-
ployed in husbandry, and in carrying commodities. It is a
material defect in this act, as has been already experienced, that
it provides no summary mode for determining what carriages
are within the exempting description. Now, every disputed
case must be the subject of a suit in all the legal forms; which
is equally objectionable on the score of delay and expense. It
is not perceived, that any insurmountable difficulty lies in the
way of providing a remedy consistently with a due reference, in
the last resort, to the judiciary authority.

In revenue laws, too much is as great a fault as too little
simplicity. It leaves them unpro visional ; incapable of execu-
tion in a manner convenient either to the public or to indivi-
duals. The acts imposing duties on licenses for selling wines
and spirituous liquors at retail, and upon sales at auction, author-
ize allowances not exceeding two and a half per cent, for com-
pensation to officers, and for incidental expenses. The acts lay-
ing duties upon carriages for the conveyance of persons, and
upon snuff and refined sugar, make no provision for such com-
pensations, or other expenses of collection. It is the opinion of
the Secretary that the rate of two and a half per cent., in the two
first mentioned acts, is inadequate — that it ought to be extended
to five per cent., and that an equal provision should be made
for the expense of collection, under the two last mentioned acts.

The restrictions upon officers of the customs, and upon the
supervisors and other officers of inspection, with regard to the
public funds, appear to the Secretary unnecessary and incon-
venient : unnecessary, because those officers, having no concern
whatever with any branch of public business that respects the
management of the funds, can have no official influence upon the
policy or execution of the measures which regard them, further
than by a punctual collection of the revenues ; inconvenient,
because it deprives them of a mean of investing any little sums

536 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

they may save or acquire, in a mode very convenient to men
who, from situation, are less liable to avail themselves of other
opportunities. If the being stockholders can have any influence
upon them as officers, it must be of a kind favorable to the public
service, by increasing their personal interest in the exact collec-
tion of the revenue. If the idea which dictated the restrictions was,
that they might use the public money in speculations in stock, the
answer is, that this is not in their power, from the rapidity with
which it is transferred to the treasury ; and if it were practicable
for them to divert the public money, and a disposition to do it
should, in any case, exist, it might operate through other chan-
nels. In lieu of the restrictions concerning the funds, the em-
ployment of public money for private purposes, may, if thought
necessary, be still further guarded against by penalties. Those
restrictions in reference to the immediate officers of the Treasury
Department, and the Commissioners of Loans, are entirely pro-
per, and ought to be maintained ; but it is believed, that it is
not only useless, but injurious, to give them greater extension.
The multiplication of restrictions on the public officers will ren-
der greater compensations necessary, and be a source of expense
to the public.

All which is respectfully submitted,

Alexander Hamilton,

Secretary of the Treasury.

Note. Since the conclusion of this report, the Secretary has learnt that a bill
(the progress of which his peculiar situation had prevented his observing-) has
actually passed the two Houses, for changing the terms of six, nine, and twelve
months, into eight, ten, and twelve. This bill, besides interfering disadvantage-
ous^ with arrangements of the treasury, founded upon the existing provisions of
the laws, will, it is apprehended, tend to increase an inconvenience which the above
suggestions were meant to lessen— the too great concentration of mercantile pay-
ments. Any accidental derangement of the mercantile body, from overtrading, or
other cause, would, in this situation, endanger consequences to the treasury, which
it might be difficult to meet by other expedients ; whereas, a subdivision into
shorter and more numerous periods, by diminishing the effect, would admit, in
such cases, of an easy substitute. The merchants themselves are particularly in-
terested in this question; for the re-action upon them, of any embarrassment of
the treasury, might render that a general and lasting mischief, which might other-
wise have been only a partial and transient disorder.

jEt. 32.] REVENUE CIRCULARS. 537

CIRCULAR

Treasury Department, September 22d, 1789.

Sir:

In consequence of arrangements lately taken with the Bank
of North America, and the Bank of New-York, for the accom-
modation of the Government, I am to inform you, that it is my
desire that the notes of those banks, payable either on demand
or at no longer period than thirty days after their respective
dates, should be received in payment of the duties as equivalent
to gold and silver, and that they will be received from you as
such by the Treasurer of the United States.

This measure, besides the immediate accommodation to which
it has reference, will facilitate remittances from the several States
without drawing away their specie ; an advantage in every view
important.

I shall cause you shortly to be furnished with such indications
of the genuine notes, as will serve to guard you against counter-
feits, and shall direct the manner of remitting them. In the
mean time, and until further orders, you will please to receive
them, transmitting to me a weekly account of your receipts and
payments.

The Treasurer of the United States will probably have occa-
sion to draw upon you for part of the compensation for Members
of Congress from your State. These drafts you will also receive,
in payment of the duties, or in exchange for any specie arising
from them which shall have come to your hands.

I am, Sir, your obedient servant,

Alexander Hamilton,

Secretary of the Treasury.
Otho H. Williams, Esq.

Collector of the Customs,

for Baltimore, Maryland.

c 35

538 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 32.

Treasury Department, New- York, Oct. 2d. 1789.

Sir:

As in the first establishment of revenue systems imperfections
and inconveniences will naturally present themselves in practice
which could not have been foreseen in their formation ; it is of
the greatest moment that the best information should be collect-
ed for the use of the Government, as to the operation of those
which may have been adopted.

To the obtaining of this information, as it respects the plan
for the imposition and collection of the duties, the situation of
the Collectors and Naval Officers of the several ports is in
a peculiar manner favorable, and no arguments need be used to
show that it is equally their duty and their interest to make the
best use of their opportunities for that purpose.

Not doubting that their inclination will coincide with both,
I am to request that they will carefully note, and from time to
time communicate to me, whatever may serve to discover the
merits or defects of that plan, and to point out the means of
improving it.

The complaints of the merchants will not always be infalli-
ble indications of defects, yet they will always merit attention,
and when they occur I shall be glad to be informed of them.
You will, doubtless, have observed that it has been in the con-
templation of Congress to employ boats for the security of the
revenue against contraband. I shall be glad to have your ideas
as to the expediency of employing them in your quarter, and (if
any appear to you necessary) of the number and kind you deem
requisite ; their equipment, and the probable expense. Should
any have been in use under the State regulations, I desire they
may be continued, and that I may be advised with accuracy of
the nature of their establishment.

It has been very much apprehended that the number in
several of the States would conduce to great evasions of the
duties. It is my wish to be informed how far experience has
justified the apprehension ; and what can be done to correct the
mischiefs which may have ensued, avoiding as much as possible

jEt. 32.] REVENUE CIRCULARS. 539

the inconvenience which the multiplication of ports was designed
to obviate.

In limiting these particulars it is not my aim to confine your
attention to them only ; it will give me pleasure to find that your
observations have been as diffusive as the object is extensive.

The whole of the forms for keeping and rendering your
accounts not being yet completed, it is not in my power to
furnish you with them at present ; I, however, transmit you the
most material form,' which is a quarterly abstract of duties aris-
ing on merchandise imported.

The same form with an alteration as to time will answer for
a return of duties arising monthly, and which you will forward
to this office at the end of every month.

In mine of the 22d of September, I directed you to render
me a weekly account of your receipts and payments. I now
inclose you a form for rendering this account, which, I trust,
will be punctually complied with.
I am, Sir, your obedient servant,

Alexander Hamilton,

Secretary of the Treasury.
Otho H. Williams, Esq.,
Baltimore.

P. S. — In addition to the papers mentioned in this letter, you
will find inclosed a quarterly abstract of duties arising on the
tonnage of vessels. A similar return you will be pleased to
transmit monthly.

Treasury Department, October 10, 1789.

Sir:

I observe that, by the 24th section of the act for registering
and clearing vessels, &c, it is provided that vessels bound to
foreign ports should deliver manifests of their cargoes to the
collectors of the ports from which they are to sail.

The object of this provision doubtless was to obtain a know-
ledge of the exports of the country, to carry which into effect, I

540 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 32.

am to desire that a regular account may be kept of the articles
exported, and quarter-yearly returns be made to this office.

To render these returns uniform, I shall shortly transmit a
model. The first I shall expect to receive will be to be made up
to the last of December, which I shall be glad to have as speedily
as possible — after that time, to be ready for the inspection of
Congress when they meet.

Inclosed you will receive an act for suspending part of the
act for regulating the collection of the duties, tonnage, &c, &c.

I am, Sir, your obedient servant,

Alexander Hamilton.

Treasury Department, October 14, 1789.

Sir:

Inclosed I send you, agreeable to an intimation in a former
letter, the signatures of the president and cashier of the banks of
North America and New- York, together with a general descrip-
tion of those notes, which will enable you to guard against impo-
sitions and counterfeits.

When the notes are payable to any particular person, and not
to bearer, you will take care that there is an indorsement of
that person, and if you should not know his handwriting, you
will require an indorsement by the person who presents the note
in payment.

The mode in which the bank notes are to be transmitted is
this : each note is to be divided into two equal parts, from top to
bottom — one part containing the name of the president and sum ;
the other, the name of the cashier and sum. Your own name,
in your own handwriting, is to be written on the back of each
half, together with the number and sum of the note. In case of
the notes payable to particular persons, and not to bearer, you
will previously fill up the indorsement to Samuel Meredith,
Treasurer. Having used these precautions, you will remit all the
notes in hand weekly, by the post, to Samuel Meredith ; that is
to say, one-half of each note by one post, and the other half by

jEt. 32.] REVENUE CIRCULARS. 541

the next, accompanied in both cases with a list of the notes,
which list shall specify of what bank they are, the number, the
dates, the sums, and periods of payment ; that is, whether on
demand, or so much after date.

For your own security, in case of accident, you will take a
receipt from the postmaster, on a copy of the list which you
retain, and which will be your voucher, purporting the delivery
of a letter addressed to Samuel Meredith, containing the moieties
of the notes specified in the list, amounting to such a sum, which
sum must be written at large.

Should any postmaster refuse such a receipt (which, however,
I do not expect will happen), till the matter can be otherwise
regulated, you will get one of your clerks, or some other indiffer-
ent person of fair reputation, to witness the delivery of your
letter, with the notes, to the post-office, which person must be
acquainted with the contents, and the particulars, so as to be
able afterwards to verify on oath, that such specific notes were
sent ; and, instead of the receipt of the postmaster, must give a
certificate, on the copy of the list you retain, of like import of the
receipt proposed to be given by the postmaster.

In mine of the 22d of September, I directed you to receive, in
payment of the duties, the notes of the banks of North America
and New- York. I now add, that you are to exchange any specie,
which may at any time be in your hands, for them, with this re-
striction, that you shall not exchange any of the specie which, in
your weekly return of receipts and payments, you state to be in
hand, but only the specie you may receive between one return
and another. The reason for this restriction will better explain
to you my meaning. I propose that the treasurer shall draw
orders on you, from time to time, for the specie, which you shall
return as remaining in your hands. Of course, it is necessary, to
prevent disappointment to the holders of the orders, that you
should retain that sum in specie, to answer them, as bank notes
might not, in every case, be equally suitable. But the sums you
receive in specie, between one return and another, may be safely
exchanged for bank notes, as the balance only will appear in
your returns, and will be drawn for.

542 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 32.

The bank notes specified in your weekly returns must be for-
warded weekly by the same post which brings the return, with-
out waiting any special order, directed to the Treasurer of the
United States ; and this package, so directed, must be inclosed
in another, addressed to me as Secretary of the Treasury. Be-
sides the descriptive return, which you are to transmit to the
Treasurer, you will at the same time inclose a copy of it directed
to myself.

I am, Sir, your obedient servant,
Alexander Hamilton,

Secretary of the Treasury.
Otho H. Williams, Esq.

Treasury Department, Oct. 20, 1789.

Sir:

As some difficulty may be experienced in furnishing the
weekly returns as far as it respects the bonded duties with pre-
cision, I think it necessary to say, by way of explanation, that I
only expect accuracy in what relates to cash, and that in regard
to the bonded duties, I shall be content with estimated sumsT
merely to convey a general idea of the product of the duties.
You must, however, understand that it is my intention, even in
cases where no cash has been received or bonds taken, a weekly
return should be transmitted, specifying the above circumstances.

There are three other points before I conclude to which I must
turn your attention. The first respects the forms of manifests.
From some which have been lately produced at this office, I
observe that, for want of attention in filling them up, it would be
no difficult matter for the master of a vessel to insert articles
not known to the Collector of the port where she cleared after
the manifest was sworn to before him. In order to guard against
such attempts, you will be pleased to attend to the following
points in filling up these manifests.

1st. The quantities of the articles included in the manifest
must be expressed in letters, not in figures.

jEt. 32.] REVENUE CIRCULARS. 543

2d. Each article composing the same must be classed and
numbered distinctly ; that is to say, supposing the articles were
ten hogsheads of tobacco, twenty barrels of flour, and six tierces
of rice — they must be so expressed :

No. 1. — Ten hhds. tobacco.
" 2.— Twenty bbls. flour.
" 3.' — Six tierces rice.

And for the greater security, you must, in the certificate
annexed to the manifest, specify, in letters, the number of articles
contained therein, which, in the instance above stated, would be
three articles.

The second relates to the duties on tonnage. A doubt has
been expressed by some Collectors whether vessels are liable to
pay tonnage at each entry. On this point the opinion of counsel
has been taken, in conformity to which, it is my duty to inform
you that the tonnage duty must be paid in all cases where it is
necessary for a vessel to make an entry, unless such cases are
otherwise specially provided for by law.

The third is, whether duties on articles of the manufacture of
America, exported to foreign parts for the purpose of sale and
again imported for want of a market, or any other cause, are
liable to the same duties as foreign goods of the same kind.
Notwithstanding this case has not probably been in the contem-
plation of Congress, and may bear hard in some instances on
individuals, the Act does not admit of an exemption of the
duties, and of course, till legislative relief can be obtained, the
officers of the customs must govern themselves accordingly.

I am, Sir, &c,

A. Hamilton.

Treasury Department. Nov. 30, 1789.

Sir:

Having been applied to by the Collectors of several ports for
my opinion on various points which are of general concern, and

544 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 32.

in respect to which it is important that the same rules should
be everywhere observed, I have concluded to make my answers
to their inquiries the subject of a circular letter.

Some of those inquiries relate to the allowance to which the
officers of the customs are entitled for services performed in pur-
suance of the twenty-second, twenty-fifth, twenty-sixth, twenty-
seventh, and twenty-eighth sections of the Act for registering
and clearing vessels.

As the proper construction of these clauses is of importance
to the interest and safety of the officers, that consideration was
an additional motive for care in the investigation, and thinking
it expedient in a case of mere construction to assist my own
judgment by the advice of professional men, I stated the ques-
tion which had been submitted to me to two gentlemen of the
law in this city, eminent for their ability, and I herewith transmit
a copy of the opinion they have given.

The truth of that opinion, as it respects the four last of the
enumerated sections, must depend on the meaning of that clause
of the thirty-first section of the same Act, which allows for every
entry of inward cargo directed to be made in conformity to that
act, and for receiving of, and qualifying to, every manifest of
vessels licensed to trade as aforesaid, sixty cents. The entry of
an inward cargo, and the receiving and qualifying to manifests,
being coupled together by the word " and" appear to be parts
of one service, for which sixty cents are allowed : of course
where there is no entry of inward cargo, one part of the service
is wanting, and therefore the allowance cannot apply.

Viewing that point in this light, it is only necessary for me to
add that my own judgment, upon full reflection, corresponds in
every particular with the opinion given to me, though I perceive
that the consequence will be in some instances an unequal appor-
tionment of reward to service.

But it appears to me an important principle of public policy
that allowances to officers should not be extended by implica-
tion or inference, as discretion on that head must, from the
nature of the thing, be liable to great abuses.

As far as the construction now given may tend to a disparity

Mr. 32.] REVENUE CIRCULARS. 545

between the service and the compensation, I shall esteem it my
duty at a proper moment to propose to the legislature an alter-
ation in the provisions. In the mean time, that consequence
must of necessity be disregarded.

I am, &c.

Treasury Department, 18th December, 1789.

Sir:

As one of the periods for the payment of bonds taken for
duties is arrived, it is proper that the respective Collectors should
be apprised of my expectation with regard to the conduct to be
observed by them. It is, that if the bonds are not paid as they
fall due, they be immediately put in suit. On this point, the
most exact punctuality will be considered as indispensable. And
accordingly it will be expected, that every bond which shall
appear in a monthly return after the period at which it was
payable, be accompanied with a note at foot of the return, signi-
fying that it, is in suit, and expressing the time of the commence-
ment of the suit. I am not unaware, that the relaxations in this
respect, which obtained in many instances under the State laws,
may give an air of rigor to this instruction ; but I consider its
strict observance as essential not only to the order of the finances,
but even to the propriety of the indulgence which the law
allows of procrastinated terms of payment of the duties — and
hence I regard this strictness as eventually most convenient to
individuals, as well as necessary to the public.

I am, Sir, your obedient servant,
Alexander Hamilton,

Secretary of the Treasury.

Treasury Department, December 23, 1789.

Sir:

My opinion having been several times asked on the following
points, I think it proper, in order to produce uniformity of prac-
tice, to convey it in a circular instruction.

546 HAMILTON'S WORKS. \JEt. 32

First, whether the tonnage of foreign vessels ought to be
taken from their registers, or ascertained by admeasurement,
according to the principles of the third section of the act for
registering.

I am of opinion that the latter ought to "be the case, not only
because it is agreeable to the letter of that section, but because
it cannot be presumed that the Legislature intend to favor
foreign vessels in this respect, which would be the case if the
tonnage expressed in their registers should govern, as the mode
of admeasurement prescribed by our laws makes the tonnage
greater than that which prevails in other countries.

Secondly, whether a vessel not licensed as a coaster or for the
fishing trade, going from one district to another, shall enter and
pay tonnage at the last, and at what rate. I am of opinion, that
there must be an entry in each district — and that the entry will
draw with it the payment of tonnage in each. But the rate will
depend on the circumstances. If there be nothing to constitute
a trading between the districts, within the meaning of the last clause
of the 23d section of the Coasting Act, the rate of tonnage in
each district will be the same, and will be determined by the
particular description of the Tonnage Act, under which the
vessel may fall.

But if there be such a trading between the districts, the rate
of tonnage will be fifty cents.

The question then is, What is to be deemed a trading between
the districts? "Without attempting a precise definition of the
thing, I will state as a guide some cases which, in my opinion, are
or are not so.

First, if a vessel arriving from abroad at one district with a
cargo, proceeds with the whole or a part of that identical cargo to
any other district. I do not conceive this to be a trading between
the districts.

Secondly, if a vessel bound to a foreign port takes in a part
of her outward cargo at one district, and proceeds to another to
take in a part of her outward cargo, this also, in my opinion, is not
a trading between the districts.

JEt. 33.] REVENUE CIRCULARS. 547

But, thirdly, if in any case a vessel not licensed aforesaid;
take in a, freight at one district to be delivered at another, this is to
be deemed a trading between the districts, and subjects her to
the rate of foreign tonnage.

I am, Sir, your obedient servant,

Alexander Hamilton.

Treasury Department, March 30, 1790.

Sir:

Having observed that the several Collectors have hitherto
differed in the mode of transmitting to this office the drafts of
the Treasurer of the United States, which have been drawn on
them and paid; I now desire that those drafts, with a receipt
endorsed on them, may be transmitted as soon as they are paid
to my office, when they shall be covered by a regular warrant, and
your account credited at the Treasury.

In addition to the receipt on the bill, you may, for your own
security, take a separate receipt from the holder, which you will
retain; and as a further precaution, it may be well, when you
forward those drafts, to do it under the eye of some disinterested
person, who, in case they should miscarry, can give evidence of
their having been sent on.

I am, Sir, your obedient servant,

Alexander Hamilton.

Treasury Department, May 17, 1790.

Sir:

It appears probable that the public interests would be pro-
moted by my receiving the earliest information, when breaches
of the Ee venue Laws take place. I therefore request that when-
ever a seizure shall be made within the sphere of your duty, you
will transmit me, by the first opportunity, an account of the

548 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 34.

transaction, containing such particulars as will enable me fully to
understand the case.

I am, Sir, your obedient servant,

Alexander Hamilton.
Addressed

Sharp Delany, Esq.,

Collector, &c, Philadelphia.

[private.]

Philadelphia, April 23, 1791.

Dear Sir :

Your letters of the 7th of December and 19th of January
have come duly to hand.

What you mention concerning manifests and certificates of
drawback certainly merits consideration. When the collection
law originated, Consuls were not yet appointed. You will
oblige me by freely intimating whatever occurs to you, for the
benefit of our trade and revenue law ; whether arising from
your observations on the practice of other countries, or from your
own reflections.

I am, Sir, &c,

Alexander Hamilton,

Secretary of the Treasury.

Treasury Department, May 12th, 1791.

Sir:

I am instructed by the Secretary of the Treasury to transmit
you the inclosed form of a return of outward tonnage, which he
desires to have made up at each Custom House in the United
States, for the year preceding the first day of the last month,
that is, from the first of April, 1790, to the thirty-first of March,
1791, inclusively of both days. The documents already furnish-
ed by the Collectors have enabled the clerks to make out with
accuracy a similar return of the inward tonnage, but it is found

jEt. 34.] REVENUE CIRCULARS. 549

necessary also to be minutely informed of the destination of the
vessels which load in our ports.

You will perceive that the column on the left hand contains
the names or descriptions of places which it is deemed necessary
to attend to. It is not thought material, for example, to show in
this document the vessels which have arrived from Amsterdam,
separately from those from Rotterdam. The head of the " United
Nertherlands " comprises both. Against each country, island, &c,
in that left hand column, is to be placed the tonnage of each na-
tion, American or foreign, which has been cleared out therefor ;
for which a separate column is provided in the form. At the
end of the line, the sum total of the tonnage from the island,
place, or kingdom, under the several flags is to be inserted.

The identical paper now transmitted is to- be returned
completed, as it is wished that the kind of information it will
contain will be concentred, and you will perceive that accident
might subject it to purposes unfavorable to the interests of the
United States. You will be pleased carefully to preserve the
rough preparatory papers till you are informed of the receipt of
the completed return by the Secretary of the Treasury, when
those rough drafts are to be destroyed.
I am, Sir, very respectfully,

Your most obedient servant,

Tench Coxe,

Assistant Secretary.

To Otho H. Williams,

Collector of Baltimore.

Treasury Department, May 13, 1791.

Sir:

I find instances that have occurred in some of the Custom
Houses of receiving the duties on goods by estimates formed
upon the invoices, or the statement of the masters and owners of
vessels; and by other means than actual gauging, weighing,
measuring, &c. This, it is manifest, is not conformable to
law, and may lead to practices very injurious to the Ee venue.

550 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 34.

Neither is it necessary to the accommodation of the merchant,
who by the last Collection Act is at liberty to carry his goods
from one district to another, paying the duties in the districts for
which they are destined upon the goods only that are landed in
each. I have, therefore, to desire that the duties on goods may
in no instance be ascertained, but on the actual landing thereof,
and by no means but by the measuring, weighing, gauging, in all
cases wherein those operations are required by law. If vessels
bound to other places put into your district, the mere securing
thereof the duties to be paid in the district for which the goods
are destined, is to be done by estimation in the manner prescrib-
ed by law, but no estimation is to be accepted when the duties
are to be paid to you.

A question has also been stated for my determination, whether
the inspector put on board a vessel in one district to go to an-
other, is to superintend the landing of the goods in the last dis-
trict. I am of opinion that he is not, and that his authority on
board the vessel terminates the moment she reports herself in
the last district.

I am, Sir, &c,

Alexander Hamilton.

Treasury Department, July 8, 1791.

Sir:

I have already written to you in regard to the disbursements
of the Eevenue Cutter on your station, except the pay of the
officers and men, and have now to request that you will duly
attend to that business also, so as to have in your hands the
entire agency. A form will be transmitted to you, in which you
will make your quarterly returns at the same periods, though
distinctly, as in the Custom House Departments. And in the
mean time, as some arrears of pay are due you, you will dis-
charge the demands of the officers from the dates of their com-
missions, and of the seamen, from the time when they were
shipped, taking sufficient vouchers for your payments.

I am, Sir, etc.,

A. Hamilton.

Mr. 34.] REVENUE CIRCULARS. 551

Treasury Department, Aug. 5, 1791.

Sir:

It has been stated to me, that in some districts a practice
has obtained of measuring vessels of the United States previously
measured, and of charging for such admeasurement. This,
though perhaps within the letter of the law, does not appear to
be within what may be reasonably supposed to be its true intent,
and is of a complexion to excite dissatisfaction. It is with
difficulty presumable, that the Legislature could have intended
to withhold credit from the acts and certificates of its own offi-
cers, so as to render an admeasurement in each district into
which a vessel might happen to come necessary, and to subject
the merchant to repetition of the expense incident to that idea.
The case of foreign vessels is different, because the documents
they can produce are the acts of officers of another government.
This practice, therefore, wherever it may have obtained, is to be
forborne, though, if any reasons shall be offered in support of it,
they shall be duly considered.

It will be satisfactory to receive a copy of the table of fees,
at each Custom House, which is directed to be set up by the
54th section of the Collection Law. Uniformity in practice as to
the article of fees is particularly desirable. The want of it has
already been a source of complaint, and is of a nature to pro-
duce both discontent and censure.

I am, Sir,

A. Hamilton.

Treasury Department, September 21, 1791.

Sir:

It being necessary to ascertain correctly the state of the
public moneys in the several Custom Houses, I inclose you a
form of a return of bonds which may not be paid with punc-
tuality, which it is my desire that you regularly transmit at foot
of every monthly return of bonds, though there should be none
unpaid, noting in the proper column that the fact is so.

Those parts which are printed in italic characters are pro-

552 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [At. 34.

posed to be varied as the dates, parties, names, sums, &c, shall,
in the future course of business, require. In order to show the
state of things at the time of commencing the transmission of
these returns, it will be proper, that the first monthly schedule
of bonds, which you shall send forward, after the receipt of this
letter, shall be accompanied with a general return of bonds un-
paid (if any such there be), from the opening of the Custom
House, in your district, to the time of making up the return.

It will be proper, in future, that all draughts of the Trea-
surer upon you have a hole cut or punched through his signa-
ture, about one-half of an inch in diameter, prior to your trans-
mitting them to this office.

The following regulation is proposed hereafter, with respect
to cancelled certificates of registry and enrolment. When a
master or owner of a vessel, or any person in their behalf shall
deliver a certificate of registry or enrolment to any Collector
from whose district the same shall not have been issued, the said
certificate of enrolment is, before filing, to be punched or cut
through, in the place of the signature of the Secretary of the
Treasury or Collector, with a hole of not less than half an inch
diameter. After which, the said certificate is to be transmitted
by the first post to this office, where the margin containing the
subscription and seal of the Custom House officers will be cut off
and transmitted with the requisite memorandums for cancelling
the bond, and may be filed in your office.

In regard to the admeasurement of vessels, I think it neces-
sary to give the following instructions :

1st. All foreign vessels are to be admeasured whenever they
shall arrive in your district, under circumstances which occasion
the tonnage duty to accrue upon them ; and 2d, all vessels of the
United States are to be admeasured anew upon every change of
property, or upon their introduction as vessels belonging to your
district from some other district, in which they were before
owned ; or in other words, whenever it is necessary to grant a
new register.

I am, Sir, your obedient servant,
Alexander Hamilton,

Secretary of the Treasury.

JEa. 35.] REVENUE CIRCULARS. 553

P. S. It is much wished that the returns of duties on tonnage,
and goods imported for the quarter ending the last of September,
may be forwarded with all possible dispatch, in order to prepare
for Congress, early in the session, a general return of the year
preceding.

Treasury Department, February 2, 1792.

Sir:

In a former letter you were constituted the agent for the cut-
ter destined for the station of New- York. I have now to inform
you that authority of directing its movements is henceforward ,
committed to you, subject to the instructions which shall be
transmitted from this Department.

I shall communicate this arrangement to the captain of the
cutter on the New-York station.

I am, Sir, &c,

Alexander Hamilton.

Treasury Department, February 6, 1792.

Sir:

It is my wish that you transmit to this office a return of l In-
public property, exclusive of cash and bonds, in the hands of all
the officers of the customs in your district ; that is to say, the
scales, weights, boats, &c, which may be in the hands or charge
of any officer of the customs, from the collector to the inspector
or inspectors. This return it will be fit that you also transmit
with your quarterly accounts, on the 31st of December next, and
so for each succeeding year.

Should the register of the brig Lydia, of Washington, North
Carolina, appear at your office, it is to be detained, proof being
before me that the brig has been sold. The certificate is No. 4
of 22d April, 1790, James Ehodes, owner and master, and states
the vessel to be of 98|- tons, square-sterned, and without a head.
The brig being now in the port of Philadelphia, this instruction

c 36

554 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 35.

is not extended to the vessel, but is confined to the certificate of
registry.

It is my desire, whenever any person's bond for duties shall
be put in suit by you, that you will transmit information to the
collectors of the several ports within the State in which you
reside, in order that further credit may be refused, according to
law, during the default ; and should it be common for the im-
porters in your district to use other adjacent ports, or should you
know that such defaulter uses any such ports to make his im-
portations, you will give notice in such places also. When the
bonds shall be discharged, information thereof should be given
at such of the custom-houses as may have been notified of the
default.

Ample time having been given to the commanders of vessels
trading to foreign ports, it is my desire that the 9th section of
the collection law may hereafter be enforced.

I am, Sir,
Your most obedient servant,

A. Hamilton.
Otho H. Williams, Esq.

Treasury Department, February 21, 1792.

Sir:

In pursuance of arrangements with the Bank of the United
States, I have to desire that after the expiration of a month from
the time of the receipt of this letter, you will discontinue the
execution of my former instructions concerning the receipt and
exchange for specie, of the cash notes and post notes of the banks
of North America and New- York.

The regularity of the service requires that none of the officers
of the cutters should be absent from them at any time without a,
written leave of furlough, which you will take an opportunity tc
communicate to them. The propriety or necessity of these ;tb
sences you will judge of.

It is wished by the treasurer that the drafts paid at tht

At. 35.] REVENUE CIRCULARS. 555

custom-houses may be transmitted, as soon as possible after their
discharge, to the treasury.

It will be best, therefore, that the drafts mentioned in your
weekly returns of cash paid and received, should always be
inclosed in them.

I am, Sir, &c,

A. Hamilton,
Secretary of the Treasury.

Treasury Department, May 10, 1792.

Sir:

It is my wish that, in your official correspondence with the
Secretary of the Treasury, you will henceforth make it a rule to
designate your office, and the place where it is kept, upon the
outside of your letters.

When weekly returns are transmitted which require no par-
ticular remark, it will be agreeable to me, and save trouble to you,
if they be simply put under blank covers and directed in the form
of a letter.

I inclose you a form of an account of bonds remaining un-
cancelled, taken in your district, for the securing the bonding of
duties, in some other district, upon goods reported at your office,
to bo intended to be landed in some other district. This return
you will make, in the first instance, on the receipt of the form,
and afterwards, with your quarterly accounts, from time to time.

It is my desire that application be made by letter to the ob-
ligors who may reside in your district, in all cases wherein
bonds heretofore executed now remain uncancelled, if dated
th roe months since; and that all such as now arc, or shall be
uncancelled, at the end of four months from their date, be put
in suit.

I am, Sir,

A. Hamilton.

556 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 35.

Treasury Department, June 8, 1792.

Sm:

The 66th, 67th, and 68th sections of the Collection Law make
I it» 'visions respecting the prosecution, receipt, appropriation, and
distribution of and for fines, penalties, and forfeitures, under that
act. The provision is less precise and clear than could be
wished, and may require Legislative revision. In the mean time,
it is indispensable that some arrangement should be made and
observed, consulting such indications as are to be found in the
law, and pursuing the most convenient and orderly course.

The 66th section appears to contemplate the Collector as the
person who is to direct in the first instance, prosecutions for fines,
penalties, and forfeitures, and who is to receive, distribute, and
pay their proceeds. This seems to be a leading idea, and one
which will most conveniently guide the arrangement.

As an incident of the duty of prosecuting, the paying of all
expenses incurred will belong to the Collectors ; these expenses,
being truly charges on the collection of the revenue, will be
properly paid out of the product of the duties, when they cannot
be defrayed by the issue of the prosecutions.

As the Collector is to cause suits to be instituted, and from
official situation must know the circumstances of each case, he
can also best adjust the expenses — the taxation of the proper
officers of Courts will guide as to the ordinary Court charges.
A separate account must be stated of the charges attending each
suit, and of the proceeds, that is, the value recovered, if any,
and of the distribution. A form will be transmitted by the
Comptroller.

The proceeds of forfeited vessels and goods, and the sums
recovered as for pecuniary fines and penalties, will naturally
come in the first instance into the hands of the Marshals. These
they will pay over to the respective Collectors, who will pay the
charges and distribute the net remainder.

When judgment is rendered against the public, or when,
though in favor of the public, and nothing is or can be recovered,
the plaintiff's costs and charges must be defrayed by the Collector
out of the product of the duties.

JEt. 35.] REVENUE CIRCULARS. 557

When judgment is rendered in favor of the public, and
something is both recovered and received, it is to be applied in
the first instance towards the payment of expenses. If not
sufficient, the moiety of the net surplus is to be accounted for to
the public by the Collector, as a specific fund, subject to special
appropriation, and the other moiety is to be distributed among
the parties entitled, as the law directs.

The same arrangement is to be observed with regard to

penalties an4 forfeitures under the Eegistering and Coasting

Act.

I am, with much consideration,

Sir, your most obedient servant,

Alexander Hamilton.

Treasury Department, July 20th, 1792

Sir:

It is with great satisfaction I have it in my power to acknow-
ledge the zeal and good disposition, with which the officers of the
customs generally have executed the instructions which have
from time to time proceeded from the Treasury Department. I
am happy to be able to say, that the instances of exception are
few, and I ascribe such as have happened, rather to an inaccurate
view of the subject, than to improper intention.

But as a few instances exist of deliberate deviations from
instructions, and as explanations in one or two cases disclose
opinions which in practice would be subversive of uniformity in
the execution of the laws, it becomes advisable to state the ideas
which are entertained at the Treasury respecting the nature
of the power of the head of the Department, " to superintend
the collection of the revenue," and the obligation incident to
it on the part of the officers immediately charged with that
collection.

This will be done, to obviate, as far as possible, misconcep-
tions, which may not only disturb the course of public business,
but may lead to disagreeable discussions, and even perhaps to
painful altercations.

558 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 35.

It is my earnest "wish to cultivate harmonious and cordial
co-operation; and it is essential to this, that correct opinions
should be mutually entertained. If those I shall express are
liable to objections, I shall be glad they may be freely made, and
I promise maturely and candidly to consider the force of them.

The Act constituting the Treasury Department, expressly
makes it the duty of the head of the Department, " to super-
intend the collection of the revenue."

The power of vij><-fintcndiitrj the collection of the revenue, as
incident to the duty of doing it, comprises, in my opinion, among
a variety of particulars not necessary to be specified, the right
of settling, for the government of the officers employed in the
collection of the several branches of the revenue, the construction
of the laws relating to the revenue, in all cases of doubt.

This right is fairly implied in the force of the terms " to
superintend," and is essential to uniformity and system in the
execution of the laws.

It is evident that, without it, the most incongruous practices
upon the same laws might obtain in different districts of the
! iiitcd States, according to the different portions of intelligence
and attention of different officers, and according to the different
mediums through which objects are often seen, even with equal
degrees of intelligence and attention.

Merchants might have to pay higher duties at one port than
at another, upon the same articles ; higher fees at one port than
another for the same services; and might otherwise be sub-
jected to very dissimilar burthens and requisitions. Such a state
of things would undoubtedly be a state of disorder, inconsistent
with every idea of a well-regulated government, and would have
a natural tendency to produce discontent and disgust among
individuals, and to bring upon the laws contempt and odium.

It is true that a remedy, in a large proportion of the cases, might
be obtained from the courts of justice; but the vexatious course o* I
tedious lawsuits to decide whether the practice of one officer or
of another was the most legal, would be a mode of redress very
unsatisfactory to suffering parties, and very ill suited, as an ordi- I
nary expedient, to the exigencies and convenience of trade.

jEt. 35.] REVENUE CIRCULARS. 559

A reference has been made to the oath of office, prescribed
by the first collection law for the officers of the customs.

They are by that law severally required to swear or affirm,
that they will execute and perform all the duties of their re-
spective offices according to law ; whence it seems to have been'
inferred, that they are bound each to pursue his own opinion of
the meaning of the law.

But it is conceived that an officer of the customs executes his
duty according to law, when, in the cases mentioned, he conforms
his conduct to the construction which is given to the law by
that officer, who, by law, is constituted the general superin-
tendent of the collection of the revenue. The power to super-
intend must imply a right to judge and direct; of course an
obligation to observe the directions which are given, on the part
of those to whom they are addressed. The observance of them,
therefore, cannot be contrary to the engagement of an officer to
execute the duties of his office according to law ; because, as a
general principle, it is a part of his duty, enjoined by the law,
to pursue those directions, and because, of course, the responsi-
bility for a wrong construction rests with the head of the depart-
ment, when it proceeds from him.

It is not possible to conceive how an officer can superintend
the execution of a law for the collection of a tax or duty, or for
any other purpose, unless he is competent to the interpretation
of the law, or, in other words, has a right to judge of its meaning.
If, then, that competency and right are attached to the head of
the Treasury Department, as general superintendent of the col-
lection of the revenue, it must follow that his judgments are
directory to those who are merely superintendents within par-
ticular spheres, as the collectors of the customs within their re-
spective districts. For it is an universal principle of jurispru-
dence, and a clear dictate of reason, that authorities within par-
ticular spheres are subordinate to a general authority relating to
the same subject, and pervading the whole of them.

I am aware of the reasonable limitations to which the general
principle is subject ; as restrictions in the nature of things upon
abuses of authority, applying as well to the operation of laws as

560 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 35.

of instructions relating to their execution. But the admission
of exceptions in extraordinary cases, does not militate against
the general rule.

"With regard to the oath* which is prescribed to the officers of
the customs, it is to be observed that it is equally prescribed to
all of them, from the collector down to the inspector of the
customs. It is easy to discern the confusion which would result
from the principle that each of these officers is bound, by his
oath, to pursue his own construction of the law, though contrary
to that of his official superior.

Two instances shall be mentioned for the sake of illustration,
in which the binding force of instructions from this department
has been either questioned, or in practice denied.

One relates to the duty on spikes. The acts of the first and
second session, which impose duties on imported articles, lay a
duty of one per cent, per pound on "nails and spikes," expressly
naming each, and thereby implying that the one was not in-
cluded in the other. In the act of the last session for raising a
further sum of money for the protection of the frontiers, and for
other purposes therein mentioned, nails are rated at two cents
per pound, and nothing is said about spikes.

The construction upon this at the Treasury, and which has
been signified by the Comptroller, is, that the duty on spikes re-
mains as before, and that the duty on nails only is varied ; the
reasons of which construction are, that the legislature named
spikes in one instance and did not name them in the other; and
though there is a duty of ten per centum ad valorem on manu-
factures of iron generally, yet it is with the exception of those
otherwise particularly enumerated ; which expressions not being
confined to the act in which they are used by the usual word
herein, or any word of similar import, naturally extend to enu-
merations in any prior act as well as those in which they are
used. Consequently spikes, being among the enumerated articles
in the previously existing law, were considered as excepted, and
as continuing under the same duty as before. The last act does

* In the new Collection law, the words, " according to law," are omitted, which
is barely mentioned, to show that the Legislature laid no stress upon them.

JEt. 35.] REVENUE CIRCULARS. .r)61

not alter the duties generally, but merely on such articles as are
therein enumerated and described.

A doubt has nevertheless been communicated, not only as to
the justness of this construction, but whether an officer who
doubts is, in such a case, at liberty from the tenor of his oath* to
comply with it.

The other case alluded to, relates to the question of fees un-
der the coasting act. The instructions which were given under
this head, though punctually observed in most of the districts,
have been materially departed from in some of them.

The first being a case relating merely to the quantum of re-
venue, is certainly one in which the opinion of the officer at the
head of the finances of the United States ought to be conclu-
sive.

The second being a question between the pecuniary rights of
the officers, and the pecuniary obligations of the citizens, in a
point which their contentment or dissatisfaction with the laws,
and the interest and convenience of a most precious branch of
commerce, the coasting trade, were materially concerned, it is
conceived, that the opinion of the officer, who, by law, is charged
with the general superintendence of the collection of the revenue,
ought to have prevailed.

These examples are mentioned to show to those officers, whose
practice has been undeviatingly conformable to the general prin-
ciple which has been inculcated, that the assertion of it has
been called for by instances of departure from it. And the
foregoing observations are addressed, circularly, rather than to
individual officers, whose practices in these instances has ren-
dered them necessary, for three reasons. 1. That as misconcep-
tions have taken place in some instances, it is possible that simi-
lar misconceptions may happen in others, and it is wished to
anticipate and prevent them, from an ardent desire to avoid
sources of misunderstanding, as well as occasions of interruption
to the due course of the public business. 2. From the possibility
that deviations may have happened in more instances than are
known at the treasury. And, 3. From a wish to pursue the
most delicate mode of animadversion. But while I am desirous,

HAMILTON'S wok k s. Bt. 3.r>.

od public principles, ofestabli bing what I suppose to be correct
views of lip- i>i-i and nea ary authority <>r this department, I
• thai nothing I have said will tend to discourage freedom
of observation of an ruction which maj issue from it I

shffl] constantly think myself indebted t<> anj officer who shall
give me an opportunity <>f rei an opinion, with the aid of

his mil. IikIi may appear to him not consonant with law,

with his own right . or with the good of the service. To e^ ery

communicati f this sort, I have always paid, and shall always

careful attention. Ami as often as I can be convinced of
an error, I shall with cheerful] knowledge and retract it

W ith great consideration, I am, Sir,

Sfour obed't serv't,

A. IIamii.imn.

i . , 1 1 in Julj

Sra

Wh.ii an appeal was made to me, bj certain officers of the
custom the fees to which thej were entitled under

the ( '"•' Let, I took the onlj method then in my power, t<>

aid my own judgment to a right decision. The A.ttorm
not being at the Beat of government, I applied to two of the
most able counsel in the city oi New-York (one of whom is the
attorney of the I nited Statea for the district), for their opinions.
I carefully examined the law m] reeingwith i

gentlemen in the construction of it, I signified the result in :i
circular i tmunication.

It, however, has since appeared, that the construction, then
adopted, hi □ deemed \<\ some of the officers of the

toms bo clearly unfounded, as, in their opinion, to warrant ;i de-
parture from the instruction given. Ami it hi > appea
that respectable law opinions were opposed to those of the
tlemen whom I had consulted.

ii 1 I not been in continual expectation that :i new law

dd have obviated the difficulty, I should have taken much

JEt. 35.] REVENUE CIRCULARS. -r>G3

earlier measures to settle the question in some definitive, and if
possible, satisfactory mode. But session after session having
passed, and further delay being still possible (though, V confi-
dently reckon on anew coasting lawin the course of the nextses-
sion), I have thought it ineumbent upon me to bring the affair
to an issue.

Circumstanced as it was amidst a diversity of legal opinions,
it seemed to be the proper course to consult the Attorney Gene-
ral, who,' by law, is the adviser of heads of departments, as to
questions of law.

This has been done, and the event is, that his opinion differs
from that which was originally adopted and communicated by
me. A copy of his answer to the questions put to him is here-
with transmitted.

In this state of the matter which so directly concerns the in-
terests of the officers, I think it proper to rescind the instruction
heretofore given; though my own view of the subject remains
unchanged. Each officer will then pursue that course which
appears to him conformable to law, to his own interest and
safety, and to the good of the service.

1 laving said that my view of the subject remains unchanged,
I think fit to specify, more particularly than 1 have yet done, the
reasons which govern it.

1. It is conceived to be an important general rule (where no
principle of public policy calls for a free interpretation), that the
subject shall not be taxed or burthened by construction. This
rule I think will be violated, if the sixty cents is made a ■ rend
compensation for several services, because the coupling of the
two objects, which are supposed to be distinct services, by the
word "and," and the naming of the compensation but once, at
the end of the sentence, does, according to the most obvious,
literal and grammatical construction, connect the two objects
into one service entitled to one compensation. The particle
"for" does not in my opinion weaken this conclusion, as it is in
such cases a mere expletive, used or not according to the ear of
the writer. The rule which has been mentioned is particularly
necessary to be attended to, in regard to fees of Office, since the

564 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 35.

experience of all countries has shown, that latitude in this parti-
cular is liable to much abuse, to the great vexation and oppres-
sion of the citizen.

2. Though it is true that the words "and" and "or" are
sometimes considered as synonymous in legal constructions ; yet
it is generally to answer some purpose which the law favors, as
the giving effect to some general maxim of law, some general
rule of property, some general principle of public policy, &c.

The constructive extension of fees of Office, is presumed to
be of this nature. The very act upon which the present question
arises appears anxious to guard against the danger of abuse from
this quarter, by annexing penalties to the demanding of any
other or greater fees than are allowed. If there had been no
case in which the two items concurred as parts of one entire
service, it would have been a good reason for considering them as
distinct, though with some violence to literal construction ; but
as they do so unite in certain cases, it is a strong argument
against the separation contended for.

3. It appears to have been the intention of the Legislature to
make a separate enumeration of the same or exactly similar
services, annexing to each a separate compensation ; and avoid-
ing the conjunction of dissimilar services, though attended with
equal compensations, as in the instances of permits to land goods
of foreign growth or manufacture, and bonds ; for each of which
services twenty cents are allowed. The idea of greater affinity
between the services in question as a reason for their union, is
not founded. In the cases in which they are really distinct, they
are as dissimilar as any two operations can be. The circum-
stance alluded to, is said to be a slight one. Alone, it is con-
fessed it would have no very decisive weight, though it would
not be to be disregarded ; yet it is of a nature to fortify other
considerations.

4. An entry and the receiving of and qualifying to a manifest
in all cases under the 27th section, are essentially one and the
same act; to construe them as several in these cases, would be to
multiply one act and one service into two acts and two services ;
and yet it is not perceived, if a several compensation is under-

.Et.35.] revenue circulars. 565

stood to be annexed to them, as several services, how it should
not apply when they are performed by one person, as well as
when they are performed by two persons.

' • 5. The association of an entry with the receiving of and quali-
fying to manifests in cases arising under the 27th section, is a
natural one ; the two things being coupled, or rather the one
thing constituting the other ; but the association of the latter, in
cases arising under the 25th and 26th sections, where outward
bound vessels are contemplated, with the entries of inward
bound vessels, would be unnatural and incongruous. The entry
being the primary and leading idea, the receiving of and qualify-
ing to the manifest, as incidents to it, are naturally mentioned in
the same clause ; but not so if they refer to a substantive and
independent service, having a different object, and preceding the
entry in the order of the transaction.

It has been objected, that it would have been tautology to
have mentioned the receiving of and qualifying to manifests, if
they did not mean something distinct from the entry under the
27th section, of which they form a part. But there are other
entries, those under the 28th section, with which they do not
coincide, and the supposition is, that they were meant to describe
the entries under the 27th section, and that a compensation for
those under the 28th, has been through mistake omitted.

6. The construction which makes the services and the com-
pensation several, will operate in many instances oppressively to
the citizens engaged in the business. If a vessel takes on board
foreign goods of no greater value than 200 dollars, or 400 gallons
of ardents spirits, in one district, and delivers them in another,
even in an adjoining one, she will have to pay:

Cents.
For receiving and qualifying to her manifest, in the

district from which she departs, - > - - 60
For a permit to proceed to the place of destination, 25
For receiving her entry at the port of delivery, - 60
For a permit to land, 20

Making altogether, 165

566 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 35.

Again, if a vessel takes on board a single barrel of flour in
one district, to be delivered in another, even an adjoining one,
where there is a collector or surveyor, she will have to pay :

Cents.

For receiving her entry at the port of delivery, 60

For receiving and qualifying to her manifest at the
same port, -------- 60

Making together, 120

In both cases considerably more than the freight of the arti-
cles may amount to, and more than it is conceived would be a
due compensation for the services rendered, and a reasonable
burthen on the Hade.

An idea indeed has been entertained that, though the service
be several, and entitled to a distinct compensation, it is not so in
regard to cases of the last mentioned kind, because the receiving
of and qualifying to manifests is there involved in the entry.
But this, it is conceived, would be a departure from consistency
of construction. If a particular compensation is annexed to a
particular service' as such, and in the abstract, it follows the ser.
vice, and attaches itself to it, whether performed by the same, or
by different persons, whether separately or in connection with
another service, especially if the law designates the latter service
as contradistinguished from the former. It is to be remembered,
too, that the entry always carries with it the receiving of a mani-
fest, though not always the qualifying to it.

It has been said that, whether the compensation would be
exeessive or not, is a question merely for the Legislature. But
certainly a presumption of the intention of the Legislature not to
burthen trade, is a circumstance which ought to serve as a
guide in the construction of provisions, which it must be confessed
are not free from ambiguity. And this presumption, in the pre-
sent case, is suggested by the general policy of the coasting act,
which evidently aims at privileging and protecting the coasting
trade.

I shall now take notice of some of the arguments which have

jEt. 35.] REVENUE CIRCULARS. 567

been used for a construction opposite to that which I adopt, and
which have not been already adverted to.

1. It has been observed, that it is customary for the fees of
entry and clearance to be equal ; that this is so by the collection
law of the United States ; and that it is probable the Legislature
intended to preserve the same equality in the coasting act.

But this equality would not attend the construction for which
it is made an argument.

The true clearance in the coasting act is the permit to depart ;
and for that the fee is expressly twenty -five cents. The entry-
fee would be, in every case, sixty cents ; in cases under the 27th
section, if uniformity of principle be preserved, it would be 120
cents. If the receiving and qualifying to the manifest are taken
in connection with the clearance, then the expense of a clearance
would be 85 cents; that of an entry, in some instances 60, in
others 120 ; for, by no mode of reasoning, can the fee for the per-
mit to depart, which is the real clearance, be excluded from the
comparison.

2. It is objected to my construction, that greater services
relating to foreign goods are less compensated than lesser services
relating to domestic commodities; which cannot reasonably be
presumed to have been the intention of the Legislature.

This is true, and it constitutes an objection of weight, but not
a conclusive one. It is not a very uncommon ease for the law to
be defective in provisions necessary to fulfil the intention of the
framers of it; and where the main design of the law would not be
fulfilled without supplying, by construction, the deficiency of
provision, great latitude ought to be taken. But this is not so
as to mere collateral points, no way essential to the principal
objects of the law. These omissions may easily be supposed and
admitted, and they ought not to be supplied either by any vio-
lence to the literal expression, or at the price of more important
inconveniences. Where the question is between individual ad-
vantage and public mischief, as by forming a precedent liable to
abuse, or by throwing an undue burthen on a branch of industry,
no latitude of construction ought to be indulged to attain the
former.

568 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 35.

It is certain that the act in question is very inaccurately
drawn, and in many particulars unprovisional, which is the rea-
son for admitting it to be so in the particular under consideration.

'Tis not the only instance in which entire classes of services
are omitted to be compensated. In this predicament are licenses
for vessels under twenty tons, the endorsing upon registers, &c.,
memorandums of changes of masters, and giving notice of them,
the administering of oaths generally, and even where they con-
stitute distinct Bervices, as where the collector of one district
takes the oath of an owner, in order to the registering of a vessel
in another district, which is also attended with the additional
service of a transmission to the last-mentioned collector, per-
mits to land goods not of foreign growth and manufacture.

Hence the idea of finding a compensation for each service, is
a delusive ground of argument, and that of a proportional com-
pensation is not less so. It belongs, indeed, to neither construc-
tion. It has been already seen that an entry, attended with the
only additional circumstance of swearing the master of a vessel
to his manifest, would carry double the compensation of an entry
without that circumstance.

3. It has been remarked, as repelling the inference to be
drawn from omissions in other cases, that in this the service has
been mentioned by the Legislature, and of equal respectability
with an entry, and that, therefore, it ought not to be denied a
compensation.

In what light it may be conceived to have been mentioned,
has been stated as incident to the entry in certain cases des-
criptive of it. But it will not follow that when circumstances,
which are incidents in particular cases, are mentioned in imme-
diate connection with the main object, that the specification is
intended to extend to other cases in which they are incidents to
a different service, namely, the a rtifying of a duplicate manifest,
and the permit to depart, or the clearance.

Three circumstances operate in this view of the subject,
against the supposition, that the receiving of, and qualifying
to, manifests were intended to be remunerated as independent
services.

jEt. 35.] REVENUE CIRCULARS. 569

They are in no case such. They are either prerequisites to
the certificate and permit, directed by the twenty-fifth and twenty-
sixth sections, which are the principal services there, or concom-
itants of the entry, directed by the twenty-seventh section.

2. If the specification was intended to refer specially to cases
under the twenty-fifth and twenty-sixth sections, as has been
alleged, the expression would naturally have been "for receiving,
qualifying to, and certifying, every manifest."

3. The receiving and qualifying to manifests, are constantly
incidents to entries and clearances under the collection law ; and
yet they have no distinct remuneration as such. The qualifying
to any document is, in none of the revenue laws, a subject of
particular compensation, and yet, as the certificate is not men-
tioned, and as the permit to depart has a distinct fee, there seems
to be no other act left to which the fee of sixty cents is to attach
itself. Is it probable that the legislature intended so consider-
able a recompense for a service in this case, which in every
other, they have omitted to reward? Certainly, at least, the
argument which asserts that those services would not be in-
tended to be performed for nothing, fails. If they are rewarded
under the collection law, in the fee for a clearance, so may they
equally be conceived to be rewarded under the coasting act, in
the fee for the permit to depart, which is there the clearance also.
This fee cannot even be said to be inadequate to the whole service)
in that case to be performed, the parts of which are the adminis-
tering an oath, the certifying upon the manifest, which is sup-
posed to be produced by the party, " that it had been sworn (or
affirmed) to, and delivered according to law," and the granting
a permit to depart. Some stress has been laid upon the word
every. I take this to be, as here used, merely calculated to de.
note the singular number, and to operate distributively only, as
the plural word "vessels," which follows.

I shall barely add, for greater caution, that the instruction
which is meant to be rescinded, is merely that which relates to
the meaning of the following clause: "For every entry of in-
ward cargo, directed to be made in conformity with this act, and

c 37

570 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 35.

for receiving of, and qualifying to, every manifest of vessels
licensed to trade as aforesaid."

"With much consideration,

I am, Sir, your obedient servant,

A. Hamilton.

P. S. I should think it a better and more equitable construc-
tion of the act than that which considers the two things as
several, to reject, as mere surplusage, the words "and for re-
ceiving of, and qualifying to, every manifest of vessels licensed
to trade;" annexing no fee to it, in amj case; but leaving the
entry in every case, as well on the twenty-eighth and twenty-
seventh sections, to be entitled to a fee of sixty cents.

Treasury Department, August 27. 17 -

Sir:

It would be useful, in regard to the return of exports, which
is transmitted quarterly to this office by the collector, if the
exported articles were uniformly arranged in alphabetic order.

With a view to this, I inclose you a form of such an alpha-
betical arrangement, and request that, for the future, you will
have the article of exports inserted in the said return agreeably
to that form, expressing the different quantities of each article
as therein prescribed. In ail respects the form of the return of
exports will remain as heretofore.

I have to desire that you will furnish me with a monthly
abstract of all licenses which shall be granted to coasting and
fishing vessels in your district, to be forwarded after the expira-
tion of every month. The annexed form will show the parti-
culars to be inserted. It is, of course, not required that copies
or duplicates of licenses should be transmitted to the treasury,
as has been done in some instances.

A difference of opinion between the Collectors and Super-
visors has occurred in regard to the seventh section of the act
concerning the duties on spirits distilled within the United

^Et. 35.] REVENUE CIRCULARS. 571

States, &c. The true construction is, that the abatement of two
per cent, for leakage is to be made on securing the duty at the
end of every quarter, from the whole quantity distilled during
the preceding three months. And hence, it will be necess;irv
that, in cases of exportation, the drawbacks on distilled spirits
be adjusted with an eye to the allowance.

A doubt has arisen on the 35th, or more properly, on the
36th section of the collection law ; whether molasses is to be
construed within the meaning of that section. I am of opinion
it is; and that the allowance of two per cent, for leakage
ought to be extended to that article.

I am, Sir,

A. Hamilton.

Treasury Department, October 25, 1792.

Sir:

Pursuant to the discretion vested in me by the sixth section
of the act entitled, " An act making alterations in the Treasury
and War Departments," I have concluded to transmit the im-
mediate superintendence of the collection of duties of impost and
tonnage to the Comptroller of the Treasury.

You will, therefore, henceforth, correspond with that oilicer,
relatively to all matters arising out of tin; laws, which respect
the laying or collecting of those duties, and will consider his
communications and instructions, in regard to such matters, as
of the same force and validity which they would have if coming
from me.

This, however, is not to be understood to comprehend the
disposition and payment of the moneys accruiug from those
duties which, as heretofore, "will be under my immediate direc-
tion.

Accordingly, all the returns and documents which you have
been accustomed to transmit to the Secretary of the Treasury,
are hereafter to be transmitted to the Comptroller, except the
following :
HAMILTON'S WORKS.

[iET. 36.

1st. "Weekly returns of moneys received and paid.

2d. Monthly schedule of bonds.

3d. Monthly abstract of bonds unpaid.

4th. Paid drafts and receipts for moneys paid to banks and
otherwise under special direction from me.

I expect to be furnished, as early as possible, with an esti-
mate from the best materials that can be furnished, of what is
likely to be the amount of the bounties payable within each dis-
trict, on fishing vessels, where they exist, pursuant to the act
entitled, " An act concerning certain fisheries of the United
States, and for the regulation and government of the fishermen
employed therein ;" and to be informed, at the same time, how
far the moneys likely to be in hand by the period of payment,
which is the last of December, will suffice for or fall short of
the sum necessary.

Those collectors who shall have any of the before-mentioned
bounties to pay, and who have instructions to make their remit-
tances to any of the banks, are herewith authorized to retain in
their hands out of the moneys which they have and shall re-
ceive, a sum sufficient to answer the purpose.

I am, Sir, etc.,

Alex. Hamilton.

Treasury Department, March 29, 1793.

Sir:

A question has been made, What is to be the voucher to a
Collector for entering anew a vessel which has been altered in
form only, the 6th section ©f the act concerning the registering
and recording of ships and vessels having made provisions only
for the case of an alteration in burthen ?

I answer, that the form of a certificate of registry, prescribed
by the 9th section of that act, supposes a certificate from the
Surveyor, or person acting in his stead, for the special occasion,
in every instance, except merely that of a transfer of property,

JEt. 36.] REVENUE CIRCULARS. 573

when provision is made for referring to the former certificate of
registry, as a substitute.

It follows, then, that in the case of an alteration in form as-
well as burthen, such a certificate is necessary as an official de-
scription of the vessel and a voucher for registry.

The only difference will be, then, when altered in burthen, a
vessel must be actually measured anew, to ascertain her tonnage.
When only altered in form, so as not to affect her burthen, then
the tonnage may be certified from her old register, and in the
first place a fee for admeasurement will be due ; in the last, none.
An arrangement which will conduce to the mutual convenience
of the officers of the Customs and of the Treasury.

I am to request, that all communications which may be re-
quisite, after the receipt of this letter, relating to matters arising
under either of the two acts, the one entitled, " An act concern-
ing the registering and recording of ships or vessels ;" the other
entitled, " An act for enrolling and licensing ships or vessels
to be employed in the coasting trade and fisheries, and for
regulating the same;" may be addressed to the Comptroller of
the Treasury ; and the instructions which shall be transmitted
by him in relation to those laws, may be considered of the same
force as if proceeding directly from the head of the department.
It is, however, not intended by this, to prevent an immediate
recourse to the Secretary of the Treasury in any special case or
circumstance, which may be thought to render it necessary.

All documents directed by either of these acts to be trans-
mitted to the Treasury, are to be forwarded immediately to the
Register of the Treasury.

It appears that some of the collectors have put a construction
on my circular letter of the 2d of January, 1792, which pre-
cludes the cash notes and post notes of the branch banks or
offices of discount from being received for duties and exchanged
for specie. This is contrary to the design of that instruction.
These notes being in fact notes of the Bank of the United States,
signed by their President and Cashier ; and having the same
leading marks for distinguishing counterfeits from the genuine,

574 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 36.

as have been already communicated to yon, are to be received and
exchanged in like manner as heretofore directed.

I am, Sir, your obd't serv't,

A. Hamilton.

INSTRUCTIONS TO THE COLLECTORS OF THE

CUSTOMS.

.Philadelphia, August 4, 1793.

Sir:

It appearing that repeated contraventions of our neutrality
have taken place in the ports of the United States, without hav-
ing been discovered in time for prevention or remedy, I have it
in command from the President, to address to the collectors of
the respective districts a particular instruction on the subject.

It is expected that the officers of the customs in each district
will, in the course of their official functions, have a vigilant eye
upon whatever may be passing within the ports, creeks, inlets
and waters of such district, of a nature to contravene the laws
of neutrality, and upon discovery of any thing of the kind, will
give immediate notice to the Governor of the State, and to the
attorney of the judicial district, comprehending the district of the
customs within which any such contravention may happen.

To assist the judgment of the officers on this head, I transmit
herewith a schedule of rules, concerning sundry particulars
which have been adopted by the President, as deductions from
the laws of neutrality, established and received among nations.
Whatever shall be contrary to these rules will, of course, be to
be notified as above-mentioned.

There are some other points which, pursuant to our treaties,
and the determination of the Executive, I ought to notice to
you.

If any vessel of either of the Powers at war with France
should bring or send within your district a prize, made of the
subjects, people or property of France, it is immediately to be

^Et. 36.] INSTRUCTIONS TO COLLECTORS. 575

notified to the Governor of the State, in order that measures
may be taken, pursuant to the 17th article of our treaty with
France, to oblige such vessel and her prize, or such prize, when
sent in without the capturing vessel, to depart.

No Privateer of any of the Powers at war with France, com-
ing within a district of the United States, can, by the 22d article
of our treaty with France, enjoy any other privilege than that
of purchasing such victuals as shall be necessary for her {/"lug to the
next port of the Prince or State from which she has her commission.
If she should do any thing beside this, it is immediately to be
reported to the Governor and the Attorney of the district. You
will observe by the rules transmitted, that the term privateer is
understood not to extend to vessels armed for merchandise and
war, commonly called with us letters of marque, nor, of course, to
vessels of war in the immediate service of the Government of
either o*he Powers at war.

No armed vessel which has been or shall be originally fitted
out in any port of the United States by either of the parties at
war, is henceforth to have asylum in any district of the United
States. If any such armed vessel shall appear within your
district, she is immediately to be notified to the Governor and
Attorney of the district, which is also to be done in respect to
any prize that such armed vessel shall bring or send in. At foot
is a list of such armed vessels of the above description, as have
hitherto come to the knowledge of the Executive.

The purchasing within and exporting from the United States,
by way of merchandise, articles commonly called contraband, being
generally warlike instruments and military stores, is free to all
the parties at war, and is not to be interfered with. If our own
citizens undertake to carry them to any of those parties, they
will be abandoned to the penalties which the laws of war author
ize. You will be particularly careful to observe and to notify,
as directed in other instances, the case of any citizen of the
United States, who shall be found in the service of either of the
parties at war.

In case any vessel shall be found in the act of contravening
any of the rules or principles which are the ground of this

576 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 36.

instruction, she is to be refused a clearance until she shnll have
complied with what the Governor shall have decided in reference
to her. Care, however, is to be taken in this, not unnecessarily
or unreasonably, to embarrass trade or to vex any of the parties
concerned.

In order that contraventions may be the better ascertained, it
is desired that the officer who shall first go on board any vessel
arriving within your district, shall make an accurate survey of
her then condition as to military equipment, to be forthwith
reported to you ; and that, prior to her clearance, a like survey
be made, that any transgression of the rules laid down may be
ascertained.

But as the propriety of any such inspection of a vessel of war
in the immediate service of the Government of a foreign nation, is
not without question in reference to the usage of nations, no
attempt is to be made to inspect any such vessel, till furmcr order
on the point.

The President desires me to signify to you his most particular
expectation, that the instructions contained in this letter will be
executed with the greatest vigilance, care, activity and impar-
tiality. Omissions will tend to expose the Government: to
injurious imputations and suspicions, and proportion ably to
commit the good faith and peace of the country — objects of too
much importance, not to engage every proper exertion of your
zeal.

With consideration, I am, Sir, &c,
Alexander Hamilton.

1. The original arming and equipping of vessels in the ports
of the United States, by any of the belligerent parties, for
military service, offensive or defensive, is deemed unlawful.

2. Equipments of merchant vessels, by either of the bellige-
rent parties, in the ports of the United States, purely for the
accommodation of them as such, is deemed lawful.

3. Equipments in the ports of the United States, of vessels
of war in the immediate service of the Government of any of
the belligerent parties, which, if done to other vessels, would be

jEt.36.]. INSTRUCTIONS TO COLLECTORS. 577

of a doubtful nature, as being applicable either to commerce or
war, are deemed lawful, except those which shall have made
prize of the subjects, people, or property of France, coming
with their prizes into the ports of the United States, pursuant
to the 17th article of our treaty of amity and commerce with
France.

4. Equipments in the ports of the United States, by any of
the parties at war with France, of vessels fitted for merchandise
and war, whether with or without commissions, which are
doubtful in their nature, as being applicable either to commerce
or war, are deemed lawful, except those which shall have made
prize, &c.

5. Equipments of any of the vessels of France, in the ports
of the United States, which are doubtful in their nature, as being
applicable to commerce or war, are deemed lawful.

6. Equipments of every kind, in the ports of the United
States, of privateers of the powers at war with France, are
deemed unlawful.

7. Equipments of vessels in the ports of the United States,
which are of a nature solely adapted to war, are deemed unlaw-
ful, except those stranded or wrecked, as mentioned in the 18th
article of our treaty with France, the 16th of our treaty with the
United Netherlands, the 9th of our treaty with Prussia, and,
except those mentioned in the 19th article of our treaty with
France, the 17th of our treaty with the United Netherlands, the
18th of our treaty with Prussia.

8. Vessels of either of the parties, not armed, or armed
previous to their coming into the ports of the United States,
which shall not have infringed any of the foregoing rules, may
lawfully engage or enlist therein their own subjects or citizens,
not being inhabitants of the United States ; except privateers of
the Powers at war with France, and except those vessels which
shall have made prize, &c.

578 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 33.

INTEREST ON CLAIMS.
Communicated to the House of Representatives, March 19th, 1790.

Treasury Department, March 18th, 1790.

The Secretary of the Treasury, on the memorial of the late
officers of the South Carolina line, on continental establish-
ment, respectfully reports :

That it is true, as suggested in substance in the said memorial,
that Gongress, in consideration of payments in specie which had
been made to other parts of the army, did recommend to the
State of South Carolina to pay to the officers of its line a sum
equal to six mouths' pay ; which recommendation is contained in
a resolution of the 10th of October, 1786, in the words following :
R "'/, That it be, and it is hereby, recommended to the State
of South Carolina to pay to the officers of their late line and
hospital department, the said sum of $10,276 £f, mentioned to
be due to them by the said report, the said sum to be paid to the
said officers, agreeably to a return of the late Paymaster-General,
and for which the said State shall have credit on the specie
proportion of the last requisition.

That warrants or drafts on the commissioner of loans for
the said State, payable to the bearer, were accordingly issued by
the late Board of Treasury to the respective officers for the sums
to them severally due in conformity to the said resolution : which
drafts, for want of money in the hands of the commissioner,
were not paid.

That arrangements were afterwards taken by the said Board
towards the payment of those drafts, if retained, and con-
quently no further provision is now necessary, except with regard
to the claim of interest.

That the claim of interest may have reference to the time
preceding the issuing of the drafts, and the time subsequent
to it. That, with respect to the first period, had the accounts of
the said officers been adjusted in the ordinary mode, and cer-
tificates granted, they would have borne interest from the time

Mt.33.] REPORTS ON CLAIMS. 579

the pay became due ; but Congress, in directing the payment of
the principal only, as was the case by the resolution recited,
appear to have decided against the allowance of that which had
previously accrued. That, with respect to the period subsequent
to the issuing of the drafts, it would be contrary to the
practice of the Treasury to allow interest, which has not been
usual upon warrants or drafts issued for payment of moneys
due.

That an innovation upon a practice, which has governed in
a great extent and variety of cases, would of course be produc-
tive of much inconvenience and embarrassment, and, in many
instances, would have an improper operation, as the negotiations
of such drafts between individuals have been without a view
to interest.

That similar drafts, excluding interest, were issued to the
lines of Yirginia and North Carolina, and though attended with
a delay of payment, were afterwards taken up, without allow-
ance of interest ; as is also daily the case in respect to warrants
issued by the late Board of Treasury, for which an appropriation
was made during the last session.

That, from the foregoing facts and considerations, the Secre-
tary is of opinion, that the claim of the memorialists to interest
ought not to be admitted. The past situation of public affairs
has unavoidably given too much occasion for complaints of indi-
vidual hardship; but, in most instances, they are rather to be
regretted than redressed. Confusion would ensue from a depart-
ure from former decisions and established usages, where the cases
are not very peculiar, and very clearly distinguishable as such.

All which is humbly submitted.

Alexander Hamilton,

Secretary of the 'Treasury.

580 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [M-r. 33.

Treasury Department, April 12th, 1790.

The Secretary of the Treasury, on the memorial of James
Warren, to him referred by an order of the House of Kepre-
sentatives of the 3d instant, respectfully reports :

That it appears, upon examination of the case of the memo-
rialist, that in the years 1777 and 1778 several cargoes of mer-
chandise, which had been imported for the use of the United
States, were consigned to his care; and that, in the settlement
of his accounts concerning those cargoes by the Commercial
Committee, he was allowed only the nominal amount of his ex-
penditures and commissions.

That this settlement took place on the 28th November, 1780
(at which time there was no authority to make an allowance for
depreciation); and that, on the 31st January, 1781, a warrant
was drawn by the President of Congress on the Treasurer of the
State of Massachusetts for $32,553 tv, being the liquidated bal-
ance of the memorialist's account.

That the said warrant was, some time in the year 1782, dis-
charged in specie by the State of Massachusetts, at the rate of
one dollar for seventy-five of the sum expressed upon the face
of it.

That the claim of the memorialist is, first, for an allowance
of depreciation on the items of the account settled by the Com-
mercial Committee (alleging, as a peculiarity in his case, that the
settlement was made by an agent, not by himself, and that there
was a demand for depreciation at the time, though not admitted
for want of authority).

Secondly, for the difference between the established rate of
old emission money, when the warrant was issued to him, and
that at which it was discharged in specie, which he computes to
amount to £115.19.6, lawful money of Massachusetts.

In relation to which facts and circumstances the Secretary
begs leave to observe, that it is an important general rule, that
regular settlements, in the established course, involving general
principles, should remain untouched. That this rule, in refer-

Mt. 33.] REPORTS ON CLAIMS. 581

ence to transactions during the late war, derives peculiar force
from the then peculiar situation of public affairs. That in no
respect is its observance more necessary than in whatever regards
questions of depreciation. That every precedent of an admission
of a claim upon that ground, beyond the limits now observed at
the Treasury, must be more or less dangerous. That, in parti-
cular, it seems necessary to adhere to this as a principle, that
when an account has been adjusted and a balance discharged, no
claim for depreciation ought afterwards to be admitted.

That the circumstance of the settlement having been made
by an agent is no uncommon one. Nor does the demand stated to
have been made at the time for an allowance for depreciation ap-
pear to the Secretary of any material weight. It is naturally to be
presumed, that the interest of applicants must have rendered
such demands frequent, and the completion of the settlement
without it shows that it was not persisted in.

The Secretary, however, thinks it incumbent on him to
state to the House that, as far as regards the mode of pay-
ment, there is something distinguishable in the case, lie does
not find, on inquiry, that it can have had place in many instances
in the precise form ; nevertheless, the degree of force which this
circumstance may be supposed to have, is overruled, in his
judgment, by the danger of a precedent for a new species of
claim for depreciation. The allowance of it, too, on this ground,
would seem to involve this principle; that for depreciation which
may have accrued between the time an order for payment may
have been given and the time of actual payment, compensation
is to be made — a principle which, it is to be apprehended, might
have extensive consequences.

All which is humbly submitted.

Alexander Hamilton,

Secretary of the Treasury.

582 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 35.

EENEWAL OF LOST CERTIFICATES.
Communicated to the House of Representatives, April 21, 1792.

Treasury Department, April 18, 1792.

The Secretary of the Treasury, to whom were referred by the

House of Representatives the several petitions specified in

the list herewith, praying the renewal of certain certificates,

which are alleged to have been destroyed or lost, respectfully

' makes the following report thereupon :

The said Secretary, in a report heretofore made to the House
of Representatives on a petition of Jacob rRush (a copy of which
is annexed), has stated his opinion concerning the propriety of
renewing certificates which have been destroyed or lost, and con-
cerning the precautions which ought to accompany relief in cases
in which it may be deemed proper to grant it.

The paper B contains an abstract of the several petitions
specified in the list, and of the proof, where any is produced,
which accompanies them, with brief observations on the respec-
tive cases.

It however merits consideration, whether any certificate ought
to be renewed until the course of the public operations shall have
called in all the old ones which are still outstanding, and until
an arrangement now in execution at the Treasury, whereby it will
be easy to ascertain what certificates have been taken in and
cancelled from the earliest period, shall have been completed.

It can rarely happen that the proof adduced is more than
strongly circumstantial ; and the cases numbered 18 and 23, in
which certificates, sworn to have been destroyed, have been pre-
sented or taken up at the Treasury, serve to evince the necessity
of peculiar circumspection.

The renewal of any kind of paper, which is negotiable to
bearer, is, in the nature of the thing, liable to considerable
danger, and it is to be doubted whether it may be conformable
to usage in similar cases. It is, therefore, though equitable, dis-

JEt. 33.] REPORTS ON CLAIMS. 583

cretionarj on the part of the Government, and it is reasonable
that the doing of it should be accompanied with every precaution
necessary for the public safety.

The taking of security to indemnify the Government from
future claims is a safeguard ; but, for obvious reasons, it can
never be considered as one which can altogether be relied upon.
All which is humbly submitted.

Alexander Hamilton,

/Secretary of the Treasury.

Treasury Department, August 5th, 1790.

The Secretary of the Treasury, having considered the petition of
Jacob Eush, referred to him on the 29th day of June last,
respectfully reports :

That the reasons which induced the last Congress of the
United States to grant a renewal of continental loan-office certi-
ficates, destroyed through accident, appear of equal weight in
regard to other evidences of the public debt which have been
the subjects of similar casualty.

That justice to the petitioner, therefore, seems to require that
an opportunity of renewing his certificates be granted him ; and
as there are several applications of the same nature, it is respect-
fully suggested that it will be expedient to provide, by law, for
administering relief to all who shall be found similarly* circum-
stanced, under the following cautionary regulations, which are,
in most particulars, the same .as those provided in the case of
loan-office certificates, so far as they will apply to the different
circumstances of the certificates.

That the certificates renewed be issued to those who shall
appear to have been the holders of them at the time they were
destroyed, or, if dead, to their legal representatives.

That the certificates destroyed be advertised in the news-
papers of the State where the accident happened, and in the
State where they were issued ; which advertisement shall be con-

584 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 33.

tinued six weeks, and shall contain the numbers, dates, sums,
names in which the certificates were taken out, and the time when,
the place where, and the means by which, they were destroyed ;
that a copy of the advertisement be lodged in the office of the
commissioner of loans within the State in which the certificates
alleged to have been destroyed were issued, together with such
testimony as can be procured, ascertaining the time when, the
place where, and the means by which, the destruction happened;
which copies and testimonies shall be duly certified by the said
commissioner, to be laid, by the party claiming the renewal,
before the Comptroller of the Treasury, who shall finally decide
on the sufficiency thereof.

That the party claiming the renewal enter into a bond to the
United States, with two or more sufficient freeholders as sureties
(the sufficiency to be judged of by the said Comptroller), in
double the amount of the value of the certificates claimed to be
renewed, with condition to indemnify the United States against
the holders of the certificates said to be destroyed, should any
such afterwards appear.

That no certificate be renewed before the expiration of three
months after the publication of the advertisement above men-
tioned ; and that there be an endorsement on each renewed cer-
tificate, signifying that the same was issued in lieu of one de-
stroyed by accident, and describing the original.

In regard to certificates which have not been destroyed by
accident, but which have either been lost or captured, or other-
wise taken away, it appears extremely difficult to devise any
mode of relief to the sufferers which will not subject the United
States to so much hazard of imposition and injury as to render
the expediency of it questionable. If the House should never-
theless be of opinion that justice requires it, it may be granted
under the same regulations which are proposed in respect to cer-
tificates destroyed.

All which is humbly submitted.

Alex. Hamilton,

/Secretary of the Treasury.

Mt. 35.] REPORTS ON CLAIMS. 585

CLAIMS FOR DEPRECIATION, PROPERTY USED, DAMAGED OR DE-
STROYED BY THE ARMY, AND FOR INTEREST ON ADVANCES
FOR THE USE OF AMERICAN PRISONERS AT QUEBEC.

Communicated to the House of Representatives, November 22, 1792.

Treasury Department, November, 1792.

The Secretary of the Treasury, to whom were referred the several
petitions specified in the list herewith transmitted, respectfully
submits the following report thereupon :

These petitions seek indemnifications upon various sums of
paper money received from the public during the late war, by
the respective petitioners, on account of claims arising upon
transactions of that period.

There is no subject upon which the special interposition
of the Legislature for relief of particular individuals, can be
more delicate and dangerous, than that of depreciations ; the
infinite multitude of cases, in which claims of this nature might,
with equal, or nearly equal, degrees of equity, be supported;
the impossibility, from the extraordinary circumstances of the
times when those claims originated, of doing general justice, the
inextricable confusion and incalculable expense of an attempt to
redress all the grievances and hardships of that kind, which
unavoidably took place, afford considerations of the most power-
ful nature for leaving every question of depreciation, where the
rules and principles of settlement at the Treasury have left it.

If the claim of either of the petitioners is within those 'iSdlos,
and not barred by the acts of limitation, no interposition of the
Legislature is necessary. If not within those rules, and barred
by the acts of limitation, such an interposition would, in point
of precedent, be of the most inconvenient tendency. The magni-
tude and extreme delicacy of the matter in question, appear to
render it advisable to adhere to the acts of limitation, as well as
the rules of settlement at the Treasury, in this particular, with
peculiar caution and strictness.

c 38

•586 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 37.

Such was the policy of the United States in Congress assem-
bled, and a perseverance in that policy is recommended by a
variety of weighty reasons.

The Secretary understands that no allowance of depreciation,
in either of the cases mentioned in the petitions, would be con-
trary to the rules and principles which have governed in public
settlements.

All which is humbly submitted,

Alex. Hamilton,

/Secretary of the Treasury.

COMPOSITION WITH A DEBTOR.
Communicated to the House of Representatives, January 14th, 1794.

Treasury Department, January 14th, 1794.

The Secretary of the Treasmy, to whom was referred by the
House of Eepresentatives, the memorial of Daniel Parker,
respectfully makes thereupon the following report :

The suggestions contained in the memorial do not appear to
be of a nature to call for a re-adjustment of the account. The
probability of peace within the year was an event to have been
calculated upon on both sides, in forming the original contract :
the loss of vouchers is the misfortune of the party, of a nature
to be equally an obstacle in a new, as in the former settlement.
But there are circumstances which may render it the interest of
the United States to compound the debt. It is understood that
all the debtors have been in a state of insolvency. It is now not
certainly known what is the condition of the memorialist. This
may demand further inquiry.

In the mean time, if it should appear to Congress advisable
to vest somewhere a power to make a composition of the debt,

Mt. 37.] REPORTS ON CLAIMS. 587

it would probably be conducive to the interest of the United
States.

All which is humbly submitted.

Alex. Hamlilton,

Secretary of the Treasury.

COMMENT ON THE REFERENCE OF PRIVATE CLAIMS TO THE
SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY BY CONGRESS.

Communicated to the Senate, February 26, 1794.

Treasury Department, February 22, 1794.

Sir:

I have received a late order of the Senate on the subject of a
petition of Arther Hughes. Diligent search has been made for
such a petition, and it has not been found ; neither have I now
a distinct recollection of ever having seen it. Whether, therefore,
it may not have originally failed in the transmission to me, or
may have become mislaid by a temporary displacement of the
papers of my immediate office, occasioned by a fire which con-
sumed a part of the building in the use of the Treasury, or by
some of those accidents which, in an extensive scene of business,
will sometimes attend papers, especially those of inferior impor-
ta nee, is equally open to conjecture. There is no record in the
office of its having been received, nor do any of my clerks re-
member to have seen it.

A search in the Auditor's office has brought up the inclosed
paper,* which it is presumed relates to the object of the petition ;
but this paper, it will appear from the memorandum accompa-
nying it, was placed in that office prior to the reference of the
petition.

The Auditor of the Treasury is of opinion, though his recol-
lection is not positive, that the claim had relation to the services

* Not now to be fouud.

588 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 87.

of John Hughes, as forage-master. Two objections opposed its
admission. 1st. The not being presented in time. 2d. The
name of John Hughes, in the capacity in which he claimed, not
appearing upon any return in the Treasury.

If these be the circumstances, I should be of opinion that it
would not be advisable, by a special legislative interposition, to
except the case out of the operation of the acts of limitation.

The second order of the Senate, on the subject of this peti.
tion, leads to the following reflections :

Does this hitherto unusual proceeding (in a case of no public
and no peculiar private importance), imply a supposition that
there has been undue delay or negligence on the part of the Sec-
retary of the Treasury ?

If it does, the supposition is unmerited, not merely from the
circumstances of the paper, which have been stated, but from the
known situation of the officer.

The occupations necessarily and permanently incident to the
office are at least sufficient fully to occupy the time and faculties
of one man. The burthen is seriously increased by the numerous
private cases, remnants of the late war, which, every session, are
objects of particular reference by the two Houses of Congress.
These accumulated occupations, again, have been interrupted in
their due course by unexpected, desultory, and distressing calls
for long and complicated statements, sometimes with a view
to general information, sometimes for the explanation of points,
which certain leading facts, witnessed by the provision of the
laws, and by information previously communicated, might have
explained without those statements, or which were of a nature
that did not seem to have demanded a laborious, critical, and
suspicious investigation, unless the officer was understood to have
forfeited his title to a reasonable and common degree of confi-
dence. Added to these things, it is known that the affairs of the
country, in its external relations, have, for some time past, been
so circumstanced, as unavoidably to have thrown additional avo-
cations on all the branches of the Executive Department^ and
that a late peculiar calamity in the city of Philadelphia has had

^t. 37.] REPORTS ON CLAIMS. 589

consequences that cannot have failed to derange, more or less,
the course of public business.

In such a situation, was it not the duty of the officer to post-
pone matters of mere individual concern to objects of public and
general concern, to the preservation of the essential order of the
department committed to his care? Or, is it extraordinary, that,
in relation to cases of the first description, there should luvebeen
a considerable degree of procrastination ? Might not an officer,
who is conscious that public observation and opinion, whatever
deficiencies they may impute to him, will not rank among them
want of attention or industry, have hoped to escape censure,
express or implied, on that score ?

I will only add, that the consciousness of devoting myself to
the public service to the utmost extent of my faculties, and to the
injury of my health,- is a tranquillizing consolation, of which I
cannot be deprived by any supposition to the contrary.

With perfect respect,

I have the honor to be, Sir,
Your most obedient servant,

Alexander Hamilton,
Secretary of the Tn ami y.
To the Vice-President of the United States, and
President of the Senate.

CLAIM OF KENTUCKY FOR EXPENSES ATTENDING CERTAIN EX-
PEDITIONS AGAINST THE INDIANS.

Communicated to the House of Representatives, April 8th. IT'.'J.

Treasury Department, April 7th. 17'' 1

The Secretary of the Treasury, to whom was referred, by an
order of the House of Kepresentatives of the 24th of January
last, a representation from the Legislature of the State of Ken-
tucky, concerning the expenses of certain expeditions carried on

590 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 37.

ust the Indians, since the 1st day of January, 1785, respect-
fully makes the following report thereupon :

The general principles of the settlement of accounts between
the United States and individual States, suppose the adjustment
oJ all similar matters which originated prior to the separation of
Kentucky from the State of Virginia. Accordingly, it is under-
stood that the expenses of the above-mentioned expeditions were
comprised in that settlement, as a claim on behalf of the State of
\ _ ii i i ; i . 1 1 1 ion the Un ited States, and were substantially admitted
to the credit of that State.

The Secretary does not perceive that the desire of the State
oi Kentucky could be complied with, but upon grounds which
Ld demand the entire exoneration of all the States, from
debts of contemporary or antecedent dates.

Which is respectfully submitted.

Alexander Hamilton,

Secretary of the Treasury .

END OF VOL. III.

iyjj