Skip to content

RESOURCES

/

Document

Debate on Amendments to the Constitution

Daniel Carroll
,
James Madison
,
Roger Sherman
,
Thomas Tudor Tucker

August 18, 1789

August 21, 1789

Share

Cite

Print

Edited and introduced by

John Dinan

Introduction

A
fter eleven of the thirteen original states ratified the Constitution (North Carolina and Rhode Island did not ratify the document until later in 1789 and in 1790, respectively) and the federal government began operating, Congress turned to consider amendments that were intended to address some of the
concerns
expressed by Antifederalist
critics
of the Constitution during the ratifying debates. James Madison (1751–1836) introduced in the House of Representatives a series of proposed amendments, including the provision that became the Tenth Amendment. He explained the purpose of this amendment during a June 8, 1789, speech proposing the
Bill of Rights
: “I find, from looking into the amendments proposed by the state conventions, that several are particularly anxious that it should be declared in the Constitution, that the powers not therein delegated should be reserved to the several states. Perhaps words which may define this more precisely than the whole of the instrument now does, may be considered as superfluous. I admit they may be deemed unnecessary: but there can be no harm in making such a declaration, if gentlemen will allow that the fact is as stated. I am sure I understand it so, and do therefore propose it.”

As originally proposed, what became the Tenth Amendment read: “The powers not delegated by the
Constitution
, nor prohibited by it to the states, are reserved to the states respectively.” When the House debated this language, several members sought to add the word “expressly,” with the intent of making clear that state governments or the people retained all powers “not expressly delegated by this Constitution.” In an argument that proved persuasive to a majority of the chamber, Madison argued against including “expressly” in the amendment. The final text of the amendment, as it emerged from Congress and was ratified by state legislatures, declares: “The powers not delegated to the United States by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the states, are reserved to the states respectively, or to the people.”

The Tenth Amendment has been invoked throughout American history by officials, and especially judges, in the course of considering the legitimacy of federal acts (see, for instance,
Executive Order 12612
,
Gregory v. Ashcroft
, and
Printz v. United States
). However, the Supreme Court concluded in its most direct engagement with the Tenth Amendment (U.S. v. Darby, 312 U.S. 100 ) that it is not judicially enforceable. In his opinion for the Court in that case, Justice Harlan Stone wrote: “The amendment states but a truism that all is retained which has not been surrendered. There is nothing in the history of its adoption to suggest that it was more than declaratory of the relationship between the national and state governments as it had been established by the Constitution before the amendment, or that its purpose was other than to allay fears that the new national government might seek to exercise powers not granted, and that the states might not be able to exercise fully their reserved powers.”

Document

Sources: Annals of Congress, House of Representatives, 1st Congress, 1st Session, 790,
https://memory.loc.gov/cgi-bin/ampage?collId=llac&fileName=001/llac001.db&recNum=394; Annals of Congress, House of Representatives, 1st Congress, 1st Session, 798, https://memory.loc.gov/cgi-bin/ampage?collId=llac&fileName=001/llac001.db&recNum=399
.

August 18, 1789

The 9th proposition, in the words following, was considered, “The powers not delegated by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the states, are reserved to the states respectively.”

Mr. Tucker
proposed to amend the proposition by prefixing to it “all powers being derived from the people.” He thought this a better place to make this assertion than the introductory clause of the Constitution, where a similar sentiment was proposed by the committee. He extended his motion also, to add the word “expressly,” so as to read “the powers not expressly delegated by this Constitution.”

Mr. Madison
objected to this amendment, because it was impossible to confine a government to the exercise of express powers; there must necessarily be admitted powers by implication, unless the Constitution descended to recount every minutia. He remembered the word “expressly” had been moved in the convention of Virginia by the opponents to the ratification, and, after full and fair discussion, was given up by them, and the system allowed to retain its present form.

Mr. Sherman
coincided with Mr. Madison in opinion, observing that corporate bodies are supposed to possess all powers incident to a corporate capacity, without being absolutely expressed.

Mr. Tucker did not view the word “expressly” in the same light with the gentleman who opposed him; he thought every power to be expressly given that could be clearly comprehended within any accurate definition of the general power.

Mr. Tucker’s motion being negatived,

Mr. Carroll
proposed to add to the end of the proposition, “or to the people”; this was agreed to….

August 21, 1789 

… The ninth proposition Mr. Gerry proposed to amend by inserting the word “expressly,” so as to read “the powers not expressly delegated by the Constitution, nor prohibited to the states, are reserved to the states respectively, or to the people.” As he thought this an amendment of great importance, he requested the yeas and nays might be taken. He was supported in this by one-fifth of the members present; whereupon they were taken, and were as follows:

Yeas—Messrs. Burke, Coles, Floyd, Gerry, Grout, Hathorn, Jackson, Livermore, Page, Parker, Partridge, Van Rensselaer, Smith (of South Carolina), Stone, Sumter, Thatcher, and Tucker—17.

Nays—Messrs. Ames, Benson, Boudinot, Brown, Cadwalader, Carroll, Clymer, Fitzsimons, Foster, Gale, Gilman, Goodhue, Hartley, Heister, Lawrence, Lee, Madison, Moore, Muhlenburg, Schureman, Scott, Sedgwick, Seney, Sherman, Sylvester, Sinnickson, Smith (of Maryland), Sturges, Trumbull, Vining, Wadsworth, and Wynkoop—32.

Mr. Sherman moved to alter the last clause, so as to make it read, “the powers not delegated to the United States by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the states, are reserved to the states respectively, or to the people.”

This motion was adopted without debate….

Source

Sources: Annals of Congress, House of Representatives, 1st Congress, 1st Session, 790,
https://memory.loc.gov/cgi-bin/ampage?collId=llac&fileName=001/llac001.db&recNum=394; Annals of Congress, House of Representatives, 1st Congress, 1st Session, 798, https://memory.loc.gov/cgi-bin/ampage?collId=llac&fileName=001/llac001.db&recNum=399
.

Footnotes

Thomas Tudor Tucker, South Carolina (1745-1828)

James Madison (1751–1836), Virginia.

Roger Sherman (1721–1793), Connecticut.

Daniel Carroll (1730–1796), Maryland.

Collections

Federalism

View Collection

Study Questions

For what purpose did the convention decide to add the words “or to the people” to the proposed Tenth Amendment, so that it declares: “The powers not delegated by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the states, are reserved to the states respectively, or to the people”?

Would it have made a difference in interpreting the Tenth Amendment if the convention had approved Elbridge Gerry’s motion to add the word “expressly,” so that the Tenth Amendment would have declared that “the powers not expressly delegated by the Constitution, nor prohibited to the states, are reserved to the states respectively”? Consider, for instance, Thomas Jefferson’s argument against the
constitutionality of chartering a national bank
. Would Jefferson’s argument have been stronger in an appreciable way if the Tenth Amendment included the word “expressly”? Would it have made an appreciable difference in how the Supreme Court resolved cases such as
South Carolina v. Katzenbach
or
South Dakota v. Dole
or other cases regarding the balance of federal and state power if the word “expressly” had been included in the amendment?

Declaration of Independence , by John Trumbull. Wikipedia Commons.

Related Resources

Our Peculiar Domestic Institutions

Anonymous

December 31, 1840

view document

CC Day 2: Officers Elected

James Madison

May 25, 1787

view document

Declaration of Independence

July 4, 1776

view document

An American Story

Roy Gomez

December 31, 2025

view document

The Battle between the Marines and Pachucos

June 9, 1943

view document

Articles of Incorporation of the Supreme Council of the Mexican-American Movement

December 19, 1945

view document

Join Our Community
of Teachers

Teaching American History provides more than just the best programs and resources available for teachers. We provide a vibrant community of practice that is there for you at every stage of your teaching career.

Join Now

Ideas, resources, & opportunities to engage
Subscribe to our eNewsletter.

First Name

Last Name

Email

Subscribe