NYPL RESEARCH LIBRARIES
I I I I I I II M I I

Illlllllllllllllillli

3 3433 08173745 8

THE
NEW YORK PUBLIC LIBRARY

+ ■* *

The Amy Angell Collier Montague

and Gilbert H. Montague

Collection

Ufa <iy

SEAL HARBOR LIBRARY,
96&

FEDERAL EDITION
Limited to 1,000 signed and numbered sets.

The Collector's Federal Edition of the Writings
of Benjamin Franklin is limited to six hundred
signed and numbered sets, of which this is

Number

We guarantee that no limited, numbered edition,
other than the Federal, shall be printed from these
plates.

The written number must correspond with the
perforated number at top of this page.

nelw

Benjamin Franklin

From the miniature by Thouron

(Lift

Murk* of

If -4V

itk.

(C v1*" ♦ • V- ♦- VPV? +"

III

w

(frweltfi? Halume$

Jieft^ral (fMfhw

The Works of

Benjamin Franklin

Including the Private as well as the
Official and Scientific Correspondence

Together with
The Unmutilated and Correct Version of the Autobiography

Compiled and Edited
by

John Bigelow

Strange that Ulysses does a thousand things so well." — Iliad, B. it, 335

Volume III

G. P. Putnam's Sons

New York and London

Cbe IRntckeiboc&er. lprees
Ube ttnlcfeerboclier pxces, Hew Mork

CONTENTS OF VOL. Ill

J753-

CVII. — To William Smith, November 27TH . 3
The academy.

CVIII. — To Cadwallader Colden, December

6th ....... 4

Regulation of trade with the Indians.
CIX. — To James Bowdoin, December 13TH . 5
Concerning the light emitted by salt water
— Abbe Nollet's letters.
CX. — To Peter Collinson, April i8th . 8

New method of ascertaining the positive
and negative state of electricity in the clouds.

CXI. — To Cadwallader Colden, August 30TH. 9
On a plan for a union of the colonies — Bec-
caria on electricity.

CXII. — Plan of Union for the Colonies . 12
CXIII. — Letters to Governor Shirley . . 46

1755-

CXIV. — To Miss Catherine Ray, March 4TH . 58
CXV. — Electrical Experiments, March 14TH 60
CXVI. — To John Lining, March i8th . . 67
Electrical observations and experiments —
Reflections on the spirit of invention.

iv Contents of Volume III

PAGE

CXVII. — To M. Dalibard, June 29TH . . 76

Beccaria on ekctricity — Pointed rods —
Effect of lightning on the church of Newberry.

CXVIII. — To Peter Collinson, August 25TH . 80
A whirlwind in Maryland.

CXIX. — To Jared Eliot, August 31ST . . 82
State of the army — Mitchell's map— John
Bartram.

CXX. — To Jared Eliot, September ist . . 84
Introducing Mr. Bartram and Mr. Alison.

CXXL — To Miss Catherine Ray, September

iith 85

CXXII. — To William Shirley, October 23D . 90
Thanks and proffer of service.
CXXIII. — To James Read, November 2D 91

Arms and ammunition for the frontier.

CXXIV. — An Act to Organize for Military Pur-
poses in Pennsylvania ... 93

CXXV. — To William Parsons, December 5TH . 99
Appropriations for the defence of the fron-
tiers— The militia act.

CXXVI. — To William Parsons, December 15TH . 101
Troops sent to the front.
CXXVII. — Dialogue between X, Y, and Z . . 102
CXXVIII. — To Mrs. Deborah Franklin, Decem-
ber 27TH ...... 117
CXXIX. — Commission from Lt.-Gov. Morris,

January 5TH ..... 118
CXXX. — To Mrs. Deborah Franklin, January

15TH ....... 118

CXXXI. — To Mrs. Deborah Franklin, January

25TH ....... 119

The situation at Gnadenhutten.

Contents of Volume III

CXXXII
CXXXIII

cxxxiv.

cxxxv

cxxxvi

CXXXVII.
CXXXVIII.

CXXXIX.

CXL.
CXLI.

CXLIL—

CXLIII.
CXLIV.

CXLV.
CXLVI,

CXLVIL-
CXLVIIL-

TV T^ PAGE

— To a Friend, January 25TH . . .121
March of the troops to Gnadenhutten and
building the fort.

. — To Robert Hunter Morris, Governor
of Pennsylvania, January 26th
Gnadenhutten — Number and disposition of
the troops.

—To Mrs. Deborah Franklin, January
30TH .....

—To Mrs. Deborah Franklin, January
31ST

—To Mrs. Jane Mecom, February 12TH.
— To Miss E. Hubbard, February 23D

On the death of his brother, John Franklin.
—To Mrs. Deborah Franklin, March

2 I ST .

—To Mrs. Deborah Franklin, March
30TH ......

—To Joseph Huey, June 6th .

—To Mrs. Jane Mecom, June 28th
His nephew at Antigua.
To William Parsons, June 28th

Military affairs.

-To George Whitefield, July 2D
-To Thomas Pownall, August 19TH

Indians regardless of treaties — Six nations
— Recruits wanted on the frontier.

-To George Washington, August 19TH .

A mail for the army.

-To Mrs. Deborah Franklin, Novem-
ber 13TH .....
Conference with the Indians at Easton.

To Edward and Jane Mecom, Decem-
ber 30TH ....

Plan for Settling Tv/o Western Colo-
nies in North America, with Rea-
sons for the Plan .
I25
127
129
135
139
143
J45

vi Contents of Volume III
PAGE

CXLIX. — To Robert Charles, February ist . 157
CL. — Report op the Committee op Griev-
ances of the Assembly of Pennsyl-
vania, February 22D . . . 159
CLI. — To Mrs. Jane Mecom, February 2ist . 168
CLII. — To William Parsons, February 22D . 168
Mission to England.
CLIII. — To Miss Catherine Ray, March 3D . 169
CLIV.— To Mr. Dunlap, April 4TH . . .170
CLV. — To Mrs. Deborah Franklin, April 5TH. 1 7 1

CLVI. — To John Lining, April 14TH . . .172
On cold produced by evaporation.
CLVII. — To Mrs. Jane Mecom, April 19TH . 180

Habits of old age.
CLVIII. — To Mrs. Jane Mecom, May 21ST . . 181
Domestic economy.

CLIX.— To Mrs. Deborah Franklin, May 27TH, 183
Delayed at New York — Lord Loudoun —
French fleet reported.
CLX. — To Isaac Norris, May 30TH . . .186
Delays — Interviews with Lord Loudoun re-
specting the pay of servants enlisted in the army.

CLXI. — To Mrs. Jane Mecom, May 30TH . . 191
Rules of conduct — Habits of industry.
CLXII. — To Mrs. Deborah Franklin, June 2D . 194

Arrival in London.

CLXIII.— To Mrs. Deborah Franklin, July 27TH 195
CLXIV. — To Mrs. Deborah Franklin, Novem-
ber 22D ....-• *95
His long illness— Dr. Fothergill— The Stev-
ensons.
CLXV.— From William Strahan to Mrs. Frank-
lin, December 13TH .... 202
CLXVL— To John Pringle, December 2 ist . 206
The effects of electricity on paralytics.

Contents of Volume III vii
PAGE

CLXVII. — To John Pringle, January 6th . 208
On the different strata of the earth.
CLXVIII. — To Mrs. Deborah Franklin, Janu-
ary 14.TH 209

CLXIX. — To Mrs. Deborah Franklin, Janu-
ary 21ST ..... 211
CLXX. — To Mrs. Deborah Franklin, Febru-
ary 19TH ..... 212

Hackney coaches — Presents to his wife
and friends.
CLXXI. — To Thomas Hubbard, April 28TH . 217
CLXXII. — To Mrs. Deborah Franklin, June

ioth ...... 220

Governor Denny — Governor Hamilton —
Taxing the proprietary estates.

CLXXIII. — To the Speaker and Committee of
the Pennsylvania Assembly, June
ioth ...... 227

Case of Moore and Smith — Privileges of
the Assembly — Prejudices in England.

CLXXIV. — To John Lining, June 17TH . . 230

Experiments for producing cold by evap-
oration.
CLXXV.— To Mrs. Deborah Franklin, Sep-
tember 6th ..... 235
Travels in England — Cambridge Univer-
sity— Account of his father's birthplace and
relations there.
CLXXVI. — To Hugh Roberts, September i6th 239

CLXXVII. — ToMrs. Jane Mecom, September i6th 242
Family connections — Reflections — Faith,
Hope, and Charity.
CLXXVIII. — To Miss Stevenson, May 4TH . . 245

viii Contents of Volume III
PAGE

CLXXIX. — To Lord Kames, January 3D . . 246
Predictions in regard to America — Wm.
Penn's portrait — Recollections of Scotland.

CLXXX. — To John Hughes, January 7TH . 251
Prospect of Peace — Canada — Condition
of laws sent to England.

CLXXXI. — To Mrs. Deborah Franklin, March
5th

Recommended to settle in England.

CLXXXIL — To Miss Stevenson, May ist .
CLXXXIIL— To Lord Kames, May 3d .

CLXXXIV— To Peter Franklin, May 7TH .
On the saltness of sea water.
CLXXXV. — To Alexander Small, May 12TH
CLXXXVI .— To Miss Stevenson, May i6th

Directions for reading.

CLXXXVII. — To Miss Stevenson, June iith

Effect of air on the barometer — The study
of insects.

CLXXXVIII.— To Mrs. Deborah Franklin, Junb
27TH ......

Advice not to worry about him — Negro
school — Servants — Marriages.
CLXXXIX. — To Miss Stevenson, September 13TH 271
The Bristol waters and the tide in rivers.
CXC. — The Interest of Great Britain
Considered with Regard to her
Colonies and the Acquisitions of
Canada and Guadaloupe . . 278

CXCI. — To Lord Kames, September 27TH . 334
Journey in England and Wales.
CXCII. — To David Hume, September 27TH . 335
The Historical Review — Duke of Bedford
— The Canada Exhibition — Hume's essay
on Jealousy of Commerce — The use of new
words.
254
259
263
268

Contents of Volume III ix

PAGB

CXGIII. — To John Baskerville, the Printer 338

On the use of his printing-types.
CXCIV. — To Mrs. Deborah Franklin . . 340
CXCV. — To the Printer of the "London

Chronicle" 342

On the means of disposing an enemy to
peace; purporting to be a chapter from an
old book.
CXCVI. — To Hugh Roberts, February 26th . 348
Hospital — The old Junto.
CXCVII. — To Miss Stevenson, March 30TH . 350
Salt water freshened by distillation — How
to relieve thirst by sea water.

CXCVIII.— To Josiah Quincy, April 8th . . 352

Edmund Quincy — Affairs in England.

CXCIX. — To Henry Potts, April 23D . . 354
Postal routes and mail service in New
Jersey.
CC. — To Edward Pennington, May <jth . 360
Property of the Penn family in Pennsyl-
vania.
CCI. — To Mrs. Deborah Franklin, Sep-
tember 14TH ..... 363
Travels in Holland and Flanders.
CCII. — To Miss Stevenson, October 29TH . 363
CCIII. — To Lord Kames, November . . 364
His Introduction to the Art of Thinking —
The Art of Virtue — Dr. Cullen.
CCIV. — To David Hume, January 24TH . 368
On the securing of houses from the effects
of lightning.

Contents of Volume III

PAGE

CCV. TO E. KlNNERSLEY, FEBRUARY 20TH . 37 I

How long the Leyden bottle may be kept
charged — Heated glass permeable by elec-
tricity— Electrical attraction and repulsion
— Explosion of water — Knobs and points.

CCVI. — To Miss Stevenson, March 8th . 399

CCVII. — To Miss Stevenson, March 22D . 400
The Leyden bottle.

CCVIII. — To Mrs. Deborah Franklin, March

24TH 401

CCIX. — From David Hume, May ioth . . 402
Remarks on lightning-rods — Franklin as
a philosopher and man of letters.

CCX. — To David Hume, May 19TH . . 404
Lightning-rods and lightning — Lord Mari-
schal — Gold and wisdom.

CCXL— Fire 407

CCXII. — To Miss Stevenson, June 7TH . . 409
CCXIII. — Electrical Experiments on Amber,

July 3D 410

CCXIV. — To John Baptist Beccaria, July

13TH ...... 411

A new musical instrument.

CCXV. — To Oliver Neave, July 20TH . .417

The best medium for conveying sound.

CCXVI. — To Mr. William Strahan, July 2oth, 420

CCXVII. — To Mr. William Strahan, July 23D . 421

CCXVIII. — To Miss Stevenson, August 1 ith . 422

CCXIX. — To Lord Kames, August 17TH . . 423

Farewell to England — The Elements of
Criticism.

CCXX. — To Mr. William Strahan, August

23D 425

CCXXI. — To John Pringle, December ist . 426
The effect of oil on water.
CCXXII. — To William Strahan, December 2D . 428

Contents of Volume III xi

PAGE

CCXXIII. — To Mr. Whiteford, December 7TH . 429
William Franklin appointed governor of
New Jersey — The taking of Havana — Paint-
ing and poetry in America.
CCXXIV.— To Mr. Peter Franklin . . . 43 2
The best method of protecting a powder
magazine from lightning.
CCXXV. — B. Franklin's Services in the Gen-
eral Assembly of Pennsylvania . 434
CCXXVI. — To Mrs. Greene, January 23D . 444

CCXXVIL— To , February qth . . 445

Expenses and compensation as agent of
the province of Pennsylvania in England.

CCXXVIIL— To William Strahan, February

23D ...... 447

CCXXIX. — Congelation of Quicksilver — Cold
from Evaporation, February
26th ....-• 447

CCXXX.— To Miss Stevenson, March 25TH . 449

Arrival in America.

CCXXXL— To Jonathan Williams, April 13TH . 453

CCXXXIL— To William Strahan, June 2D . 454

CCXXXIIL— To Miss Stevenson, June ioth . 455

CCXXXIV.— To William Strahan, June ioth . 455

CCXXXV.— To Mrs. Deborah Franklin, June

i6th 457

CORRESPONDENCE

AND

MISCELLANEOUS WRITINGS

VOL. III. — I

CORRESPONDENCE

AND

MISCELLANEOUS WRITINGS

CVII

TO WILLIAM SMITH

Philadelphia, 27 November, 1753.

Dear Sir: — Having written to you fully, via
Bristol, I have now little to add. Matters relating
to the Academy remain in statu quo. The trustees
would be glad to see a rector established there, but
they dread entering into new engagements till they
are got out of debt; and I have not yet got them
wholly over to my opinion, that a good professor or
teacher of the higher branches of learning would
draw so many scholars as to pay great part, if not
the whole, of his salary. Thus, unless the Proprie-
tors of the province shall think fit to put the finishing
hand to our institution, it must, I fear, wait some
few years longer before it can arrive at that state of
perfection which to me it seems now capable of ; and
all the pleasure I promised myself in seeing you

4 The Works of [1753

settled among us vanishes into smoke. But good
Mr. Collinson writes me word that no endeavours of
his shall be wanting; and he hopes, with the Arch-
bishop's assistance, to be able to prevail with our
Proprietors.1 I pray God grant them success. My
son presents his affectionate regards, with, dear Sir,
yours, &c,

B. Franklin.

CVIII

TO CADWALLADER COLDEN

Philadelphia, 6 December, 1753.

Dear Sir: — I received your favor of the 19th
past, with some remarks on my meteorological paper,
for which I thank you and return some observations
on those remarks, hoping by this friendly inter-
course of sentiments and objections some advantage
will arise, to the increase of true knowledge.

I sent you our treaty some time since. You will
find very little in it; but I have hopes it will intro-
duce a regulation of our Indian trade, by the govern-
ment taking it in hand and furnishing the Indians
with goods at the cheapest rate without aiming at
profit, as is done by Massachusetts ; by which means
I think we must vastly undersell the French, and
thereby attach the Indians more firmly to the British
interest.

1 Upon the application of Archbishop Herring and Peter Collinson,
at Dr. Franklin's request (aided by the letters of Mr. Allen and Mr.
Peters), Thomas Penn subscribed an annual sum, and afterwards gave
at least £5,000 to the founding or engrafting the College upon the
Academy. — Stuber.

1753] Benjamin Franklin 5

Mr. Collinson certainly received your answer to
Kastner. I think one of his letters to me mentions it.

I send you herewith a copy of my paper on the
Increase of Mankind; the only one I have, so must
request you to return it. That on the Air, &c. , is what
you have already seen. The third mentioned to you
by Mr. Collinson concerning the Germans, is scarcely
worth sending. It will contain nothing new to you.

I congratulate you on Lord Halifax's approba-
tion of your conduct in public affairs. From such a
man the honor is great, and the satisfaction ; but the
approbation of your own mind is something more
valuable in itself, and it is what I doubt not you will
always enjoy.

I should like to see Pike's book some time or other,
when you can conveniently send it. With great
respect and esteem, I am, Sir, &c,

B. Franklin.

CIX

TO JAMES BOWDOIN

Philadelphia, 13 December, 1753.

Dear Sir: — I received your favor of the 12th
ultimo, with the law of your province for regulating
the Indian trade, for which I thank you, and for the
remarks that accompany it, which clearly evince the
usefulness of the law, and I hope will be sufficient to
induce our Assembly to follow your example.

I have yet received no particulars of the un-
happy gentleman's death at Petersburg, (whose fate I
lament). One of the papers says that all the letters

6 The Works of [1753

from thence confirm the account, and mentions his
name (Professor Richmann), but nothing farther.
No doubt we shall have a minute account of the
accident with all its circumstances, in some of the
magazines or the Transactions of the Royal Society.1

The observation you made of the sea water emit-
ting more and less light in different tracts passed
through by your boat is new, and your manner of
accounting for it ingenious. It is indeed very pos-
sible that an extremely small animalcule, too small
to be visible even by the best glasses, may yet give a
visible light. I remember to have taken notice, in a
drop of kennel water, magnified by the solar micro-
scope to the bigness of a cart-wheel, there were num-
bers of visible animalcules of various sizes swimming
about; but I was sure there were likewise some
which I could not see, even with that magnifier, for
the wake they made in swimming to and fro was very
visible, though the body that made it was not so.
Now if I could see the wake of an invisible animal-
cule, I imagine I might much more easily see its
light if it were of the luminous kind. For how small
is the extent of a ship's wake, compared with that of
the light of her lantern.

My barometer will not show the luminous appear-
ance by agitating the mercury in the dark, but I
think yours does. Please to try whether it will,
when agitated, attract a fine thread hung near the
top of the tube.

1 Professor Richmann was killed at Petersburg, on the 26th of July,
1753, while repeating Franklin's experiment for bringing electricity
from the clouds. He received a shock, which caused instantaneous
death.

1753] Benjamin Franklin 7

As to the answer to Nollet, if I were going on with
it, I should be extremely glad of your peeping into it
(as you say) now and then, that I might correct it
by your advice. The materials in short hints have
been long collected and methodized ; they only want
to be clothed with expression. But soon after my
return from New England, I received the enclosed
from Monsieur Dalibard, wherein he tells me that he
is preparing an answer, not only to the Abbe, but to
some others that have wrote against my doctrine,
which will be published the beginning of this winter.
This, with a good deal of business, and a little natural
indolence, has made me neglect finishing my answer
till I shall see what is done by him. Perhaps it
may then appear unnecessary for me to do any thing
farther in it. And will not one's vanity be more
gratified in seeing one's adversary confuted by a
disciple than even by one's self? I am, however, a
little concerned for Dalibard, when I find by his let-
ter that he has been so far imposed on by the Abbe's
confident assertion that a charged bottle placed on
an electric per se loses its electricity, as to attempt to
account for it, when the thing is absolutely not fact.
I have in answer wrote him my sentiments on that
and some other particulars of the Abbe's book, which
I hope will get to hand before his answer is published.1

I am with the greatest esteem and regard,
Dear Sir, your most obliged humble servant,

B. Franklin.

1 The Abbe" Nollet published in Paris a volume entitled, Letters sur
I'Electricite, dans lesquelles on examine les decouvertes qui ont ete faites
sur cette matiere depuis I'Annee I752,et les consequences que Von en peut

8 The Works of [1754

CX

TO PETER COLLINSON

Philadelphia, 18 April, 1754.

Sir: — Since September last, having been abroad
on two long journeys and otherwise much engaged, I
have made but few observations on the positive and
negative state of electricity in the clouds. But Mr.
Kinnersley kept his rod and bells in good order, and
has made many.

Once this winter the bells rang a long time during
a fall of snow, though no thunder was heard or light-
ning seen. Sometimes the flashes and cracks of the
electric matter between bell and bell were so large
and loud as to be heard all over the house; but by
all his observations the clouds were constantly in a
negative state, till about six weeks ago, when he
found them once to change in a few minutes from
the negative to the positive. About a fortnight after
that he made another observation of the same kind,
and last Monday afternoon, the wind blowing hard
at southeast and veering round to northeast, with
many thick, driving clouds, there were five or six
successive changes from negative to positive, and
from positive to negative, the bells stopping a minute
or two between every change. Besides the methods
mentioned in my paper of September last of discover-

tirer. In the first volume were six letters directed to Franklin, de-
signed to confute his doctrines and hypotheses. The Abba's effort
brought into the field several champions of Dr. Franklin, among whom
were David Colden, a son of Cadwallader Colden, of New York, and
Monsieur Dalibard, of Paris. Franklin decided that the Abbess letters
did not require any reply from him.

1754] Benjamin Franklin 9

ing the electrical state of the clouds, the following
may be used. When your bells are ringing, pass a
rubbed tube by the edge of the bell, connected with
your pointed rod; if the cloud is then in a negative
state, the ringing will stop; if in a positive state, it
will continue, and perhaps be quicker. Or suspend
a very small cork ball by a fine silk thread, so that
it may hang close to the edge of the rod-bell; then,
whenever the bell is electrified, whether positively
or negatively, the little ball will be repelled and con-
tinue at some distance from the bell. Have ready
a round-headed glass stopper of a decanter, rub it on
your side till it is electrified, then present it to the
cork ball. If the electricity in the ball is positive,
it will be repelled from the glass stopper, as well as
from the bell; if negative, it will fly to the stopper.

B. Franklin.1

CXI

TO CADWALLADER COLDEN

Philadelphia, 30 August, 1754.

Dear Sir: — I have now before me your favors of
Jul)'- 23d, and August 15th. I return Mr. Pike's
Philo sophia Sacra. His manner of philosophizing is
much out of my way.

I am now about to proceed on my eastern journey,
but hope to be at home in the winter, the best season
for electrical experiments, when I will gladly make
any you desire. In the mean time I should be glad

1 Soon after writing this letter Franklin set out on a tour to New-
England.

io The Works of [1754

if you would communicate the thoughts you men-
tion, that I may consider them. If you please,
direct them to me at Boston.

There must, I think, be some mistake in what you
mention, of my having sent to Mr. Collinson the
paper you wrote me on wTater-spouts. I have the
original now by me, and cannot recollect that I ever
copied it, or that I ever communicated the contents
of it to Mr. Collinson or any one. Indeed, I have
long had an intention of sending him all I have
wrote, and all I have received from others on this
curious subject, without mentioning names; but it is
not yet done.

Our Assembly were not inclined to show any ap-
probation of the plan of union; yet I suppose they
will take no steps to oppose its being established by
the government at home. Popular elections have
their inconveniences in some cases ; but in establish-
ing new forms of government, we cannot always ob-
tain what we may think the best; for the prejudices
of those concerned, if they cannot be removed, must
be in some degree complied with. However, I am
of opinion that when troops are to be raised in
America, the officers appointed must be men they
know and approve, or the levies will be made with
more difficulty, and at much greater expense.1

It is not to be expected that a Quaker Assembly
will establish any but Quaker schools ; nor will they
ever agree to a tax for the payment of any clergy.

1 The author had recently returned from the Convention at Albany,
where he had proposed his celebrated Plan of Union. This Plan, and
Mr. Colden's remarks on some parts of it, may be found in No. CXII.

1754] Benjamin Franklin u

It is intended by the Society, that the schoolmasters
among the Germans shall teach English.

I am glad the representation is agreeable to your
sentiments. The letter to Lord Halifax I suppose
your son sends from New York.

Since my return I have received from Italy a book
in quarto, entitled DelV Elettricismo Artificiale e
Naturale, Libri Due, di Giovambattista Beccaria de1
CC. RR. delle Scuole Pie, printed at Turin, and dedi-
cated to the King. The author professedly goes on
my principles; he seems a master of method, and
has reduced to systematic order the scattered ex-
periments and positions delivered in my paper. At
the end of the first book, there is a letter addressed
to the Abbe Nollet, in which he answers some of the
Abbe's principal objections. This letter being trans-
lated into French, I send you the translation for
your perusal, and will send you the Italian book
itself by some future opportunity, if you desire it.
It pleases me the more, in that I find the author has
been led by sundry observations and experiments,
though different from mine, to the same strange con-
clusion, viz., that some thunder-strokes are from the
earth upwards; in which I feared I should for some
time have been singular.

With the greatest esteem and regard I am, dear
Sir, &c,

B. Franklin.

P. S. — Please to send me the French piece by the
first opportunity, after you have perused it, directed
to me at Boston.

12 The Works of [1754

CXII

PLAN OF UNION FOR THE COLONIES

In anticipation of unpleasant complications with
France, the Lords of Trade directed commissioners to be
appointed in several of the provinces, to assemble at
Albany for the specific purpose of conciliating and at-
taching to them the Six Nations, whose alliance was of
vital importance in case of a war with France. The com-
missioners met on the 19th of June, 1754. The colonies
of New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, Con-
necticut, New York, Pennsylvania, and Maryland were
represented by twenty-five commissioners or delegates.
Franklin was the commissioner from Pennsylvania.
Several days were spent in distributing presents and
holding "talks" with the Indians. On the 24th of June
the journal of the commissioners shows the following
record :

"A motion was made that the commissioners deliver
their opinion whether a union of all the colonies is not at
present absolutely necessary for their security and de-
fence. The question was accordingly put, and passed in
the affirmative unanimously.

" On a motion made, that a committee be appointed to
prepare and receive plans or schemes for the union of
the colonies, and to digest them into one general plan for
the inspection of this Board ; Resolved, that each gov-
ernment choose one of their own number to be of that
committee. Accordingly were appointed Thomas Hutch-
inson for Massachusetts, Theodore Atkinson for New
Hampshire, William Pitkin for Connecticut, Stephen
Hopkins for Rhode Island, William Smith for New York,
Benjamin Franklin for Pennsylvania, and Benjamin
Tasker for Maryland."

1754] Benjamin Franklin 13

It is a significant and curious fact that, with the excep-
tion of those from Massachusetts, none of the delegates
had any instructions to discuss the question of a union of
the colonies for mutual defence, or for any other purpose.
Their instructions restricted them to the concerting of
measures best calculated to secure the friendship of the
Six Nations, and to resist the encroachment of the French
and their allies. The Massachusetts commissioners were
authorized to " enter into articles of union and confedera-
tion for the general defence of his Majesty's subjects and
interests in North America, as well in time of peace as of
wary Though not within the instructions of the com-
missioners, there are abundant reasons for believing that
some plan of union was the subject of much more thought
and discussion than the friendship of the Indians, a sub-
ject, however, which was not neglected. It certainly
had been the uppermost thought in Franklin's mind for
some time. The Pennsylvania Gazette for May 9th, 1754,
contains an account, evidently from his pen, of the cap-
ture by the French of Captain Trent's party, who were
erecting a fort (afterwards Fort Duquesne) at the fork of
the Ohio. After narrating the particulars, and urging
union to resist aggression, he adds: "The confidence of
the French in this undertaking seems well grounded in the
present disunited state of the British colonies, and the
extreme difficulty of bringing so many different govern-
ments and assemblies to agree in any speedy and effectual
measures for our common defence and security; while
our enemies have the very great advantage of being under
one direction, with one council, and one purse." At the
end of the article is a woodcut, in which is the figure of a
snake, separated into parts, to each of which is affixed the
initial of one of the colonies, and at the bottom in large
capital letters the motto, Join or Die. It is not sur-
prising, therefore, that when Franklin arrived at Albany,

14 The Works of [1754

he had in his pocket a "plan of union" which he had
submitted to several influential friends in New York, and
which received their approval. Several other plans were
submitted to the committee, but his was approved of,
and reported to the commissioners. Its various features
were under discussion twelve days, and finally adopted,
subject to the confirmation of Parliament, which was
judged necessary to give such a union validity. Though
the commissioners were nearly or quite unanimous in ap-
proving Franklin's plan of union — Trumbull says the Con-
necticut delegates did not approve of it, though they did
approve of the union, — it met with a very different re-
ception from the colonial assemblies to whom it was sub-
mitted, while in England, it proved so unacceptable that
the Board of Trade did not even recommend it to the
notice of the king. Franklin says: "The Assemblies all
thought there was too much prerogative in it, and in Eng-
land it was thought to have too much of the democratic."
The home government had doubtless much the same
reasons for discouraging such a union as the Roman em-
perors had for refusing to allow the servile population to
be put in uniform ; they did not care to give them such
facilities for learning their own strength.

Short Hints towards a Scheme for Uniting the Northern

Colonies

A GOVERNOR-GENERAL

To be appointed by the King.

To be a military man.

To have a salary from the crown.

To have a negation on all acts of the Grand Coun-
cil, and carry into execution whatever is agreed on
by him and that Council.

1754] Benjamin Franklin 15

GRAND COUNCIL

One member to be chosen by the Assembly of
each of the smaller colonies, and two or more by each
of the larger, in proportion to the sums they pay
yearly into the general treasury.

members' pay

shillings sterling per diem, during their sitting,

and mileage for travelling expenses.

PLACE AND TIME OF MEETING

To meet times in every year, at the capital of

each colony, in course, unless particular circumstances
and emergencies require more frequent meetings and
alteration in the course of places. The governor-
general to judge of those circumstances, &c, and
call by his writs.

GENERAL TREASURY

Its fund, an excise on strong liquors, pretty equally
drunk in the colonies, or duty on liquor imported,

or shillings on each license of a public house, or

excise on superfluities, &c, &c. All which would
pay in some proportion to the present wealth of each
colony, and increase as that wealth increases, and
prevent disputes about the inequality of quotas. To
be collected in each colony and lodged in their treas-
ury, to be ready for the payment of orders issuing
from the governor-general and Grand Council jointly.

1 6 The Works of

L1754

DUTY AND POWER OF THE GOVERNOR-GENERAL AND
GRAND COUNCIL

To order all Indian treaties. Make all Indian pur-
chases not within proprietary grants. Make and
support new settlements by building forts, raising
and paying soldiers to garrison the forts, defend the
frontiers, and annoy the enemy. Equip guard-
vessels to scour the coasts from privateers in time of
war, and protect the trade, and every thing that
shall be found necessary for the defence and support
of the colonies in general, and increasing and extend-
ing their settlements, &c.

For the expense, they may draw on the fund in
the treasury of any colony.

MANNER OF FORMING THIS UNION

The scheme being first well considered, corrected,
and improved by the commissioners at Albany, to
be sent home, and an act of Parliament obtained for
establishing it.1

1 This paper was communicated to James Alexander, with the fol-
lowing note :

New York, June 8, 1754.

"Mr. Alexander is requested to peruse these Hints, and make re-
marks in correcting or improving the scheme, and send the paper,
with such remarks, to Dr. Colden for his sentiments, who is desired to
forward the whole to Albany, to their very humble servant,

"B. Franklin."

!754] Benjamin Franklin 17

Letter from James Alexander to Cadwallader C olden,
Respecting the Above Hints

New York, [June] 9, 1754-

Dear Sir:

I had some conversation with Mr. Franklin and Mr.
Peters ' as to the uniting the colonies, and the difficulties
thereof, by effecting our liberties on the one hand, or
being ineffectual on the other. Whereon Mr. Franklin
promised to set down some hints of a scheme that he
thought might do, which accordingly he sent to me to be
transmitted to you, and it is enclosed.

To me it seems extremely well digested, and at first
sight avoids many difficulties that had occurred to me.

Some difficulties still remain. For example, there
cannot be found men tolerably well skilled in warlike
affairs to be chosen for the Grand Council, and there is
danger in communicating to them the schemes to be put
in execution, for fear of a discovery to the enemy.

Whether this may not be in some measure remedied by
a council of state of a few persons to be chosen by the
Grand Council at their stated meetings, which council of
state to be always attending the governor-general, and
with him to digest beforehand all matters to be laid before
the next Grand Council, and only the general, but not the
particular, plans of operation.

That the governor-general and that council of state
issue orders for the payment of moneys, so far as the
Grand Council have beforehand agreed may be issued for
any general plan to be executed. That the governor-
general and council of state, at every meeting of the
Grand Council, lay before them their accounts and trans-
actions since the last meeting ; at least so much of their

1 Mr. Peters was one of the delegates to the Albany Convention
from Pennsylvania.

VOL. III. — 2.

1 8 The Works of [1754

transactions as is safe to be made public. This council
of state to be something like that of the United Provinces,
and the Grand Council to resemble the States-General.

That the capacity and ability of the persons to be chosen
of the council of state and Grand Council be their only
qualifications, whether members of the respective bodies
that choose them or not. That the Grand Council, with
the governor-general, have power to increase, but not to
decrease, the duties laid by act of Parliament, and have
power to issue bills of credit on emergencies, to be sunk
by the increased funds, bearing a small interest, but not
to be tenders. I am, dear Sir,
Your most obedient,

and most humble servant,

James Alexander.

Remarks on the Hints for a Scheme of Union, by
Cadwallader Colden

GOVERNOR-GENERAL

It seems agreed on all hands that something is neces-
sary to be done for uniting the colonies in their mutual
defence, and it seems to be likewise agreed that it can
only be done effectually by act of Parliament. For this
reason I suppose that the necessary funds for carrying it
into execution, in pursuance of the ends proposed by it,
cannot be otherwise obtained. If it were thought that
the Assemblies of the several colonies may agree to lay
the same duties and apply them to the general defence
and security of all the colonies, no need of an act of
Parliament.

Queer e: Which best for the colonies; by Parliament, or
by the several Assemblies?

1754] Benjamin Franklin 19

The King's ministers, so long since as the year 1723 or
1724, had thoughts of sending over a governor-general of
all the colonies, and the Earl of Stair was proposed as a
fit person. It is probable, the want of a suitable sup-
port of the dignity of that office prevented that scheme's
being carried into execution, and that the ministry and
people of England think that this charge ought to be borne
by the colonies.

GRAND COUNCIL

Quare: Is the Grand Council, with the governor-gen-
eral, to have a legislative authority? If only an executive
power, objections may be made to their being elective.
It would be in a great measure a change of the constitu-
tion, to which I suspect the crown will not consent. We
see the inconveniences attending the present constitution,
and remedies may be found without changing it, but we
cannot foresee what may be the consequences of a change
in it. If the Grand Council be elected for a short time,
steady measures cannot be pursued. If elected for a
long time, and not removable by the crown, they may
become dangerous. Are they to have a negative on the
acts of the governor-general? It is to be considered that
England will keep their colonies, so far as they can, de-
pendent on them ; and this view is to be preserved in all
schemes to which the King's consent is necessary.

PLACE AND TIME OF MEETING

It may be thought dangerous to have fixed meetings of
the Grand Council, and in all the colonies at certain times
and places. It is a privilege which the Parliament has
not, nor the Privy Council, and may be thought destruc-
tive of the constitution.

20 The Works of [1754

GENERAL TREASURY

Some estimate ought to be made of the produce which
may be reasonably expected from the funds proposed to
be raised by duties on liquors, &c, to see whether it will
be sufficient for the ends proposed. This I think may be
done from the custom-houses in the most considerable
places for trade in the colonies.

MANNER OF FORMING THE UNION

No doubt any private person may, in the proper man-
ner, make any proposals which he thinks for the public
benefit ; but, if they are to be made by the commissioners
of the several colonies, who now meet at Albany, it may
be presumed that they speak the sense of their constitu-
ents. What authority have they to do this? I know of
none from either the Council or Assembly of New York.

However, these things may be properly talked of in
conversation among the commissioners for further in-
formation, and in order to induce the several Assemblies
to give proper powers to commissioners to meet after-
wards for this purpose.

Reasons and Motives on which the Plan of Union
was Formed

The commissioners from a number of the northern
colonies being met at Albany, and considering the
difficulties that have always attended the most neces-
sary general measures for the common defence, or
for the annoyance of the enemy, when they were to
be carried through the several particular Assem-
blies of all the colonies: some Assemblies being be-
fore at variance with their governors or councils, and

1754] Benjamin Franklin 21

the several branches of the government not on terms
of doing business with each other ; others taking the
opportunity, when their concurrence is wanted, to
push for favorite laws, powers, or points, that they
think could not at other times be obtained, and so
creating disputes and quarrels; one Assembly wait-
ing to see what another will do, being afraid of doing
more than its share, or desirous of doing less, or re-
fusing to do any thing, because its country is not at
present so much exposed as others, or because an-
other will reap more immediate advantage; — from
one or other of which causes, the Assemblies of six
out of seven colonies applied to had granted no
assistance to Virginia, when lately invaded by the
French, though purposely convened, and the im-
portance of the occasion earnestly urged upon them ;
— considering, moreover, that one principal encour-
agement to the French in invading and insulting the
British American dominions, was their knowledge
of our disunited state, and of our weakness arising
from such want of union; and that from hence dif-
ferent colonies were, at different times, extremely
harassed, and put to great expense both of blood
and treasure, who would have remained in peace, if
the enemy had had cause to fear the drawing on
themselves the resentment and power of the whole;
— the said commissioners, considering also the
present encroachments of the French and the mis-
chievous consequences that may be expected from
them, if not opposed with our force, came to an
unanimous resolution: That a union of the colonies
is absolutely necessary for their preservation.

22 The Works of [1754

The manner of forming and establishing this
union was the next point. When it was considered
that the colonies were seldom all in equal danger at
the same time, or equally near the danger, or equally
sensible of it, that some of them had particular in-
terests to manage, with which a union might inter-
fere, and that they were extremely jealous of each
other, it was thought impracticable to obtain a
joint agreement of all the colonies to a union, in
which the expense and burthen of defending any of
them should be divided among them all ; and if ever
acts of Assembly in all the colonies could be ob-
tained for that purpose, yet as any colony, on the
least dissatisfaction, might repeal its own act, and
thereby withdraw itself from the union, it would not
be a stable one, or such as could be depended on;
for if only one colony should, on any disgust, with-
draw itself, others might think it unjust and un-
equal that they, by continuing in the union, should
be at the expense of defending a colony which re-
fused to bear its proportional part, and would there-
fore one after another withdraw, till the whole
crumbled into its original parts. Therefore the
commissioners came to another previous resolution,
That it was necessary the Union should be established
by act of Parliament.

They then proceeded to sketch out a Plan of
Union, which they did in a plain and concise man-
ner, just sufficient to show their sentiments of the
kind of union that would best suit the circumstances
of the colonies, be most agreeable to the people, and
most effectually promote his Majesty's service and

1754] Benjamin Franklin 23

the general interest of the British empire. This was
respectfully sent to the Assemblies of the several
colonies for their consideration, and to receive such
alterations and improvements as they should think
fit and necessary ; after which it was proposed to be
transmitted to England to be perfected, and the
establishment of it there humbly solicited.

This was as much as the commissioners could
do.

It was proposed by some of the commissioners to
form the colonies into two or three distinct unions;
but for these reasons that proposal was dropped even
by those that made it, viz. :

1. In all cases where the strength of the whole
was necessary to be used against the enemy, there
would be the same difficulty in degree to bring the
several unions to unite together as now the several
colonies; and consequently the same delays on our
part and advantage to the enemy.

2. Each union would separately be weaker than
when joined by the whole, obliged to exert more force,
be oppressed by the expense, and the enemy less
deterred from attacking it.

3. Where particular colonies have selfish views,
as New York, with regard to Indian trade and lands ;
or are less exposed, being covered by others, as New
Jersey, Rhode Island, Connecticut, Maryland; or
have particular whims and prejudices against war-
like measures in general, as Pennsylvania, where the
Quakers predominate; such colonies would have
more weight in a partial union, and be better able to
oppose and obstruct the measures necessary for the

24 The Works of [1754

general good, than where they are swallowed up in
the general union.

4. The Indian trade would be better regulated
by the union of the whole than by the partial unions.
And as Canada is chiefly supported by that trade, if
it could be drawn into the hands of the English, as
it might be if the Indians were supplied on moder-
ate terms, and by honest traders appointed by and
acting for the public ; that alone would contribute
greatly to the weakening of our enemies.

5. The establishing of new colonies westward on
the Ohio and the Lakes, — a matter of considerable
importance to the increase of British trade and
power, to the breaking that of the French, and to
the protection and security of our present colonies,
would best be carried on by a joint union.

6. It was also thought that by the frequent meet-
ings together of commissioners or representatives
from all the colonies, the circumstances of the whole
would be better known, and the good of the whole
better provided for ; and that the colonies would, by
this connexion, learn to consider themselves, not as
so many independent states, but as members of the
same body; and thence be more ready to afford
assistance and support to each other, and to make
diversions in favor even of the most distant, and to
join cordially in any expedition for the benefit of all
against the common enemy.

These were the principal reasons and motives for
forming the Plan of Union as it stands. To which
may be added this, that as the union of the — [The
remainder of this article was lost.]

i7S4] Benjamin Franklin 25

Plan of Union Adopted by the Convention at Albany,
with the Reasons and Motives for Each Article
of the Plan.1

It is proposed that humble application be made
for an act of Parliament of Great Britain, by virtue
of which one general government may be formed in
America, including all the said colonies, within and
under which government each colony may retain
its present constitution, except in the particulars
wherein a change may be directed by the said act, as
hereafter follows.

PRESIDENT-GENERAL AND GRAND COUNCIL

That the said general government be administered
by a President-General, to be appointed and supported
by the crown; and a Grand Council, to be chosen by
the representatives of the people of the several colonies
met in their respective Assemblies.

It was thought that it would be best the President-

1 The several Articles, as originally adopted, are printed in Italic
type; the reasons and motives in Roman.

It is to be observed that the union was to extend to the colonies of
New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Connecticut, Rhode Island, New
York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina,
and South Carolina (being all the British Colonies at that time in
North America, except Georgia and Nova Scotia), "for their mutual
defence and security, and for extending the British settlements in
North America." Another plan was proposed to the Convention,
which included only New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Connecticut,
Rhode Island, New York, and New Jersey. This was printed in the
volume of the collections of the Massachusetts Historical Society for
1800. It is a rough draft of the above plan, with some unimportant
variations. It would seem, by the Hints communicated to Mr. Alex-
ander, that Franklin himself did not at first contemplate any thing
more than a union of the northern colonies. — Sparks.

26 The Works of [1754

General should be supported as well as appointed by
the crown, that so all disputes between him and the
Grand Council concerning his salary might be pre-
vented; as such disputes have been frequently of
mischievous consequence in particular colonies, es-
pecially in time of public danger. The quit-rents of
crown lands in America might in a short time be
sufficient for this purpose. The choice of members
for the Grand Council is placed in the House of
Representatives of each government, in order to
give the people a share in this new general govern-
ment, as the crown has its share by the appointment
of the President-General.

But it being proposed by the gentlemen of the
council of New York, and some other counsellors
among the commissioners, to alter the plan in this
particular, and to give the governors and council of
the several provinces a share in the choice of the
Grand Council, or at least a power of approving and
confirming, or of disallowing, the choice made by
the house of representatives, it was said :

"That the government or constitution, proposed
to be formed by the plan, consists of two branches:
a President-General appointed by the crown, and a
council chosen by the people, or by the people's
representatives, which is the same thing.

"That by a subsequent article, the council chosen
by the people can effect nothing without the consent
of the President-General appointed by the crown;
the crown possesses therefore full one half of the
power of this constitution.

"That in the British constitution, the crown is

i754] Benjamin Franklin 27

supposed to possess but one third, the lords having
their share.

"That this constitution seemed rather more
favorable for the crown.

"That it is essential to English liberty, that the
subject should not be taxed but by his own consent,
or the consent of his elected representatives.

" That taxes to be laid and levied by this proposed
constitution will be proposed and agreed to by the
representatives of the people, if the plan in this par-
ticular be preserved;

" But if the proposed alteration should take place,
it seemed as if matters may be so managed as that
the crown shall finally have the appointment, not
only of the President-General, but of a majority of
the Grand Council; for seven out of eleven governors
and councils are appointed by the crown ;

"And so the people in all the colonies would in
effect be taxed by their governors.

"It was therefore apprehended that such altera-
tions of the plan would give great dissatisfaction,
and that the colonies could not be easy under such
a power in governors, and such an infringement of
what they take to be English liberty.

" Besides, the giving a share in the choice of the
Grand Council would not be equal with respect to all
the colonies, as their constitutions differ. In some,
both governor and council are appointed by the
crown. In others, they are both appointed by the
proprietors. In some, the people have a share in
the choice of the council ; in others, both government
and council are wholly chosen by the people. But

28 The Works of [1754

the House of Representatives is everywhere chosen
by the people; and, therefore, placing the right of
choosing the Grand Council in the representatives is
equal with respect to all.

" That the Grand Council is intended to represent
all the several houses of representatives of the colo-
nies, as a house of representatives doth the several
towns or counties of a colony. Could all the people
of a colony be consulted and unite in public measures,
a house of representatives would be needless, and
could all the Assemblies conveniently consult and
unite in general measures, the Grand Council would
be unnecessary.

"That a House of Commons or the House of
Representatives and the Grand Council are thus
alike in their nature and intention. And as it would
seem improper that the King or House of Lords
should have a power of disallowing or appointing
members of the House of Commons; so likewise,
that a governor and council appointed by the Crown
should have a power of disallowing or appointing
members of the Grand Council, who, in this constitu-
tion, are to be the representatives of the people.

" If the governors and councils, therefore, were to
have a share in the choice of any that are to conduct
this general government, it should seem more proper
that they choose the President- General. But this
being an office of great trust and importance to the
nation, it was thought better to be filled by the im-
mediate appointment of the crown.

"The power proposed to be given by the plan to
the Grand Council is only a concentration of the

1754] Benjamin Franklin 29

powers of the several Assemblies in certain points
for the general welfare; as the power of the Presi-
dent-General is, of the powers of the several govern-
ors in the same points.

" And as the choice therefore of the Grand Coun-
cil by the representatives of the people neither gives
the people any new powers nor diminishes the power
of the crown, it was thought and hoped the crown
would not disapprove of it."

Upon the whole, the commissioners were of opinion
that the choice was most properly placed in the
representatives of the people.

ELECTION OF MEMBERS

That within months after the passing of such

act, the House of Representatives that happens to be
sitting within that time, or that shall be especially for
that purpose convened, may and shall choose members
for the Grand Council in the following proportion —
that is to say:

Massachusetts Bay .
Pennsylvania

. 6

New Hampshire
Maryland .

■ 4

Connecticut . . '.
Virginia . . .

• 7

Rhode Island . . .
North Carolina .

• 4

New York
South Carolina

■ 4

New Jersey . . .
—
It was thought that if the least colony was allowed
more than two, and the others in proportion, the

30 The Works of [1754

number would be very great, and the expense heavy ;
and that less than two would not be convenient, as
a single person being by any accident prevented ap-
pearing at the meeting, the colony he ought to ap-
pear for would not be represented. That as the
choice was not immediately popular, they would be
generally men of good abilities for business, and
men of reputation for integrity; and that forty-
eight such men might be a number sufficient. But
though it was thought reasonable that each colony
should have a share in the representative body in
some degree according to the proportion it con-
tributed to the general treasury, yet the proportion
of wealth or power of the colonies is not to be judged
by the proportion here fixed ; because it was at first
agreed that the greatest colony should not have
more than seven members, nor the least less than
two; and the setting these proportions between
these two extremes was not nicely attended to, as it
would find itself, after the first election, from the
sums brought into the treasury, as by a subsequent
article.

PLACE OF FIRST MEETING

— who shall meet for the first time at the city of Phila-
delphia in Pennsylvania, being called by the Presi-
dent-General as soon as conveniently may be after his
appointment.

Philadelphia was named as being nearer the centre
of the colonies, where the commissioners would be
well and cheaply accommodated. The high roads
through the whole extent, are for the most part very.

1754] Benjamin Franklin 31

good, in which forty or fifty miles a day may very
well be, and frequently are, travelled. Great part
of the way may likewise be gone by water. In
summer time the passages are frequently performed
in a week from Charleston to Philadelpiha and New
York; and from Rhode Island to New York, through
the Sound, in two or three days; and from New
York to Philadelphia, by water and land, in two
days, by stage, boats, and wheel carriages that set
out every other day. The journey from Charleston
to Philadelphia may likewise be facilitated by boats
running up Chesapeake Bay three hundred miles.
But if the whole journey be performed on horseback,
the most distant members, viz., the two from New
Hampshire and from South Carolina, may probably
render themselves at Philadelphia in fifteen to
twenty days; the majority may be there in much
less time.

NEW ELECTION

That there shall be a new election of the members of
the Grand Council every three years; and on the death
or resignation of any member, his place should be
supplied by a new choice at the next sitting of the
Assembly of the colony he represented.

Some colonies have annual assemblies, some con-
tinue during a governor's pleasure; three years was
thought a reasonable medium, as affording a new
member time to improve himself in the business,
and to act after such improvement, and yet giving
opportunities, frequently enough, to change him if
he has misbehaved.

32 The Works of [1754

PROPORTION OF MEMBERS AFTER THE FIRST THREE

YEARS

That after the first three years, when the proportion
of money arising out of each colony to the general
treasury can be known, the number of members to be
chosen for each colony shall from time to time, in all
ensuing elections, be regulated by that proportion, yet
so as that the number to be chosen by any one province
be not more than seven, nor less than two.

By a subsequent article it is proposed that the
General Council shall lay and levy such general
duties as to them may appear most equal and least
burthensome, &c. Suppose, for instance, they lay a
small duty or excise on some commodity imported
into or made in the colonies, and pretty generally
and equally used in all of them, as rum, perhaps, or
wine; the yearly produce of this duty or excise, if
fairly collected, would be in some colonies greater,
in others less, as the colonies are greater or smaller.
When the collector's accounts are brought in, the
proportions will appear; and from them it is pro-
posed to regulate the proportion of representatives
to be chosen at the next general election, within the
limits, however, of seven and two. These numbers
may therefore vary in the course of years, as the
colonies may in the growth and increase of people.
And thus the quota of tax from each colony would
naturally vary with its circumstances, thereby pre-
venting all disputes and dissatisfaction about the
just proportions due from each ; which might other-
wise produce pernicious consequences, and destroy

1754] Benjamin Franklin 33

the harmony and good agreement that ought to
subsist between the several parts of the Union.

MEETINGS OF THE GRAND COUNCIL, AND CALL

That the Grand Council shall meet once in every
year, and opener if occasion require, at such time and
place as they shall adjourn to at the last preceding
meeting, or as they shall be called to meet at by the
President-General on any emergency, he having first
obtained in writing the consent of seven of the members
to such call, and sent due and timely notice to the whole.

It was thought, in establishing and governing new
colonies or settlements, regulating Indian trade, In-
dian treaties, &c., there would be every year suffi-
cient business arise to require at least one meeting,
and at such meeting many things might be sug-
gested for the benefit of all the colonies. This an-
nual meeting may either be at a time or place certain,
to be fixed by the President-General and Grand
Council at their first meeting; or left at liberty, to be
at such time and place as they shall adjourn to, or be
called to meet at by the President-General.

In time of war it seems convenient that the meet-
ing should be in that colony which is nearest the seat
of action.

The power of calling them on any emergency
seemed necessary to be vested in the President-
General ; but that such power might not be wantonly
used to harass the members, and oblige them to
make frequent long journeys to little purpose, the
consent of seven at least to such call was supposed a
convenient guard.

vol. in. — 3.

34 The Works of [1754

CONTINUANCE

That the Grand Council have power to choose their
speaker, and shall neither be dissolved, prorogued, nor
continued sitting longer than six weeks at one time,
without their own consent or the special command of
the crown.

The speaker should be presented for approbation;
it being convenient, to prevent misunderstandings
and disgusts, that the mouth of the Council should
be a person agreeable, if possible, both to the
Council and President-General.

Governors have sometimes wantonly exercised the
power of proroguing or continuing the sessions of as-
semblies merely to harass the members and compel a
compliance; and sometimes dissolve them on slight
disgusts. This it was feared might be done by the
President-General, if not provided against, and
the inconvenience and hardship would be greater in
the general government than in particular colonies,
in proportion to the distance the members must be
from home during sittings, and the long journeys
some of them must necessarily take.

members' allowance

That the members of the Grand Council shall be
allowed for their service ten shillings sterling per diem
during their session and journey to and from the place
of meeting; twenty miles to be reckoned a day's journey.

It was thought proper to allow some wages, lest
the expense might deter some suitable persons from
the service; and not to allow too great wages, lest

i754] Benjamin Franklin 35

unsuitable persons should be tempted to cabal for
the employment, for the sake of gain. Twenty miles
were set down as a day's journey, to allow for acci-
dental hindrances on the road and the greater ex-
penses of travelling than residing at the place of
meeting.

ASSENT OF PRESIDENT-GENERAL AND HIS DUTY

That the assent of the President-General be requisite
to all acts of the Grand Council, and that it be his
office and duty to cause them to be carried into execu-
tion.

The assent of the President-General to all acts of
the Grand Council was made necessary, in order to
give the crown its due share of influence in this gov-
ernment, and connect it with that of Great Britain.
The President-General, besides one half of the legis-
lative power, hath in his hands the whole executive
power.

POWER OF PRESIDENT-GENERAL AND GRAND COUNCIL;
TREATIES OF PEACE AND WAR

That the President-General, with the advice of the
Grand Council, hold or direct all Indian treaties in
which the general interest of the colonies may be con-
cerned; and make peace or declare war with Indian
nations.

The power of making peace or war with Indian na-
tions is at present supposed to be in every colony,
and is expressly granted to some by charter, so that
no new power is hereby intended to be granted to

36 The Works of [1754

the colonies. But as, in consequence of this power,
one colony might make peace with a nation that
another was justly engaged in war with, or make
war on slight occasions without the concurrence or
approbation of neighbouring colonies greatly en-
dangered by it, or make particular treaties of neu-
trality, in case of a general war, to their own private
advantage in trade, by supplying the common
enemy, — of all which there have been instances, —
it was thought better to have all treaties of a general
nature under a general direction, that so the good of
the whole may be consulted and provided for.

INDIAN TRADE

That they make such laws as they judge necessary
for regulating all Indian trade.

Many quarrels and wars have arisen between the
colonies and Indian nations through the bad con-
duct of traders, who cheat the Indians after making
them drunk, &c, to the great expense of the colo-
nies, both in blood and treasure. Particular colo-
nies are so interested in the trade, as not to be willing
to admit such a regulation as might be best for the
whole; and therefore it was thought best under a
general direction.

INDIAN PURCHASES

That they make all purchases, from Indians for the
crown, of lands not now within the bounds of par-
ticular colonies, or that shall not be within their bounds

1754] Benjamin Franklin 37

when some of them are reduced to more convenient
dimensions.

Purchases from the Indians, made by private per-
sons, have been attended with many inconveniences.
They have frequently interfered and occasioned un-
certainty of titles, many disputes and expensive
lawsuits, and hindered the settlement of the land so
disputed. Then the Indians have been cheated by
such private purchases, and discontent and wars
have been the consequence. These would be pre-
vented by public, fair purchases.

Several of the colony charters in America extend
their bounds to the South Sea, which may be per-
haps, three or four thousand miles in length to one or
two hundred miles in breadth. It is supposed they
must in time be reduced to dimensions more con-
venient for the common purposes of government.

Very little of the land in those grants is yet pur-
chased of the Indians.

It is much cheaper to purchase of them, than to
take and maintain the possession by force ; for they
are generally very reasonable in their demands for
land; and the expense of guarding a large frontier
against their incursions is vastly great ; because all
must be guarded, and always guarded, as we know
not where or when to expect them.1

1 To guard against the incursions of the Indians, a plan was sent
over to America (and, as I think, by authority), suggesting the ex-
pediency of clearing away the woods and bushes from a tract of land,
a mile in breadth, and extending along the back of the colonies. Un-
fortunately, besides the large expense of the undertaking (which, if
one acre cost £2 sterling, and six hundred and forty acres make a
square mile, is £128,000 first cost for every hundred miles), it was for-
gotten that the Indians, like other people, knew the difference between

38 The Works of [1754

NEW SETTLEMENTS

That they make new settlements on such purchases,
by granting lands in the King's name, reserving a quit-
rent to the crown for the use of the general treasury.

It is supposed better that there should be one
purchaser than many ; and that the crown should be
that purchaser, or the Union in the name of the
crown. By this means the bargains may be more
easily made, the price not enhanced by numerous
bidders, future disputes about private Indian pur-
chases, and monopolies of vast tracts to particular
persons (which are prejudicial to the settlement and
peopling of the country), prevented; and the land
being again granted in small tracts to the settlers,
the quit-rents reserved may in time become a fund
for support of government, for defence of the coun-
try, ease of taxes, &c.

Strong forts on the Lakes, the Ohio, &c, may, at
the same time they secure our present frontiers,
serve to defend new colonies settled under their
protection; and such colonies would also mutually
defend and support such forts, and better secure the
friendship of the far Indians.

A particular colony has scarce strength enough to
extend itself by new settlements, at so great a dis-
tance from the old; but the joint force of the Union

day and night, and that a mile of advance and another of retreat were
nothing to the celerity of such an enemy. This plan, it is said, was the
work of Dean Tucker. — B. V.

If the absurdity of such a scheme is not in itself sufficiently glaring,
it may be added, that bushes would soon start up and grow into trees
again, and the expense of clearing must be often repeated.

1754] Benjamin Franklin 39

might suddenly establish a new colony or two in
those parts, or extend an old colony to particular
passes, greatly to the security of our present fron-
tiers, increase of trade and people, breaking off the
French communication between Canada and Louis-
iana, and speedy settlement of the intermediate
lands.

The power of settling new colonies is, therefore,
thought a valuable part of the plan, and what can-
not so well be executed by two unions as by one.

LAWS TO GOVERN THEM

That they make laws for regulating and governing
such new settlements till the crown shall think fit to
form them into particular governments.

The making of laws suitable for the new colonies
it was thought, would be properly vested in the
President-General and Grand Council, under whose
protection they must at first necessarily be, and who
would be well acquainted with their circumstances,
as having settled them. When they are become
sufficiently populous, they may by the crown be
formed into complete and distinct governments.

The appointment of a sub-president by the crown,
to take place in case of the death or absence of the
President-General, would perhaps be an improve-
ment of the plan; and if all the governors of par-
ticular provinces were to be formed into a standing
council of state, for the advice and assistance of the
President-General, it might be another considerable
improvement.

40 The Works of [1754

RAISE SOLDIERS AND EQUIP VESSELS, &C.

That they raise and pay soldiers and build forts for
the defence of any of the colonies, and equip vessels of
force to guard the coasts and protect the trade on the ocean,
lakes, or great rivers; but they shall not impress men
in any colony without the consent of the legislature.

It was thought that quotas of men, to be raised
and paid by the several colonies, and joined for any
public service, could not always be got together with
the necessary expedition. For instance, suppose one
thousand men should be wanted in New Hampshire
on any emergency. To fetch them by fifties and
hundreds out of every colony, as far as South Caro-
lina, would be inconvenient, the transportation
chargeable, and the occasion perhaps passed before
they could be assembled ; and therefore that it would
be best to raise them (by offering bounty- money and
pay) near the place where they would be wanted, to
be discharged again when the service should be over.

Particular colonies are at present backward to
build forts at their own expense, which they say will
be equally useful to their neighbouring colonies, who
refuse to join, on a presumption that such forts will
be built and kept up, though they contribute nothing.
This unjust conduct weakens the whole ; but the
forts being for the good of the whole, it was thought
best they should be built and maintained by the
whole out of the common treasury.

In the time of war, small vessels of force are
sometimes necessary in the colonies to scour the
coasts of small privateers. These being provided

1 7 54] Benjamin Franklin 41

by the Union will be an advantage in turn to the
colonies which are situated on the sea, and whose
frontiers on the landside, being covered by other
colonies, reap but little immediate benefit from the
advanced forts.

POWER TO MAKE LAWS, LAY DUTIES, &C.

That for these purposes they have power to make
laws, and lay and levy such general duties, imposts,
or taxes as to them shall appear most equal and just
(considering the ability and other circumstances of the
inhabitants in the several colonies), and such as may
be collected with the least inconvenience to the people;
rather discouraging luxury than loading industry with
unnecessary burthens.

The laws which the President-General and Grand
Council are empowered to make are such only as
shall be necessary for the government of the settle-
ments; the raising, regulating, and paying soldiers
for the general service; the regulating of Indian
trade, and laying and collecting the general duties
and taxes. They should also have a power to re-
strain the exportation of provisions to the enemy from
any of the colonies, on particular occasions, in time of
war. But it is not intended that they may interfere
with the constitution and government of the particu-
lar colonies, who are to be left to their own laws,
and to lay, levy, and apply their own taxes as before.

GENERAL TREASURER AND PARTICULAR TREASURER

That they may appoint a General Treasurer
and Particular Treasurer in each government, when
The Works of [1754

necessary; and from time to time may order the sums
in the treasuries of each government into the general
treasury, or draw on them for special payments, as
they find most convenient.

The treasurers here meant are only for the gen-
eral funds, and not for the particular funds of each
colony, which remain in the hands of their own
treasurers at their own disposal.

MONEY, HOW TO ISSUE

Yet no money to issue but by joint orders of the
President-General and Grand Council; except where
sums have been appropriated to particular purposes,
and the President-General is previously empowered by
an act to draw such sums.

To prevent misapplication of the money, or even
application that might be dissatisfactory to the
crown or the people, it was thought necessary to join
the President-General and Grand Council in all
issues of money.

ACCOUNTS

That the general accounts shall be yearly settled and
reported to the several Assemblies.

By communicating the accounts yearly to each
Assembly, they will be satisfied of the prudent and
honest conduct of their representatives in the Grand

Council.

quorum

That a quorum of the Grand Council, empowered to
act with the President-General, do consist of twenty-

1754] Benjamin Franklin 43

five members, among whom there shall be one or more
from a majority of the colonies.

The quorum seems large, but it was thought it
would not be satisfactory to the colonies in general
to have matters of importance to the whole trans-
acted by a smaller number, or even by this number
of twenty-five, unless there were among them one
at least from a majority of the colonies; because
otherwise, the whole quorum being made up of mem-
bers from three or four colonies at one end of the
union, something might be done that would not be
equal with respect to the rest, and thence dissatis-
faction and discords might arise to the prejudice
of the whole.

LAWS TO BE TRANSMITTED

That the laws made by them for the purposes afore-
said shall not be repugnant, but, as near as may be,
agreeable to the laws of England, and shall be trans-
mitted to the King in Council for approbation as soon as
may be after their passing; and if not disapproved within
three years after presentation, to remain in force.

This was thought necessary for the satisfaction of
the crown, to preserve the connexion of the parts of
the British empire with the whole, of the members
with the head, and to induce greater care and cir-
cumspection in making of the laws, that they be good
in themselves and for the general benefit.

DEATH OF THE PRESIDENT-GENERAL

That in case of the death of the President-General,
the Speaker of the Grand Council for the time being

44 The Works of [1754

shall succeed, and be vested with the same powers and
authorities, to continue till the King's pleasure be
known.

It might be, perhaps, as was said before, if the
crown appointed a vice-president, to take place on
the death or absence of the President-General; for
so we should be more sure of a suitable person at the
head of the colonies. On the death or absence of both,
the speaker to take place (or rather the eldest King's
governor) till his Majesty's pleasure be known.

OFFICERS, HOW APPOINTED

That all military commission officers, whether for
land or sea service, to act under this general constitu-
tion, shall be nominated by the President-General; but
the approbation of the Grand Council is to be obtained
before they receive their commissions. And all civil
officers are to be nominated by the Grand Council, and
to receive the President-General's approbation before
they officiate.

It was thought it might be very prejudicial to the
service to have officers appointed unknown to the
people, or unacceptable ; the generality of Americans
serving willingly under officers they know, and not
caring to engage in the service under strangers, or
such as are often appointed by governors through
favor or interest. The service here meant is not the
stated, settled service in standing troops, but any
sudden and short service, either for defence of our
colonies or invading the enemy's country (such as
the expedition to Cape Breton in the last war, in
which many substantial farmers and tradesmen en-

1754] Benjamin Franklin 45

gaged as common soldiers, under officers of their own
country, for whom they had an esteem and affection,
who would not have engaged in a standing army or
under officers from England). It was therefore
thought best to give the Council the power of ap-
proving the officers, which the people will look upon
as a great security of their being good men. And
without some such provision as this, it was thought
the expense of engaging men in the service on any
emergency would be much greater, and the number
who could be induced to engage much less, and that
therefore it would be most for the King's service and
general benefit of the nation that the prerogative
should relax a little in this particular throughout
all the colonies in America, as it had already done
much more in the charters of some particular colo-
nies, viz., Connecticut and Rhode Island.

The civil officers will be chiefly treasurers and col-
lectors of taxes; and the suitable persons are most
likely to be known by the Council.

VACANCIES, HOW SUPPLIED

But in case of vacancy by death or removal of any
officer, civil or military, under this constitution, the
Governor of the province in which such vacancy hap-
pens may appoint, till the pleasure of the President-
General and Grand Council can be known.

The vacancies were thought best supplied by the
governors in each province, till a new appointment
can be regularly made; otherwise the service might
suffer before the meeting of the President-General
and Grand Council.

46 The Works of [1754

EACH COLONY MAY DEFEND ITSELF ON EMERGENCY, &C.

That the particular military as well as civil estab-
lishments in each colony remain in their present state,
the general constitution notwithstanding; and that on
sudden emergencies any colony may defend itself, and
lay the accounts of expense thence arising before the
President-General and General Council, who may
allow and order payment of the same, as far as they
judge such accounts just and reasonable.

Otherwise the union of the whole would weaken
the parts, contrary to the design of the Union. The
accounts are to be judged of by the President-Gen-
eral and Grand Council, and allowed if found reason-
able. This was thought necessary to encourage
colonies to defend themselves, as the expense would
be light when borne by the whole; and also to check
imprudent and lavish expense in such defences.

CXIII

THREE LETTERS TO GOVERNOR SHIRLEY

LETTER I l

CONCERNING THE VOICE OF THE PEOPLE IN CHOOSING THE
RULERS BY WHOM TAXES ARE IMPOSED

Tuesday Morning [December 17, 1754]-

Sir: — I return you the loose sheets of the plan,
with thanks to your Excellency for communicating
them.

1 It is stated by Mr. Benjamin Vaughan, that these letters first ap-
peared in the London Chronicle for February 6 and 8, 1766, with prefa-
tory remarks signed "A Lover of Britain."

"The Albany Plan of Union," says this writer, "was sent to the

1754] Benjamin Franklin 47

I apprehend, that excluding the people of the
colonies from all share in the choice of the grand
council will give extreme dissatisfaction, as well as
the taxing them by act of Parliament, where they
have no representation. It is very possible that this
general government might be as well and faithfully
administered without the people as with them; but
where heavy burthens are to be laid upon them, it
has been found useful to make it as much as possible

government here for approbation. Had it been approved and estab-
lished by the authority from hence, English America thought itself
sufficiently able to cope with the French, without other assistance;
several of the colonies having alone, in former wars, withstood the
whole power of the enemy, unassisted not only by the mother country,
but by any of the neighboring provinces. The plan, however, was not
approved here; but a new one was formed instead of it; by which it
was proposed, that ' the governors of all the colonies, attended by one
or two members of their respective councils, should assemble, and con-
cert measures for the defence of the whole, erect forts where they
judged proper, and raise what troops they thought necessary, with
power to draw on the treasury here for the sums that should be wanted,
and the treasury to be reimbursed by a tax laid on the colonies by act
of Parliament.' — This new plan, being communicated by Governor
Shirley to a gentleman of Philadelphia (Dr. Franklin) then in Boston
(who has very eminently distinguished himself, before and since that
time, in the literary world, and whose judgment, penetration, and
candor, as well as his readiness and ability to suggest, forward, or
carry into execution, every scheme of public utility, hath most de-
servedly endeared him, not only to our fellow-subjects throughout the
continent of North America, but to his numberless friends on this side
the Atlantic), occasioned the following remarks from him, which per-
haps may contribute in some degree to its being laid aside. As they
very particularly show the then sentiments of the Americans on the
subject of a parliamentary tax, before the French power in that
country was subjected, and before the late restraints on their com-
merce, they satisfy me, and I hope they will convince your readers,
contrary to what has been advanced by some of your correspondents,
that those particulars have had no share in producing the present
opposition to such a tax, nor in disturbances occasioned by it, which
these papers indeed do almost prophetically foretell."

48 The Works of [i754

their own act ; for they bear better, when they have,
or think they have, some share in the direction ; and
when any public measures are generally grievous, or
even distasteful, to the people, the wheels of govern-
ment move more heavily.

LETTER II

ON THE IMPOSITION OF DIRECT TAXES UPON THE COLONIES
WITHOUT THEIR CONSENT

Wednesday Morning [December 18, 1754].

Sir: — I mentioned it yesterday to your Excellency
as my opinion, that excluding the people of the colo-
nies from all share in the choice of the grand council
would probably give extreme dissatisfaction, as well
as the taxing them by act of Parliament, where they
have no representation. In matters of general con-
cern to the people, and especially where burthens
are to be laid upon them, it is of use to consider, as
well what they will be apt to think and say, as what
they ought to think. I shall therefore, as your Ex-
cellency requires it of me, briefly mention what of
either kind occurs to me on this occasion.

First, they will say, and perhaps with justice, that
the body of the people in the colonies are as loyal,
and as firmly attached to the present constitution
and reigning family, as any subjects in the King's
dominions.

That there is no reason to doubt the readiness and
willingness of the representatives they may choose
to grant from time to time such supplies for the de-

i7S4] Benjamin Franklin 49

fence of the country as shall be judged necessary, so
far as their abilities will allow.

That the people in the colonies who are to feel the
immediate mischiefs of invasion and conquest by an
enemy, in the loss of their estates, lives, and liber-
ties, are likely to be better judges of the quantity of
forces necessary to be raised and maintained, forts
to be built and supported, and of their own abilities
to bear the expense, than the Parliament of Eng-
land, at so great a distance.

That governors often come to the colonies merely
to make fortunes, with which they intend to return
to Britain; are not always men of the best ability
and integrity; have many of them no estates here,
nor any natural connexion with us that should make
them heartily concerned for our welfare; and might
possibly be fond of raising and keeping up more
forces than necessary, from the profits accruing to
themselves, and to make provision for their friends
and dependents.

That the counsellors in most of the colonies being
appointed by the crown, on the recommendation of
governors, are often persons of small estates, fre-
quently dependent on the governors for office, and
therefore too much under influence.

That there is therefore great reason to be jealous
of a power in such governors and councils to raise
such sums as they shall judge necessary, by drafts on
the Lords of the Treasury, to be afterwards laid on
the colonies by act of Parliament, and paid by the
people here; since they might abuse it by projecting
useless expeditions, harassing the people, and taking

5o The Works of [1754

them from their labor to execute such projects,
merely to create offices and employments, and gratify
their dependents, and divide profits.

That the Parliament of England is at a great dis-
tance, subject to be misinformed and misled by such
governors and councils, whose united interests might
possibly secure them against the effect of any com-
plaint from hence.

That it is supposed an undoubted right of English-
men not to be taxed but by their own consent, given
through their representatives.

That the colonies have no representatives in
Parliament.

That to propose taxing them by Parliament, and
refuse them the liberty of choosing a representative
council to meet in the colonies, and consider and
judge of the necessity of any general tax and the
quantum, shows a suspicion of their loyalty to the
crown, or of their regard for their country, or of their
common sense and understanding, which they have
not deserved.

That compelling the colonies to pay money with-
out their consent, would be rather like raising con-
tributions in an enemy's country, than taxing of
Englishmen for their own public benefit.

That it would be treating them as a conquered
people, and not as true British subjects.

That a tax laid by the representatives of the colo-
nies might be easily lessened as the occasions should
lessen ; but being once laid by Parliament, under the
influence of the representations made by governors,
would probably be kept up and continued for the

i7S4] Benjamin Franklin 51

benefit of governors, to the grievous burthen and
discontent of the colonies, and preventions of their
growth and increase.

That a power in governors to march the inhabi-
tants from one end of the British and French colonies
to the other, being a country of at least one thousand
five hundred miles long, without the approbation or
the consent of their representatives first obtained to
such expeditions, might be grievous and ruinous to
the people, and would put them upon a footing with
the subjects of France in Canada, that now groan
under such oppression from their governor, who for
two years past has harassed them with long and
destructive marches to Ohio.

That if the colonies in a body may be well gov-
erned by governors and councils appointed by the
crown, without representatives, particular colonies
may as well or better be so governed ; a tax may be
laid upon them all by act of Parliament for support
of government, and their Assemblies may be dis-
missed as an useless part of the constitution.

That the powers, proposed by the Albany Plan of
Union to be vested in a grand council representative
of the people, even with regard to military matters,
are not so great as those which the colonies of Rhode
Island and Connecticut are intrusted with by their
charters, and have never abused; for, by this plan,
the president-general is appointed by the crown, and
controls all by his negative; but in those govern-
ments the people choose the governor, and yet allow
him no negative.

That the British colonies bordering on the French

52 The Works of [1754

are properly frontiers of the British empire ; and the
frontiers of an empire are properly defended at the
joint expense of the body of the people in such em-
pire. It would now be thought hard by act of Par-
liament to oblige the Cinque Ports or sea-coasts of
Britain to maintain the whole navy, because they are
more immediately defended by it, not allowing them
at the same time a vote in choosing members of the
Parliament ; and as the frontiers of America bear the
expense of their own defence, it seems hard to allow
them no share in voting the money, judging of the
necessity and sum, or advising the measures.

That, besides the taxes necessary for the defence
of the frontiers, the colonies pay yearly great sums to
the mother country unnoticed ; for

1 . Taxes paid in Britain by the landholder or arti-
ficer must enter into and increase the price of the
produce of land and manufactures made of it; and
great part of this is paid by consumers in the colo-
nies, who thereby pay a considerable part of the Brit-
ish taxes.

2. We are restrained in our trade with foreign
nations ; and where we could be supplied with any
manufacture cheaper from them, but must buy the
same dearer from Britain, the difference of price is a
clear tax to Britain.

3. We are obliged to carry a great part of our pro-
duce directly to Britain ; and where the duties laid
upon it lessen its price to the planter, or it sells for
less than it would in foreign markets, the difference is
a tax paid to Britain.

4. Some manufactures we could make, but are for-

1754] Benjamin Franklin 53

bidden, and must take them of British merchants ; the
whole price is a tax paid to Britain.

5. By our greatly increasing the demand and con-
sumption of British manufactures, their price is con-
siderably raised of late years ; the advantage is clear
profit to Britain, and enables its people better to pay
great taxes ; and much of it being paid by us, is clear
tax to Britain.

6. In short, as we are not suffered to regulate our
trade and restrain the importation and consumption
of British superfluities, as Britain can the consump-
tion of foreign superfluities, our whole wealth centres
finally amongst the merchants and inhabitants of
Britain ; and if we make them richer, and enable them
better to pay their taxes, it is nearly the same as be-
ing taxed ourselves, and equally beneficial to the
crown.

These kinds of secondary taxes, however, we do
not complain of, though we have no share in the lay-
ing or disposing of them ; but to pay immediate heavy
taxes, in the laying, appropriation, and disposition of
which we have no part, and which perhaps we may
know to be as unnecessary as grievous, must seem
hard measures to Englishmen, who cannot conceive
that by hazarding their lives and fortunes in subdu-
ing and settling new countries, extending the do-
minion and increasing the commerce of the mother
nation, they have forfeited the native rights of
Britons, which they think ought rather to be given
to them, as due to such merit, if they had been before
in a state of slavery.

These, and such kinds of things as these, I appre-

54 The Works of [1754

hend will be thought and said by the people, if the
proposed alteration of the Albany plan should take
place. Then the administration of the board of gov-
ernors and council so appointed, not having the re-
presentative body of the people to approve and unite
in its measures, and conciliate the minds of the peo-
ple to them, will probably become suspected and
odious, dangerous animosities and feuds will arise
between the governors and governed, and every thing
go into confusion.

Perhaps I am too apprehensive in this matter ; but
having freely given my opinion and reasons, your
Excellency can judge better than I whether there be
any weight in them; and the shortness of the time
allowed me will, I hope, in some degree excuse the
imperfections of this scrawl.

With the greatest respect and fidelity, I have the
honor to be

Your Excellency's most obedient
and most humble servant,

B. Franklin.1

1 Respecting this letter, Mr. John Adams said (in his History of the
Dispute with America, first published in 1774): "Dr. Franklin, who
was known to be an active and very able man, and to have great
influence in the province of Pennsylvania, was in Boston in the year
1754, and Mr. Shirley communicated to him the profound secret, the
great design of taxing the colonies by act of Parliament. This saga-
cious gentleman and distinguished patriot, to his lasting honor, sent
the governor an answer in writing, with the following remarks on his
scheme:" Mr. Adams then quotes the principal parts of the above
letter. — Editor.

i754] Benjamin Franklin 55

LETTER III

ON THE SUBJECT OF UNITING THE COLONIES MORE INTIMATELY
WITH GREAT BRITAIN, BY ALLOWING THEM REPRESENTA-
TIVES IN PARLIAMENT

Boston, December 22, 1754.

Sir : — Since the conversation your Excellency was
pleased to honor me with, on the subject of uniting
the colonies more intimately with Great Britain, by al-
lowing them representatives in Parliament, I have
something further considered that matter, and am of
opinion that such a union would be very acceptable
to the colonies, provided they had a reasonable num-
ber of representatives allowed them ; and that all the
old acts of Parliament restraining the trade or cramp-
ing the manufactures of the colonies be at the same
time repealed, and the British subjects on this side the
water put, in those respects, on the same footing with
those in Great Brtiain, till the new Parliament, re-
presenting the whole, shall think it for the interest of
the whole to re-enact some or all of them. It is not
that I imagine so many representatives will be al-
lowed the colonies as to have any great weight by
their numbers, but I think there might be sufficient
to occasion those laws to be better and more impar-
tially considered, and perhaps to overcome the inter-
est of a petty corporation, or of any particular set of
artificers or traders in England, who heretofore seem,
in some instances, to have been more regarded than
all the colonies, or than was consistent with the gen-
eral interest or best national good. I think, too, that
the government of the colonies by a Parliament in

56 The Works of [1754

which they are fairly represented, would be vastly
more agreeable to the people than the method lately
attempted to be introduced by royal instruction, as
well as more agreeable to the nature of an English
constitution and to English liberty; and that such
laws as now seem to bear hard on the colonies, would
(when judged by such a Parliament for the best in-
terest of the whole) be more cheerfully submitted to
and more easily executed.

I should hope, too, that by such a union the
people of Great Britain and the people of the colo-
nies would learn to consider themselves as not be-
longing to different communities with different
interests, but to one community with one interest;
which I imagine would contribute to strengthen
the whole, and greatly lessen the danger of future
separations.

It is, I suppose, agreed to be the general interest
of any state, that its people be numerous and rich;
men enow to fight in its defence, and enow to pay
sufficient taxes to defray the charge; for these cir-
cumstances tend to the security of the state and its
protection from foreign power. But it seems not of
so much importance whether the fighting be done
by John or Thomas, or the tax paid by William or
Charles. The iron manufacture employs and en-
riches British subjects, but is it of any importance
to the state whether the manufacturer lives at Bir-
mingham, or Sheffield, or both, since they are still
within its bounds, and their wealth and persons still
at its command? Could the Goodwin Sands be laid
dry by banks, and land equal to a large country

1754] Benjamin Franklin 57

thereby gained to England, and presently filled with
English inhabitants, would it be right to deprive
such inhabitants of the common privileges enjoyed
by other Englishmen, — the right of vending their
produce in the same ports, or of making their own
shoes, because a merchant or a shoemaker living on
the old land might fancy it more for his advantage
to trade or make shoes for them? Would this be
right even if the land were gained at the expense of
the state? And would it not seem less right if the
charge and labor of gaining the additional territory
to Britain had been borne by the settlers them-
selves? And would not the hardship appear yet
greater if the people of the new country should be
allowed no representatives in the Parliament enact-
ing such impositions?

Now, I look on the colonies as so many countries
gained to Great Britain, and more advantageous to
it than if they had been gained out of the seas around
its coasts and joined to its lands; for, being in dif-
ferent climates, they afford greater variety of pro-
duce and materials for more manufactures, and being
separated by the ocean, they increase much more its
shipping and seamen ; and since they are all included
in the British empire, which has only extended itself
by their means, and the strength and wealth of the
parts are the strength and wealth of the whole, what
imports it to the general state whether a merchant, a
smith, or a hatter grows rich in Old or New Eng-
land? And if, through increase of the people, two
smiths are wanted for one employed before, why may
not the new smith be allowed to live and thrive in

58 The Works of [17 55

the new country, as well as the old one in the old? In
fine, why should the countenance of a state be par-
tially afforded to its people, unless it be most in favor
of those who have most merit? And if there be any
difference, those who have most contributed to en-
large Britain's empire and commerce, increase her
strength, her wealth, and the numbers of her people,
at the risk of their own lives and private fortunes in
new and strange countries, methinks ought rather to
expect some preference. With the greatest respect
and esteem, I have the honor to be

Your Excellency's most obedient

and humble servant,

B. Franklin.

CXIV

TO MISS CATHERINE RAY, AT BLOCK ISLAND

Philadelphia, 4 March, 1755.

Dear Katy:— Your kind letter of January 20th is
but just come to hand, and I take this first oppor-
tunity of acknowledging the favor. It gives me great
pleasure to hear that you got home safe and well that
day. I thought too much was hazarded, when I saw
you put off to sea in that very little skiff, tossed by
every wave. But the call was strong and just — a sick
parent. I stood on the shore and looked after you
till I could no longer distinguish you even with my
glass ; then returned to your sister's, praying for your
safe passage. Towards evening all agreed that you
must certainly be arrived before that time, the weather

1755] Benjamin Franklin 59

having been so favorable, which made me more easy
and cheerful, for I had been truly concerned for you.

I left New England slowly, and with great reluc-
tance. Short day's journeys, and loitering visits on
the road, for three or four weeks, manifested my un-
willingness to quit a country in which I drew my first
breath, spent my earliest and most pleasant days, and
had now received so many fresh marks of the people's
goodness and benevolence, in the kind and affection-
ate treatment I had everywhere met with. I almost
forgot I had a home, till I was more than half way
towards it ; till I had, one by one, parted with all my
New England friends, and was got into the western
borders of Connecticut, among mere strangers. Then,
like an old man, who, having buried all he loved in
this world, begins to think of heaven, I began to think
of and wish for home; and as I drew nearer, I found
the attraction stronger and stronger. My diligence
and speed increased with my impatience. I drove on
violently, and made such long stretches, that a very
few days brought me to my own house, and to the
arms of my good old wife and children, where I
remain, thanks to God, at present well and happy.

Persons subject to the hyp complain of the north-
east wind, as increasing their malady. But since you
promised to send me kisses in that wind, and I find
you as good as your word, it is to me the gayest wind
that blows, and gives me the best spirits. I write
this during a northeast storm of snow, the greatest
we have had this winter. Your favors come mixed
with the snowy fleeces, which are pure as your virgin
innocence, white as your lovely bosom, and — as cold.

60 The Works of [1755

But let it warm towards some worthy young man,
and may Heaven bless you both with every kind of
happiness.

I desired Miss Anna Ward to send you over a little
book I left with her, for your amusement in that
lonely island. My respects to your good father, and
mother, and sister. Let me often hear of your wel-
fare, since it is not likely I shall ever again have the
pleasure of seeing you. Accept mine and my wife's
sincere thanks for the many civilities I receive from
you and your relations; and do me the justice to
believe me, dear girl, your affectionate, faithful friend
and humble servant, B. Franklin.

p s — My respectful compliments to your good
brother Ward, and sister; and to the agreeable
family of the Wards at Newport, when you see them.
Adieu.

cxv

ELECTRICAL EXPERIMENTS

Made in Pursuance of those made by Mr. Canton, dated
December 6, 1753; with Explanations, by Benja-
min Franklin

READ AT THE ROYAL SOCIETY, DECEMBER l8, 1755

Philadelphia, 14 March, 1755.
PRINCIPLES

I. Electric atmospheres that flow round non-elec-
tric bodies, being brought near each other, do not

I755] Benjamin Franklin 61

readily mix and unite into one atmosphere, but re-
main separate and repel each other.

This is plainly seen in suspended cork balls and
other bodies electrified.

II. An electric atmosphere not only repels another
electric atmosphere, but will also repel the electric
matter contained in the substance of a body ap-
proaching it, and, without joining or mixing with it,
force it to other parts of the body that contained it.

This is shown by some of the following experiments.

III. Bodies electrified negatively, or deprived of
their natural quantity of electricity, repel each other
(or at least appear to do so by a mutual receding) , as
well as those electrified positively, or which have
electric atmospheres.

This is shown by applying the negatively charged
wire of a phial to two cork balls suspended by silk
threads, and many other experiments.

Fix a tassel of fifteen or twenty threads, three
inches long, at one end of a tin prime conductor
(mine is about five feet long and four inches diameter)
supported by silk lines.

Let the threads be a little damp, but not wet.

Pass an excited glass tube near the other end of the
prime conductor, so as to give it some sparks, and the
threads will diverge.

Because each thread, as well as the prime con-
ductor, has acquired an electric atmosphere, which
repels and is repelled by the atmospheres of the other
threads ; if those several atmospheres would readily
mix, the threads might unite, and hang in the middle
of one atmosphere, common to them all.

62 The Works of [1755

Rub the tube afresh, and approach the prime conductor
therewith, crosswise, near that end, but not nigh enough
to give sparks, and the threads will diverge a little more.

Because the atmosphere of the prime conductor is
pressed by the atmosphere of the excited tube, and
driven towards the end where the threads are, by
which each thread acquires more atmosphere.

Withdraw the tube, and they will close as much.

They close as much, and no more, because the at-
mosphere of the glass tube, not having mixed with
the atmosphere of the prime conductor, is withdrawn
entire, having made no addition to or diminution
from it.

Bring the excited tube under the tuft of threads, and
they will close a little.

They close, because the atmosphere of the glass
tube repels their atmospheres, and drives part of
them back on the prime conductor.

Withdraw it, and they will diverge as much.

For the portion of atmosphere which they had lost
returns to them again.

Excite the glass tube and approach the prime con-
ductor with it, holding it across, near the end opposite to
that on which the threads hang, at the distance of five or
six inches. Keep it there a few seconds, and the threads
of the tassels will diverge. Withdraw it, and they will
close.

They diverge, because they have received electric
atmospheres from the electric matter before con-
tained in the substance of the prime conductor, but
which is now repelled and driven away by the atmos-
phere of the glass tube from the parts of the prime

1755] Benjamin Franklin 63

conductor opposite and nearest to that atmosphere,
and forced out upon the surface of the prime con-
ductor at its other end, and upon the threads hanging
thereto. Were it any part of the atmosphere of the
glass tube that flowed over and along the prime con-
ductor to the threads, and gave them atmospheres
(as is the case when a spark is given to the prime
conductor from the glass tube), such part of the
tube's atmosphere would have remained, and the
threads continue to diverge ; but they close on with-
drawing the tube, because the tube takes with it all its
own atmosphere, and the electric matter, which had
been driven out of the substance of the prime con-
ductor, and formed atmospheres round the threads,
is thereby permitted to return to its place.

Take a spark from the prime conductor near the
threads, when they are diverged as before, and they will
close.

For by so doing you take away their atmospheres,
composed of the electric matter driven out of the
substance of the prime conductor, as aforesaid, by the
repellency of the atmosphere of the glass tube. By
taking this spark you rob the prime conductor of part
of its natural quantity of the electric matter, which
part so taken is not supplied by the glass tube, for,
when that is afterwards withdrawn, it takes with
it its whole atmosphere, and leaves the prime con-
ductor electrized negatively, as appears by the next
operation.

Then withdraw the tube, and they will open again.

For now the electric matter in the prime conductor
returning to its equilibrium, or equal diffusion, in

64 The Works of [175s

all parts of its substance, and the prime conductor
having lost some of its natural quantity, the threads
connected with it lose part of theirs, and so are elec-
trized negatively, and therefore repel each other, by
Principle III.

Approach the prime conductor with the tube, near the
same place as at first, and they will close again.

Because the part of their natural quantity of elec-
tric fluid which they had lost is now restored to them
again, by the repulsion of the glass tube forcing that
fluid to them from other parts of the prime conductor;
so they are now again in their natural state.

Withdraw it, and they will open again.

For what had been restored to them is now taken
from them again, flowing back into the prime con-
ductor, and leaving them once more electrized
negatively.

Bring the excited tube under the threads, and they
will diverge more.

Because more of their natural quantity is driven
from them into the prime conductor, and thereby
their negative electricity increased.

The prime conductor not being electrified, brings the
excited tube under the tassel, and the threads will diverge.

Part of their natural quantity is thereby driven out
of them into the prime conductor, and they become
negatively electrized, and therefore repel each other.

Keeping the tube in the same place with one hand,
attempt to touch the threads with the finger of the other
hand, and they will recede from the finger.

Because the finger being plunged into the atmos-
phere of the glass tube, as well as the threads, part

i7S5] Benjamin Franklin 65

of its natural quantity is driven back through the
hand and body by that atmosphere, and the finger
becomes, as well as the threads, negatively electrized,
and so repels, and is repelled by them. To confirm
this, hold a slender, light lock of cotton, two or three
inches long, near a prime conductor that is electrified
by a glass globe or tube. You will see the cotton
stretch itself out towards the prime conductor., At-
tempt to touch it with the finger of the other hand,
and it will be repelled by the finger. Approach it
with a positively charged wire of a bottle, and it will
fly to the wire. Bring it near a negatively charged
wire of a bottle, it will recede from that wire in the
same manner that it did from the finger; which
demonstrates the finger to be negatively electrized;
as well as the lock of cotton so situated.

Turkey killed by Electricity. — Effect of a Shock on the
Operator in making the Experiment

As Mr. Franklin, in a former letter to Mr. Collin-
son, mentioned his intending to try the power of a
very strong electrical shock upon a turkey, that gen-
tleman accordingly has been so very obliging as
to send an account of it, which is to the following
purpose :

He made first several experiments on fowls, and
found that two large, thin glass jars gilt, holding
each about six gallons, were sufficient, when fully
charged, to kill common hens outright; but the
turkeys, though thrown into violent convulsions,

VOI.. III.— 5.

66 The Works of [1755

and then lying as dead for some minutes, would
recover in less than a quarter of an hour. However,
having added three other such to the former two,
though not fully charged, he killed a turkey of about
ten pounds weight, and believes that they would
have killed a much larger. He conceited, as him-
self says, that the birds killed in this manner eat un-
commonly tender.

In making these experiments, he found that a
man could, without great detriment, bear a much
greater shock than he had imagined; for he inad-
vertently received the stroke of two of these jars
through his arms and body, when they were very
near fully charged. It seemed to him a universal
blow throughout the body from head to foot, and
was followed by a violent, quick trembling in the
trunk which went off gradually in a few seconds.
It was some minutes before he could recollect his
thoughts so as to know what was the matter ; for he
did not see the flash, though his eye was on the spot
of the prime conductor, from whence it struck the
back of his hand; nor did he hear the crack, though
the by-standers said it was a loud one; nor did he
particularly feel the stroke on his hand, though he
afterwards found it had raised a swelling there of
the bigness of half a pistol-bullet. His arms and
the back of the neck felt somewhat numbed the re-
mainder of the evening, and his breast was sore for
a week after, as if it had been bruised. From this
experiment may be seen the danger, even under the
greatest caution, to the operator, when making these
experiments with large jars; for it is not to be

1755] Benjamin Franklin 67

doubted but several of these fully charged would as
certainly, by increasing them in proportion to the
size, kill a man, as they before did a turkey.

CXVI

TO JOHN LINING, AT CHARLESTON, SOUTH CAROLINA

Philadelphia, 18 March, 1755.

Sir: — I send you enclosed a paper containing
some new experiments I have made, in pursuance of
those by Mr. Canton, that are printed with my last
letters. I hope these, with my explanation of them,
will afford you some entertainment.1

In answer to your several inquiries. The tubes
and globes we use here are chiefly made here. The
glass has a greenish cast, but is clear and hard, and,
I think, better for electrical experiments than the
white glass of London, which is not so hard. There
are certainly great differences in glass. A white
globe I had made here some years since, would never,
by any means, be excited. Two of my friends tried
it, as well as myself, without success. At length,
putting it on an electric stand, a chain from the
prime conductor being in contact with it, I found it
had the properties of a non-electric ; for I could draw
sparks from any part of it, though it was very clean
and dry.

All I know of Domien is, that by his own account
he was a native of Transylvania, of Tartar descent,
but a priest of the Greek Church; he spoke and

1 See No. CXV.

68 The Works of [1755

wrote Latin very readily and correctly. He set out
from his own country with an intention of going
round the world, as much as possible by land. He
travelled through Germany, France, and Holland,
to England. Resided some time at Oxford. From
England he came to Maryland ; thence went to New
England; returned by land to Philadelphia; and
from hence travelled through Maryland, Virginia,
and North Carolina to you. He thought it might
be of service to him in his travels to know something
of electricity. I taught him the use of the tube, how
to charge the Leyden phial, and some other experi-
ments. He wrote to me from Charleston, that he
lived eight hundred miles upon electricity; it had
been meat, drink, and clothing to him. His last
letter to me was, I think, from Jamaica, desiring me
to send the tubes you mention, to meet him at the
Havana, from whence he expected to get a passage
to La Vera Cruz; designed travelling over land
through Mexico to Acapulco ; thence to get a passage
to Manilla, and so through China, India, Persia, and
Turkey, home to his own country, proposing to sup-
port himself chiefly by electricity. A strange pro-
ject! But he was, as you observe, a very singular
character. I was sorry the tubes did not get to the
Havana in time for him. If they are still in being,
please to send for them, and accept of them. What
became of him afterwards, I have never heard. He
promised to write to me as often as he could on his
journey, and as soon as he should get home after
finishing his tour. It is now seven years since he
was here. If he is still in New Spain, as you im-

1755] Benjamin Franklin 69

agine from that loose report, I suppose it must be
that they confine him there, and prevent his writing;
but I think it more likely that he may be dead.

The questions you ask about the pores of glass, I
cannot answer otherwise than that I know nothing
of their nature ; and suppositions, however ingenious,
are often mere mistakes. My hypothesis, that they
were smaller near the middle of the glass, — too small
to admit the passage of electricity, which could pass
through the surface till it came near the middle,
was certainly wrong. For soon after I had written
that letter, I did, in order to confirm the hypothesis
(which indeed I ought to have done before I wrote
it), make an experiment. I ground away five sixths
of the thickness of the glass from the side of one of
my phials, expecting that, the supposed denser part
being so removed, the electric fluid might come
through the remainder of the glass, which I had
imagined more open; but I found myself mistaken.
The bottle charged as well after the grinding as be-
fore. I am now as much as ever at a loss to know
how or where the quantity of electric fluid on the
positive side of the glass is disposed of.

As to the difference of conductors, there is not
only this, that some will conduct electricity in small
quantities, and yet do not conduct it fast enough to
produce the shock ; but even among those that will
conduct a shock, there are some that do it better than
others. Mr. Kinnersley has found, by a very good
experiment, that when the charge of a bottle hath an
opportunity of passing two ways, that is, straight
through a trough of water ten feet long and six

70 The Works of [1755

inches square, or round about through twenty feet
of wire, it passes through the wire, and not through
the water, though that is the shortest course; the
wire being the better conductor. When the wire is
taken away, it passes through the water, as may be
felt by a hand plunged in the water; but it cannot
be felt in the water when the wire is used at the same
time. Thus, though a small phial containing water
will give a smart shock, one containing the same
quantity of mercury will give one much stronger, the
mercury being the better conductor; while one con-
taining oil only, will scarce give any shock at all.

Your question, how I came first to think of pro-
posing the experiment of drawing down the light-
ning in order to ascertain its sameness with the elec-
tric fluid, I cannot answer better than by giving you
an extract from the minutes I used to keep of the
experiments I made, with memorandums of such as
I purposed to make, the reasons for making them,
and the observations that arose upon them, from
which minutes my letters were afterwards drawn.
By this extract you will see that the thought was
not so much "an out-of-the-way one," but that it
might have occurred to an electrician.

"November fth, 1749. Electrical fluid agrees with
lightning in these particulars: 1. Giving light. 2.
Color of the light. 3. Crooked direction. 4. Swift
motion. 5. Being conducted by metals. 6. Crack
or noise in exploding. 7 . Subsisting in water or ice.
8. Rending bodies it passes through. 9. Destroying
animals. 10. Melting metals, n. Firing inflam-
mable substances. 12. Sulphureous smell. The elec-

1755] Benjamin Franklin 71

trie fluid is attracted by points. We do not know
whether this property is in lightning. But since
they agree in all the particulars wherein we can
already compare them, is it not probable they agree
likewise in this? Let the experiment be made."

I wish I could give you any satisfaction in the
article of clouds. I am still at a loss about the man-
ner in which they become charged with electricity;
no hypothesis I have yet formed perfectly satisfying
me. Some time since, I heated very hot a brass
plate, two feet square, and placed it on an electric
stand. From the plate a wire extended horizontally
four or five feet, and, at the end of it, hung, by linen
threads, a pair of cork balls. I then repeatedly
sprinkled water over the plate, that it might be
raised from it in vapor, hoping, that, if the vapor
either carried off the electricity of the plate, or left
behind it that of the water (one of which I sup-
posed it must do, if, like the clouds, it became elec-
trized itself, either positively or negatively) , I should
perceive and determine it by the separation of the
balls, and by finding whether they were positive or
negative; but no alteration was made at all, nor
could I perceive that the steam was itself electrized,
though I have still some suspicion that the steam
was not fully examined, and I think the experiment
should be repeated. Whether the first state of elec-
trized clouds is positive or negative, if I could find
the cause of that, I should be at no loss about the
other ; for either is easily deduced from the other, as
one state is easily produced by the other. A strongly
positive cloud may drive out of a neighbouring

72 The Works of [1755

cloud much of its natural quantity of the electric
fluid, and, passing by it, leave it in a negative state.
In the same way, a strongly negative cloud may
occasion a neighbouring cloud to draw into itself
from others an additional quantity, and, passing by
it, leave it in a positive state. How these effects
may be produced, you will easily conceive, on perus-
ing and considering the experiments in the enclosed
paper; and from them too it appears probable, that
every change from positive to negative, and from
negative to positive, that, during a thunder-gust, we
see in the cork balls annexed to the apparatus, is not
owing to the presence of clouds in the same state,
but often to the absence of positive or negative
clouds, that, having just passed, leave the rod in the
opposite state.

The knocking down of the six men was performed
with two of my large jars not fully charged. I laid
one end of my discharging-rod upon the head of the
first ; he laid his hand on the head of the second ; the
second his hand on the head of the third, and so to
the last, who held in his hand the chain that was
connected with the outside of the jars. When they
were thus placed, I applied the other end of my rod
to the prime conductor, and they all dropped to-
gether. When they got up, they all declared they
had not felt any stroke, and wondered how they came
to fall ; nor did any of them either hear the crack, or
see the light of it. You suppose it a dangerous ex-
periment; but I had once suffered the same myself,
receiving, by accident, an equal stroke through my
head, that struck me down, without hurting me.

I755] Benjamin Franklin 73

And I had seen a young woman, that was about to
be electrified through the feet (for some indisposition)
receive a greater charge through the head, by in-
advertently stooping forward to look at the placing
of her feet, till her forehead (as she was very tall)
came too near my prime conductor; she dropped,
but instantly got up again, complaining of nothing.
A person so struck, sinks down doubled, or folded
together, as it were, the joints losing their strength
and stiffness at once, so that he drops on the spot
where he stood, instantly, and there is no previous
staggering, nor does he ever fall lengthwise. Too
great a charge might, indeed, kill a man, but I have
not yet seen any hurt done by it. It would cer-
tainly, as you observe, be the easiest of all deaths.

The experiment you have heard so imperfect an
account of, is merely this: I electrified a silver pint
can, on an electric stand, and then lowered into it a
cork ball, of about an inch diameter, hanging by
a silk string, till the cork touched the bottom of the
can. The cork was not attracted to the inside of
the can, as it would have been to the outside; and,
though it touched the bottom, yet, when drawn out,
it was not found to be electrified by that touch, as it
would have been by touching the outside. The
fact is singular. You require the reason; I do not
know it. Perhaps you may discover it, and then
you will be so good as to communicate it to me.1 I

1 Mr. Franklin has since thought, that possibly the mutual repulsion
of the inner opposite sides of the electrical can may prevent the ac-
cumulating an electric atmosphere upon them, and occasion it to
stand chiefly on the outside ; but recommends it to the farther exam-
ination of the curious.

74 The Works of [1755

find a frank acknowledgment of one's ignorance is,
not only the easiest way to get rid of a difficulty, but
the likeliest way to obtain information, and there-
fore I practise it ; I think it an honest policy. Those
who affect to be thought to know every thing,
and so undertake to explain every thing, often re-
main long ignorant of many things that others could
and would instruct them in, if they appeared less
conceited.

The treatment your friend has met with is so com-
mon, that no man, who knows what the world is and
ever has been, should expect to escape it. There
are everywhere a number of people, who, being
totally destitute of any inventive faculty them-
selves, do not readily conceive that others may pos-
sess it ; they think of inventions as of miracles ; there
might be such formerly, but they are ceased. With
these, every one who offers a new invention is deemed
a pretender; he had it from some other country, or
from some book; a man of their own acquaintance,
one who has no more sense than themselves, could
not possibly, in their opinion, have been the inventor
of any thing. They are confirmed, too, in these
sentiments, by frequent instances of pretensions to
invention, which vanity is daily producing. That
vanity, too, though an incitement to invention, is,
at the same time, the pest of inventors. Jealousy
and envy deny the merit or the novelty of your in-
vention ; but vanity, when the novelty and merit are
established, claims it for its own. The smaller your
invention is, the more mortification you receive in
having the credit of it disputed with you by a rival,

i7S5] Benjamin Franklin 75

whom the jealousy and envy of others are ready to
support against you, at least so far as to make the
point doubtful. It is not in itself of importance
enough for a dispute; no one would think your
proofs and reasons worth their attention; and yet,
if you do not dispute the point, and demonstrate
your right, you not only lose the credit of being in
that instance ingenious, but you surfer the disgrace
of not being ingenuous; not only of being a plagiary,
but of being plagiary for trifles. Had the invention
been greater, it would have disgraced you less; for
men have not so contemptible an idea of him that
robs for gold on the highway, as of him that can pick
pockets for half -pence and farthings . Thus , through
envy, jealousy, and the vanity of competitors for
fame, the origin of many of the most extraordinary
inventions, though produced within but a few cen-
turies past, is involved in doubt and uncertainty.
We scarce know to whom we are indebted for the
compass, and spectacles, nor have even paper and
printing, that record every thing else, been able to
preserve with certainty the name and reputation of
their inventors. One would not, therefore, of all
faculties or qualities of the mind, wish, for a friend
or a child, that he should have that of invention.
For his attempts to benefit mankind in that way,
however well imagined, if they do not succeed, ex-
pose him, though very unjustly, to general ridicule
and contempt; and, if they do succeed, to envy,
robbery, and abuse.

I am, &c,

B. Franklin.

76 The Works of [1755

CXVII

TO M. DALIBARD, AT PARIS, ENCLOSED IN A LETTER TO
PETER COLLINSON

READ AT THE ROYAL SOCIETY, DECEMBER 18, 1755

Philadelphia, 29 June, 1755.

Sir: — You desire my opinion of Pere Beccaria's
Italian book.1 I have read it with much pleasure,
and think it one of the best pieces on the subject
that I have seen in any language. Yet, as to the
article of Water-spouts, I am not at present of his
sentiments; though I must own, with you, that he
has handled it very ingeniously. Mr. Collinson has
my opinion of whirlwinds and water-spouts at large,
written some time since. I know not whether they
will be published; if not, I will get them tran-
scribed for your perusal.2 It does not appear to me
that Pere Beccaria doubts of the absolute imper-
meability of glass in the sense I mean it; for the in-
stances he gives of holes made through glass, by the
electric stroke, are such as we have all experienced,
and only show that the electric fluid could not pass
without making a hole. In the same manner we
say glass is impermeable to water, and yet a stream
from a fire-engine will force through the strongest

1 This work is written, conformably to Mr. Franklin's theory, upon
artificial and natural electricity, which compose the two parts of it.
It was printed in Italian, at Turin, in quarto, 1753; between the two
parts is a letter to the Abbe" Nollet, in defence of Mr. Franklin's system.
— J. Bevis.

2 Beccaria wrote a long letter to Franklin, dated at Turin, Decem-
ber 24, 1757, giving an account of several experiments made by him
in electricity, illustrative of Franklin's principles. The letter, written
in Latin, is contained in the Philosophical Transactions, vol. li., p. 514.

i755] Benjamin Franklin 77

panes of a window. As to the effect of points in
drawing the electric matter from the clouds, and
thereby securing buildings, &c, which, you say, he
seems to doubt, I must own I think he only speaks
modestly and judiciously. I find I have been but
partly understood in that matter. I have men-
tioned it in several of my letters, and, except once,
always in the alternative, viz., that pointed rods
erected on buildings, and communicating with the
moist earth, would either prevent sl stroke, or, if not
prevented, would conduct it, so as that the building
should suffer no damage. Yet, whenever my opinion
is examined in Europe, nothing is considered but the
probability of those rods preventing a stroke or ex-
plosion, which is only a part of the use I proposed
for them; and the other part, their conducting a
stroke, which they may happen not to prevent,
seems to be totally forgotten, though of equal im-
portance and advantage.

I thank you for communicating M. de Buffon's
relation of the effect of lightning at Dijon, on the 7th
of June last. In return, give me leave to relate an
instance I lately saw of the same kind. Being in the
town of Newbury in New England, in November
last, I was shown the effect of lightning on their
church, which had been struck a few months before.
The steeple was a square tower of wood, reaching
seventy feet up from the ground to the place where
the bell hung, over which rose a taper spire, of wood
likewise, reaching seventy feet higher, to the vane of
the weather-cock. Near the bell was fixed an iron
hammer to strike the hours ; and from the tail of the

7$ The Works of [1755

hammer a wire went down through a small gimlet-
hole in the floor that the bell stood upon, and
through a second floor in like manner; then hori-
zontally under and near the plastered ceiling of that
second floor, till it came near a plastered wall ; then
down by the side of that wall to a clock, which
stood about twenty feet below the bell. The wire
was not bigger than a common knitting-needle. The
spire was split all to pieces by the lightning, and the
parts flung in all directions over the square in which
the church stood, so that nothing remained above
the bell.

The lightning passed between the hammer and the
clock in the abovementioned wire, without hurting
either of the floors, or having any effect upon them
(except making the gimlet-holes, through which the
wire passed, a little bigger), and without hurting the
plastered wall, ar any part of the building, so far as
the aforesaid wire and the pendulum- wire of the clock
extended ; which latter wire was about the thickness
of a goose-quill. From the end of the pendulum,
down quite to the ground, the building was exceed-
ingly rent and damaged, and some stones in the
foundation-wall torn out, and thrown to the distance
of twenty or thirty feet. No part of the aforemen-
tioned long, small wire, between the clock and the
hammer, could be found, except about two inches that
hung to the tail of the hammer, and about as much
that was fastened to the clock ; the rest being ex-
ploded, and its particles dissipated in smoke and air,
as gun-powder is by common fire, and had only left
a black smutty track on the plastering, three or four

1755] Benjamin Franklin 79

inches broad, darkest in the middle, and fainter to-
wards the edges, all along the ceiling, under which it
passed, and down the wall. These were the effects
and appearances; on which I would only make the
following remarks, viz.

i. That lightning, in its passage through a build-
ing, will leave wood to pass as far as it can in metal,
and not enter the wood again till the conductor of
metal ceases.

And the same I have observed in other instances,
as to walls of brick or stone.

2. The quantity of lightning that passed through
this steeple must have been very great, by its effects
on the lofty spire above the bell, and on the square
tower, all below the end of the clock-pedulum.

3. Great as this quantity was, it was conducted by
a small wire and a clock-pendulum, without the least
damage to the building so far as they extended.

4. The pendulum rod, being of a sufficient thick-
ness, conducted the lightning without damage to
itself; but the small wire was utterly destroyed.

5. Though the small wire was itself destroyed, yet
it had conducted the lightning with safety to the
building.

6. And from the whole it seems probable that if
even such a small wire had been extended from the
spindle of the vane to the earth, before the storm, no
damage would have been done to the steeple by that
stroke of lightning, though the wire itself had been
destroyed.

B. Franklin.

80 The Works of [1755

CXVIII

TO PETER COLLINSON

Philadelphia, 25 August, 1755.

Dear Sir: — As you have my former papers on
whirlwinds, &c., I now send you an account of one
which I had lately an opportunity of seeing and ex-
amining myself.

Being in Maryland, riding with Colonel Tasker,
and some other gentlemen, to his country-seat, where
I and my son were entertained by that amiable and
worthy man with great hospitality and kindness, we
saw, in the vale below us, a small whirlwind begin-
ning in the road, and showing itself by the dust it
raised and contained. It appeared in the form of a
sugar-loaf, spinning on its point, moving up the hill
toward us, and enlarging as it came forward. When
it passed by us, its smaller part near the ground ap-
peared no bigger than a common barrel ; but, widen-
ing upwards, it seemed, at forty or fifty feet high, to
be twenty or thirty feet in diameter. The rest of the
company stood looking after it; but, my curiosity
being stronger, I followed it, riding close by its side,
and observed its licking up, in its progress, all the
dust that was under its smaller part. As it is a com-
mon opinion that a shot, fired through a water- spout,
will break it, I tried to break this little whirlwind, by
striking my whip frequently through it, but without
any effect. Soon after, it quitted the road and took
into the woods, growing every moment larger and
stronger, raising, instead of dust, the old dry leaves
with which the ground was thick covered, and making

1755] Benjamin Franklin 81

a great noise with them and the branches of the trees,
bending some tall trees round in a circle swiftly and
very surprisingly, though the progressive motion of
the whirl was not so swift but that a man on foot
might have kept pace with it ; but the circular motion
was amazingly rapid. By the leaves it was now filled
with, I could plainly perceive that the current of air
they were driven by moved upwards in a spiral line ;
and when I saw the passing whirl continue entire,
after leaving the trunks and bodies of large trees
which it had enveloped, I no longer wondered that
my whip had no effect on it in its smaller state. I
accompanied it about three quarters of a mile, till
some limbs of dead trees, broken off by the whirl,
flying about and falling near me, made me more ap-
prehensive of danger; and then I stopped, looking at
the top of it as it went on, which was visible, by
means of the leaves contained in it, for a very great
height above the trees. Many of the leaves, as they
got loose from the upper and widest part, were scat-
tered in the wind; but so great was their height in
the air, that they appeared no bigger than flies. My
son, who was by this time come up with me, followed
the whirlwind till it left the woods, and crossed an
old tobacco-field, where, finding neither dust nor
leaves to take up, it gradually became invisible be-
low, as it went away over the field. The course of
the general wind then blowing was along with us as
we travelled, and the progressive motion of the whirl-
wind was in a direction nearly opposite, though it did
not keep a straight line, nor was its progressive mo-
tion uniform, it making little sallies on either hand as

82 The Works of [1755

it went, proceeding sometimes faster and sometimes
slower, and seeming sometimes for a few seconds al-
most stationary, then starting forward pretty fast
again. When we rejoined the company, they were
admiring the vast height of the leaves now brought
by the common wind over our heads. These leaves
accompanied us as we travelled, some falling now
and then round about us, and some not reaching the
ground till we had gone near three miles from the
place where we first saw the whirlwind begin. Upon
my asking Colonel Tasker if such whirlwinds were
common in Maryland, he answered pleasantly: " No,
not at all common; but we got this on purpose
to treat Mr. Franklin." And a very high treat it

was to,

Dear Sir,

Your affectionate friend and humble servant,

B. Franklin.

CXIX

TO JARED ELIOT

Philadelphia, 31 August, 1755.

Dear Friend: — I have been employed almost all
this summer in the service of an unfortunate army,
and other public affairs, that have brought me greatly
in arrear with my correspondents. I have lost the
pleasure of conversing with them, and I have lost my
labor. I wish these were the only losses of the year;
but we have lost a number of brave men, and all our
credit with the Indians. I fear these losses may soon
be productive of more and greater.

1755] Benjamin Franklin 83

I have had no opportunity of making the inquiry
you desired relating to Leonard. Somerset County
in Maryland is one hundred and fifty miles from
hence, and out of the common road of travellers or
the post; nor have I any correspondent or acquaint-
ance there. But now, while I am writing, I recollect
a friend I have at Newtown, within fifty miles of
Somerset, who has a very general knowledge of those
parts and of the people, as he practises the law in all
the counties on the Eastern Shore of Maryland. I
will immediately write to him about it.

I am sorry your newspapers miscarry. If your
riders are not more careful I must order them to be
changed. The Mitchell, who made the map, is our
Dr. Mitchell. I send you one of Evans's new maps,
which I imagine will be agreeable to you. Please to
accept it. I am glad to hear your son has acquired
the art of making steel. I hope it will prove profit-
able. Mr. Roberts is pleased that you so kindly
accept his fork and rake. I suppose he will write to
you; but he is a man of much business, and does not
love writing. I shall learn once more (for he told
me once and I have forgotten it) how those teeth are
put in and send you word; but perhaps our friend
Bartram can tell you. He delivers you this, and I
need not recommend him to you, for you are already
acquainted with his merit, though not with his face
and person. You will have a great deal of pleasure
in one another's conversation. I wish I could be
within hearing, but that cannot be. He is upon one
of his rambles in search of knowledge, and intends to
view both your sea-coast and back country.

84 The Works of [1755

Remember me kindly to Mr. Tufts and Mr. Rug-
gles when you see them. My respects to your good
lady and family. With the greatest esteem, I am,
dear Sir, your most affectionate, &c,

B. Franklin.

cxx

TO JARED ELIOT

Philadelphia, i September, 1755.

Dear Sir: — I wrote to you yesterday, and now I
write again. You will say, It can't rain, but it pours;
for I not only send you manuscript but living letters.
The former may be short, but the latter will be longer
and yet more agreeable. Mr. Bartram, I believe you
will find to be at least twenty folio pages, large paper
well filled, on the subjects of botany, fossils, hus-
bandry, and the first creation. This Mr. Allison is
as many or more on agriculture, philosophy, your
own catholic divinity, and various other points of
learning equally useful and engaging. Read them
both. It will take you at least a week; and then
answer by sending me two of the like kind, or by
coming yourself. If you fail of this, I shall think I
have overbalanced my epistolary account, and that
you will be in my debt as a correspondent for at least
twelve months to come.

I remember with pleasure the cheerful hours I en-
joyed last winter in your company, and would with
all my heart give any ten of the thick old folios that
stand on the shelves before me for a little book of the

1755] Benjamin Franklin 85

stories you then told with so much propriety and
humor. Adieu, my dear friend, and believe me ever
yours affectionately, B. Franklin.

CXXI

TO MISS CATHERINE RAY

Philadelphia, ii September, 1755.

Begone, business, for an hour, at least, and let me
chat a little with my Katy.

I have now before me, my dear girl, three of
your favors, viz., of March the 3d, March the 30th,
and May the 1st. The first I received just before
I set out on a long journey, and the others while I
was on that journey, which held me near six weeks.
Since my return I have been in such a perpetual
hurry of public affairs of various kinds, as renders it
impracticable for me to keep up my private corre-
spondences, even those that afforded me the greatest
pleasure.

You ask in your last how I do, and what I am
doing, and whether everybody loves me yet, and why
I make them do so.

In regard to the first, I can say, thanks to God,
that I do not remember I was ever better. I still
relish all the pleasures of life that a temperate man
can in reason desire, and through favor I have them
all in my power. This happy situation shall continue
as long as God pleases, who knows what is best for
his creatures, and I hope will enable me to bear with

86 The Works of [1755

patience and dutiful submission any change he may-
think fit to make that is less agreeable. As to the
second question, I must confess (but don't you be
jealous) that many more people love me now than
ever did before ; for since I saw you I have been en-
abled to do some general services to the country and
to the army, for which both have thanked and praised
me, and say they love me. They say so, as you used
to do ; and if I were to ask any favors of them, they
would, perhaps, as readily refuse me; so that I find
little real advantage in being beloved, but it pleases
my humor.

Now it is near four months since I have been fa-
vored with a single line from you ; but I will not be
angry with you, because it is my fault. I ran in debt
to you three or four letters, and, as I did not pay,
you would not trust me any more, and you had some
reason. But, believe me, I am honest, and, though
I should never make equal returns, you shall see I
will keep fair accounts. Equal returns I can never
make, though I should write to you by every post;
for the pleasure I receive from one of yours is more
than you can have from two of mine. The small
news, the domestic occurrences among our friends,
the natural pictures you draw of persons, the sensible
observations and reflections you make, and the easy,
chatty manner in which you express every thing, all
contribute to heighten the pleasure ; and the more as
they remind me of those hours and miles that we
talked away so agreeably, even in a winter journey,
a wrong road, and a soaking shower.

I long to hear whether you have continued ever

i75s] Benjamin Franklin 87

since in that monastery1; or have broke into the
world again, doing petty mischief; how the lady
Wards do, and how many of them are married, or

about it ; what is become of Mr. B and Mr. L

and what the state of your heart is at this instant?
But that, perhaps, I ought not to know ; and, there-
fore, I will not conjure, as you sometimes say I do.
If I could conjure, it should be to know what was that
oddest question about me that ever was thought of,
which you tell me a lady had just sent to ask you.

I commend your prudent resolutions, in the article
of granting favors to lovers. But if I were courting
you, I could not hardly approve such conduct. I
should even be malicious enough to say you were
too knowing, and tell you the old story of The Girl
and the Miller. I enclose you the songs you write
for, and with them your Spanish letter with a transla-
tion. I honor that honest Spaniard for loving you.
It showed the goodness of his taste and judgment.
But you must forget him, and bless some worthy
young Englishman.

You have spun a long thread, five thousand and
twenty-two yards. It will reach almost from Rhode
Island hither. I wish I had hold of one end of it, to
pull you to me. But you would break it rather than
come. The cords of love and friendship are longer
and stronger, and in times past have drawn me far-
ther; even back from England to Philadelphia. I
guess that some of the same kind will one day draw
you out of that Island.

I was extremely pleased with the you sent

1 Block Island.

88 The Works of [175s

me. The Irish people, who have seen it, say it is
the right sort ; but I cannot learn that we have any
thing like it here. The cheeses, particularly one of
them, were excellent. All our friends have tasted it,
and all agree that it exceeds any English cheese they
ever tasted. Mrs. Franklin was very proud, that a
young lady should have so much regard for her old
husband, as to send him such a present. We talk
of you every time it comes to table. She is sure you
are a sensible girl, and a notable housewife, and talks
of bequeathing me to you as a legacy; but I ought
to wish you a better, and hope she will live these
hundred years ; for we are grown old together, and if
she has any faults, I am so used to them that I don't
perceive them ; as the song says,

" Some faults we have all, and so has my Joan,
But then they 're exceedingly small;
And, now I 'm grown used to them, so like my own,
I scarcely can see them at all;

My dear friends,
I scarcely can see them at all." '

1 The author here quotes a stanza from one of his own " Songs," writ-
ten for the Junto. It has been printed in Professor McVickar's Life
of Dr. Samuel Bard.

MY PLAIN COUNTRY JOAN; A SONG

"Of their Chloes and Phyllises poets may prate,
I sing my plain country Joan,
These twelve years my wife, still the joy of my life,
Blest day that I made her my own.

"Not a word of her face, of her shape, or her air,
Or of flames, or of darts, you shall hear;
I beauty admire, but virtue I prize,
That fades not in seventy year.

"Am I loaded with care, she takes off a large share,
That the burden ne'er makes me to reel;

1 755] Benjamin Franklin 89

Indeed, I begin to think she has none, as I think of
you. And since she is willing I should love you, as
much as you are willing to be loved by me, let us
join in wishing the old lady a long life and a happy.

With her respectful compliments to you, to your
good mother and sisters, present mine, though un-
known; and believe me to be, dear girl, your affec-
tionate friend and humble servant,

B. Franklin.

P. S— Sally says: " Papa, my love to Miss Katy."
If it was not quite unreasonable, I should desire you
to write to me every post, whether you hear from me
or not. As to your spelling, don't let those laughing
girls put you out of conceit with it. It is the best in
the world, for every letter of it stands for something.

Does good fortune arrive, the joy of my wife
Quite doubles the pleasure I feel.

" She defends my good name, even when I 'm to blame,
Firm friend as to man e'er was given;
Her compassionate breast feels for all the distressed,
Which draws down more blessings from heaven.

" In health a companion delightful and dear,
Still easy, engaging, and free;
In sickness no less than the carefulest nurse,
As tender as tender can be.

" In peace and good order my household she guides,
Right careful to save what I gain;
Yet cheerfully spends, and smiles on the friends
I 've the pleasure to entertain.

"Some faults have we all, and so has my Joan,
But then they 're exceedingly small,
And, now I 'm grown used to them, so like my own
I scarcely can see them at all.

"Were the finest young princess, with millions in purse,
To be had in exchange for my Joan,
I could not get better wife, might get a worse.
So I '11 stick to my dearest old Joan."

90 The Works of [1755

CXXII

TO WILLIAM SHIRLEY

Philadelphia, 23 October, 1755.

Sir: — I beg leave to return your Excellency my
most sincere and hearty thanks for your letter of the
17th of September, with the orders for the payment
of wagon owners, and an extract of your orders to
Colonel Dunbar, forbidding the enlistment of servants
and apprentices.1 Acts of justice so readily done be-
come great favors, which I hope will be ever gratefully
acknowledged by this people in actions as well as
words.

I have also your favor of the 5th instant. Governor

1 At this time General Shirley was Governor of Massachusetts. He
was with the army at Oswego, as commander-in-chief of his Majesty's
forces in America. It appears, that he never entirely fulfilled the
good intentions expressed in his letter. In his autobiography, Dr.
Franklin gives a particular account of the services he rendered to Gen-
eral Braddock, in procuring horses and wagons for his expedition.
He expended, of his own money, upwards of a thousand pounds ster-
ling. This sum was in part returned by General Braddock, but the
remainder was never paid. When Lord Loudoun succeeded General
Shirley, the accounts were examined and compared with the vouchers
by the proper officer, and certified to be right; but Lord Loudoun
declined giving an order on the paymaster for the balance, stating as
a reason, that he preferred not to mix up his accounts with those of
his predecessors; and, as Franklin was then on the point of departing
for England, he referred him to the treasury in London, where, he
said, payment would immediately be made. The application to the
treasury, however, was unsuccessful. The closing paragraph of the
Governor's letter ran as follows :

"Though I am at present engaged in a great hurry of business, being

to move from hence in a very few days for Niagara, I cannot conclude

without assuring you that I have the highest sense of your public

services in general, and particularly that of engaging those wagons,

without which General Braddock, could not have proceeded. I am,

with great esteem, &c,

"W. Shirley."

i7S5] Benjamin Franklin 91

Morris is gone to Newcastle, to meet the Assembly of
the Lower Counties, so that I cannot at present see
the papers you refer me to, but I shall wait upon him
in my journey to Virginia; and if, on perusing those
papers, any thing seeming worthy of your notice
should occur to me, I shall communicate my senti-
ments to you with that honest freedom which you
always approve.

This journey, which I cannot now avoid, will de-
prive me of the pleasure of waiting on your Excel-
lency in New York at the time you mention. I hear,
too, that the governor does not purpose to send any
commissioners thither, but to go himself. I know
not what is to be the particular subject of your
consultations ; but as I believe all your schemes have
the King's service (which is the public good) in view,
I cannot but wish them success.

Our Assembly meets the beginning of December,
when I hope to be at home again ; and if any assist-
ance is to be required of them and the people here,
depend on my faithful services, so far as my little
sphere of influence shall extend. With the highest
esteem and respect, I have the honor to be, &c,

B. Franklin.

CXXIII

TO JAMES READ

Philadelphia, 2 November, 1755.

Dear Sir: — I have your letter by Mr. Sea, and
one just now by express. I am glad to hear the

92 The Works of [1755

arms are well got up ; they are the best that we could
procure. I wish they were better; but they are
well fortified, will bear a good charge, and I should
imagine they would do good service with swan or
buck shot, if not so fit for single ball. I have been
ill these eight days, confined to my room and bed
most of the time, but am now getting better. I
have, however, done what I could in sending about
to purchase arms, &c, for the supply of the frontiers,
and can now spare you fifty more, which I shall send
up to-morrow with some flints, lead, swan-shot, and
a barrel of gunpowder. The arms will be under
your care and Mr. Weiser's,1 you being gentlemen
in commission from the governor. Keep an account
of whose hands you put them into. Let them be
prudent, sober, careful men, such as will not rashly
hurt our friends with them, and such as will honestly
return them when peace shall be happily restored.

I sincerely commiserate the distress of your out
settlers. The Assembly sit to-morrow, and there is
no room to doubt of their hearty endeavours to do
every thing necessary for the country's safety. I
wish the same disposition may be found in the gov-
ernor, and I hope it. I have put off my journey to
Virginia, and you may depend on my best services
for the common welfare, so far as my little influence
extends. I am your affectionate kinsman and
humble servant.

B. Franklin.

1 Conrad Weiser, celebrated as an Indian interpreter for many years,
highly respected for his character, and of great influence with the
Indians.

i755l Benjamin Franklin 93

P. S. — My best respects to Mr. Weiser. Nine
hundred arms with ammunition have been sent up
by the Committee of Assembly to different parts of
the frontier.

CXXIV

AN ACT x

FOR THE BETTER ORDERING AND REGULATING SUCH AS ARE
WILLING AND DESIROUS TO BE UNITED FOR MILITARY
PURPOSES IN PENNSYLVANIA.

Whereas this province was first settled by (and a
majority of the Assemblies have ever since been of)
the people called Quakers, who, though they do not,
as the world is now circumstanced, condemn the use
of arms in others, yet are principled against bearing
arms themselves; and to make any law to compel
them thereto against their consciences, would be not
only to violate a fundamental in our constitution,
and be a direct breach of our charter of privileges,
but would also in effect be to commence persecution
against all that part of the inhabitants of the pro-
vince ; and for them by any law to compel others to

1 The defeat of General Braddock at the battle of the Monongahela,
on the 9th of July, 1755, had filled the people of Pennsylvania with
alarm. The Assembly at its next session made a large grant in money
for purposes of defence. The doctrine of non-resistance, which was a
part of the creed of a large portion of the population, had hitherto
prevented the establishment of any efficient militia system. To meet
the crisis, Franklin drew up the following act for embodying and dis-
ciplining a voluntary militia. It was carried through the House, he
says, without much difficulty, because care had been taken to leave
the Quakers at liberty.

94 The Works of [1755

bear arms, and exempt themselves, would be incon-
sistent and partial ; yet forasmuch as, by the general
toleration and equity of our laws, great numbers of
people of other religious denominations are come
among us, who are under no such restraint, some of
whom have been disciplined in the art of war, and
conscientiously think it their duty to fight in de-
fence of their country, their wives, their families,
and estates, and such have an equal right to liberty
of conscience with others ; and whereas a great num-
ber of petitions from the several counties of this
province have been presented to this House, setting
forth that the petitioners are very willing to defend
themselves and their country, and desirous of being
formed into regular bodies for that purpose, in-
structed and disciplined under proper officers with
suitable and legal authority; representing withal,
that unless measures of this kind are taken, so as to
unite them together, subject them to due command,
and thereby give them confidence in each other, they
cannot assemble to oppose the enemy without the
utmost danger of exposing themselves to confusion
and destruction;

And whereas the voluntary assembling of great
bodies of armed men from different parts of the
province on any occasional alarm, whether true or
false, as of late hath happened, without call or au-
thority from the government, and without due order
and direction among themselves, may be attended
with danger to our neighbouring Indian friends and
allies, as well as to the internal peace of the province;

And whereas the governor hath frequently recom-

1755] Benjamin Franklin 95

mended it to the Assembly, that, in preparing and
passing a law for such purposes, they should have a
due regard for scrupulous and tender consciences,
which cannot be done where compulsive means are
used to force men into military service ; therefore, as
we represent all the people of the province, and are
composed of members of different religious persua-
sions, we do not think it reasonable that any should,
through a want of legal powers, be in the least re-
strained from doing what they judge it their duty to
do for their own security and the public good; we, in
compliance with the said petitions and recommenda-
tions, do offer it to the governor to be enacted, and
be it enacted by the Honorable Robert Hunter
Morris, with the King's royal approbation lieutenant-
governor, under Thomas Penn and Richard Penn,
true and absolute proprietors of the province of
Pennsylvania, and of the counties of Newcastle,
Kent, and Sussex, upon Delaware, by and with the
advice and consent of the representatives of the free-
men of the said province in General Assembly met,
and by the authority of the same, that, from and
after the publication of this act, it shall and may be
lawful for the freemen of this province to form them-
selves into companies, as heretofore they have used
in time of war without law, and for each company,
by majority of votes in the way of ballot, to choose its
own officers, to wit, a captain, lieutenant, and ensign,
and present them to the governor or commander-
in-chief for the time being for his approbation;
which officers so chosen, if approved and com-
missioned by him, shall be the captain, lieutenant,

96 The Works of [1755

and ensign of each company respectively, according
to their commissions ; and the said companies being
divided into regiments by the governor or com-
mander-in-chief, it shall and may be lawful for the
officers so chosen and commissioned for the several
companies of each regiment to meet together, and
by majority of votes, in the way of ballot, to choose
a colonel, lieutenant-colonel, and major for the regi-
ment, and present them to the governor or com-
mander-in-chief for his approbation; which officers
so chosen, if approved and commissioned by him,
shall be the colonel, lieutenant-colonel, and major
of the regiment, according to their commissions,
during the continuance of this act.

Provided always, that if the governor or com-
mander-in-chief shall not think fit to grant his com-
mission to any officer so first chosen and presented,
it shall and may be lawful for the electors of such
officer to choose two other persons in his stead, and
present them to the governor or commander-in-
chief, one of whom, at his pleasure, shall receive his
commission, and be the officer as aforesaid.

And be it further enacted by the authority afore-
said, that as soon as the said companies and regi-
ments are formed, and their officers commissioned
as aforesaid, it shall and may be lawful to and for
the governor or commander-in-chief, by and with
the advice and consent of the colonels, lieutenant-
colonels, and majors of all the regiments, being for
that purpose by him called and convened, or by and
with the advice and consent of a majority of the said
officers that shall be met and present together on

1755] Benjamin Franklin 97

such call, to form, make, and establish articles of
war, for the better government of the forces that
shall be under their command, and for bringing
offenders against the same to justice, and to erect
and constitute courts-martial, with power to hear,
try, and determine any crimes or offences by such
articles of war, and inflict penalties by sentence or
judgment of the same on those who shall be subject
thereto in any place within this province. Which
articles of war, when made as aforesaid, shall be
printed and distributed to the captains of the several
companies, and by them distinctly read to their
respective companies; and all and every captain,
lieutenant, ensign, or other freeman who shall, after
at least three days' consideration of the said articles,
voluntarily sign the same, in presence of some one
justice of the peace, acknowledging his having
perused or heard the same distinctly read, and that
he has well considered thereof, and is willing to be
bound and governed thereby, and promises obedi-
ence thereto, and to his officers accordingly, shall
henceforth be deemed well and duly bound to the
observance of the said articles, and to the duties
thereby required, and subject to the pains, penalties,
punishments, and forfeitures that may therein be
appointed for disobedience and other offences.

Provided always that the articles, so to be made
and established, shall contain nothing repugnant,
but be as near as possible conformable, to the mili-
tary laws of Great Britain, and to the articles of
war made and established by his Majesty in pursu-
ance of the last act of Parliament for punishing

98 The Works of [1755

mutiny and desertion, the different circumstances of
this province compared with Great Britain, and of a
voluntary militia of freemen compared with mer-
cenary standing troops, being duly weighed and
maturely considered.

Provided, also, that nothing in this act shall be
understood or construed to give any power or au-
thority to the governor or commander-in-chief, and
the said officers, to make any articles or rules that
shall in the least affect those of the inhabitants of
the province who are conscientiously scrupulous of
bearing arms, either in their liberties, persons, or
estates; nor any other persons of what persuasion
or denomination soever, who have not first volun-
tarily and freely signed the said articles after due
consideration as aforesaid.

Provided, also, that no youth under the age of
twenty-one years, nor any bought servant or in-
dented apprentice, shall be admitted to enroll
himself, or be capable of being enrolled, in the said
companies or regiments, without the consent of his
or their parents or guardians, masters or mistresses,
in writing, under their hands first had and obtained.

Provided, also, that no enlistment or enrolment of
any person in any of the companies or regiments to
be formed and raised as aforesaid, shall protect such
person in any suit or civil action brought against him
by his creditors or others, except during his being in
actual service in field or garrison ; nor from a prosecu-
tion for any offence committed against the laws of
this province.

Provided, also, that no regiment, company, or

1755] Benjamin Franklin 99

party of volunteers shall, by virtue of this act, be
compelled or led more than three days' march be-
yond the inhabited parts of the province; nor de-
tained longer than three weeks in any garrison,
without an express engagement for that purpose,
first voluntarily entered into and subscribed by
every man so to march or remain in garrison.

This act to continue in force until the 30th day of
October next, and no longer.

cxxv

TO WILLIAM PARSONS 1

Philadelphia, 5 December, 1755.

Dear Sir: — I received your favor of November
25th, and take this first opportunity of acquainting
you, that an act is passed granting £60,000 chiefly
for the defence of the province, and is to be disposed
of for that purpose, by seven persons, namely, Isaac
Norris, James Hamilton, J. Mifflin, Joseph Fox,
Evan Morgan, John Hughes, and your old friend.
We meet every day, Sundays not excepted, and have
a good agreement with the governor. Three hun-
dred men are ordered to be immediately raised on
pay, to range the frontiers, and blockhouses for
stages to be erected at proper distances and garri-
soned ; so that I hope in a little time to see things in
a better posture. A militia act is also passed, of
which, if people are well disposed, a good use may

1 William Parsons was one of the earliest members of the Junto,
formed by Franklin soon after he established himself in Philadelphia.
He was afterwards Surveyor-General of Pennsylvania. When this
letter was written he was at Easton. He died in 1758.

ioo The Works of [1755

be made, and bodies of men be ready on any occa-
sion to assist and support the rangers. All parties
laid aside, let you and I use our influence to carry
this act into execution.

I received also your letter of the 27th, relating the
unhappy affair of Gnadenhutten, and desiring arms.
I have accordingly procured and sent up by a wagon
to one George Overpack's, a chest of arms containing
fifty, and five loose, fifty-five in all, of which twenty-
five are for Easton, and thirty to be disposed of to
such persons nearest danger on the frontiers, who
are without arms and unable to buy, as yourself with
Messrs. Atkins and Martin may judge most proper;
letting all know that the arms are only lent for their
defence, that they belong to the public, and must be
held forthcoming when the government shall demand
them, for which each man should give his note. By
the same wagon we send twenty-five guns for Le-
high township, and ten for Bethlehem to the Mora-
vian Brethren, which make in all one hundred; with
which goes one hundred weight of gunpowder, and
four hundred pounds of lead ; so there should be one
pound of powder and four pounds of lead divided to
each man.

Who brought your last letter to me I know not, it
being left at my house. You mention sending a
wagon, and I daily expected to see the wagoner,
but he never called on me for an answer. Please
let me know by a line when you have received what
is sent. I am your affectionate friend and humble
servant,

B. Franklin.

1755] Benjamin Franklin 101

CXXVI

TO WILLIAM PARSONS

Philadelphia, 15 December, 1755.

Dear Friend: — We received yours of the 13th.
You will before this time have received the arms and
ammunition, blankets, &c, sent up for an intended
ranging party. They may be made use of for the
defence of your town till we arrive. Captain Trump,
from Upper Dublin, marches the day after to-mor-
row with fifty men to your assistance. The provi-
sions for their use go with them, so that they will not
burden you. Orders are gone to Captains Aston
and Wayne to march also with their companies im-
mediately. They will remain on your frontier two
or three months, till they can be relieved by others.1

Mr. Hamilton and myself will set out on Thursday
to visit you, and erect blockhouses in proper places.

1 Franklin was extremely active in providing for the defence of the
frontiers, as well by his personal efforts, as in the capacity of one of
the commissioners for that purpose. The following memoranda were
found by Mr. Duane among Franklin's papers:
"Considerations to be taken.

"What number of men?

"Should the post be fortified, and in what manner?

"How long to be continued there?

" Could they not be partly employed in raising their own provisions?

"Could they have some lots of land assigned them for their encour-
agement?

"What their pay; and from what funds?

"How much the annual expense?

" Is it certain that the late method of giving rewards for apprehend-
ing rioters will be effectual?

"To whom does the land belong?"

In one of his letters he said : " The fifty arms now sent are all fur-
nished with staples for sling straps, that, if the governor should order
a troop or company of rangers on horseback, the pieces may be slung
at the horsemen's backs. A party on the 'scout should observe several

io2 The Works of

.1755

Think of suitable officers for raising and command-
ing men to be kept in the province pay; for Mr.
Hamilton does not know the people your way, nor
do I know whom to recommend. He will bring some
blank commissions with him. I enclose you twenty
pounds towards buying meal and meat for the poor
fugitives that take refuge with you. Be of good
courage, and God guide you. Your friends will
never desert you. I am yours affectionately,

B. Franklin.

CXXVII

A DIALOGUE l

BETWEEN X, Y, * Z, CONCERNING THE PRESENT STATE OP AFFAIRS IN

PENNSYLVANIA.

X. Your servant, Gentlemen; I am glad to see
you at my house. Is there any thing new to-day?

rules to avoid being tracked and surprised in their encampments at
night. This may be done sometimes when they come to a creek or
run, by entering the run and travelling up the stream
or down the stream, in the water, a mile or two, and
then encamp, the stream effacing the track, and the
enemy at a loss to know whether the party went up or
down. Suppose a party marching from A intends to halt
at B, they do not go straight to Band stop there, but pass
by at some little distance, and make a turn which brings
them thither. Between B and C two or three sentinels are
placed to watch the track, and give immediate notice at
B, if they perceive any party oass by in pursuit, with an
account of the number, &c, which enables the party at
B to prepare and attack them if they judge that proper,
or gives them time to escape. But I add no more of this
kind, recollecting that Mr. Weiser must be much better acquainted
with all these things than I am."

1 This Dialogue was first printed in the Pennsylvania Gazette, De-
cember 18, 1755.

1755] Benjamin Franklin 103

Y. We have been talking of the militia act; have
you seen it?

X. Yes; I have read it in the papers.

Z. And what do you think of it?

X. The more I consider it, the better I like it.
It appears to me a very good act, and I am per-
suaded will be of good use, if heartily carried into
execution.

Z. Ay, that may be; but who is to carry it into
execution? It says that people may form them-
selves into companies, and choose their own officers;
but there is neither time nor place appointed for this
transaction, nor any person directed or empowered
to call them together.

X. It is true; but methinks there are some words
that point out the method pretty plain to willing
minds. And it seems to me, that we who joined so
sincerely in the petitions for a militia law, and really
thought one absolutely necessary for the safety of
our country, should, now we have obtained the law,
rather endeavour to explain than invent difficulties
in the construction of it.

Y. What are those words you mention?
X. Here is the act itself; I will read that part of
it: "From and after the publication of this act, it
shall and may be lawful for the freemen of this
province to form themselves into companies, as
heretofore they used in time of war without law, and
for each company, by a majority of votes, in the way
of ballot, to choose its own officers, &c. ' ' The words
I meant are these: " as heretofore they used in time of
war" Now I suppose we have none of us forgot the

104 The Works of [1755

association in the time of the last war; it is not so
long since, but that we may well enough remember
the method we took to form ourselves into com-
panies, choose our officers, and present them to the
governor for approbation and commissions ; and the
act in question says plainly we may now lawfully do,
in this affair, what we then did without law.

Y. I did not before take so much notice of those
words, but, to be sure, the thing is easy enough ; for
I remember very well how we managed at that time.
And indeed it is easier to effect it now than it was
then; for the companies and regiments, and their
districts, &c, were then all to form and settle. But
now why may not the officers of the old companies
call the old associators together, with such others in
the district of each company as incline to be con-
cerned, and proceed immediately to a new choice by
virtue of the act? Other new companies may in
other places be formed, as the associated companies
were.

Z. You say right. And if this were all the objec-
tion to the act, no doubt they would do so immedi-
ately. But it is said there are other faults in it.

X. What are they?

Z. The act is so loose that persons who never in-
tended to engage in the militia, even Quakers, may
meet and vote in the choice of the officers.

X. Possibly; — but was any such thing observed
in the association elections?

Z. Not that I remember.

X. Why should it be more apprehended now
than it was at that time? Can they have any mo-

1755] Benjamin Franklin 105

tives to such a conduct now, which they had not
then?

Z. I cannot say.

X. Nor can I. If a militia be necessary for the
safety of the province, I hope we shall not boggle at
this little difficulty. What else is objected?

Z. I have heard this objected: That it were
better the governor should appoint the officers; for,
the choice being in the people, a man very unworthy
to be an officer may happen to be popular enough
to get himself chosen by the undiscerning mob.

X. It is possible. And if all officers appointed
by governors were always men of merit, and fully
qualified for their posts, it would be wrong ever to
hazard a popular election. It is reasonable, I allow,
that the commander-in-chief should not have officers
absolutely forced upon him, in whom, from his
knowledge of their incapacity, he can place no con-
fidence. And, on the other hand, it seems likely
that the people will engage more readily in the ser-
vice, and face danger with more intrepidity when
they are commanded by a man they know and
esteem, and on whose prudence and courage, as
well as good-will and integrity, they can have re-
liance, than they would under a man they either did
not know or did not like. For, supposing governors
ever so judicious and upright in the distribution of
commissions, they cannot know everybody in every
part of the province, and are liable to be imposed
on by partial recommendations; but the people
generally know their neighbours. And, to me, the
act in question seems to have hit a proper medium

106 The Works of [1755

between the two modes of appointing. The people
choose, and if the governor approves, he grants the
commission; if not, they are to choose a second, and
even a third time. Out of three choices it is prob-
able one may be right; and where an officer is ap-
proved both by superiors and inferiors, there is the
greatest prospect of those advantages that attend a
good agreement in the service. This mode of choice
is moreover agreeable to the liberty and genius of
our constitution. It is similar to the manner in
which by our laws sheriffs and coroners are chosen
and approved. And yet it has more regard to the
prerogative than the mode of choice in some colo-
nies, where the military officers are either chosen
absolutely by the companies themselves, or by the
House of Representatives, without any negative on
that choice, or any approbation necessary from the
governor.

Y. But is that agreeable to the English constitu-
tion?

X. Considered in this light, I think it is ; British
subjects, by removing into America, cultivating a
wilderness, extending the dominion, and increasing
the wealth, commerce, and power of their mother
country at the hazard of their lives and fortunes,
ought not, and in fact do not, thereby lose their
native rights. There is a power in the crown to
grant a continuance of those rights to such subjects
in any part of the world, and to their posterity born
in such new country; and for the farther encour-
agement and reward of such merit, to grant addi-
tional liberties and privileges, not used in England,

1755] Benjamin Franklin 107

but suited to the different circumstances of different
colonies. If then the grants of those additional
liberties and privileges may be regularly made under
an English constitution, they may be enjoyed agree-
ably to that constitution.

Y. But the act is very short; there are num-
berless circumstances and occasions pertaining to a
body of armed men which are not, as they ought to
have been, expressly provided for in the act.

X. It is true there are not express provisions
in the act for all circumstances, but there is a
power lodged by the act in the governor and field-
officers of the regiments to make all such provisions
in the articles of war which they may form and
establish.

y. But can it be right in the legislature, by any
act, to delegate their power of making laws to others?

X. I believe not, generally; but certainly in
particular cases it may. Legislatures may, and fre-
quently do, give to corporations power to make by-
laws for their own government. And in this case
the act of Parliament gives the power of making
articles of war for the government of the army to
the King alone, and there is no doubt but the Par-
liament understands the rights of government.

Y. Are you sure the act of Parliament gives such
power?

X. This is the act. The power I mention is here
in the 55th section: " Provided always, that it shall
and may be lawful to and for his Majesty to form,
make, and establish articles of war for the better
government of his Majesty's forces, and for bringing

108 The Works of [1755

offenders against the same to justice; and to erect
and constitute courts-martial, with power to try,
hear, and determine any crimes or offences by such
articles of war, and inflict penalties by sentence or
judgment of the same." And here you see, bound
up with the act, the articles of war, made by his
Majesty in pursuance of the act, and providing for
every circumstance.

Z. It is, sure enough. I had been told that our
act of Assembly was impertinently singular in this
particular.

X. The governor himself, in a message to the
House, expressly recommended this act of Parlia-
ment for their imitation, in forming the militia bill.

Z. I never heard that before.

X. But it is true. The Assembly, however,
considering that this militia would consist chiefly of
freeholders, have varied a little from that part of the
act of Parliament, in favor of liberty ; they have not
given the sole power of making those articles of war
to the governor, as that act does to the King; but
have joined with the governor, for that purpose, a
number of officers to be chosen by the people. The
articles, moreover, are not to be general laws
binding on all the province, nor on any man who
has not first approved of them and voluntarily en-
gaged to observe them.

Z. Is there no danger that the governor and
officers may make those articles too severe ?

X. Not without you can suppose them enemies
to the service and to their country; for, if they
should make such as are unfit for freemen and

1755] Benjamin Franklin 109

Englishmen to be subjected to, they will get no
soldiers; nobody will engage. In some cases, how-
ever, if you and I were in actual service, I believe
we should both think it necessary for our own
safety, that the articles should be pretty severe.

Z. What cases are they?

X. Suppose a sentinel should betray his trust,
give intelligence to the enemy, or conduct them into
our quarters.

Z. To be sure there should be severe punishments
for such crimes, or we might all be ruined.

X. Choose reasonable men for your officers, and
you need not fear their making reasonable laws ; and
if they make such, I hope reasonable men will not
refuse to engage under them.

Y. But here is a thing I do not like. By this act
of Assembly the Quakers are neither compelled to
muster nor to pay a fine if they do not.

X. It is true; nor could they be compelled
either to muster or pay a fine of that kind by any
militia law made here. They are exempted by the
charter and fundamental laws of the province.

Y. How so?

X. See here ; it is the first clause in the charter.
I will read it: "Because no people can be truly
happy, though under the greatest enjoyment of
civil liberties, if abridged of the freedom of their
consciences as to their religious profession and wor-
ship ; and Almighty God being the only lord of con-
science, father of lights and spirits, and the author
as well as object of all divine knowledge, faith, and
worship, who only doth enlighten the minds, and

no The Works of [1755

persuade and convince the understandings of people,
I do hereby grant and declare, That no person or
persons inhabiting in this province or territories,
who shall confess and acknowledge one Almighty
God, the creator, upholder, and ruler of the world,
and profess him or themselves obliged to live quietly
under the civil government, shall be, in any case,
molested or prejudiced in his or their person or
estate because of his or their conscientious persuasion
or practice, nor be compelled to frequent, or main-
tain any religious worship, place, or ministry, con-
trary to his or their mind, or to do or suffer any
other act OR thing, contrary to their religious
persuasion." And, in the 8th section of the same
charter, you see a declaration, that "neither the
proprietor, nor his heirs or assigns, shall procure or
do any thing or things whereby the liberties in this
charter contained or expressed, nor any part thereof,
shall be infringed or broken ; and if any thing shall be
procured or done by any person or persons contrary
to these presents, it shall be held of no force or
effect." This liberty of conscience, granted by
charter, is also established by the first law in our
book, and confirmed by the crown. And, moreover,
the governor has an express instruction from the
proprietaries, that, in case of making any militia
law, he shall take especial care that the charter be
not infringed in this respect. Besides, most of our
petitions for a militia from the moderate part of the
people requested particularly that due regard might
be had to scrupulous and tender consciences. When
taxes are raised, however, for the King's service, the

1755] Benjamin Franklin in

Quakers and Menonists pay their part of them, and
a great part; for, as their frugality and industry
make them generally wealthy, their proportion is the
greater compared with their numbers. And out of
these taxes those men are paid who go into actual
service. As for mustering and training, no militia
are anywhere paid for that. It is by many justly
delighted in, as a manly exercise. But those who
are engaged in actual service for any time ought un-
doubtedly to have pay.

Y. There is no provision in this militia act to pay
them.

X. There is a provision that no regiment, com-
pany, or party, though engaged in the militia, shall
be obliged "to more than three days' march, &c,
without an express engagement for that purpose,
first voluntarily entered into and subscribed by
every man, so to march or remain in garrison."
And it is to be supposed that no man will subscribe
such particular engagement without reasonable pay
or other encouragement.

y. But where is that pay to come from?

X. From the government to be sure ; and out of
the money struck by the act for granting ^60,000.

Z. Yes ; but those who serve must pay a share of
the tax, as well as those who do not.

X. Perhaps not. It is to be supposed that those
who engage in the service for any time, upon pay,
will be chiefly single men, and they are expressly ex-
empted from the tax by the £60,000 act. Conse-
quently those who do not serve must pay the more
for the sum granted must be made up.

ii2 The Works of [1755

Z. I never heard before that they were exempted
by that act.

X. It is so, I assure you.

Y. But there is no provision in the militia act for
the maimed.

X. If they are poor, they are provided for by the
laws of their country. There is no other provision
by any militia law that I know of. If they have be-
haved well, and suffered in their country's cause, they
deserve, moreover, some grateful notice of their ser-
vice and some assistance from the common treasury ;
and if any particular township should happen to be
overburthened, they may, on application to the gov-
ernment, reasonably expect relief.

Z. Though the Quakers and others conscientious-
ly scrupulous of bearing arms are exempted, as you
say, by charter, they might, being a majority in the
Assembly, have made the law compulsory on others.
At present it is so loose that nobody is obliged by it
who does not voluntarily engage.

X. They might, indeed, have made the law com-
pulsory on all others. But it seems they thought it
more equitable and generous to leave to all as much
liberty as they enjoy themselves, and not lay even a
seeming hardship on others which they themselves
decline to bear. They have, however, granted all
we asked of them. Our petitions set forth that " we
were freely willing and ready to defend ourselves and
country, and all we wanted was legal authority, order,
and discipline." These are now afforded by the law,
if we think fit to make use of them. And, indeed, I
do not see the advantage of compelling people of any

i755J Benjamin Franklin 113

sect into martial service merely for the sake of rais-
ing numbers. I have been myself in some service of
danger, and I always thought cowards rather weak-
ened than strengthened the party. Fear is con-
tagious, and a panic once begun spreads like wildfire,
and infects the stoutest heart. All men are not by
nature brave; and a few who are so will do more
effectual service by themselves than when accom-
panied by and mixed with a multitude of poltroons,
who only create confusion and give advantage to the
enemy.

Z. What signifies what you thought or think?
Others think differently ; and all the wise legislatures
in the other colonies have thought fit to compel all
sorts of persons to bear arms or surfer heavy penalties.

X. As you say, what I thought or think is not of
much consequence. But a wiser legislator than all
those you mention put together, and who better
knew the nature of mankind, made his military law
very different from theirs in that respect.

Z. What legislator do you mean ?

X. I mean God himself, who would have no man
led to battle that might rather wish to be at home,
either from fear or other causes.

Z. Where do you find that law ?

X. It is in the 20th chapter of Deuteronomy, where
are these words: When thou goest out to battle against
thine enemies, the officers shall speak unto the people,
saying, What man is there that hath built a new
house, and hath not dedicated it ? Let him go and re-
turn to his house, lest he die in the battle, and another
man dedicate it. And what man is he that hath

ii4 The Works of [1755

planted a vineyard, and hath not yet eaten of it f Let
him also go and return unto his house, lest he die in the
battle, and another man eat of it. And what man is
there that hath betrothed a wife, and hath not taken
her ? Let him go and return unto his house, lest he
die in the battle, and another man take her. And —

Z. These altogether could not be many ; and this
has no relation to cowardice.

X. If you had not interrupted me, I was coming
to that part (verse 8) : And the officers shall speak fur-
ther unto the people, and they shall say, What man is
there that is fearful and faint-hearted? Let him
go and return unto his house, lest his brethren's heart
faint, as well as his heart; that is, lest he communi-
cate his fears, and his brave brethren catch the con-
tagion, to the ruin of the whole army. Accordingly,
we find that, under this military law, no people in the
world fought more gallantly, or performed greater
actions, than the Hebrew soldiery. And if you would
be informed what proportion of people would be dis-
charged by such a proclamation, you will find that
matter determined by an actual experiment, made by
General Gideon, as related in the 7th Chapter of
Judges; for he, having assembled thirty- two thou-
sand men against the Midianites, proclaimed, accord-
ing to law (verse 3): Whosoever is fearful and
afraid, let him return and depart early from Mount
Gilead.

Z. And pray, how many departed?

X. The text says there departed twenty-two thou-
sand, and there remained but ten thousand men. A
very great sifting ! and yet on that particular occasion

i75s] Benjamin Franklin 115

a farther sifting was required. Now it seems to me
that this militia law of ours, which gives the brave
all the advantages that they can desire, of order,
authority, discipline, and the like, and compels no
cowards into their company, is such a kind of sieve
as the Mosaic proclamation. For, with us, not only
every man who has built a house, or planted a vine-
yard, or betrothed a wife, or is afraid of his flesh,
but the narrow bigot, filled with sectarian malice, if
such there be, who hates Quakers more than he loves
his country, his friends, his wife, or family, may say:
/ will not engage, for I do not like the act; or, I do
not like the officers that are chosen; or, / do not like
the articles of war; and so we shall not be troubled
with them, but all that engage will be hearty.

Z. For my part, I am no coward, but hang me if I
will fight to save the Quakers.

X. That is to say, you will not pump ship, be-
cause it will save the rats as well as yourself.

Y. You have answered most of the objections I
have heard against the act to my satisfaction; but
there is one remaining. The method of carrying it
into execution seems so roundabout, I am afraid we
cannot have the benefit of it in any reasonable time.

X. I cannot see much in that objection. The sev-
eral neighbourhoods out of which companies are
formed, may meet and choose their company officers
in one and the same day ; and the regiments may be
formed, and field-officers chosen, in a week or ten
days after, who may immediately proceed to consider
the several militia laws of Britain and the colonies,
and, with the governor, form out of them such

n6 The Works of [1755

articles as will appear most suitable for the freemen
of this province, who incline to bear arms voluntarily ;
and the whole may be in order in a month from the
first elections, if common diligence be used. And,
indeed, as the colonies are at present the prize con-
tended for between Britain and France, and the lat-
ter, by the last advices, seems to be meditating some
grand blow, part of which may probably fall on Penn-
sylvania, either by land or sea, or both, it behoves us
I think, to make the best use we can of this act, and
carry it immediately into execution, both in town
and country. If there are any material defects in
it, experience will best discover them, and show
what is proper or necessary to amend them. The
approaching winter will afford us some time to arm
and prepare, and more leisure, than other seasons,
for exercising and improving in good discipline.

Z. But if this act should be carried into execution,
prove a good one, and answer the end, what shall we
have to say against the Quakers at the next election ?

X. O my friends, let us on this occasion cast from
us all these little party views, and consider ourselves
as Englishmen and Pennsylvanians. Let us think
only of the services of our King, the honor and safety
of our country, and vengeance on its murdering ene-
mies. If good be done, what imports it by whom
it is done ? The glory of serving and saving others is
superior to the advantage of being served or secured.
Let us resolutely and generously unite in our coun-
try's cause, in which to die is the sweetest of all
deaths, and may the God of armies bless our honest
endeavours.

i7S5] Benjamin Franklin 117

CXXVIII

TO MRS. DEBORAH FRANKLIN

Easton, Saturday Night, 27 December, 1755.

My Dear Child: — I received with pleasure yours
of the 24th, which acquainted me of your and the
family's welfare. I am glad to hear that the com-
panies are forming in town and choosing their officers,
and I hope the example will be followed throughout
the country. We all continue well, but much
harassed with business. After many difficulties and
disappointments we marched two companies yester-
day over the mountains, namely, Aston's and
Trump's. We wait here only for shoes, arms, and
blankets, expected hourly, and then shall move to-
ward Berks County. Our compliments to Mrs.
Masters and all inquiring friends. When you write
next, direct to Mr. Read's care at Reading. My duty
to mother, and love to the children. I hope to find
you all well at my return. My love to Mr. Hall.
We have no fresh news here of mischief, to be de-
pended on. Send the newspapers and my letters to
Reading, and let me have all the little news about the
X Y Z proceedings, officers, &c. I am obliged to
Goody Smith for kindly remembering me. I am,
with great affection, your loving husband,

B. Franklin.

n8 The Works of [1756

CXXIX

COMMISSION FROM LIEUT. -GOVERNOR MORRIS

The Honorable Robert Hunter Morris, Esquire, Lieutenant-
Governor, and Commander-in-Chief of the Province of
Pennsylvania, and Counties of Newcastle, Kent, and
Sussex, on Delaware, to Benjamin Franklin.

I do hereby authorize and empower you to take into your
charge the County of Northampton, to dismiss all persons
who have been commissioned by me to any military com-
mand, and to put others into their places ; and to fill up
the blank commissions herewith delivered, with the names
of such persons as you shall judge fit for his Majesty's ser-
vice ; hereby ratifying all your acts and proceedings, done
in virtue of this power; and approving the expenses ac-
cruing thereupon. And I do further order and enjoin all
officers and soldiers to yield obedience to you in the execu-
tion of this power, and all magistrates, sheriffs, and others,
in any kind of civil authority, and all his Majesty's liege
subjects, to be aiding and assisting you in the premises.
Given under my hand and seal, at Reading, this 5th day
of January, 1756.1

Robert H. Morris.

cxxx

TO MRS. DEBORAH FRANKLIN

Bethlehem, 15 January, 1756.

My Dear Child : — We move this day for Gnaden-
hutten. If you have not cash sufficient, call upon Mr.

1 This was a special and temporary commission; after Franklin's
return, in February, he was chosen and commissioned colonel of the
Philadelphia regiment.

1756] Benjamin Franklin 119

Moore, the treasurer, with that order of the Assembly
and desire him to pay you one hundred pounds of it.
If he has not cash on hand, Mr. Norris (to whom my
respects) will advance it for him. We shall have with
us about one hundred and thirty men, and shall en-
deavour to act cautiously, so as to give the enemy no
advantage through our negligence. Make yourself
therefore easy. Give my hearty love to all friends. I
hope in a fortnight or three weeks, God willing, to see
the intended line of forts finished, and then I shall
make a trip to Philadelphia, and send away the
lottery tickets, and pay off the prizes, though you
may pay such as come to hand of those sold in
Philadelphia of my signing. They were but few, the
most being sold abroad; and those that sold them
and received the money will pay off the prizes. I
hope you have paid Mrs. Stephens for the bills. I
am, my dear child, your loving husband,

B. Franklin.

CXXXI

TO MRS. DEBORAH FRANKLIN

Gnadenhutten, 25 January, 1756.

My Dear Child: — This day week we arrived
here. I wrote to you the same day, and once since.
We all continue well, thanks be to God. We have
been hindered with bad weather, yet our fort is in a
good defensible condition, and we have every day
more convenient living . Two more are to be built , one
on each side of this, at about fifteen miles' distance.

120 The Works of [17 56

I hope both will be done in a week or ten days, and
then I purpose to bend my course homewards.

We have enjoyed your roast beef, and this day
began on the roast veal. All agree that they are both
the best that ever were of the kind. Your citizens,
that have their dinners hot and hot, know nothing of
good eating. We find it in much greater perfection
when the kitchen is four score miles from the dining
room.

The apples are extremely welcome, and do bravely
to eat after our salt pork; the minced pies are not
yet come to hand, but I suppose we shall find them
among the things expected up from Bethlehem on
Tuesday; the capillaire is excellent, but, none of us
having taken cold as yet, we have only tasted it.

As to our lodging, it is on deal featherbeds, in
warm blankets, and much more comfortable than
when we lodged at our inn the first night after we
left home ; for, the woman being about to put very
damp sheets on the bed, we desired her to air them
first ; half an hour afterwards she told us the bed was
ready, and the sheets well aired. I got into bed, but
jumped out immediately, finding them as cold as
death, and partly frozen. She had aired them indeed,
but it was out upon the hedge. I was forced to wrap
myself up in my great coat and woollen trowsers.
Every thing else about the bed was shockingly dirty.

As I hope in a little time to be with you and my
family, and chat things over, I now only add that I
am, dear Debby, your affectionate husband,

B. Franklin.

1756] Benjamin Franklin 121

CXXXII

TO A FRIEND z

Gnadenhutten, 25 January, 1756.

Dear Sir: — We got to Hays's the same evening we
left you, and reviewed Craig's company by the way.
Much of the next morning was spent in exchanging
the bad arms for the good. Wayne's company hav-
ing joined us, we that night reached Uplinger's,
where we got into good quarters, and Saturday
morning we began to march towards Gnadenhutten,
and proceeded nearly two miles; but it seeming to
set in for a rainy day, the men unprovided with
great coats, and many unable to secure effectually
their arms from the wet, we thought it advisable to
face about, and return to our former quarters, where
the men might dry themselves and lie warm ; whereas,
had they proceeded, they would have come in wet to
Gnadenhutten, where shelter and opportunity of dry-
ing themselves that night were uncertain. In fact, it
rained all day, and we were all pleased that we had
not proceeded.

The next day, being Sunday, we marched hither,
where we arrived about two o'clock in the afternoon,
and before five had enclosed our camp with a strong
breastwork musket-proof; and, with the boards
brought here before by my order from Dunker's Mill,
we got ourselves under some shelter from the weather.
Monday was so dark, with a thick fog all day, that
we could neither look out for a place to build, nor

1 This letter was probably directed to one of the commissioners, but
the name of the individual is not known.

122 The Works of [1756

see where materials were to be had. Tuesday morn-
ing we looked around us, pitched on a place, and
marked out our fort on the ground. By three in the
afternoon the logs were all cut, and many of them
hauled to the spot, the ditch dug to set them in three
feet deep, and many were pointed and set up. The
next day we were hindered by rain most of the day.
Thursday we resumed our work, and before night
were perfectly well enclosed ; and on Friday morning,
the stockade was finished and part of the platform
within erected, which was completed next morning,
when we dismissed Foulke's and Wetherhold's com-
panies, and sent Hays down for a convoy of provi-
sions. This day we hoisted the flag, made a general
discharge of our pieces, which had been long loaded,
and of our two swivels, and named the place Fort
Allen in honor of our old friend. It is one hundred
and twenty-five feet long, and fifty wide ; the stock-
ades most of them a foot thick, three feet in the
ground and twelve feet out, pointed at the top.

This is an account of our week's work, which I
thought might give you some satisfaction. Foulke is
gone to build another fort between this and Schuyl-
kill fort, which I hope will be finished (as Trexler is
to join him) in a week or ten days, as soon as Hays
returns. I shall detach another party to erect another
at Surfass's, which I hope may be finished in the
same time, and then I suppose end my campaign,
God willing, and do myself the pleasure of seeing you
on my return. I can now add no more than that I
am with great esteem and affection, &c,

B. Franklin.

1756] Benjamin Franklin 123

CXXXIII

TO ROBERT HUNTER MORRIS, GOVERNOR OF PENNSYL-
VANIA
Fort Allen, at Gnadenhutten, 26 January, 1756.

Sir: — We left Bethlehem the 16th instant, with
Foulke's company forty-six men, the detachment of
McLaughlin's twenty, and seven wagons laden with
stores and provisions. We got that night to Hays's
quarters, where Wayne's company joined us from
Nazareth. The next day we marched cautiously
through the gap of the mountain, a very dangerous
pass, and got to Uplinger's, twenty-one miles from
Bethlehem, the roads being bad and the wagons
moving slowly.

This present Monday we are erecting a third house
in the fort to accommodate the garrison. As soon
as Captain Hays returns with the convoy of stores
and provisions, which I hope may be to-morrow, I
purpose to send Arndt and Hays to join Captain
Trump in erecting the middle fort there, purposing
to remain here between them and Foulke, ready to
assist and supply both, as occasion may require ; and
I hope in a week or ten days, weather favoring, that
those two forts may be finished, the line of forts com-
pleted and garrisoned, the rangers in motion, and the
intermediate guards and watches disbanded, unless
they are permitted and encouraged to go after the
enemy to the Susquehanna.

At present the expense in this county is prodigious.
We have on foot and in pay the following com-
panies, viz.: Trump's, consisting of fifty men;

124 The Works of [1756

Aston 's, fifty; Wayne's, fifty-five; Foulke's, forty-
six; Trexler's, forty-eight; and Wetherhold's, forty-
four — without the Fork; Arndt's, fifty; Craig's,
thirty; and Martin's, thirty — in the Irish settlements;
Van Elten's, thirty — at Minisink; Hays's, forty-five;
detachment of McLaughlin's, twenty; Parsons 's,
twenty-four — at Easton; total, five hundred and
twenty- two.

This, Sir, is a particular account of our transac-
tions, and the present state of affairs in this county.
I am glad to learn, by your favor of the 2 1st, just re-
ceived, that you have thoughts of coming to Beth-
lehem, as I may hope for an opportunity of waiting
upon your Honor there, after our works are finished,
and of communicating every thing more fully. I
now only add, that I am, with dutiful respect, Sir,
&c, B. Franklin.1

1 He wrote to Mr. Horsefield, January 25th: "Foulke with his com-
pany marches this day to build another fort between this and Fort
Lebanon in the Forks of the Schuylkill. He is to be assisted by Trex-
ler's company, and a detachment of Wetherhold's, which also leaves
us this day. My son, with Hays's company and Arndt's, marches in
a few days to Surf ass's place (where Trump is also expected), to erect
another fort between this and Fort Hamilton near Brodhead's. I
purpose to remain here between them till both are finished, with
Wayne and the detachment of Davis's, that I may be able to supply
and assist on either side as occasion requires. This is the present state
of our affairs, of which please to inform our friends, as I cannot now
write to them."

Again, to Mr. Samuel Rhoads, January 26th: "We have built one
pretty strong fort, and by the end of next week, or in ten days, hope
to finish two more, one on each side of this, and at fifteen miles' dis-
tance. These, I suppose, will complete the projected line from Dela-
ware to the Susquehanna. I then purpose, God willing, to return
homewards, and enjoy the pleasures I promise myself, of finding my
friends well."

In another letter to Mr. Horsefield, written on the 28th, he said: "I

1756] Benjamin Franklin I25

CXXXIV

TO MRS. DEBORAH FRANKLIN

Fort Allen, at Gnadenhuttbn, 30 January, 1756-

My Dear Child :— Every other day, since we have
been here, it has rained, more or less, to our no small
hindrance. It rained yesterday, and now again to-
day, which prevented our marching; so I will sit
down half an hour to confer a little with you.

All the things you sent me, from time to time, are
safely come to hand, and our living grows every day
more comfortable; yet there are many things we
still want, but do not send for them, as we hope our
stay here will not be long.

I thought to have wrote you a long letter, but
here comes in a number of people from different
parts, that have business with me, and interrupt
me- we have but one room, and that quite public;
so I can only add, that I have just received yours,
Sally's and Grace's letters, of the 25th, with one
from Mr. Hughes, and one from Mr. Thomson.
Present my respects to those gentlemen (and ex-
cuse my not writing, as I have nothing material,
and am much hurried), and love to all our friends
and neighbours. Billy presents his duty to you, and
love to his sister; all the gentlemen their compli-
ments; they drink your health at every meal, having
always something on the table to put them m mind
of you. .

have the pleasure to inform you, that the six wagons are just arrived
and I Suppose all right, though I have not yet had tune to examine
the contents. There are ten Lehigh people buzzing in both ears white
I write so^can only add my thanks for your care and readiness to
serve the province."

126 The Works of [1756

I found, among the newspapers, Mr. Shoen's bills
of exchange, which should not have been sent up
here; I suppose it was by mistake, and mention it,
that you need not be troubled to look more for
them.

I am, dear girl, your loving husband,

B. Franklin.

CXXXV

TO MRS. DEBORAH FRANKLIN

Fort Allen, 31 January, 1756.

My Dear: — I wrote a line to you yesterday, and,
having this opportunity, write another, just to let
you know that we all continue well, and much the
better for the refreshments you have sent us; in
short, we do very well ; for, though there are a great
number of things, besides what we have, that used
to seem necessary to comfortable living, yet we have
learned to do without them.

Mr. Beatty is a very useful man here, and the
Doctor another. Besides their services to the pub-
lic, they are very agreeable companions to me.
They, with Captain Clapham, Mr. Edmond, and the
rest of our company, present their hearty respects
to you for the goodies. Billy presents his duty to
you and his grandmother, and love to his sister.
Distribute my compliments among our acquaint-
ance, and hearty love to all friends. The bearer
waits, so that I cannot write to my dear Sally. I
am, dear girl, your loving husband,

B. Franklin.

1756] Benjamin Franklin 127

CXXXVI

TO MRS. JANE MECOM

Philadelphia, 12 February, 1756.

Dear Sister: — I condole with you on the loss of
our dear brother.1 As our number grows less, let
us love one another proportionably more.

I am just returned from my military expedition,
and now my time is taken up in the Assembly.
Providence seems to require various duties of me.
I know not what will be next; but I find, the
more I seek for leisure and retirement from business,
the more I am engaged in it. Benny, I understand,
inclines to leave Antigua. He may be in the right.
I have no objection. My love to brother and to
your children. I am, dearest sister, your affec-
tionate brother,

B. Franklin.

CXXXVII

TO MISS E. HUBBARD 3

Philadelphia, 23 February, 1756.

— I condole with you. We have lost a most dear
and valuable relation. But it is the will of God and
nature that these mortal bodies be laid aside when
the soul is to enter into real life. This is rather an

1 John Franklin, who died at Boston, in January, 1756, at the age
of sixty-five.

2 John Franklin married a second wife, by the name of Hubbard, a
widow. Miss E. Hubbard, to whom this letter was addressed, was
her daughter by a former marriage.

128 The Works of [1756

embryo state, a preparation for living. A man is
not completely born until he be dead. Why then
should we grieve that a new child is born among the
immortals, a new member added to their happy
society ?

We are spirits. That bodies should be lent us,
while they can afford us pleasure, assist us in ac-
quiring knowledge, or in doing good to our fellow
creatures, is a kind and benevolent act of God. When
they become unfit for these purposes, and afford us
pain instead of pleasure, instead of an aid become an
incumbrance, and answer none of the intentions for
which they were given, it is equally kind and bene-
volent that a way is provided by which we may get
rid of them. Death is that way. We ourselves, in
some cases, prudently choose a partial death. A
mangled painful limb which cannot be restored we
willingly cut off. He who plucks out a tooth parts
with it freely, since the pain goes with it; and he
who quits the whole body, parts at once with all
pains and possibilities of pains and diseases which
it was liable to or capable of making him suffer.

Our friend and we were invited abroad on a party
of pleasure, which is to last for ever. His chair was
ready first, and he is gone before us. We could not
all conveniently start together ; and why should you
and I be grieved at this, since we are soon to follow,
and know where to find him? Adieu.

B. Franklin.1

1 On a similar occasion he wrote to his sister, a few days afterwards,
as follows: " It is remarkable that so many breaches by death should
be made in our family in so short a space. Out of seventeen children

1756] Benjamin Franklin 129

CXXXVIII

TO MRS. DEBORAH FRANKLIN

Frederick-town, Virginia, 21 March, 1756.

My Dear Child: — We got here yesterday after-
noon, and purpose sailing to-day if the wind be fair.
Peter was taken ill with a fever and pain in his side
before I got to Newcastle. I had him bled there,
and put him into the chair wrapped up warm, as he
could not bear the motion of the horse, and got him
here pretty comfortably. He went immediately to
bed, and took some camomile tea, and this morning
is about again and almost well. I leave my horses
at Mr. Milliken's, a gentleman that lives on Bohemia
River.

Among the government orders I left with you, are
two written ones drawn on Mr. Charles Norris for
considerable sums. You did not tell me, when I
asked you, what money you had in hand. If you
want before my return, present one of those orders

that our father had, thirteen lived to grow up and settle in the world.

I remember these thirteen (some of us then very young) all at one

table, when an entertainment was made at our house, on occasion of

the return of our brother Josiah, who had been absent in the East

Indies, and unheard of for nine years. Of these thirteen, there now

remain but three. As our number diminishes, let our affection to each

other rather increase; for, besides its being our duty, it is our interest,

since the more affectionate relations are to each other, the more they

are respected by the rest of the world."

Again, speaking of the death of an acquaintance, he wrote: "Your

neighbour must have been pretty well advanced in years when he

died. I remember him a young man when I was a very young boy.

In looking back, how short the time seems! I suppose that all the

passages of our lives that we have forgotten, being so many links taken

out of the chain, give the more distant parts leave, as it were, to come

apparently nearer together."
vol. in. — 9.

130 The Works of [1756

to Mr. Norris, and he will pay the whole or a part,
as you have occasion. Billy will also pay you some
money, which I did not care to take with me from
Newcastle. Be careful of your accounts, particu-
larly about the lottery affairs. My duty to mother,
and love to Sally, Debby, Gracy, &c, not forgetting
the Goody. Desire Dr. Bond to send me some of
those pills by post. I forgot to take any with me.
Let Mr. Parker know I received the money he sent
me on the post-office and money-paper accounts. I
forgot to write it to him, though I fully intended it.
If there is peace I shall probably not come home so
soon as I purposed to do in case the ships from Eng-
land bring a declaration of war, or in case the un-
certainty continues. I am, my dear child, your

loving husband,

B. Franklin.

CXXXIX

TO MRS. DEBORAH FRANKLIN

Williamsburg, 30 March, 1756.

My Dear Child: — I wrote to you via New York
the day after my arrival, acquainting you that I had
a fine journey and passage down the Bay, being but
four days from Philadelphia to Colonel Hunter's,
though stopped near a day on the road.1 I have
been well ever since, quite clear of the dizziness I
complained of, and as gay as a bird, not beginning
yet to long for home, the worry of perpetual business

1 Franklin and Colonel Hunter were at this time jointly postmasters-
general of the colonies, and the business of the post-office seems to
have been the object of this journey to Virginia.

1756] Benjamin Franklin 131

being yet fresh in my memory. Mr. Hunter is
much better than I expected to find him, and we are
daily employed in settling our affairs. About the
end of the week we are to take a tour into the coun-
try. Virginia is a pleasant country, now in full
spring; the people obliging and polite. I shall
return in the man-of-war to New York with Colonel
Hunter and his lady; at least, this is proposed;
but, if a more convenient opportunity offers, per-
haps I may not stay so long as the end of the next
month, when that ship is to sail. I am, my dear

Debby, your loving husband,

B. Franklin.1

CXL

TO JOSEPH HUEY

Philadelphia, 6 June, 1756.'

Sir: — I received your kind letter of the 2d inst.,
and am glad to hear that you increase in strength.

1 On the 10th of June he wrote from Philadelphia to William Par-
sons: " It is now a long time since I had the pleasure of a line from you.
I am now returned from Virginia, where I was near two months. I
should be glad to learn from you the present state of the forces in your
county, and of the people. If in any thing I can serve you, command
freely your old friend."

2 Mr. Sparks publishes this letter as addressed to George Whitefield
under date of June 6, 1753. In a note he says: "The above letter has
often been printed, and always, I believe, as having been written to
Whitefield, but among the author's MSS. I find the first draft, with
the following indorsement in Franklin's handwriting: 'Letter to Joseph
Huey.'" Aside from the intrinsic improbability of Franklin's preach-
ing such a sermon as this to Whitefield, there is no good reason to
doubt that it was written to the man to whom it was addressed. The
first draft, from which we print, is in the American Philosophical So-
ciety in Philadelphia. — Editor.

i32 The Works of [1756

I hope you will continue mending till you recover
your former health and firmness. Let me know if
you still use the cold bath, and what effect it has.

As to the kindness you mention, I wish it could
have been of more service to you. But if it had, the
only thanks I should desire is, that you would
always be equally ready to serve any other person
that may need your assistance, and so let good
offices go round, for mankind are all of a family.

For my own part, when I am employed in serving
others, I do not look upon myself as conferring
favours, but as paying debts. In my travels and
since my settlement I have received much kindness
from men, to whom I shall never have any oppor-
tunity of making the least direct return, and num-
berless mercies from God, who is infinitely above
being benefited by our services. These kindnesses
from men I can therefore only return on their fellow-
men; and I can only show my gratitude for those
mercies from God, by a readiness to help his other
children and my brethren. For I do not think that
thanks and compliments tho' repeated weekly, can
discharge our real obligations to each other, and
much less those to our Creator.

You will see in this my notion of good works, that
I am far from expecting (as you suppose) that I
shall ever merit heaven by them. By heaven we
understand a state of happiness, infinite in degree
and eternal in duration. I can do nothing to de-
serve such reward. He that for giving a draught
of water to a thirsty person should expect to be paid
with a good plantation, would be modest in his de-

1756] Benjamin Franklin 133

mands, compared with those who think they de-
serve heaven for the little good they do on earth.
Even the mixed, imperfect pleasures we enjoy in this
world are rather from God's goodness than our merit;
how much more such happiness of heaven. For my
own part, I have not the vanity to think I deserve it,
the folly to expect it, nor the ambition to desire it;
but content myself in submitting to the will and
disposal of that God who made me, who hitherto
preserv'd and bless 'd me, and in whose fatherly
goodness I may well confide, that he will never make
me miserable, and that even the afflictions I may at
any time suffer shall tend to my benefit.

The faith you mention has doubtless its use in the
world ; I do not desire it to be diminished, nor would
I endeavour to lessen it in any man. But I wish it
were more productive of good works than I have
generally seen it. I mean real good works, works
of kindness, charity, mercy, and publick spirit; not
holiday-keeping, sermon reading or hearing, per-
forming church ceremonies, or making long prayers,
filled with flatteries and compliments, — despis'd even
by wise men, and much less capable of pleasing the
Deity. The worship of God is a duty, the hearing
and reading of sermons may be useful; but if men
rest in hearing and praying, as too many do, it is as
if a tree should value itself in being water 'd and
putting forth leaves, tho' it never produc'd any
fruit.

Your great Master tho't much less of these out-
ward appearances and professions than many of the
modern disciples. He preferred the doers of the

134 The Works of [1756

word to the mere hearers; the Son that seemingly
refus'd to obey his father and yet perform 'd his
command, to him that profess 'd his readiness but
neglected the work; the heretical but charitable
Samaritan, to the uncharitable tho' orthodox priest
and sanctified Levite; and those who gave food to
the hungry, drink to the thirsty, raiment to the
naked, entertainment to the stranger, and relief to
the sick, &c, tho' they never heard of his name, he
declares shall in the last day be accepted, when those
who cry Lord, Lord, who value themselves on their
faith, tho' great enough to perform miracles, but
have neglected good works, shall be rejected, he
professed that he came not to call the righetous but
sinners to repentance; which imply 'd his modest
opinion that there were some in His time so good
that they need not hear even him for improvement ;
but nowadays we have scarce a little parson, that
does not think it the duty of every man within his
reach to sit under his petty ministrations, and that
whoever omits them * [all the rest of this letter is
torn out.]

[On the back of this letter is the following endorse-
ment.]

In writing to his brother, August 6, 1 747, Franklin says :
" I am glad to hear that Mr. Whitefield is safe arrived, and
recovered his health. He is a good man, and I love him."

1 Mr. Sparks concludes his letter with the words "offends God."
That is a very satisfactory conclusion, but we have no evidence that it
was Franklin's.

1756] Benjamin Franklin 135

CXLI

TO MRS. JANE MECOM

New York, 28 June, 1756.

Dear Sister: — I received here your letter of ex-
travagant thanks, which puts me in mind of the
story of the member of Parliament, who began one
of his speeches with saying he thanked God that he
was born and bred a Presbyterian; on which an-
other took leave to observe, that the gentleman
must needs be of a most grateful disposition, since
he was thankful for such very small matters.

You desire me to tell you what I know about
Benny's removal, and the reasons of it. Some time
last year, when I returned from a long journey, I
found a letter from him, which had been some time
unanswered, and it was some considerable time
afterwards before I knew of an opportunity to send
an answer. I should first have told you, that when
I set him up at Antigua, he was to have the use of
the printing-house on the same terms with his prede-
cessor, Mr. Smith; that is, allowing me one third part
of the profits. After this, finding him diligent and
careful, for his encouragement, I relinquished that
agreement, and let him know, that as you were re-
moved into a dearer house, if he paid you yearly a
certain sum, I forget what it was, towards discharg-
ing your rent, and another small sum to me, in sugar
and rum for my family use, he need keep no farther
accounts of the profits, but should enjoy all the rest
himself. I cannot remember what the whole of both

136 The Works of [1756

payments amounted to, but I think they did not
exceed twenty pounds a year.

The truth is, I intended, from the first, to give him
that printing-house; but as he was young and in-
experienced in the world, I thought it best not to do
it immediately, but to keep him a little dependent
for a time, to check the flighty unsteadiness of tem-
per, which, on several occasions, he had discovered;
and what I received from him, I concluded to lay
out in new letters (or types), that, when I should
give it to him entirely, it might be worth his accept-
ance; and if I should die first, I put it in my will,
that the letters should be all new cast for him.

This proposal of paying you and me a certain
annual sum did not please him; and he wrote to
desire I would explicitly tell him how long that
annual payment was to continue; whether, on pay-
ment of that, all prior demands I had against him,
for the arrears of our first agreement, were likewise
cancelled ; and finally insisted, that I would name a
certain sum that I would take for the printing-house,
and allow him to pay it off in parts as he could, and
then the yearly payments to cease, for, though he
had a high esteem for me, yet he loved freedom, and
his spirit could not bear dependence on any man,
though he were the best man living.

This was the letter, which casually remained, as
I said, so long unanswered ; at which he took farther
offence ; and before I could answer it, I received an-
other from him, acquainting me that he had come
to a resolution to remove from the Island; that his
resolution was fixed, and nothing that could be said

i756J Benjamin Franklin 137

to him should move or shake it; and he proposed
another person to me, to carry on the business in
his room. This was immediately followed by an-
other and a third letter, to the same purpose, all
declaring the inflexibility of his determination to
leave the Island, but without saying where he pro-
posed to go, or what were his motives. So I wrote
him, that I would not attempt to change his resolu-
tions ; that I made no objections to his quitting, but
wished he had let me know where he was going ; that,
as to the person he recommended to succeed him, I
had kept the office there after Mr. Smith's decease,
in hopes it might be of use to him (Benny). I did
not incline to be concerned with any other there.
However, if the person would buy it, I named the
price; if not, I directed it to be packed up and
sent home. All I desired of him was to discharge
what he owed to Mr. Strahan, bookseller in London,
one of my friends, who had credited him on my
recommendation .

By this post I received the enclosed letter, and
understand the things are all arrived. I shall be
very glad to hear he does better in another place,
but I fear he will not for some years be cured of his
fickleness, and get fixed to any purpose; however,
we must hope for the best, as with this fault he has
many good qualities and virtues.

My love to brother and children, and to all that
love you. I am, dear sister, your affectionate
brother,

B. Franklin.

138 The Works of [1756

CXLII

TO WILLIAM PARSONS

New York, June 28, 1756.

Dear Friend: — I have received here your favor
of the 1 9th instant, with a copy of your remarks on
reviewing the forts, for which I am much obliged to
you; and I hope the governor and commissioners
will immediately take the necessary measures to
remedy every thing that you find amiss. I think
you hazarded yourself with too small escorts, and
am glad you got safe through. It appears plainly
that it will be of great use to review the forts fre-
quently. The expense must be inconsiderable com-
pared to the advantages and security that may be
derived from it.

Great part of the British regiments are arrived
here. The men are all in health, and look exceed-
ingly well. What will be undertaken this summer
is, I believe, unknown, or uncertain till the general's
arrival. Some of the officers think this year will be
chiefly spent in preparation for the next. Others
imagine there will be an accommodation. For my
part, I can make no judgment. This only I can
plainly see, that New York is growing immensely
rich by money brought into it from all quarters for
the pay and subsistence of the troops. General
Shirley, it is said, is to go home in the same ship that
brings Lord Loudoun, and to be made one of the
Lords of Trade. The Indians continue to scalp
now and then a man too close to Albany, Oswego,
and the camps. The New England forces are not

I756] Benjamin Franklin 139

yet complete. Those colonies have overdone them-
selves, and undertaken too much; more than they
are able to bear or perform.

With great esteem, I am, dear friend, affection-
ately yours,

B. Franklin.

CXLIII

TO GEO. WHITEFIELD

New York, July 2, 1756.

Dear Sir: — I received your favour of the 24th of
February with great pleasure, as it informed me of
your welfare, and expressed your continued regard
for me. I thank you for the pamphlet you en-
closed to me.1 As we have just observed a pro-
vincial fast on the same occasion, I thought it very
seasonable to be published in Pennsylvania; and
accordingly reprinted it immediately.

You mention your frequent wish that you were a
chaplain to the American army. I sometimes wish
that you and I were jointly employed by the crown
to settle a colony on the Ohio. I imagine that we
could do it effectually, and without putting the na-
tion to much expense; but I fear we shall never
be called upon for such a service. What a glorious
thing it would be to settle in that fine country a
large, strong body of religious and industrious people!

1 Doubtless, Whitefield's Short Address to Persons of all Denomina-
tions.

140 The Works of [1756

What a security to the other colonies and advan-
tage to Britain, by increasing her people, territory,
strength, and commerce! Might it not greatly
facilitate the introduction of pure religion among
the heathen, if we could, by such a colony, show
them a better sample of Christians than they com-
monly see in our Indian traders? — the most vicious
and abandoned wretches of our nation ! Life, like a
dramatic piece, should not only be conducted with
regularity, but, methinks, it should finish hand-
somely. Being now in the last act, I begin to cast
about for something fit to end with. Or, if mine be
more properly compared to an epigram, as some of
its lines are but barely tolerable, I am very desirous
of concluding with a bright point. In such an enter-
prise, I could spend the remainder of life with
pleasure; and I firmly believe God would bless us
with success, if we undertook it with a sincere regard
to His honour, the service of our gracious king, and
(which is the same thing) the public good.

I thank you cordially for your generous benefac-
tions to the German schools. They go on pretty
well ; and will do better, when Mr. Smith, who has
at present the principal charge of them, shall learn
to mind party- writing and party politics less, and
his proper business more; which, I hope, time will
bring about.

I thank you for your good wishes and prayers;
and am, with greatest esteem and affection, dear Sir,
your most obedient humble servant,

Benjamin Franklin.

My best respects to Mrs. Whitefield.

1756] Benjamin Franklin 141

CXLIV

TO THOMAS POWNALL *

Philadelphia, 19 August, 1756.

Sir: — I have done myself the honor to write you
twice since my return, relating to the proposed
road; but have as yet had no line from you.

Enclosed I send you a copy of the late treaty, or
conference, at Easton, with a letter from Bishop
Spangenberg to Mr. Norris, by which you will see
nothing is likely to come of the treaty. The Indians
are preparing to continue the war, and we see of how
little consequence Sir William Johnson's treaty has
been in our behalf. For my own part, I make no
doubt but the Six Nations have privily encouraged
these Indians to fall upon us. They have taken no
step to defend us, as their allies, nor to prevent the
mischief done us. I look upon the application made
through Sir William Johnson to these nations to

1 Thomas Pownall, commonly called Governor Pownall, came first
to America with Sir Danvers Osborn, Governor of New York, in 1753.
His brother, John Pownall, was one of the secretaries to the Board of
Trade; and Thomas Pownall had made himself well acquainted with
American affairs. He returned to England in February, 1756, but
came back to America again with the Earl of Loudoun, who landed
at New York on the 23d of July following. In the next year, i757
he succeeded General Shirley as governor of Massachusetts. At later
periods he was lieutenant-governor of New Jersey, and governor of
South Carolina, though it would seem that he remained but a short
time in either of these two last stations. He was a member of Parlia-
ment from 1768 to 1780, and opposed with much boldness and ability
the ministerial measures against the colonies. He wrote and pub-
lished various tracts relating to America, the most valuable of which
is his treatise entitled, Administration of the Colonies, which passed
through several editions. He died in 1805, at the advanced age of
eighty- three years. — Sparks.

H2 The Works of [1756

procure us peace, as the most unfortunate step we
ever took; for we tied up the hands of our people,
till we heard the result of that application. The
affair was drawn out to great length of time, and in
the mean while our frontier people were continually
butchered, and at last either dispersed or dispirited.
In short, I do not believe we shall ever have a firm
peace with the Indians till we have well drubbed
them.

Our frontiers are greatly distressed, as you will
see by the enclosed letters. The people are also dis-
tressed by the enlisting of their servants; but, if
Lord Loudoun would order the recruits, now near
five hundred, to march up and take post on the
frontiers, in the forts there, where they would find
good barracks, and would be of great use to the
inhabitants, it would be a most acceptable thing to
the whole province. In this Mr. Norris joins with
me, as well as in compliments to his Lordship and
yourself.

The Assembly are met, and in a very good dispo-
sition toward the service; but, the new governor
being hourly expected, nothing can be done till his
arrival. He is, we hear, on the road from York. I

am, Sir, &c,

B. Franklin.

1756] Benjamin Franklin H3

CXLV

TO GEORGE WASHINGTON x

Philadelphia, 19 August, 1756.

Sir: — I have your favors of July 23d and August
3d, but that you mention to have wrote by Mr.
Balfour is not come to hand. I forwarded the packet
enclosed in that of July 23d, as directed, and shall
readily take care of any other letters from you, that
pass through my hands. The post, between this
place and Winchester, was established for the ac-
commodation of the army chiefly, by a vote of our
Assembly. They are not willing to continue the
charge, and it must, I believe, be dropped, unless
your Assembly and that of Maryland will contrib-
ute to support it, which, perhaps, is scarce to be
expected.

I am sorry it should be laid down, as I shall my-
self be a loser in the affair of newspapers.2 But the
letters per post by no means defray the expense. If
you can prevail with your Assembly to pay the rider
from Winchester to Carlisle, I will endeavour to
persuade ours to continue paying the rider from
Carlisle hither. My agreement with the house was,
to carry all public despatches gratis, to keep account
of postage received for private letters, and charge

1 At this time commander-in-chief of the Virginia forces raised to
protect the frontiers from the Indians and French. His head-quarters
were at Winchester. Franklin, in his capacity of postmaster-general
for the colonies, had, the year previous, during Braddock's march,
arranged a post between Philadelphia and Winchester, in consequence
of a vote of the Pennsylvania Assembly.

a At this time Franklin printed and published a newspaper in
Philadelphia.

144 The Works of [1756

the expense of riders and offices; and they were to
pay the balance. I am, Sir, with great esteem and
respect, &c,

B. Franklin.

P. S. — We have just received news that the
Delaware Indians, with whom we treated lately at
Easton, have burnt the goods they received as pres-
ents, and resolved to continue the war.1

CXLVI

TO MRS. DEBORAH FRANKLIN

Easton, 13 November, 1756.

My Dear Child : — I wrote to you a few days since
by a special messenger, and enclosed letters for all
our wives and sweethearts; expecting to hear from

1 Though Franklin was actively engaged in these important affairs,
which had an immediate claim upon his exertions, he took a not less
zealous or liberal part in promoting objects of general utility; as is
manifest by the following extract from a letter written to him by Mr.
William Shipley, dated London, September 1, 1756. Mr. Shipley was
secretary to the society, in whose behalf he wrote.

"Sir, I am ordered to acquaint you that the Society for the En-
couragement of Arts, Manufactures, and Commerce have unanimously
elected you a corresponding member; and it gives the Society a sin-
gular pleasure to place upon their list a gentleman whose public spirit
and uncommon abilities are so universally known and so deservedly
esteemed. They are glad to find their plan approved by you, and will
always give great attention to what you shall judge most proper for
their encouragement in America, which they hope from time to time
you will please to let them know. They return you thanks for your
generous present of twenty guineas, which their treasurer has received
by the hands of Mr. Collinson. They earnestly desire your correspon-
dence, information, and advice."

i756l Benjamin Franklin 145

you by his return, and to have the northern news-
papers and English letters per the packet; but he
is just now returned without a scrap for poor us. So
I had a good mind not to write to you by this oppor-
tunity; but I never can be ill natured enough even
when there is the most occasion. The messenger
says he left the letters at your house, and saw you
afterwards at Mr. Duche's, and told you when he
would go, and that he lodged at Honey's, next door
to you, and yet you did not write; so let Goody
Smith give one more just judgment, and say what
should be done to you. I think I won't tell you that
we are well, nor that we expect to return about the
middle of the week, nor will I send you a word of
news; that 's poz.

My duty to mother, love to the children, and to
Miss Betsey and Gracy, &c, &c. I am your loving
husband,

B. Franklin.

P. S. — I have scratched out the loving words, being
writ in haste by mistake, when I forgot I was angry.1

CXLVII

TO EDWARD AND JANE MECOM

Philadelphia, 30 December, 1756.

Dear Brother and Sister: — You will receive this
by the hand of your son Benjamin, on whose safe

1 When the above letter was written, the author was at Easton, in
Pennsylvania, attending a conference with the Indians. The suc-
cesses of the French on the frontiers, and the disasters which followed

VOL. III. — 10.

146 The Works of [1756

return from the West Indies I sincerely congratulate
you.

He has settled accounts with me, and paid the
balance honorably. He has also cleared the old
printing-house to himself, and sent it to Boston,
where he purposes to set up his business, together
with bookselling, which, considering his industry
and frugality, I make no doubt will answer. He has
good credit and some money in England, and I have
helped him by lending him a little more ; so that he

Braddock's defeat, had excited the Indians to hostilities; and mur-
ders and other outrages had been committed by them even in the
heart of the province. To counteract the influence of the French and
bring the Indians to a better temper, it was deemed expedient to hold
an amicable conference with some of their chiefs. Governor Denny-
was present in person, and also William Logan and Richard Peters, on
the part of the Council; and Benjamin Franklin, Joseph Fox, William
Masters, and John Hughes, as delegates from the Assembly. The
conference was opened at Easton on the 8th of November. Teedyus-
cung, a king of the Delawares, residing at Wyoming, was the principal
speaker for the Indians. He explained the reasons of the recent hos-
tilities, but said he was now at peace, and wished to remain so. He
promised to return all the prisoners, and demanded that the Indians
who had been taken should likewise be sent back to him. He also
complained of wrongs which he had suffered.

"I do not want," said he, "to compel any of the Indians to return
or to stay against their will. If they are inclined to stay and live
among the English, I am quite willing they should go back again;
but I want that they should come and see me, that thereby I may
convince their relations and the other nations afar off, that they are
not servants, but free people.

"The kings of England and France," he added, "have settled or
wrought this land so as to coop us up, as if in a pen. This very ground
that is under me" (striking it with his foot) "was my land and in-
heritance, and was taken from me by fraud; when I say this ground,
I mean all the land lying between Tohiccon Creek and Wyoming on
the River Susquehanna. The Proprietaries, who have purchased
their lands from us cheap, have sold them too dear to poor people, and
the Indians have suffered for it. It would have been more prudent
for the Proprietaries to sell the lands cheaper, and to have given it in

1756] Benjamin Franklin 147

may expect a cargo of books, and a quantity of new
letter, in the spring; and I shall from time to time
furnish him with paper. We all join in love to you
and yours. I am your loving brother,

B. Franklin.

charge to the people, who bought from them, to use the Indians with
kindness on that account."

The governor asked him what he meant by fraud.

Teedyuscung replied: "When one man had formerly liberty to
purchase lands, and he took the deeds from the Indians for it, and
then died; after his death, the children forge the deed for the true
one, with the same Indian names to it, and thereby take lands from
the Indians which they never sold : this is fraud. Also, when one king
has land beyond the river, and another king has land on this side, both
bounded by rivers, mountains, and springs, which cannot be moved,
and the Proprietaries, greedy to purchase lands, buy of one king what
belongs to another; this is likewise fraud.

"All the land extending from Tohiccon Creek, over the great moun-
tain to Wyoming, has been taken from me by fraud ; for, when I had
agreed to sell the land to the old Proprietary by the course of the river,
the young Proprietaries came, and got it run by a straight course by
the compass, and by that means took in double the quantity intended
to be sold."

Though these charges were not allowed to be correct, yet the com-
missioners thought it advisable to put an end to the complaints of the
Indians by satisfying their claims, and they offered to Teedyuscung a
suitable compensation. He declined accepting it on the ground that
other tribes besides his own were concerned and must be consulted,
and concluded by saying that in the spring he would bring them to-
gether for another treaty.

The manuscript minutes of this singular conference have been pre-
served in the archives of the American Philosophical Society. The
commissioners, who attended the conference on the part of the Assem-
bly, were not satisfied with the manner in which the minutes were
reported to that body by the governor, and they signed jointly an
explanatory paper, which was probably drawn up by Franklin, and
which is printed in the Votes and Proceedings of the Assembly, under
the date of January 29, 1757. — Sparks.

148 The Works of [1756

CXLVIII

PLAN

FOR SETTLING TWO WESTERN COLONIES IN NORTH
AMERICA, WITH REASONS FOR THE PLAN '

The great country back of the Appalachian Moun-
tains, on both sides of the Ohio, and between that
river and the Lakes, is now well known, both to the
English and French, to be one of the finest in North
America, for the extreme richness and fertility of the
land, the healthy temperature of the air, and mild-
ness of the climate; the plenty of hunting, fishing,
and fowling; the facility of trade with the Indians,
and the vast convenience of inland navigation or
water-carriage by the Lakes and great rivers, many
hundreds of leagues around.

From these natural advantages it must undoubt-

1 Dr. Franklin was early possessed of the belief, that great ad-
vantage would redound to the English colonies on the sea-board by
settlements beyond the Alleghanies under governments distinctly
organized. Such settlements would not only rapidly increase in popu-
lation, thereby strengthening the power of the whole, but would serve
as a barrier to the other colonies against the Indians and French, who,
in time of war, made descents upon the frontiers, kept the people in
alarm, and caused great expense in raising troops and supporting an
army to repel their invasions. He pursued this favorite object for
many years; and after he went to England a company was formed,
under his auspices, who petitioned for a grant to settle a colony west
of the Allegany Mountains. Many obstacles were encountered, but
the application was at last successful. The scheme was prevented
from being carried into effect by the troubles immediately preceding
the revolution.

The following paper was probably written shortly after the Albany
Convention, in 1754, at the request of Governor Pownall, who had a
project for settling what he called "barrier colonies." He presented

1756] Benjamin Franklin 149

edly (perhaps in less than another century) become
a populous and powerful dominion x ; and a great
accession of power either to England or France.

The French are now making open encroachments
on those territories, in defiance of our known rights ;
and, if we longer delay to settle that country, and
suffer them to possess it, these inconveniences and
mischiefs will probably follow:

1. Our people, being confined to the country be-
tween the sea and the mountains, cannot much more
increase in number, people increasing in proportion
to their room and means of subsistence.

2. The French will increase much more, by that

a memorial to the Duke of Cumberland on this subject in the year
1756, in which he says:

"If the English would advance one step further, or cover them-
selves where they are, it must be at once, by one large step over the
mountains, with a numerous and military colony. Where such
should be settled, I do not take upon me to say; at present I shall
only point out the measure and the nature of it, by inserting two
schemes, one of Dr. Franklin's, the other of your memorialist; and if
I might indulge myself with scheming, I should imagine that two
such were sufficient, and only requisite and proper; one at the back of
Virginia, filling up the vacant space between the Five Nations and
southern confederacy, and connecting into one system our barrier;
the other somewhere in the Cohass on Connecticut River, or wherever
best adapted to cover the New England colonies. These, with the
little settlements mentioned above in the Indian countries, complete
my idea of this branch." — Administration of the Colonies, 4th ed.,
Append., p. 48.

When this memorial, with Franklin's plan, was presented, the
whole country was too much involved in the war with the French and
Indians, to allow any scheme of this sort to be matured; the peace
followed, when the occasion for them was less pressing; and the revo-
lution opened the way to other methods of attaining the same object.
— Sparks.

1 This prediction has been verified in a much less time than even
the author anticipated. — Editor.

150 The Works of [1756

acquired room and plenty of subsistence, and be-
come a great people behind us.

3. Many of our debtors and loose English people,
our German servants, and slaves, will probably
desert to them, and increase their numbers and
strength, to the lessening and weakening of ours.

4. They will cut us off from all commerce and
alliance with the western Indians, to the great
prejudice of Britain, by preventing the sale and
consumption of its manufactures.

5. They will both in time of peace and war (as
they have always done against New England) set
the Indians on to harass our frontiers, kill and scalp
our people, and drive in the advanced settlers; and
so, in preventing our obtaining more subsistence by
cultivating of new lands, they discourage our mar-
riages, and keep our people from increasing; thus
(if the expression may be allowed) killing thousands
of our children before they are born.

If two strong colonies of English were settled be-
tween the Ohio and Lake Erie, in the places here-
after to be mentioned, these advantages might be
expected :

1 . They would be a great security to the frontiers
of our other colonies, by preventing the incursions
of the French and French Indians of Canada, on the
back parts of Pennsylvania, Maryland, Virginia, and
the Carolinas; and the frontiers of such new colo-
nies would be much more easily defended, than those
of the colonies last mentioned now can be, as will
appear hereafter.

2. The dreaded junction of the French settle-

1756] Benjamin Franklin 151

ments in Canada with those of Louisiana would be
prevented.

3. In case of a war, it would be easy, from those
new colonies, to annoy Louisiana, by going down the
Ohio and Mississippi; and the southern part of
Canada, by sailing over the Lakes, and thereby
confine the French within narrow limits.

4. We could secure the friendship and trade of
the Miamis or Twigtwees (a numerous people con-
sisting of many tribes, inhabiting the country be-
tween the west end of Lake Erie, and the south end
of Lake Huron, and the Ohio), who are at present
dissatisfied with the French and fond of the English,
and would gladly encourage and protect an infant
English settlement in or near their country, as some
of their chiefs have declared to the writer of this
memoir. Further, by means of the Lakes, the Ohio,
and the Mississippi, our trade might be extended
through a vast country, among many numerous and
distant nations, greatly to the benefit of Britain.

5. The settlement of all the intermediate lands,
between the present frontiers of our colonies on one
side, and the Lakes and Mississippi on the other,
would be facilitated and speedily executed, to the
great increase of Englishmen, English trade, and
English power.

The grants to most of the colonies are of long,
narrow slips of land, extending west from the Atlan-
tic to the South Sea. They are much too long for
their breadth ; the extremes at too great a distance ;
and therefore unfit to be continued under their
present dimensions.

152 The Works of [1756

Several of the old colonies may conveniently be
limited westward by the Allegany or Appalachian
mountains, and new colonies formed west of those
mountains.

A single old colony does not seem strong enough
to extend itself otherwise than inch by inch. It
cannot venture a settlement far distant from the
main body, being unable to support it; but if the
colonies were united under one governor-general and
grand council, agreeably to the Albany plan, they
might easily, by their joint force, establish one or
more new colonies, whenever they should judge it
necessary or advantageous to the interest of the
whole.

But if such union should not take place, it is pro-
posed that two charters be granted, each for some
considerable part of the lands west of Pennsylvania
and the Virginia mountains, to a number of the no-
bility and gentry of Britain; with such Americans
as shall join them in contributing to the settlement
of those lands, either by paying a proportion of the
expense of making such settlements, or by actually
going thither in person, and settling themselves and
families.

That by such charters it be granted that every

actual settler be entitled to a tract of acres for

himself, and acres for every poll in the family

he carries with him; and that every contributor of

guineas be entitled to a quantity of acres, equal

to the share of a single settler, for every such sum of
guineas contributed and paid to the colony treasurer;
a contributor for shares to have an additional

1756] Benjamin Franklin 153

share gratis; that settlers may likewise be contribu-
tors, and have right of land in both capacities.

That as many and as great privileges and powers
of government be granted to the contributors and
settlers, as his Majesty in his wisdom shall think
most fit for their benefit and encouragement, consis-
tent with the general good of the British empire ; for
extraordinary privileges and liberties, with lands on
easy terms, are strong inducements to people to
hazard their persons and fortunes in settling new
countries. And such powers of government as
(though suitable to their circumstances, and fit to be
trusted with an infant colony) might be judged unfit
v/hen it becomes populous and powerful, these might
be granted for a term only; as the choice of their
own governor for ninety-nine years; the support of
government in the colonies of Connecticut and Rhode
Island (which now enjoy that and other like privi-
leges) being much less expensive than in the colonies
under the immediate government of the crown, and
the constitution more inviting.

That the first contributors to the amount of

guineas be empowered to choose a treasurer to re-
ceive the contribution.

That no contributions be paid till the sum of

thousand guineas be subscribed.

That the money thus raised be applied to the pur-
chase of the lands from the Six Nations and other
Indians, and of provisions, stores, arms, ammunition,
carriages, &c, for the settlers, who, after having
entered their names with the treasurer, or person by
him appointed to receive and enter them, are, upon

154 The Works of [1756

public notice given for that purpose, to rendezvous
at a place to be appointed, and march in a body to
the place destined for their settlement, under the
charge of the government to be established over
them. Such rendezvous and march, however, not
to be directed till the number of names of settlers
entered, capable of bearing arms, amount at least
to thousand.

It is apprehended that a great sum of money might
be raised in America on such a scheme as this; for
there are many who would be glad of any opportu-
nity, by advancing a small sum at present, to secure
land for their children, which might in a few years
become very valuable; and a great number, it is
thought, of actual settlers might likewise be engaged
(some from each of our present colonies), sufficient
to carry it into full execution by their strength and
numbers ; provided only, that the crown would be at
the expense of removing the little forts the French
have erected in their encroachments on his Majesty's
territories, and supporting a strong one near the Falls
of Niagara, with a few small armed vessels, or half-
galleys to cruise on the Lakes.

For the security of this colony in its infancy, a
small fort might be erected and for some time main-
tained at Buffalo Creek on the Ohio, above the set-
tlement; and another at the mouth of the Tioga, on
the south side of Lake Erie, where a port should be
formed and a town erected for the trade of the
Lakes. The colonists for this settlement might march
by land through Pennsylvania.

The river Scioto, which runs into the Ohio about

1756] Benjamin Franklin 155

two hundred miles below Logstown, is supposed the
fittest seat for the other colony; there being for forty
miles on each side of it, and quite up to its heads, a
body of all rich land ; the finest spot of its bigness in
all North America, and has the particular advantage
of sea-coal in plenty (even above ground in two
places) for fuel, when the woods shall be destroyed.
This colony would have the trade of the Miamis or
Twigtwees; and should, at first, have a small fort
near Hochockin, at the head of the river, and an-
other near the mouth of Wabash. Sandusky, a
French fort near the Lake Erie, should also be taken;
and all the little French forts south and west of the
Lakes, quite to the Mississippi, be removed, or taken
and garrisoned by the English. The colonists for
this settlement might assemble near the heads of the
rivers in Virginia, and march over land to the naviga-
ble branches of the Kenhawa, where they might em-
bark with all their baggage and provisions, and fall
into the Ohio, not far above the mouth of the Scioto.
Or they might rendezvous at Will's Creek, and go
down the Monongahela to the Ohio.

The fort and armed vessels at the strait of Niag-
ara would be a vast security to the frontiers of these
new colonies against any attempts of the French from
Canada. The fort at the mouth of the Wabash
would guard that river, the Ohio, and the Cutava
River, in case of any attempt from the French of the
Mississippi. Every fort should have a small settle-
ment round it, as the fort would protect the settlers,
and the settlers defend the fort and supply it with
provisions.

156 The Works of [1756

The difficulty of settling the first English colonies
in America, at so great a distance from England,
must have been vastly greater than the settling these
proposed new colonies; for it would be the interest
and advantage of all the present colonies to support
these new ones; as they would cover their frontiers,
and prevent the growth of the French power behind
or near their present settlements ; and the new coun-
try is nearly at equal distance from all the old colo-
nies, and could easily be assisted from all of them.

And as there are already in all the old colonies
many thousands of families that are ready to swarm,
wanting more land, the richness and natural advan-
tage of the Ohio country would draw most of them
thither, were there but a tolerable prospect of a safe
settlement. So that the new colonies would soon be
full of people ; and, from the advantage of their situa-
tion, become much more terrible to the French set-
tlements than those are now to us. The gaining of
the back Indian trade from the French, by the navi-
gation of the Lakes, &c, would of itself greatly
weaken our enemies, it being now their principal sup-
port. It seems highly probable, that in time they
must be subjected to the British crown, or driven out
of the country.

Such settlements may better be made now, than
fifty years hence; because it is easier to settle our-
selves, and thereby prevent the French settling there,
as they seem now to intend, than to remove them
when strongly settled.

If these settlements are postponed, then more forts
and stronger, and more numerous and expensive gar-

i757] Benjamin Franklin i57

risons, must be established, to secure the country,
prevent their settling, and secure our present fron-
tiers; the charge of which may probably exceed the
charge of the proposed settlements, and the advant-
age nothing near so great.

The fort at Oswego should likewise be strength-
ened, and some armed half -galleys, or other small
vessels, kept there to cruise on Lake Ontario, as
proposed by Mr. Pownall in his paper laid before
the commissioners at the Albany treaty.

If a fort was also built at Tirondequat on Lake
Ontario, and a settlement made there near the lake
side, where the lands are said to be good, much bet-
ter than at Oswego, the people of such settlements
would help to defend both forts on any emergency.

CXLIX

TO ROBERT CHARLES.1

Philadelphia, i February, 1757.

Sir: — By this ship you will receive a box contain-
ing sundry copies of our last years' Votes, to which
are added, as you advised, the accounts of the ex-
penditure of the fifty-five thousand pounds, and the
subsequent thirty thousand. Also the papers relating
to the employing of foreign officers. There is like-
wise in the box an authenticated copy of our late bill
for granting one hundred thousand to the King's
use, and of the vote appointing yourself and Mr.

1 Many years agent in England for the Assembly of Pennsylvania.

158 The Works of [1757

Partridge agents, under the great seal, with all the
late messages. You will see in the Votes el copy of
the Proprietary Instructions, in which a money bill is
made for us by the Proprietary, sitting in his closet
at one thousand leagues' distance.

The governor laid before us an estimate of the
necessary expense for defraying the province one
year, amounting to one hundred and five thousand
pounds. We knew our inability to bear the raising
of so great a sum in so short a time. We de-
ducted the least necessary articles, and reduced it to
one hundred thousand pounds, which we granted, and
sent up the bill. Not that we thought this province
capable of paying such a tax yearly, or any thing
near it, but believing it necessary to exert ourselves
at this time in an extraordinary manner, to save the
country from total ruin by the enemy. The governor
to use his own polite word, rejects it. Your Eng-
lish kings, I think, are complaisant enough to say
they will advise upon it. We have no remedy here,
but must obey the instructions, by which we are so
confined, as to the time of rating the property to be
taxed, the valuation of that property, and the sum
per pound to be taxed on the valuation, that it is
demonstrably impossible by such a law to raise one
quarter of the money absolutely necessary to defend
us. Three fourths of the troops must be disbanded,
and so the country be exposed to the mercy of our
enemies, rather than the least tittle of a Proprietary
instruction should be deviated from !

I forbear to enlarge, because the House have
unanimously desired your friend Mr. Norris, and my-

1757] Benjamin Franklin 159

self, to go home immediately, to assist their agents in
getting these matters settled. He has not yet de-
termined; but if he goes, you will by him be fully
informed of every thing, and my going will not, in
my opinion, be necessary. If he declines it, I may
possibly soon have the pleasure of seeing you. I
am with great respect, Sir, &c, B. Franklin.

CL

REPORT

OP THE COMMITTEE OF AGGRIEVANCES OF THE ASSEM-
BLY OF PENNSYLVANIA

Dated February 22D, 1757. l

In obedience to the order of the House, we have
drawn up the heads of the most important aggriev-
ances that occur to us, which the people of this pro-
vince with great difficulty labor under; the many
infractions of the constitution (in manifest violation
of the royal grant, the proprietary charter, the laws
of this province, and of the laws, usages, and customs

1 The English colonial governments were of three sorts. First,
Provincial governments; where the constitution originally depends on
the King's commission and instructions, given to his governors; and
the Assemblies, held under that authority, have their share in m'aking
local ordinances not repugnant to English law. Next, Proprietary
governments; where a district of country is given by the crown to
individuals, attended with certain legislative powers in the nature of
a fief; with a provision for the sovereignty at home, and also for the
fulfilment of the terms and end of the grant. Lastly, Charter govern-
ments, where the fundamentals of the government are previously
prescnbed and made known to the settlers, being in no degree left

160 The Works of [1757

of our mother country), and other matters, which we
apprehend call aloud for redress.

They are as follows :

First. By the royal charter (which has ever been,
ought to be, and truly is, the principal and invariable
fundamental of this constitution), King Charles the
Second did give and grant unto William Penn, his
heirs and assigns, the province of Pennsylvania; and
also to him and his heirs, and his or their deputies or
lieutenants, free, full, and absolute power for the good
and happy government thereof, to make and enact
any laws, " according to their best discretion, by and
with the advice, assent, and approbation of the free-
men of the said country, or of their delegates or
deputies " ; for the raising of money, or any other end
appertaining to the public state, peace, or safety of the
said country. By the words of this grant, it is evi-
dent that full powers are granted to the deputies and
lieutenants of William Penn and his heirs, to concur
with the people in framing laws for their protection
and the safety of the province, according to their best

subject to a governor's commission or proprietor's will. (See Black-
stone, Vol. I. Introd. § 4.) Good faith, however, to mankind, seemed
to require that the constitutions, once begun under the provincial or
proprietary governments, should remain unaltered (except for im-
provement) to the respective settlers; equally as in charter govern-
ments.

By the last paragraph of the following Report, it seems that the
Assembly established in Pennsylvania intended to send commissioners
to England to solicit redress of various grievances, particularly re-
specting their Proprietors' conduct; and that, the business being
referred to a committee of the Assembly, the following Report was
meant to convey the opinion of that committee concerning the in-
structions necessary to be given by the Assembly to the commissioners.
— B. V.

i7S7] Benjamin Franklin 161

discretion ; independent of any instructions or direc-
tions they should receive from their principals. And
it is equally obvious to your committee, that the peo-
ple of this province and their representatives were
interested in this royal grant ; and by virtue thereof
have an original right of legislation inherent in them,
which neither the proprietors nor any other person
whatsoever can divest them of, restrain or abridge,
without manifestly violating and destroying the let-
ter, spirit, and design of this grant.

Nevertheless we unfortunately find, that the pro-
prietaries of this province, regardless of this sacred
fundamental of all our rights and liberties, have so
abridged and restricted their late and present gov-
ernor's discretion in matters of legislation, by their
illegal, impracticable, and unconstitutional instruc-
tions and prohibitions, that no bill for granting aids
and supplies to our most gracious Sovereign (be it
ever so reasonable, expedient, and necessary for the
defence of his Majesty's colony, and safety of his peo-
ple), unless it be agreeable thereto, can meet with its
approbation ; by means whereof the many consider-
able sums of money, which have been offered for those
purposes by the Assemblies of this province (ever
anxious to maintain his honor and rights), have been
rejected ; to the great encouragement of his Majesty's
enemies, and the imminent danger of the loss of this
his colony.

Secondly. The representatives of the people in Gen-
eral Assembly met, by virtue of the said royal grant,
and the charter and privileges granted by the said
William Penn, and a law of this province, have right

VOL. III. — II.

1 62 The Works of [1757

to, and ought to enjoy, all the powers and privileges
of an Assembly, according to the rights of the free-
born subjects of England, and as is usual in any of the
plantations of America. It is an indubitable and now
an uncontested right of the Commons of England to
grant aids and supplies to his Majesty in any manner
they think most easy to themselves and the people;
and they are the sole judges of the measure, manner,
and time of granting and raising the same.

Nevertheless the proprietaries of this province, in
contempt of the said royal grant, proprietary char-
ter, and law of their colony; designing to subvert
the fundamentals of this constitution, to deprive the
Assembly and people of their grants and privileges,
and to assume an arbitrary and tyrannical power over
the liberties and properties of his Majesty's liege sub-
jects; have so restrained their governors by the des-
potic instructions (which are not to be varied from,
and are particularly directory in the framing and
passing of money bills and supplies to his Majesty, as
to the mode, measure, and time), that it is impossible
for the Assembly, should they loose all sense of their
most essential rights, and comply with those instruc-
tions, to grant sufficient aids for the defence of this
his Majesty's province from the common enemy.

Thirdly. In pursuance of sundry acts of General
Assembly, approved of by the crown, and a natural
right inherent in every man antecedent to all laws,
the Assemblies of this province have had the power
of disposing of the public moneys, that have been
raised for the encouragement of trade and support of
government by the interest money arising by the

1757] Benjamin Franklin 163

loans of the bills of credit and the excise. No part
of these moneys was ever paid by the proprietaries,
or ever raised on their estates; and therefore they
can have no pretence of right to a voice in the dispo-
sition of them. They have even been applied with
prudent frugality to the honor and advantage of the
public and the King's immediate service, to the
general approbation of the people; the credit of
the government has been preserved, and the debts
of the public punctually discharged. In short, no
inconveniences, but great and many advantages,
have accrued from the Assembly's prudent care and
management of these funds.

Yet the proprietaries resolved to deprive the As-
semblies of the power and means of supporting an
agent in England, and of prosecuting their complaints
and remonstrating their aggrievances, when injured
and oppressed, to his Majesty and his Parliament;
and, to rob them of this natural right (which has
been so often approved of by their gracious Sov-
ereign), have, by their said instructions, prohibited
their governor from giving his assent to any laws
emitting or reemitting any paper currency or bills of
credit, or for raising money by excise or any other
method ; unless the governor or commander-in-chief
for the time being, by clauses to be inserted therein,
have a negative in the disposition of the moneys aris-
ing thereby ; let the languishing circumstances of our
trade be ever so great, and a further or greater
medium be ever so necessary for its support.

Fourthly. By the laws and statues of England,
the chief rents, honors, and castles of the crown are

1 64 The Works of [1757

taxed, and pay their proportion to the supplies that
are granted to the King for the defence of the realm
and support of government. His Majesty, the no-
bility of the realm, and all the British subjects do
now actually contribute their proportion towards the
defence of America in general, and this province in
particular; and it is in a more especial manner the
duty of the proprietaries to pay their proportion of
a tax for the immediate preservation of their own
estates in this province. To exempt, therefore, any
part of their estates from their reasonable part of this
necessary burthen, is as unjust as it is illegal, and as
new as it is arbitrary.

Yet the proprietaries, notwithstanding the general
danger to which the nation and its colonies are ex-
posed, and great distress of this province in particu-
lar, by their said instructions have prohibited their
governors from passing laws for the raising supplies
for its defence ; unless all their located, unimproved,
and unoccupied lands, quit-rents, fines, and purchase
moneys on interest (the much greater part of their
enormous estates in this colony) are expressly ex-
empted from paying any part of the tax.

Fifthly. By virtue of the said royal charter, the
proprietaries are invested with a power of doing all
things, " which unto a complete establishment of jus-
tice, unto courts and tribunals, forms of judicature,
and manner of proceedings, do belong." It was cer-
tainly the import and design of this grant, that the
courts of judicature should be formed, and the judges
and officers thereof hold their commissions, in a man-
ner not repugnant, but agreeable, to the laws and

i7S7] Benjamin Franklin 165

customs of England ; that thereby they might remain
free from the influence of persons in power, the
rights of the people might be preserved, and their
properties effectually secured. That the grantee,
William Penn (understanding the said grant in this
light), did, by his original frame of government,
covenant and grant with the people, that the judges
and other officers should hold their commissions
during their good behaviour, and no longer.

Notwithstanding which, the governors of this pro-
vince have, for many years past, granted all the com-
missions to the judges of the King's Bench or
supreme court of this province, and to the judges of
the court of Common Pleas of the several counties,
to be held during their will and pleasure; by means
whereof the said judges being subject to the influence
and direction of the proprietaries and their govern-
ors, their favorites and creatures, the laws may not
be duly administered or executed, but often wrested
from their true sense to serve particular purposes;
the foundation of justice may be liable to be de-
stroyed; and the lives, laws, liberties, privileges,
and properties of the people thereby rendered pre-
carious and altogether insecure ; to the great disgrace
of our laws, and the inconceivable injury of his
Majesty's subjects.

Your committee further beg leave to add, that, be-
sides these aggrievances, there are other hardships
the people of this province have experienced, that
call for redress. The enlistment of servants without
the least satisfaction being made to the masters, has
not only prevented the cultivation of our lands, and

1 66 The Works of [1757

diminished the trade and commerce of the province,
but is a burthen extremely unequal and oppressive to
individuals. And should the practice continue, the
consequence must prove very discouraging to the
further settlement of this colony, and prejudicial to
his Majesty's future service. Justice, therefore, de-
mands that satisfaction should be made to the mas-
ters of such enlisted servants, and that the right of
masters to their servants be confirmed and settled.
But as those servants have been enlisted into his
Majesty's service for the general defence of America,
and not of this province only, but all the colonies,
and the nation in general, have and will receive equal
benefit from their service, this satisfaction should be
made at the expense of the nation, and not of the
province only.

That the people now labor under a burthen of taxes
almost insupportable by so young a colony, for the
defence of its long-extended frontier, of about two
hundred miles from New Jersey to Maryland ; without
either of these colonies, or the three lower counties
on Deleware, contributing their proportion thereto;
though their frontiers are in a great measure covered
and protected by our forts. And should the war
continue, and with it this unequal burthen, many of
his Majesty's subjects in this province will be reduced
to want; and the province, if not lost to the enemy,
involved in debt and sunk under its load.

That, notwithstanding this weight of taxes, the
Assemblies of this province have given to the general
service of the nation five thousand pounds to purchase
provisions for the troops under General Braddock;

1757] Benjamin Franklin 167

£2, 985. 05. 1 id for clearing a road by his orders;
^10,514. 10s. id. to General Shirley, for the purchas-
ing provisions for the New England forces; and ex-
pended the sum of ^2,385. 05. 2\d. in supporting the
inhabitants of Nova Scotia; which likewise we con-
ceive ought to be a national expense.

And that his Majesty's subjects, the merchants and
insurers in England, as well as the merchants here
and elsewhere, did during the last and will during the
present war greatly suffer in their property, trade,
and commerce, by the enemy's privateers on this coast,
and at our capes, unless some method be fallen on to
prevent it.

Wherefore your committee are of opinion, that the
commissioners, intended to be sent to England to
solicit a memorial and redress of the many infractions
and violations of the constitution, should also have it
in charge, and be instructed, to represent to our most
gracious Sovereign and his Parliaments the several
unequal burthens and hardships before mentioned;
and endeavour to procure satisfaction to the masters
of such servants as have been enlisted, and the right
of masters to their servants established and con-
firmed; and obtain a repayment of the said several
sums of money, some assistance towards defending
our extensive frontier, and a vessel of war to protect
the trade and commerce of this province.

Submitted to the correction of the House.

168 The Works of [1757

CLI

TO MRS. JANE MECOM

Philadelphia, 21 February, 1757.

Dear Sister: — I am glad to hear your son has got
well home. I like your conclusion not to take a
house for him till summer, and if he stays till his new
letters arrive, perhaps it would not be amiss; for a
good deal depends on the first impression a man
makes. As he will keep a bookseller's shop with
his printing-house, I don't know but it might be
worth his while to set up at Cambridge.

I enclose you some whisk seed ; it is a kind of corn,
good for creatures; it must be planted in hills, like
Indian corn. The tops make the best thatch in the
world ; and of the same are made the whisks you use
for velvet. Pray try if it will grow with you. I
brought it from Virginia. Give some to Mr. Cooper,
some to Mr. Bowdoin. Love to cousin Sally, and her
spouse. I wish them and you much joy. Love to
brother, &c, B. Franklin.

CLII

TO WILLIAM PARSONS

Philadelphia, 22 February, 1757.

Dear Friend: — I thank you for the intelligence
from Fort Allen relating to the Indians. The com-
missioners have not yet settled your account, but I
will press them to do it immediately. I have not
heard from Mr. Stephenson, but will write to him
once more.

1757] Benjamin Franklin 169

And now, my dear old friend, I am to take leave
of you, being ordered home to England by the As-
sembly, to obtain some final settlement of the points
that have occasioned so many unhappy disputes. I
assure you I go with the sincerest desire of procuring
peace, and therein I know I shall have your prayers
for my success. God bless you, and grant that at my
return I may find you well and happy. I am, as ever,
dear friend, yours affectionately,

B. Franklin.1

CLIII

TO MISS CATHERINE RAY

Philadelphia, 3 March, 1757.

Dear Katy: — Being about to leave America for
some time, I could not go without taking leave of my

1 On the 29th of January, the Assembly resolved that Isaac Norris,
the Speaker of the House, and Benjamin Franklin, should be requested
to go to England, "as commissioners to solicit the removal of griev-
ances occasioned by proprietary instructions, &c." When they were
called upon to declare to the Assembly, whether they would comply
with the request, Mr. Norris declined, and gave as a reason the state
of his health. Mr. Franklin said "that he esteemed the nomination
by the House to that service as a high honor, but that he thought,
if the Speaker could be prevailed on to undertake it, his long ex-
perience in public affairs would render the addition of another un-
necessary; that he held himself, however, in the disposition of the
House, and was ready to go whenever they should think fit to require
his service." It was then resolved, "that Benjamin Franklin be, and
he is hereby, appointed Agent of this province, to solicit and transact
the affairs thereof in Great Britain." See Votes and Proceedings,
February 3d. His son was at this time clerk of the House, and it was
resolved ' ' that William Franklin have leave to resign his office of
clerk of this House, that he may accompany his father, appointed one
of the commissioners to negotiate our affairs in England, and that
another person be chosen to serve as clerk during the absence of the
said Franklin." — February 18th.

jyo The Works of [1757

dear friend. I received your favor of the 8th of No-
vember, and am ashamed, that I have suffered it to re-
main so long unanswered, especially as now, through
shortness of time, I cannot chat with you in any man-
ner agreeably.

I can only wish you well and happy, which I do
most cordially. Present my best compliments to
your good mamma, brother and sister Ward, and all
your other sisters, the agreeable Misses Ward, Dr.
Babcock and family, the charitable Misses Stanton,
and, in short, to all that love me. I should have said
all that love you, but that would be giving you too
much trouble. Adieu, dear good girl, and believe me
ever your affectionate friend, B. Franklin.

CLIV

TO MR. DUNLAP

Philadelphia, 4 April, 1757.

I now appoint you postmaster of Philadelphia,
during our absence, as it will be some present em-
ployment for you till our return ; when I hope to put
you in a better way, if I find you diligent, careful,
and faithful.

I would not have the office remov'd on any account
from my house during my absence, without my leave
first obtain 'd.

And as Mrs. Franklin has had a great deal of ex-
perience in the management of the post-office, I de-
pend on your paying considerable attention to her
advice in that matter.

1757] Benjamin Franklin 171

As I leave but little money with Mrs. Franklin for

the support of the family, and have (torn ) of

the post-office for the (torn ) absence, I ex-
pect and (torn ) account with her for, and

pay her, every Monday morning, the postage of the
preceding week, taking her receipts for the same,
and retaining only your commissions of ten per cent.
You should have a little book for such receipts.

Wishing you health and happiness, I am, your af-
fectionate uncle, B. Franklin.

CLV

TO MRS. DEBORAH FRANKLIN

Trenton,1 5 April, 1757.

My Dear Child : — We found the roads much bet-
ter than we expected, and got here well before night.
My kind friend Mr. Griffith's carriage appearing too
weak in the wheels, I have accepted Mr. Masters 's
obliging offer, and take his carriage forward from this
place, and he will return to town in Mr. Griffith's.
About a dozen of our friends accompanied us quite
hither, to see us out of the province, and we spent a
very agreeable evening together. I leave home, and
undertake this long voyage, the more cheerfully, as I
can rely on your prudence in the management of my
affairs and education of our dear child ; and yet I can-
not forbear once more recommending her to you with
a father's tenderest concern. My love to all. If the
roads do not prove worse, we may be at Woodbridge
to-night. I believe I did not see Mr. Dunlap when I

1 On his way to New York, where he was to take passage for Eng-
land.

172 The Works of [1757

came away, so as to take leave of him; my love to
him. Billy presents his duty and love to all. I am
your affectionate husband, B. Franklin.

CLVI

TO JOHN LINING, AT CHARLESTON, SOUTH CAROLINA

New York, 14 April, 1757.

Sir : — It is a long time since I had the pleasure of a
line from you ; and, indeed, the troubles of our country,
with the hurry of business I have been engaged in on
that account, have made me so bad a correspondent,
that I ought not to expect punctuality in others.

But being about to embark for England, I could
not quit the continent without paying my respects to
you, and, at the same time, taking leave to introduce
to your acquaintance a gentleman of learning and
merit, Colonel Henry Bouquet, who does me the
favor to present you this letter, and with whom I am
sure you will be much pleased.

Professor Simson,of Glasgow, lately communicated
to me some curious experiments of a physician of his
acquaintance, by which it appeared that an extraordi-
nary degree of cold, even to freezing, might be pro-
duced by evaporation. I have not had leisure to
repeat and examine more than the first and easiest of
them, viz. : Wet the ball of a thermometer by a feather
dipped in spirit of wine, which has been kept in the
same room, and has, of course, the same degree of
heat or cold. The mercury sinks presently three or
four degrees, and the quicker if during the evapora-
tion you blow on the ball with the bellows ; a second

i757l Benjamin Franklin 173

wetting and blowing, when the mercury is down,
carries it yet lower. I think I did not get it lower
than five or six degrees from where it naturally stood,
which was, at that time, sixty. But it is said, that a
vessel of water being placed in another somewhat
larger, containing spirit, in such a manner that the
vessel of water is surrounded with the spirit, and
both placed under the receiver of an air-pump, on
exhausting the air, the spirit evaporating, leaves such
a degree of cold as to freeze the water, though the
thermometer, in the open air, stands many degrees
above the freezing point.

I know not how this phenomenon is to be accounted
for; but it gives me occasion to mention some loose
notions relating to heat and cold, which I have for
some time entertained, but not yet reduced into any
form. Allowing common fire, as well as electrical, to
be a fluid capable of permeating other bodies, and
seeking an equilibrium, I imagine some bodies are
better fitted by nature to be conductors of that fluid
than others ; and that, generally, those which are the
best conductors of electrical fluid, are also the best
conductors of this ; and e contra.

Thus a body which is a good conductor of fire
readily receives it into its substance, and conducts it
through the whole to all the parts, as metals and
water do ; and if two bodies, both good conductors,
one heated, the other in its common state, are brought
into contact with each other, the body which has
most fire readily communicates of it to that which
had least, and that which had least readily receives
it, till an equilibrium is produced. Thus, if you take

174 The Works of [1757

a dollar between your fingers with one hand, and a
piece of wood, of the same dimensions, with the
other, and bring both at the same time to the flame
of a candle, you will find yourselves obliged to drop
the dollar before you drop the wood, because it con-
ducts the heat of the candle sooner to your flesh.
Thus, if a silver tea-pot had a handle of the same
metal, it would conduct the heat from the water to
the hand, and become too hot to be used ; we there-
fore give to a metal tea-pot a handle of wood, which
is not so good a conductor as metal. But a china or
stone tea-pot being in some degree of the nature of
glass, which is not a good conductor of heat, may
have a handle of the same stuff. Thus, also, a damp
moist air shall make a man more sensible of cold, or
chill him more, than a dry air that is colder, because
a moist air is fitter to receive and conduct away the
heat of his body. This fluid, entering bodies in great
quantity, first expands them by separating their parts
a little ; afterwards, by farther separating their parts,
it renders solids fluid, and at length dissipates
their parts in air. Take this fluid from melted lead,
or from water, the parts cohere again; and this is
sooner done by the means of good conductors.
Thus, if you take, as I have done,
a square bar of lead, four inches
long, and one inch thick, together
with three pieces of wood planed to
the same dimensions, and lay them
as in the margin, on a smooth
board, fixed so as not to be easily
separated or moved, and pour into the cavity they

1757] Benjamin Franklin 175

form as much melted lead as will fill it, you will see
the melted lead chill, and become firm, on the side
next the leaden bar, some time before it chills on the
other three sides in contact with the wooden bars,
though, before the lead was poured in, they might all
be suppose to have the same degree of heat or cold-
ness, as they had been exposed in the same room to
the same air. You will likewise observe that the
leaden bar, as it had cooled the melted lead more than
the wooden bars have done, so it is itself more heated
by the melted lead. There is a certain quantity of
this fluid, called fire, in every human body, which
fluid, being in due proportion, keeps the parts of the
flesh and blood at such a just distance from each
other, as that the flesh and nerves are supple and the
blood fit for circulation. If part of this due propor-
tion of fire be conducted away, by means of a con-
tact with other bodies, as air, water, or metals,
the parts of our skin and flesh that come into such
contact first draw more together than is agreea-
ble, and give that sensation which we call cold; and
if too much be conveyed away, the body stiffens, the
blood ceases to flow, and death ensues. On the other
hand, if too much of this fluid be communicated to
the flesh, the parts are separated too far, and pain
ensues, as when they are separated by a pin or lancet.
The sensation that the separation by fire occasions,
we call heat, or burning. My desk on which I now
write and the lock of my desk are both exposed to
the same temperature of the air, and have therefore
the same degree of heat or cold; yet if I lay my
hand successively on the wood and on the metal,

176 The Works of [1757

the latter feels much the coldest, not that it is really
so, but being a better conductor, it more readily
than the wood takes away and draws into itself the
fire that was in my skin. Accordingly, if I lay one
hand, part on the lock and part on the wood, and
after it has lain so some time, I feel both parts
with my other hand, I find the part that has been in
contact with the lock very sensibly colder to the
touch than the part that lay on the wood. How
a living animal obtains its quantity of this fluid,
called fire, is a curious question. I have shown that
some bodies (as metals) have a power of attract-
ing it stronger than others; and I have some times
suspected that a living body had some power of at-
tracting out of the air, or other bodies, the heat it
wanted. Thus metals hammered or repeatedly bent
grow hot in the bent or hammered part. But when
I consider that air in contact with the body cools
it; that the surrounding air is rather heated by its
contact with the body; that every breath of cooler
air drawn in carries off part of the body's heat when
it passes out again ; that therefore there must be in
the body a fund for producing it, or otherwise the
body would soon grow cold: I have been rather in-
clined to think that the fluid fire, as well as the fluid
air, is attracted by plants in their growth, and be-
comes consolidated with the other materials of which
they are formed, and makes a great part of their
substance; that, when they come to be digested, and
to suffer in the vessels a kind of fermentation, part
of the fire, as well as part of the air, recovers its fluid,
active state again, and diffuses itself in the body, di-

1757] Benjamin Franklin 177

gesting and separating it; that the fire so reproduced
by digestion and separation, continually leaving the
body, its place is supplied by fresh quantities, arising
from the continual separation ; that whatever quick-
ens the motion of the fluids in an animal quickens
the separation, and reproduces more of the fire, as
exercise ; that all the fire emitted by wood and other
combustibles when burning existed in them before
in a solid state, being only discovered when separat-
ing; that some fossils, as sulphur, sea-coal, &c, con-
tain a great deal of solid fire; and that, in short,
what escapes and is dissipated in the burning of
bodies, besides water and earth, is generally the air
and fire that before made parts of the solid. Thus
I imagine that animal heat arises by or from a kind
of fermentation in the juices of the body, in the same
manner as heat arises in the liquors preparing for
distillation, wherein there is a separation of the spirit-
uous from the watery and earthy parts. And it is re-
markable that the liquor in a distiller's vat, when in
its highest and best state of fermentation, as I have
been informed, has the same degree of heat with the
human body — that is, about 94 or 96.

Thus, as by a constant supply of fuel in a chim-
ney you keep a warm room, so by a constant supply
of food in the stomach, you keep a warm body ; only,
where little exercise is used, the heat may possibly
be conducted away too fast, in which case such
materials are to be used for clothing and bedding,
against the effects of an immediate contact of the air,
as are in themselves bad conductors of heat, and con-
sequently prevent its being communicated through

VOL. III. — 12.

178 The Works of [1757

their substance to the air. Hence what is called
warmth in wool, and its preference on that account to
linen, wool not being so good a conductor; and hence
all the natural coverings of animals to keep them
warm are such as retain and confine the natural heat
in the body, by being bad conductors, such as wool,
hair, feathers, and the silk by which the silk- worm in
its tender embryo state is first clothed. Clothing
thus considered does not make a man warm by giving
warmth, but by preventing the too quick dissipation
of the heat produced in his body, and so occasioning
an accumulation.

There is another curious question I will just venture
to touch upon, viz. : Whence arises the sudden extra-
ordinary degree of cold, perceptible on mixing some
chemical liquors, and even on mixing salt and snow,
where the composition appears colder than the coldest
of the ingredients? I have never seen the chemical
mixtures made; but salt and snow I have often
mixed myself, and am fully satisfied that the compo-
sition feels much colder to the touch, and lowers the
mercury in the thermometer more, than either in-
gredient would do separately. I suppose, with others,
that cold is nothing more than the absence of heat or
fire. Now, if the quantity of fire before contained or
diffused in the snow and salt was expelled in the
uniting of the two matters, it must be driven away
either through the air or the vessel containing them.
If it is driven off through the air, it must warm the
air; and a thermometer held over the mixture, with-
out touching it, would discover the heat by the rising of
the mercury, as it must, and always does, in warm air.

1757] Benjamin Franklin 179

This, indeed, I have not tried, but I should guess
it would rather be driven off through the vessel,
especially if the vessel be metal, as being a better
conductor than air; and so one should find the basin
warmer after such mixture. But, on the contrary,
the vessel grows cold, and even water, in which the
vessel is sometimes placed for the experiment, freezes
into hard ice on the basin. Now I know not how to
account for this, otherwise than by supposing that
the composition is a better conductor of fire than the
ingredients separately, and, like the lock compared
with the wood, has a stronger power of attracting
fire, and does accordingly attract it suddenly from
the fingers, or a thermometer put into it, from the
basin that contains it, and from the water in contact
with the outside of the basin ; so that the fingers have
the sensation of extreme cold, by being deprived of
much of their natural fire; the thermometer sinks,
by having part of its fire drawn out of the mercury ;
the basin grows colder to the touch, as, by having its
fire drawn into the mixture, it is become more capa-
ble of drawing and receiving it from the hand; and,
through the basin, the water loses its fire that kept it
fluid, so it becomes ice. One would expect, that
from all this attracted acquisition of fire to the com-
position, it should become warmer; and, in fact, the
snow and salt dissolve at the same time into water,
without freezing. I am, Sir, &c,

B. Franklin.

180 The Works of [1757

CLVII

TO MRS. JANE MECOM

New York, 19 April, 1757.

Dear Sister: — I wrote a few lines to you yester-
day, but omitted to answer yours relating to sister
Dowse. As having their own way is one of the
greatest comforts of life to old people, I think their
friends should endeavour to accommodate them in
that, as well as in any thing else. When they have
long lived in a house, it becomes natural to them;
they are almost as closely connected with it as the
tortoise with his shell ; they die, if you tear them out
of it ; old folks and old trees, if you remove them, it
is ten to one that you kill them ; so let our good old
sister be no more importuned on that head. We
are growing old fast ourselves, and shall expect the
same kind of indulgences ; if we give them, we shall
have a right to receive them in our turn.

And as to her few fine things, I think she is in the
right not to sell them, and for the reason she gives,
that they will fetch but little; when that little is
spent, they would be of no further use to her; but
perhaps the expectation of possessing them at her
death may make that person tender and careful of
her, and helpful to her to the amount of ten times
their value. If so, they are put to the best use they
possibly can be.

I hope you visit sister as often as your affairs will
permit, and afford her what assistance and comfort
you can in her present situation. Old age, infirmi-
ties, and poverty, joined, are afflictions enough. The

i757] Benjamin Franklin 181

neglect and slights of friends and near relations should
never be added. People in her circumstances are
apt to suspect this sometimes without cause; ap-
pearances should therefore be attended to, in our
conduct towards them, as well as realities. I write
by this post to cousin Williams, to continue his care,
which I doubt not he will do.

We expect to sail in about a week, so that I can
hardly hear from you again on this side the water;
but let me have a line from you now and then, while
I am in London. I expect to stay there at least a
twelvemonth. Direct your letters to be left for me
at the Pennsylvania Coffee-house, in Birchin Lane,
London. My love to all, from, dear sister, your
affectionate brother,

B. Franklin.

P. S. — April 25th. We are still here, and perhaps
may be here a week longer. Once more adieu, my
dear sister.

CLVIII

TO MRS. JANE MECOM

Woodbridge, New Jersey, 21 May, 1757.

Dear Sister: — I received your kind letter of the
gth instant, in which you acquainted me with some
of your late troubles. These are troublesome times
to us all ; but perhaps you have had more than you
should. I am glad to hear that Peter is at a place
where he has full employ. A trade is a valuable

1 82 The Works of [1757

thing; but unless a habit of industry be acquired
with it, it turns out of little use; if he gets that in
his new place, it will be a happy exchange, and the
occasion not an unfortunate one. It is very agree-
able to me to hear so good an account of your other
children; in such a number to have no bad ones is
a great happiness.

The horse sold very low indeed. If I wanted one
to-morrow, knowing his goodness, old as he is, I
should freely give more than twice the money for
him; but you did the best you could, and I will
take of Benny no more than he produced.

I don't doubt but Benny will do very well when
he gets to work ; but I fear his things from England
may be so long a coming as to occasion the loss of
the rent. Would it not be better for you to move
into the house? Perhaps not, if he is near being
married. I know nothing of that affair but what
you write me, except that I think Miss Betsey a
very agreeable, sweet-tempered, good girl, who has
had a housewifely education, and will make, to a
good husband, a very good wife. Your sister and I
have a great esteem for her; and if she will be kind
enough to accept of our nephew, we think it will be
his own fault if he is not as happy as the married
state can make him. The family is a respectable
one, but whether there be any fortune I know not;
and as you do not inquire about this particular, I
suppose you think with me, that where every thing
else desirable is to be met with, that is not very
material. If she does not bring a fortune, she will
help to make one. Industry, frugality, and prudent

i7S7] Benjamin Franklin 183

economy in a wife, are to a tradesman, in their
effects, a fortune; and a fortune sufficient for Ben-
jamin, if his expectations are reasonable. We can
only add that if the young lady and her friends are
willing, we give our consent heartily, and our bless-
ing. My love to brother and the children. Your
affectionate brother,

B. Franklin.

P. S. — If Benny will promise to be one of the ten-
derest husbands in the world, I give my consent.
He knows already what I think of Miss Betsey. I
am his loving aunt,

Deborah Franklin.

CLIX

TO MRS. DEBORAH FRANKLIN

New York, Friday, 27 May, 1757.

My Dear Debby: — Mr. Parker being doubtful this
morning whether the rain would permit his set-
ting out to-day, I had prepared no letter to send by
Sally, when he took a siidden resolution to go. Mr.
Colden x could not spare his daughter, as she helps
him in the post-office, he having no clerk. I enclose
only the fourth bills, which you are to put up safe
with my writings. The first set I take with me, the
second goes by Radford, and I now send the third by
Bonnel.

All the packets are to sail together with the fleet,

1 Mr. Alexander Colden, the postmaster in New York.

1 84 The Works of [1757

but when that will be is yet uncertain ; for yesterday
came in three privateers with several prizes, and by
them there is advice that the French fleet, which was
in the West Indies, is come to the northward; and
now it is questioned whether it will be thought pru-
dent for these transports to sail till there is certain
advice that the grand fleet is arrived from England.
This, however, is only town talk.

I send Mr. Kneeland's letter. Pray forward the
paper he writes for, by the first opportunity. I
send a memorandum received from Joseph Croker,
with a note on the back of it. I leave it to yourself
whether to go home directly, or stay a little longer.
If I find we are not likely to sail for some time, I
shall perhaps step down again to Woodbridge, and
try to finish my work. But it may be that your
longer absence from home will be attended with
some inconvenience. I am making up a bundle of
papers to send you. Put them into my room. I
can hear nothing yet of the clothes.

I have been very low-spirited all day. This
tedious state of uncertainty and long waiting have
almost worn out my patience. Except the two or
three weeks at Woodbridge, I know not when I have
spent time so uselessly as since I left Philadelphia.

I left my best spectacles on the table. Please to
send them to me.

Saturday Morning. — Jemmy got here early, and
tells me Mr. Parker and the children got well down.
In my room on the folio shelf between the clock and
our bedchamber, stands a folio, called the Gardiner's
Dictionary, by P. Miller. And on the same side of

1757] Benjamin Franklin 185

the room, on the lowest shelf or lowest but one, near
the middle, and by the side of a little partition, you
will find standing or rather lying on its fore edge a
quarto pamphlet, covered with blue paper, called a
Treatise on Cider-making. Deliver those two books
to Mr. Parker.

Sunday Afternoon. — Yesterday, while I was at my
Lord's,1 with whom I had the honor to dine, word
was brought in that five sail of French men-of-war
were seen off Egg Harbour the day before; and as
some of the French prisoners lately brought in re-
port that such a number of men-of-war sailed with
them from the West Indies to go to the northward,
these vessels might be supposed to be the same, if
the account from Egg Harbour was true. If on
examination it be found true, and the French take
it into their heads to cruise off this port with such a
force, we shall then be shut up here for some time,
for our fleet here is not of force sufficient to venture
out. If this story be not true, yet it is thought by
some we shall hardly sail till there is certain advice
of the English fleet being arrived at Halifax, and
perhaps not till a convoy comes from thence to
guard us. So I am wavering whether I had not best
go down again to Woodbridge and finish my books.

I spent last evening with Mr. Nichol's family, who
all desired their compliments to you and Sally. I
send you one of the French books translated.

Monday Morning. — Our going is yet uncertain. I
believe I shall put every thing on board to-morrow,

1 Lord Loudoun, who had lately arrived as commander-in-chief in
America, being successor to General Shirley.

186 The Works of [1757

and either go down again to Woodbridge or send for

the trunk of books hither to employ myself till we

have sailed. The report of French men-of-war off

the coast is vanished. I am, my dear Debby, your

ever loving husband,

B. Franklin.

CLX

TO ISAAC NORRIS ■

New York, 30 May, 1757.

Sir: — After waiting here about seven weeks for
the sailing of the packet, the time of her sailing is
no more certain now than it was on the day of our
arrival. The packets, as it is now said, are all three
to sail with the fleet; the two first to be dismissed
soon after the fleet is at sea; the third to go with
the fleet to the place of rendezvous, and not to be
discharged till the arrival and junction of the fleet
from England. But this is not certain ; resolutions
change as advices are received, or occurrences arise,
and it is doubtful whether the fleet will sail from
hence till there is certain news of the arrival of that
from England, since there is intelligence that Beau-
fremont's squadron is gone from the West Indies to
the northward.

I have had the honor of several conferences with
my Lord Loudoun on the subject of the servants.3

1 For many years Speaker of the Assembly of Pennsylvania.

2 It was common for emigrants, of the poorer class, to pay for their
passage by selling their time for a certain number of years to the
captain in whose ship they came over. The time, or term of service,

1757] Benjamin Franklin 187

His Lordship objects, first, that it appears by the
list which I laid before him, that many of the ser-
vants were enlisted in General Braddock's and Gen-
eral Shirley's time. With those he has nothing to
do. Secondly, that many were enlisted before the
act of Parliament appointed satisfaction to be made
to the masters ; and as the lawyers all agree that the
right to take them without pay was clearly in the
King before the act, no satisfaction should be made
or expected for these. Thirdly, that the particular
proofs of the loss of each servant, and of his being
enlisted in the King's service, do not appear.
Fourthly, that the affair is now so intricate and per-
plexed, that it would take more time to examine
and settle it than he can possibly spare. Fifthly,
that if his officers had done wrong in not paying for
the servants, as they took them, the fault was our
own; it was owing to some principal people among
ourselves, whom he could name, who had always
assured the officers that the Assembly intended to
pay for the servants, and by that means led them
into the error.

His Lordship made several other observations and
objections, all which I answered and endeavoured to
remove as well as I could; but there is, I believe,

thus pledged, was sold by the captain, after his arrival in port, to
farmers in the country. During the war it had been a practice of the
recruiting officers to enlist these servants into the army, thus depriv-
ing the farmers of their services, and of the value that had been paid
for them. Redress was sought from the government, and Franklin
was instructed to lay the subject before Lord Loudoun, the com-
mander-in-chief of the army. Other particulars respecting emigrant
servants, and the enlistment of them, may be seen in Sparks' edition
of Washington's Writings, vol. ii., pp. 168, 189, 199.

1 88 The Works of [1757

one ax bottom, which it is not in my power to re-
move, and that is the want of money. The ex-
penses of an American war necessarily run very high,
and are complained of by some in England; and his
Lordship is unwilling to discourage the ministry at
home by large charges. He will therefore mix none
of those of his predecessors with his own. He makes
the most frugal agreements, and avoids all pay-
ments that he can avoid with honor. For instance,
there is a balance not very large due to me, on my
account of wagons and forage supplies to General
Braddock. I presented the account to his Lord-
ship, who had it examined and compared with the
vouchers; and on report made to him that it was
right, ordered a warrant to be drawn for the pay-
ment; but before he signed it he sent for me, told
me that as the money became due before his time,
he had rather not mix it in his accounts, if it would
be the same thing to me to receive it in England. He
believed it a fair and just account, and as such would
represent it at home, so that I should meet with no
difficulty in getting it paid there. I agreed to his
Lordship's proposal, and the warrant was laid aside.
I once proposed to his Lordship that if he would
appoint, or advise Governor Denny to appoint, some
persons of credit in Pennsylvania to examine the
claims of the masters, and report to his Lordship at
the end of the campaign, it would, for the present,
make the minds of the sufferers more easy; and he
could then order payment for such part as he should
find right for him to pay, and we might endeavour
to procure satisfaction elsewhere for the rest. His

i7S7] Benjamin Franklin 189

Lordship declined this, saying, that he knew not
whom to appoint, being unacquainted with the peo-
ple ; that he did not care to trouble Governor Denny
with it, of whom he must ask it as a favor; and
besides, auditors, in the plantations, of accounts
against the crown had in many instances been so
partial and corrupt that they had lost all credit. If
he appointed auditors, they must be some of the
officers of the army who understood the affair; and
at present they were engaged in other duties.

I will not trouble you with a detail of all I said to
his Lordship on this affair, though I omitted nothing
material that occurred to me; but I find he is for
keeping the matter in suspense, without either pro-
mising payment or refusing to pay ; perhaps till he re-
ceives directions about it from home. He does
not seem willing, however, that I should make any
application there relating to it, and chooses to
keep the list in his hands till his return from the
campaign.

The list is, indeed, so very imperfect, that I could
not promise myself much in laying it before him.
Of many servants it is not noted by what officers,
or in what company, or even in what regiment they
were enlisted; of others, the time they were bound
for, or had served, or had still to serve, is omitted.
Of others, no notice is taken of the price they cost;
nor is there any distinction of apprentices, though,
perhaps, the account is the best that could be ob-
tained, the time and other circumstances considered.
Upon the whole, as the inquiry, if it is ever made by
my Lord's order, will be by officers of the army, they

190 The Works of [1757

being, in his Lordship's opinion, the fittest persons
and most impartial; as all enlistments before the
commencement of his command will be rejected, and
also all before the act of Parliament; as very clear
proofs of every circumstance — when the servant was
enlisted, by what officer, of what regiment, and the
like — will be insisted on, and the recruiting officers
at the time took such effectual care to prevent the
master's knowing any thing of these circumstances,
I am inclined to think very little benefit will be pro-
duced by such inquiry; and that our application at
home for some allowance on that account will be
better founded on what the Assembly, after their
own inquiry, have thought themselves obliged to
pay, than on such an imperfect list as has been
sent to me. This, however, I submit; and if it
should still be thought proper to apply in England
on the footing of the list, another copy must be
forwarded by some future opportunity.

His Lordship has on all occasions treated me with
the greatest goodness, but I find frequently that
wrong prejudices are infused into his mind against
our province. We have too many enemies among
ourselves, but I hope in time things will wear a better
face. Please to present my humble respects to the
House, and believe me, with great esteem, &c,

B. Franklin.

1757] Benjamin Franklin 191

CLXI

TO MRS. JANE MECOM

New York, 30 May, 1757.

Dear Sister: — I have before me yours of the 9th
and 1 6th instant. I am glad you have resolved to
visit sister Dowse of tener ; it will be a great comfort
to her to find she is not neglected by you, and your
example may, perhaps, be followed by some others
of her relations.

As Neddy is yet a young man, I hope he may get
over the disorder he complains of, and in time wear
it out. My love to him and his wife and the rest of
your children. It gives me pleasure to hear that
Eben is likely to get into business at his trade. If
he will be industrious and frugal, it is ten to one but
he gets rich, for he seems to have spirit and activity.

I am glad that Peter is acquainted with the
crown-soap business so as to make what is good of
the kind. I hope he will always take care to make
it faithfully, and never slight the manufacture, or
attempt to deceive by appearances. Then he may
boldly put his name and mark, and in a little time
it will acquire as good a character as that made by
his late uncle, or any other person whatever. I be-
lieve his aunt at Philadelphia can help him to sell
a good deal of it ; and I doubt not of her doing every
thing in her power to promote his interest in that
way. Let a box be sent to her (but not unless it be
right good), and she will immediately return the
ready money for it. It was beginning once to be in
vogue in Philadelphia, but brother John sent me

192 The Works of [1757

one box, an ordinary sort, which checked its pro-
gress. I would not have him put the Franklin arms
on it, but the soapboilers' arms he has a right to
use, if he thinks fit. The other would look too much
like an attempt to counterfeit. In his advertise-
ments he may value himself on serving his time with
the original maker, but his own mark or device on
the papers, or any thing he may be advised to as
proper ; only on the soap, as it is called by the name
of crown-soap, it seems necessary to use a stamp of
that sort, and perhaps no soapboiler in the King's
dominions has a better right to the crown than
himself.

Nobody has wrote a syllable to me concerning his
making use of the hammer, or made the least com-
plaint of him or you. I am sorry, however, that he
took it without leave. It was irregular, and if you
had not approved of his doing it, I should have
thought it indiscreet. Leave, they say, is light, and
it seems to me a piece of respect that was due to his
aunt, to ask it, and I can scarce think she would have
refused him the favor.

I am glad to hear Johnny is so good and diligent a
workman. If he ever sets up at the goldsmith's
business, he must remember that there is one accom-
plishment without which he cannot possibly thrive
in that trade — that is, perfect honesty. It is a busi-
ness that, though ever so uprightly managed, is
always liable to suspicion; and if a man is once de-
tected in the smallest fraud, it soon becomes public,
and every one is put upon his guard against him;
no one will venture to try his wares, or trust him to

1757] Benjamin Franklin 193

make up his plate; so at once he is ruined. I hope
my nephew will, therefore, establish a character as
an honest and faithful as well as skilful workman, and
then he need not fear for employment.

And now, as to what you propose for Benny, I
believe he may be, as you say, well enough qualified
for it; and when he appears to be settled, if a va-
cancy should happen, it is very probable he may be
thought of to supply it ; but it is a rule with me not
to remove any officer that behaves well, keeps regu-
lar accounts, and pays duly; and I think the rule
is founded on reason and justice. I have not shown
any backwardness to assist Benny, where it could
be done without injuring another. But if my
friends require of me to gratify not only their inclina-
tions, but their resentments, they expect too much
of me. Above all things I dislike family quarrels,
and when they happen among my relations, nothing
gives me more pain. If I were to set myself up as a
judge of those subsisting between you and brother's
widow and children, how unqualified must I be, at
this distance, to determine rightly, especially having
heard but one side. They always treated me with
friendly and affectionate regard ; you have done the
same. What can I say between you, but that I wish
you were reconciled, and that I will loVe that side
best that is most ready to forgive and oblige the
other ? You will be angry with me here, for putting
you and them too much upon a footing; but I shall
nevertheless be, dear sister, your truly affectionate
brother,

B. Franklin.

VOL. III. — 13.

194 The Works of [1757

CLXII

TO MRS. DEBORAH FRANKLIN

New York, 2 June, 1757.

My Dear Child: — I have just received yours of
the 29th. You do not tell me whether you take the
trunk of books with you, but I suppose you do. It
is now said we are all to go on board to-morrow, and
sail down to the Hook. I hope it will be so, for,
having now nothing to do, my stay here is extremely
tedious. Please to give my respects to Mrs. Moore,
and assure her that I will take care of her letters.
You will find sundry parcels that came from London,
some directed to the Library Company, some for Mr.
Bartram. Deliver them, if not delivered. Desire Mr.
Normandy to send after me a fresh memorandum of
what he wanted, Mr. Collinson having lost the former.

I hope my dear Sally will behave in every thing to
your satisfaction, and mind her learning and im-
provement. As my absence will make your house
quieter, and lessen your business, you will have the
more leisure to instruct her and form her. I pray
God to bless you both, and that we may once more
have a happy meeting. God preserve, guard, and
guide you.

It is a doubt whether your next letters will reach
us here. Billy joins with me in love to all friends,
and presents his duty to you and love to his sister.
My duty to mother and love to all the family. I
shall endeavour to write to you once more before we
sail, being as ever, my dear child, your affectionate
husband, B. Franklin.

1757] Benjamin Franklin 195

CLXIII

TO MRS. DEBORAH FRANKLIN

London, 27 July, 1757.

My Dear Child: — We arrived here well last
night, only a little fatigued with the last day's jour-
ney, being seventy miles. I write only this line, not
knowing of any opportunity of sending it; but Mr.
Collinson will inquire for one, as he is going out.
If he finds one, I shall write more largely. I have
just seen Mr. Strahan, who is well, with his family.
Billy is with me here at Mr. Collinson 's, and presents
his duty to you and love to his sister. My love to
all. I am, my dear child, your loving husband,

B. Franklin.1

CLXIV

TO MRS. DEBORAH FRANKLIN

London, 22 November, 1757.

My Dear Child: — During my illness, which con-
tinued near eight weeks, I wrote you several little
letters, as I was able. The last was by the packet
which sailed from Falmouth above a week since. In
that I informed you that my intermittent fever,
which had continued to harass me by frequent

1 The packet in which he sailed was bound to Falmouth. In his
autobiography, after describing the voyage, his narrow escape from
shipwreck on the Scilly rocks, and his arrival in port, he adds: "I set
out immediately, with my son, for London, and we only stopped a
little by the way to view Stonehenge, on Salisbury Plain, and Lord
Pemberton's house and gardens, with the very curious antiquities at
Wilton."

196 The Works of [1757

relapses, was gone off, and I have ever since been
gathering strength and flesh. My doctor, Fother-
gill, who had forbid me the use of pen and ink, now
permits me to write as much as I can without over
fatiguing myself, and therefore I sit down to write
more fully than I have hitherto been able to do.

The 2d of September I wrote to you that I had
had a violent cold and something of a fever, but that
it was almost gone. However, it was not long before
I had another severe cold, which continued longer
than the first, attended by great pain in my head,
the top of which was very hot, and when the pain
went off, very sore and tender. These fits of pain
continued sometimes longer than at others; seldom
less than twelve hours, and once thirty-six hours. I
was now and then a little delirious ; they cupped me
on the back of the head, which seemed to ease me
for the present ; I took a great deal of bark, both in
substance and infusion, and too soon thinking my-
self well, I ventured out twice, to do a little business
and forward the service I am engaged in, and both
times got fresh cold and fell down again. My good
doctor grew very angry with me for acting contrary
to his cautions and directions, and obliged me to
promise more observance for the future. He at-
tended me very carefully and affectionately ; and the
good lady of the house nursed me kindly.1 Billy

1 This lady was Mrs. Margaret Stevenson, who kept a boarding-
house in Craven Street, near the Strand, and with whom Dr. Franklin
lived during the whole fifteen years of his residence in London. For
Mrs. Stevenson and her daughter, Miss Mary Stevenson, who at this
time was eighteen years old, he formed a strong attachment, which
continued through life. His first acquaintance with Mrs. Steven-

1757] Benjamin Franklin 197

was also of great service to me, in going from place
to place, where I could not go myself, and Peter was
very diligent and attentive. I took so much bark in
various ways, that I began to abhor it; I durst not
take a vomit, for fear of my head; but at last I was
seized one morning with a vomiting and purging, the
latter of which continued the greater part of the day,
and I believe was a kind of crisis to the distemper,
carrying it clear off ; for ever since I feel quite light-
some, and am every day gathering strength; so I
hope my seasoning is over, and that I shall enjoy
better health during the rest of my stay in England.

son was accidental, he being recommended to her house by some of
his Pennsylvania friends who had boarded there. Miss Stevenson
was a girl of excellent sense, and of a highly cultivated mind, and some
of his best letters on philosophical and other subjects were written to
her. In the London Guide Books, "No. 7 Craven Street," is still in-
dicated as the house in which Dr. Franklin resided.

Miss Stevenson's time was mostly passed in the country with Mrs.
Tickell, her aunt; and this absence from her mother's house was the
cause of the correspondence between her and Dr. Franklin, who re-
commended books for her reading, directed her studies, and answered
her philosophical inquiries. She was married in the year 1770 to
William Hewson, a distinguished anatomist, who is known by his nu-
merous papers in the Philosophical Transactions, and particularly by
his work on the Lymphatic System. As a reward for his anatomical
discoveries he was honored with the Copley Medal. He was likewise
elected a fellow of the Royal Society. He died in 1774, thus terminat-
ing a brilliant career at the early age of thirty-four. His widow was
left with three infant children. In the meantime her fortune was
increased by the death of an aunt, and she devoted herself to the care
of her mother and the education of her children. Mrs. Stevenson, her
mother, died in January, 1783. Mrs. Hewson continued to reside in
England till 1786, when she came over with her children to Philadel-
phia. She lived there till 1792, and then removed to Bristol in Penn-
sylvania, where her eldest son had established himself, and where she
died, on the 14th of October, 1795. This son went afterwards to Vera
Cruz, and died there in 1802. Her grandchildren are still living
in Philadelphia.

198 The Works of [1757

I thank you for writing to me so frequently and
fully. I believe I have missed none of your letters
yet, but those by Lyon, who was taken. You men-
tion Mr. Scott's being robbed, but do not say to
what value. Was it considerable? I have seen Mr.
Ralph, and delivered him Mrs. Garrigues's letter.
He is removed from Turnham Green. When I re-
turn, I will tell you every thing relating to him. In
the mean time I must advise Mrs. Garrigues not to
write to him again, till I send her word how to direct
her letters, he being unwilling, for some good reasons,
that his present wife should know any thing of his
having any connexions in America. He expresses
great affection for his daughter and grandchildren.
He has but one child here.

I have found David Edwards, and send you some
of his letters, with one for his father. I am glad to
hear that our friends at Newark got well through the
smallpox.

The above particulars are in answer to things
mentioned in your letters, and so are what follow.

Governor Shirley's affairs are still in an uncertain
state; he is endeavouring to obtain an inquiry into
his conduct, but the confusion of public affairs occa-
sions it to be postponed. He and I visit frequently.
I make no doubt but reports will be spread by my
enemies to my disadvantage, but let none of them
trouble you. If I find I can do my country no good,
I will take care at least not to do it any harm ; I will
neither seek nor expect any thing for myself; and,
though I may perhaps not be able to obtain for the
people what they wish and expect, no interest shall

1757] Benjamin Franklin 199

induce me to betray the trust they have reposed in
me; so make yourself quite easy in regard to such
reports.

Mr. Hunter is better than he has been for a long
time. He and his sister desire to be remembered
to you. I believe I left the seal with Mr. Parker. I
am glad to hear that Mr. Boudinot has so seasonable
a supply, and hope he will not go to mining again.
I am obliged to all my friends that visit you in my
absence. My love to them.

Mr. Ralph delivered me your letters very oblig-
ingly; he is well respected by people of value here.
I thank you for sending me brother Johnny's jour-
nal; I hope he is well, and sister Read and the
children. I am sorry to hear of Mr. Burt's death.
He came to me at New York with a proposal that I
did not approve of, but it showed his good will and
respect for me; when I return, I will tell you what
it was. I shall entertain Mr. Collinson and Dr.
Fothergill with your account of Teedyuskung's visit.

I should have read Sally's French letter with more
pleasure, but that I thought the French rather too
good to be all her own composing. I suppose her
master must have corrected it. But I am glad she
is improving in that and her music; I send her a
French Pamela.

You were very lucky in not insuring the rum. We
are obliged to Mr. Booth for his care in that remit-
tance. I suppose you have wrote to acknowledge
the receipt of it. I have not yet seen Mr. Burkett.
I am not much surprised at Green's behaviour; he
has not an honest principle, I fear. I have not yet

200 The Works of [1757

seen Mr. Walsteinholme, but he is arrived. I am
glad you went to Elizabeth town, and that Ben has
got that good girl. I hope they will do well. When
you write, remember my love to her.

December 3d. — I write by little and little as I can
find time. I have now gone through all your agree-
able letters, which give me fresh pleasure every time
I read them. Last night I received another, dated
October 16th, which brings me the good news that
you and Sally were got safe home ; your last, of the
9th, being from Elizabethtown. Budden's ship is
not yet come up to London, but is daily expected,
having been some time at Cowes. Mr. Hall has sent
me a bill, as you mention. Mr. Walsteinholme is
come to town, and I expect to see him to-day. When
I have inquired how things are with Green, I shall
write some directions to you what to do in the affair.

I am glad to hear that Miss Ray is well, and that
you correspond. It is not convenient to be forward
in giving advice in such cases. She has prudence
enough to judge for herself, and I hope she will judge
and act for the best.

I hear there has a miniature painter gone over
to Philadelphia, a relation to John Reynolds. If
Sally's picture is not done to your mind by the young
man, and the other gentleman is a good hand and
follows the business, suppose you get Sally's done
by him, and send it to me with your small picture,
that I may here get all our little family drawn in
one conversation piece. I am sorry to hear of the
general sickness; I hope it is over before this time,
and that little Franky is recovered.

1757] Benjamin Franklin 201

I was as much disappointed in my intention of
writing by the packet as you were in not receiving
letters, and it has since given me a great deal of
vexation. I wrote to you by way of New York
the day after my arrival in London, which I do not
find you have received.

I do not use to be a backward correspondent,
though my sickness has brought me behindhand
with my friends in that respect. Had I been well,
I intended to have gone round among the shops, and
bought some pretty things for you and my dear good
Sally (whose little hands you say eased your head-
ache), to send by this ship, but I must now defer it
to the next, having only got a crimson satin cloak
for you, the newest fashion, and the black silk for
Sally; but Billy sends her a scarlet feather, muff,
and tippet, and a box of fashionable linen for her
dress. In the box is a thermometer for Mr. Taylor,
and one for Mr. Schlatter, which you will carefully
deliver; as also a watch for Mr. Schlatter. I shall
write to them. The black silk was sent to Mr.
Neates, who undertook to forward it in some pack-
age of his.

It is now twelve days since I began to write this
letter, and I still continue well, but have not yet
quite recovered my strength, flesh, or spirits. I
every day drink a glass of infusion of bark in wine, by
way of prevention, and hope my fever will no more
return. On fair days, which are but few, I venture
out about noon. The agreeable conversation I meet
with among men of learning, and the notice taken
of me by persons of distinction, are the principal

202 The Works of [1757

things that soothe me for the present under this
painful absence from my family and friends. Yet
those would not keep me here another week, if I had
not other inducements — duty to my country, and
hopes of being able to do it service.

Pray remember me kindly to all that love us, and
to all that we love. It is endless to name names. I
am, my dear child, your loving husband,

B. Franklin.

CLXV

FROM WILLIAM STRAHAN TO MRS. FRANKLIN ■

London, 13 December, 1757.

Dear Madam: — I will not write to you, for the
future, as a stranger whom I never had the happi-
ness of seeing, but as to one with whom I have
been for some time acquainted; for, having had the
pleasure for several months past to be personally
known to what you will readily allow to be your
better half, you will permit me to fancy I am by no
means ignorant of the essential qualities of the other.

I had for many years conceived a very high, and
now find a very just, opinion of Mr. Franklin. This
I was naturally led to by the concurring testimony

1 Mr. Strahan was printer to the King, in which station he acquired a
handsome fortune. He was eminent for his talents and character. In
the year 1775, he was elected to Parliament from the borough of
Malmesbury, as a colleague of Mr. Fox. He died the 9th of July, 1785,
at the age of 70. A long and close intimacy subsisted between him and
Dr. Franklin, and much of their correspondence, which was volumin-
ous, has been preserved, though but a small portion of Strahan 's has
been printed.

i7S7] Benjamin Franklin 203

of everybody who knew him (for the voice of his
enemies, if he ever had any, never reached me), and
by the opportunities I have had of judging for my-
self, during my correspondence with him for a dozen
years. But though the notion I had formed of him,
in my own mind, before I had the pleasure of seeing
him, was really, as far as it went, just enough, I
must confess it was very unequal to what I know
his singular merit deserves.

I own it is somewhat odd to entertain a lady with
the character of her husband, who must herself, of
all others, be the least ignorant in that particular.
But as all who know me know that I cannot help
speaking my sentiments freely on any subject that
strikes me in a great degree, so I choose to write my
mind in regard to Mr. Franklin, before all others, to
you, because you are the most unexceptionable judge
of the truth and propriety of what I say, and because
I am persuaded you will listen to me, not only with
patience but with pleasure; and indeed, whatever
your own personal qualities may be, however ami-
able and engaging in my mind, your being the choice
of such a man must add greatly to your honor. To
be the wife of one who has so much ability, inclina-
tion, and success, if you view him in a public capac-
ity, in being eminently useful to his country, must
necessarily confer on you great reputation; and to
be the bosom friend of one who is equally fitted to
promote any kind of domestic happiness, must as
necessarily be the constant spring of the most sub-
stantial comfort to you.

For my own part, I never saw a man who was, in

204 The Works of [1757

every respect, so perfectly agreeable to me. Some
are amiable in one view, some in another, he in all.
Now, Madam, as I know the ladies here consider
him in exactly the same light I do, upon my word
I think you should come over, with all convenient
speed, to look after your interest; not but that I
think him as faithful to his Joan as any man breath-
ing; but who knows what repeated and strong
temptation may in time, and while he is at so great
a distance from you, accomplish? Besides, what a
delightful expedition would this be to Miss Frank-
lin, and how must it amuse and improve her, to see
and live a while in this great city. I know you will
object to the length of the voyage and the danger of
the seas ; but truly this is more terrible in apprehen-
sion than in reality. Of all the ways of travelling,
it is the easiest and most expeditious; and, as for
the danger, there has not a soul been lost between
Philadelphia and this, in my memory ; and I believe
not one ship taken by the enemy.

Is the trouble and risk, then, of such a voyage to
be compared in any degree with the pleasure it will
afford you and your best friends? By no means.
Instead of being afraid of the sea, we ought to have
a particular regard for it, as it is so far from being a
bar to the communication and intercourse of differ-
ent and far distant countries, that it facilitates their
correspondence in a very high degree. Nay more, it
conveys in the floating castles of your mother coun-
try that protection and assistance which I trust will
soon give peace to your borders. I might urge as an
additional inducement for you to come over in the

i757l Benjamin Franklin 205

spring, that the important business with which Mr.
Franklin is charged in the service of his country
(which I dare say you would wish above all things
may be brought to a happy conclusion) may very
probably detain him more than one season, which
will exhaust your patience to such a degree, that
you may repent, when too late, you did not listen to
my advice.

Your son I really think one of the prettiest young
gentlemen I ever knew from America. He seems to
me to have a solidity of judgment not very often to
be met with in one of his years. This, with the
daily opportunities he has of improving himself in
the company of his father, who is at the same time
his friend, his brother, his intimate and easy com-
panion, affords an agreeable prospect that your hus-
band's virtues and usefulness to his country may be
prolonged beyond the date of his own life.

Your daughter (I wish I could call her mine), I
find by the reports of all who know her, is a very
amiable girl in all respects; but of her I shall say
nothing till I have the pleasure of seeing her. Only
I must observe to you, that being mistress of such
a family is a degree of happiness perhaps the greatest
that falls to the lot of humanity. I sincerely wish
you very long the unabated enjoyment of them. I
leave it to your friend to write you every thing
from this place you would desire to know. But I
cannot take my leave without informing you that
Mr. Franklin has the good fortune to lodge with a
very discreet gentlewoman who is particularly care-
ful of him, who attended him during a very severe

206 The Works of [1757

cold he was some time ago seized with, with an
assiduity, concern, and tenderness which perhaps
only yourself could equal, so that I don't think you
could have a better substitute till you come over to
take him under your own protection. He is now
perfectly recovered.

My own family are, I thank God, just now in per-
fect health. My wife joins me in kindest compli-
ments to you and dear Miss, not forgetting her
honest son David l and his fireside. I wish you a
speedy and happy meeting with your friends on this
side the water, which will give great pleasure to,
dear Madam, your most affectionate humble servant,

William Strahan.

CLXVI

TO JOHN PRINGLE 2

Craven Street, 21 December, 1757.

Sir: — In compliance with your request, I send
you the following account of what I can at present
recollect relating to the effects of electricity in para-
lytic cases which have fallen under my observation.

Some years since, when the newspapers made
mention of great cures performed in Italy and Ger-
many by means of electricity, a number of paralytics
were brought to me from different parts of Pennsyl-
vania, and the neighbouring provinces, to be elec-
trized, which I did for them at their request. My

1 David Hall, the partner of Franklin in the printing business.

2 Afterwards Sir John Pringle, and President of the Royal Society.

i7S7] Benjamin Franklin 207

method was to place the patient first in a chair, on
an electric stool, and draw a number of large strong
sparks from all parts of the affected limb or side.
Then I fully charged two six gallon glass jars, each
of which had about three square feet of surface
coated ; and I sent the united shock of these through
the affected limb or limbs, repeating the stroke com-
monly three times each day. The first thing ob-
served was an immediate greater sensible warmth in
the lame limbs that had received the stroke than in
the others; and the next morning the patients usu-
ally related that they had in the night felt a pricking
sensation in the flesh of the paralytic limbs; and
would sometimes show a number of small red spots,
which they supposed were occasioned by those prick-
ings. The limbs, too, were found more capable of
voluntary motion, and seemed to receive strength.
A man, for instance, who could not the first day lift
the lame hand from off his knee, would the next day
raise it four or five inches; the third day, higher;
and on the fifth day was able, but with a feeble, lan-
guid motion, to take off his hat. These appearances
gave great spirits to the patients, and made them
hope a perfect cure; but I do not remember that I
ever saw any amendment after the fifth day ; which
the patients perceiving, and finding the shocks pretty
severe, they became discouraged, went home, and in a
short time relapsed ; so that I never knew any advan-
tage from electricity in palsies, that was permanent.
And how far the apparent, temporary advantage
might arise from the exercise in the patients'
journey, and coming daily to my house, or from the

208 The Works of [1758

spirits given by the hope of success, enabling them
to exert more strength in moving their limbs, I will
not pretend to say.

Perhaps some permanent advantage might have
been obtained if the electric shocks had been accom-
panied with proper medicine and regimen, under the
direction of a skilful physician. It may be, too,
that a few great strokes, as given in my method, may
not be so proper as many small ones; since by the
account from Scotland of a case in which two hun-
dred shocks from a phial were given daily, it seems
that a perfect cure has been made. As to any un-
common strength supposed to be in the machine
used in that case, I imagine it could have no share
in the effect produced; since the strength of the
shock from charged glass is in proportion to the
quantity of surface of the glass coated; so that my
shocks from those large jars must have been much
greater than any that could be received from a phial
held in the hand.

I am, with great respect, Sir,

Your most obedient servant,

B. Franklin.

CLXVII

TO JOHN PRINGLE

Craven Strebt, 6 January, 1758.

Sir: — I return you Mr. Mitchell's paper on the
strata of the earth, with thanks. The reading of it,

1758] Benjamin Franklin 209

and perusal of the draft that accompanies it, have
reconciled me to those convulsions which all natural-
ists agree this globe has suffered. Had the different
strata of clay, gravel, marble, coals, limestone, sand,
minerals, &c, continued to lie level, one under the
other, as they may be supposed to have done before
those convulsions, we should have had the use only
of a few of the uppermost of the strata, the others
lying too deep and too difficult to be come at ; but, the
shell of the earth being broke, and the fragments
thrown into this oblique position, the disjointed ends
of a great number of strata of different kinds are
brought up to day, and a great variety of useful
materials put into our power, which would otherwise
have remained eternally concealed from us. So that
what has been usually looked upon as a ruin suffered
by this part of the universe, was, in reality, only a
preparation, or means of rendering the earth more
fit for use, more capable of being to mankind a con-
venient and comfortable habitation.
I am, Sir, with great esteem, yours, &c,

B. Franklin.

CLXVIII

TO MRS. DEBORAH FRANKLIN

London, 14 January, 1758.

Dear Debby: — I wrote a very long letter to you
lately, two whole sheets full, containing answers to all
yours received during my sickness. I have since

VOL. II. — Zi

210 The Works of [1758

received your kind favors of November 13th and 16th.
It has given me great concern, that you should be so
disappointed in having no letters by Captain Lut-
widge. You know by this time how it happened;
but I wonder you should expect letters from me by
the way of Ireland, it being quite out of my know-
ledge when vessels are to sail from thence.

I am thankful to God for sparing my little family
in that time of general sickness, and hope to find
them all well at my return. The New York paper
you sent me was the latest that came, and of use to
our friend Strahan. He has offered to lay me a con-
siderable wager, that a letter he has wrote to you will
bring you immediately over hither; but I tell him I
will not pick his pocket ; for I am sure there is no in-
ducement strong enough to prevail with you to cross
the seas. I should be glad if I could tell you when I
expected to be at home, but that is still in the dark ;
it is possible I may not be able to get away this sum-
mer; but I hope, if I stay another winter, it will be
more agreeable than the greatest part of the time I
have hitherto spent in England. But, however, I
must bring my business to some conclusion.

I received Sally's letter of November 12th, but can-
not now write to her. I wrote to my friends gener-
ally by the last packet, and shall write to them again
by a ship of Mr. Ralph's, to sail from here in about a
fortnight. I am not yet quite so hearty as before my
illness; but I think I am daily stronger and better,
so I hope I have had my seasoning; but much writ-
ing still disorders me.

My duty to mother, and love to Sally, Debby, Mr.

1758] Benjamin Franklin 211

Dunlap, and all friends that inquire after me. I am,
my dear child, your ever loving husband,

B. Franklin.
P. S. — Billy presents his duty to you and mother,
and love to his sister.

CLXIX

TO MRS. DEBORAH FRANKLIN

London, 21 January, 1758.

My Dear Child: — Mr. Lorimer, a friend who is
going over to General Abercromby, to assist him as
secretary, called on me just now to acquaint me that
he is on the point of setting out. I seize a minute or
two just to let you know we are well, that is, I am
well, compared to what I have been during a great
part of the time since my arrival, and I hope with the
spring to recover my full strength. Billy is quite
hearty, and presents his duty, love, &c.

I have wrote to you by several opportunities lately,
and particularly one long letter of two sheets, which
I hope will come to hand, as it contained a full an-
swer to a number of yours received during my illness,
and I have no copy of it.

I begin to think I shall hardly be able to return
before this time twelve months. I am for doing ef-
fectually what I came about; and I find it requires
both time and patience. You may think, perhaps,
that I can find many amusements here to pass the
time agreeably. It is true, the regard and friendship

212 The Works of [1758

I meet with from persons of worth, and the conversa-
tion of ingenious men, give me no small pleasure;
but, at this time of life, domestic comforts afford the
most solid satisfaction, and my uneasiness at being
absent from my family, and longing desire to be with
them, make me often sigh in the midst of cheerful
company.

My love to my dear Sally. I confide in you the
care of her and her education. I promise myself
the pleasure of finding her much improved at my re-
turn. While I am writing, three letters came in, one
from Mr. Hall, one from Mr. Rhoads, another from
Dr. Bond, but none from you. They are by way
of Bristol. I must send this away immediately, lest
Mr. Lorimer should be gone. My respects to those
gentlemen, to whom I shall write, and to my other
friends, by Mr. Ralph's vessel, which sails next week.
I am your ever loving husband,

B. Franklin.

P. S. — When you write to Boston, give my love to
sister Jenny, as I have not often time to write to her.
If you please, you may send her the enclosed little
picture.

CLXX

TO MRS. DEBORAH FRANKLIN

London, 19 February, 1758.

My Dear Child : — I have wrote you several long
letters lately; the last was by Mr. Ralph, and at the
same time I wrote to my dear Sally. Last night I re-

i758J Benjamin Franklin 213

ceived yours of the 1st and 6th of January, which gave
me the great pleasure of hearing that you and my little
family were well. I hope you continue so, and that
I shall have the happiness to find you so. The letter
you mention to have sent me by Captain Robinson is
not come to hand; but that by Mr. Hunt I received
and answered.

I regret the loss of my friend Parsons. Death be-
gins to make breaches in the little junto of old friends
that he had long forborne, and it must be expected
he will now soon pick us all off one after another.

Your kind advice about getting a chariot, I had
taken some time before ; for I found that every time
I walked out I got a fresh cold; and the hackney
coaches at this end of the town, where most people
keep their own, are the worst in the whole city, miser-
able, dirty, broken, shabby things, unfit to go into
when dressed clean, and such as one would be ashamed
to get out of at any gentleman's door. As to burning
wood, it would answer no end, unless one would fur-
nish all one's neighbours and the whole city with the
same. The whole town is one great smoky house,
and every street a chimney, the air full of floating
seacoal soot, and you never get a sweet breath of what
is pure, without riding some miles for it into the
country.

I am sorry to hear that a storm has damaged a
house of my good friend Mr. Bartram. Acquaint him
that I have received the seeds, and shall write to him
shortly. I hope the Speaker is recovered of the ill-
ness you mention.

Give my thanks to Dr. Bond for the care he takes

214 The Works of [1758

of you. I have wrote to him by this vessel. Mr.
Hunter and Polly talk of returning this spring. He is
wonderfully recruited. They both desire to be re-
membered to you. She received your letter and an-
swered it. Her answer I enclosed in one of mine to
you. Her daughter Rachel, who plays on the harpsi-
chord and sings prettily, sends Sally one of her songs
that I fancied.

I send you by Captain Budden a large case and a
small box. In the large case is another small box,
containing some English china, viz.: melons and
leaves for a desert of fruit and cream, or the like ; a
bowl remarkable for the neatness of the figures, made
at Bow, near this city ; some coffee cups of the same ;
a Worcester bowl, ordinary. To show the difference
of workmanship, there is something from all the china
works in England; and one old true china basin
mended, of an odd color. The same box contains
four silver salt ladles, newest, but ugliest, fashion; a
little instrument to core apples ; another to make little
turnips out of great ones ; six coarse diaper breakfast
cloths; they are to spread on the tea table, for no-
body breakfasts here on the naked table, but on the
cloth they set a large tea board with the cups.
There is also a little basket, a present from Mrs.
Stevenson to Sally, and a pair of garters for you,
which were knit by the young lady, her daughter,
who favored me with a pair of the same kind, the
only ones I have been able to wear, as they need not
be bound tight, the ridges in them preventing their
slipping. We send them therefore as a curiosity for
the form, more than for the value. Goody Smith

1758] Benjamin Franklin 215

may, if she pleases, make such for me hereafter.
My love to her.

In the great case, besides the little box, is con-
tained some carpeting for a best room floor. There
is enough for one large or two small ones ; it is to be
sewed together, the edges being first felled down,
and care taken to make the figures meet exactly;
there is bordering for the same. This was my fancy.
Also two large fine Flanders bedticks, and two pair
of large superfine blankets, two fine damask table-
cloths and napkins, and forty- three ells of Ghentish
sheeting Holland. These you ordered. There are
also fifty-six yards of cotton, printed curiously from
copper plates, a new invention, to make bed and
window curtains; and seven yards of chair bottoms,
printed in the same way, very neat. These were my
fancy; but Mrs. Stevenson tells me I did wrong not
to buy both of the same color. Also seven yards of
printed cotton, blue ground, to make you a gown. I
bought it by candlelight, and liked it then, but not
so well afterwards. If you do not fancy it, send it
as a present from me to sister Jenny. There is a
better gown for you, of flowered tissue, sixteen yards,
of Mrs. Stevenson's fancy, cost nine guineas; and I
think it a great beauty. There was no more of the
sort, or you should have had enough for a negligee or
suit.

There are also snuffers, a snuffstand, and extin-
guisher, of steel, which I send for the beauty of the
work. The extinguisher is for spermaceti candles
only, and is of a new contrivance, to preserve the
snuff upon the candle. There is some music Billy

216 The Works of [1758

bought for his sister, and some pamphlets for the
Speaker and for Susy Wright. A mahogany and a
little shagreen box, with microscopes and other opti-
cal instruments loose, are for Mr. Alison, if he likes
them; if not, put them in my room till I return. I
send the invoice of them, and I wrote to him for-
merly the reason of my exceeding his orders. There
are also two sets of books, a present from me to
Sally, The World and The Connoisseur. My love to
her.

I forgot to mention another of my fancyings, viz.,
a pair of silk blankets, very fine. They are of a new
kind, were just taken in a French prize, and such
were never seen in England before. They are called
blankets, but I think they will be very neat to cover
a summer bed, instead of a quilt or counterpane. I
had no choice, so you will excuse the soil on some
of the folds; your neighbour Foster can get it off.
I also forgot, among the china, to mention a large
fine jug for beer, to stand in the cooler. I fell in
love with it at first sight; for I thought it looked
like a fat jolly dame clean and tidy, with a neat blue
and white calico gown on, good natured and lovely,
and put me in mind of — somebody. It has the
coffee cups in it, packed in best crystal salt, of a pe-
culiar nice flavor, for the table, not to be powdered.

I hope Sally applies herself closely to her French
and music, and that I shall find she has made great
proficiency. The harpischord I was about, and
which was to have cost me forty guineas, Mr. Stanley
advises me not to buy; and we are looking out for
another, one that has been some time in use, and is a

1758] Benjamin Franklin 217

tried good one, there being not so much dependence
on a new one, though made by the best hands,
Sally's last letter to her brother is the best wrote
that of late I have seen of hers. I only wish she was
a little more careful of her spelling. I hope she con-
tinues to love going to church, and would have her
read over and over again The Whole Duty of Man,
and The Lady's Library.

Look at the figures on the china bowl and
coffee cups, with your spectacles on ; they will bear
examining.

I have made your compliments to Mrs. Stevenson.
She is indeed very obliging, takes great care of my
health, and is very diligent when I am any way in-
disposed; but yet I have a thousand times wished
you with me, and my little Sally with her ready
hands and feet to do, and go, and come, and get
what I wanted. There is a great difference in sick-
ness between being nursed with that tender atten-
tion which proceeds from sincere love, and x

CLXXI

TO THOMAS HUBBARD, AT BOSTON

London, 28 April, 1758.

Sir: — In pursuance of Mr. Winthrop's memoran-
dum, which I lately received from you, through the
hands of Mr. Mico, I have procured and delivered to
him the following things, viz. :

1 The remainder of the letter is lost.

218 The Works of [1758

A mahogany case lined with lead, containing
thirty-five square glass bottles, in five rows, seven
in a row.

A glass globe of the same size and kind with that
I used at Philadelphia, and mounted in the same
manner.

A large glass cylinder, mounted on an iron axis
with brass caps; this form being most used here, and
thought better than the globe, as a long narrow
cushion will electrify a greater surface at the same
time.

The bottles have necks, which I think better than
to be quite open; for so they would either be ex-
posed to the dust and damp of the air, if they had
no stoppers, or the stoppers would be too near to-
gether to admit of electrifying a single bottle, or row
of bottles; there is only a little more difficulty in
lining the inside with tinfoil, but that is chiefly got
over by cutting it into narrow strips, and guiding
them in with a stick flat at one end, to apply the
more conveniently to the pasted side of the glass.
I would have coated them myself, if the time had
not been too short. I send the tinfoil, which I got
made of a proper breadth for the purpose; they
should be coated nine inches high, which brings the
coating just even with the edge of the case. The
tinfoil is ten inches broad, which allows for lapping
over the bottom.

I have bored the holes in all the stoppers for the
communicating wires, provided all the wires, and
fixed one or two to show the manner. Each wire, to
go into a bottle, is bent so that the two ends go in

1758] Benjamin Franklin 219

and spring against the inside coating or lining. The
middle of the wire goes up into the stopper, with an
eye, through which the long communicating wires
pass, that connect all the bottles in one row.

To form occasional communications with more
rows, there must be, on the long wires of the second
and fourth rows, four other movable wires, which I
call cross- wires, about two inches and a half long,
with a small ball of any metal about the size of a
pistol-bullet at each end. The ball of one end is to
have a hole through the middle, so that it may be
slipped on the long wire; and one of these cross-
wires is to be placed between the third and fourth
bottles of the row at each end; and on each of the
above-mentioned rows, that is, two to each row,
they must be made to turn easy on the wires, so that
when you would charge only the middle row, you
turn two of them back on the first, and two on the
fifth row, then the middle row will be unconnected
with the others. When you would charge more
rows, you turn them forwards or backwards, so as
to have the communication completed with just the
number of rows you want.

The brass handles of the case communicate with
the outside of the bottles, when you wish to make
the electrical circuit.

I see, now I have wrote it, that the greatest part
of this letter would have been more properly ad-
dressed to Mr. Winthrop himself * ; but probably

1 At that time Professor of Mathematics and Natural Philosophy in
Harvard University, for which institution the electrical apparatus de-
scribed in this letter was designed. — S.

220 The Works of [1758

you will send it to him with the things, and that will
answer the end. Be pleased to tender my best re-
spects to him and the rest of the gentlemen of the
College.

I am, with great esteem and regard, Sir,

Your most obliged humble servant,

B. Franklin.

P. S. — I beg the College will do me the favor to
accept a Virgil, which I send in the case, thought to
be the most curiously printed of any bock hitherto
done in the world.1

CLXXII

TO MRS. DEBORAH FRANKLIN

London, io June, 1758.

My Dear Child: — I was down at Cambridge with
Billy when Snead sailed, so I did not write again by
him as I intended. His sailing so soon was unex-
pected to me. I am somewhat out of the way of
vessels, and Mr. Partridge, by mistake, wrote me
Snead was not to sail that week; so, being very
kindly entertained there in the colleges, we did not
hurry so soon home as we might have done. How-
ever, this vessel perhaps may be there about the
same time.

I think nobody ever had more faithful correspon-

1 A copy of Baskerville's quarto edition of Virgil, printed the year
before at Birmingham, and perhaps the most beautiful of the various
works by which this celebrated type-founder and printer gained the
praise of "uniting, in a singularly happy manner, the elegance of
Plan tin with the clearness of the Elzevirs." — S.

1758J Benjamin Franklin 221

dents than I have in Mr. Hughes and you. It is
impossible for me to get or keep out of your debts.
I received the bill of exchange you got of Mr. Nel-
son, and it is paid. I received also the Proprietary's
account. It gives me concern to receive such fre-
quent accounts of your being indisposed; but we
both of us grow in years, and must expect our con-
stitutions, though tolerably good in themselves, will
by degrees give way to the infirmities of age.

I have sent, in a trunk of the Library Company's,
some of the best writing paper for letters, and best
quills and wax, all for Mrs. Moore, which I beg she
would accept; having received such civilities here
from her sister and brother Scott as are not in my
power to return. I shall send some to Sally by the
next opportunity. By Captain Lutwidge I sent my
dear girl a newest fashioned white hat and cloak,
and sundry little things, which I hope will get safe
to hand. I now send her a pair of buckles, made of
French paste stones, which are next in lustre to
diamonds. They cost three guineas, and are said to
be cheap at that price. I fancy I see more likeness
in her picture than I did at first, and I look at it
often with pleasure, as at least it reminds me of
her. Yours is at the painter's, who is to copy it and
do me of the same size; but, as to family pieces, it
is said they never look well, and are quite out of
fashion, and I find the limner very unwilling to
undertake any thing of the kind. However, when
Franky's comes, and that of Sally by young Hessel-
ius, I shall see what can be done. I wonder how you
came by Ben Lay's picture.

222 The Works of [1758

You are very prudent not to engage in party dis-
putes. Women never should meddle with them,
except in endeavours to reconcile their husbands,
brothers, and friends, who happen to be of contrary
sides. If your sex keep cool, you may be a means
of cooling ours the sooner, and restoring more speed-
ily that social harmony among fellow-citizens that is
so desirable after long and bitter dissensions.

Cousin Dunlap x has wrote me an account of his
purchasing Chattin's printing-house. I wish it may
be advantageous to him without injuring Mr. Hall.
I can however do nothing to encourage him, as a
printer in Philadelphia, inconsistent with my pre-
engagement to so faithful a partner. And I trust
you will take care not to do any thing in that way
that may draw reflections on me; as if I did under-
hand, through your means, what I would not care to
appear in openly. I hope he will keep a good under-
standing with Mr. Hall, and I am pleased to hear
that he asked his advice and friendship; but I have
thought it right and necessary to forbid the use of
my letters by Mr. Dunlap without Mr. Hall's con-
sent. The post-ofhce, if it is agreeable to you, may
be removed to Mr. Dunlap's house, it being proposed
by our good friend Mr. Hughes.

I wrote to you lately to speak to Ambruster 2 not
to make use of my name any more in his newspaper,
as I have no particular concern in it, but as one of

1 William Dunlap, an Irish printer married to a relative of his wife.

2 Anthony Ambruster, a German by birth, who printed German
books in Philadelphia, and for some time published a newspaper there
in the German language.

1758] Benjamin Franklin 223

the trustees only. I have no prospect of returning
until next spring, so you will not expect me. But
pray remember to make me as happy as you can, by
sending some pippins for myself and friends, some
of your small hams, and some cranberries.

Billy is of the Middle Temple, and will be called to
the bar either this term or the next. I write this
in answer to your particular inquiry. I am glad
you like the cloak I sent you. The black silk was
sent by our friend Mr. Collinson. I never saw it.
Your answer to Mr. Strahan was just what it should
be. I was much pleased with it. He fancied his
rhetoric and art would certainly bring you over.

I have ordered two large print Common Prayer
Books to be bound, on purpose for you and Goody
Smith ; and, that the largeness of the print may not
make them too bulky, the christenings, matrimonies,
and every thing else that you and she have not
immediate and constant occasion for, are to be
omitted. So you will both of you be reprieved from
the use of spectacles in church a little longer.

If the ringing of the bells frightens you, tie a piece
of wire from one bell to the other, and that will con-
duct the lightning without ringing or snapping, but
silently; though I think it best the bells should be at
liberty to ring, that you may know when they are
electrified; and when you are afraid you may keep
at a distance.1 I wrote last winter to Josey Crocker

1 In the year 1753, he had erected an iron rod for the purpose of
drawing lightning from the clouds into his house. He also placed two
bells in such position that they would ring when the rod was electrified.
See description of this contrivance in vol. ii., in a letter to Peter Collin-
son, dated September, 1753.

224 The Works of [1758

to come over hither and stay a year, and work in
some of the best shops for improvement in his busi-
ness, and therefore did not send the tools ; but if he
is about to be married I would not advise him to
come. I shall send the tools immediately. You
have disposed of the apple-trees very properly. I
condole with you on the loss of your walnuts.

I see the governor's treatment of his wife makes
all the ladies angry. If it is on account of the bad
example, that will soon be removed; for the Pro-
prietors are privately looking out for another; being
determined to discard him, and the place goes
a begging. One, to whom it was offered, sent a
friend to make some inquiries of me. The Pro-
prietors told him they had there a city-house and a
country-house, which he might use rent free; that
every thing was so cheap he might live on five hun-
dred pounds sterling a year, keep a genteel table, a
coach, &c, and his income would be at least nine
hundred pounds. If it fell short of that, the Pro-
prietors would engage to make it up. For the truth
of his being able to live genteelly and keep a coach
for five hundred pounds a year, the Proprietors
referred him to Mr. Hamilton, who, it seems, told
him the same story; but, on inquiry of Mr. Morris,
he had quite a different account, and knew not
which to believe. The gentleman is one Mr. Graves,
a lawyer of the Temple. He hesitated a good while,
and I am now told has declined accepting it. I wish
that may not be true, for he has the character of
being a very good sort of man; though while the
instructions continue, it matters little who is our

1758] Benjamin Franklin 225

governor. It was to have been kept a secret from
me, that the Proprietors were looking out for a new
one ; because they would not have Mr. Denny know
any thing about it, till the appointment was actually
made, and the gentleman ready to embark. So you
may make a secret of it too, if you please, and oblige
all your friends with it.1

1 The Proprietors were dissatisfied with Governor Denny, and re-
solved to remove him. The negotiation with Mr. Graves having failed,
the post was next offered to James Hamilton, a native of Philadelphia,
who had been governor a few years before, and who was at this time
in London. He took an independent ground with the Proprietors,
and seems to have had some difficulty in arranging certain points to
their mutual satisfaction, especially in what related to the long-
disputed question as to taxing the proprietary estates. This is evi-
dent from the following extract from a letter, which he wrote in
London to Thomas Penn, one of the Proprietors, August 21, 1759,
while the negotiation was pending:

"I am sorry," said he, "that this treaty about the government has
been drawn out to so inconvenient a length. Everybody knows I did
not solicit my appointment to it; nor have I varied the terms, on
which I professed to engage in it, one iota from the beginning. Those
terms were, that I would not be restrained from giving my assent to any
reasonable bill for taxing the proprietary estates in common with all the
other estates in the province, because in my opinion it was not more than
just that it should be so. If you have changed your sentiments with
regard to this matter, which for a long time I looked upon to be the
the same as mine, it will give me no pain on my own account. Every
thing that respects me may drop silently, as if it had never been
moved. Only, for saving your time and my own, I think it incumbent
on me to declare, as I have frequently done, that I cannot think of
engaging myself in that service, but upon the terms or conditions
above mentioned."

Mr. Hamilton was appointed governor, and he returned soon after-
wards to Pennsylvania. The reluctance of the Proprietors to have
their lands taxed by the Assembly was not easily overcome, as clearly
appears from their instructions to the governor on this head. They
express a willingness to aid in the defence of the province by suitable
contributions, but claim the privilege of doing it in such manner as
their judgment shall dictate, and deny all right in the Assembly to
impose a tax on their property in the province for any object what-
ever. "Wherefore," they add, "we recommend to you to use the most

VOL. III. — 15.

226 The Works of [1758

I need not tell you to assist godmother in her diffi-
culties; for I know you will think it as agreeable to
me as it is to your own good disposition. I could
not find the bit of thread you mention to have
sent me, of your own spinning. Perhaps it was
too fine to be seen. I am glad little Franky begins
to talk. It will divert you to have him often with
you.

I think I have now gone through your letters,
which always give me great pleasure to receive and
read, since I cannot be with you in person. Distrib-
ute my compliments, respects, and love among my

prudent means in your power, to avoid and prevent the Assembly from
including any part of our estate in the said province in any tax to be by
them raised. But, in case the exigency of the times, the King's imme-
diate service, and the defence of the province cannot be provided
for, unless our estate shall be included in any bill for raising taxes for
such services; then we do, notwithstanding our general dislike of the
same, permit you to give your assent to such a bill, as shall impose a
tax on our rents and quitrents only, but not on our vacant lands, whether
appropriated or not, nor on any fines or purchase money pretended or
supposed to be due to us, which, we are well advised, are not in their
nature liable to taxation ; always provided, as our rents and quitrents
are clear and certain in their amount, that proper and reasonable
clauses be inserted in every such bill, for rendering as clear and as
certain as possible the true value of all other persons' estates, that we
may not be taxed beyond our true proportion with respect to others.
And provided also, that our respective tenants be obliged to pay the same,
and to deduct the same out of our rents, when they account to us or
our receiver, and not to pretend to authorize the sale of any of our
lands for non-payment of taxes."

Clogged with such instructions, although the point of taxation was
yielded to a certain extent, Mr. Hamilton could hardly hope to satisfy
the Assembly or the people, who believed and contended, that, for all
the purposes of defence, the property of the Proprietors in the province,
of whatever kind or however situated, was justly liable to be taxed in
the same proportion, and the same manner, as their own; nor indeed
do the instructions seem to accord fully with Mr. Hamilton's view of
the subject, as expressed in his letter to Mr. Penn. — Sparks.

1758] Benjamin Franklin 227

friends, and believe me ever, my dear Debby, your
affectionate husband,

B. Franklin.

P. S. — Mrs. Stevenson and her daughter desire me
to present their compliments and offer their services
to you and Sally. I think of going into the country
soon, and shall be pretty much out this summer, in
different parts of England. I depend chiefly on
these journeys for the establishment of my health.

CLXXIII

TO THE SPEAKER AND COMMITTEE OF THE PENNSYL-
VANIA ASSEMBLY

London, io June, 1758.

Gentlemen: — In mine of May 13th I gave you a
particular account of the hearing before the Attor-
ney and Solicitor General, on a reference of Smith's
petition. They have not yet made their report, and
would now, I hear, excuse themselves from doing it
as unnecessary, since they have heard that the pris-
oners are discharged. But they are still solicited by
Mr. Penn and Mr. Moore to report, on an allegation
that they have letters advising that warrants are
issued for taking them up again. None of my letters
from Pennsylvania mentions any thing of this. I
have ventured to say I doubt the truth of it. Whether
they will report or not is uncertain; but if they
should report against us, I am determined to dis-
pute the matter again before the Council.

228 The Works of [1758

I send you herewith a copy of the note I furnished
our solicitor with, when drawing his brief; a copy of
the brief itself; a copy of some remarks on the re-
flection thrown upon the Assembly by the Council
at the first hearing, as being Quakers and therefore
against defence, and as bearing malice against Smith
because a clergyman of the Church of England, and
against Moore because he petitioned for defence.
These I gave to our counsel before the second hear-
ing, when they were to speak, and they made good
use of them. I furnished also a number of cases
from the votes of Assemblies in the other colonies,
showing that they all claimed and exercised power
of committing for breach of privilege; but of this
paper of cases I have no copy by me.1

Mr. Charles at my request has drawn the state of
the case, in order to obtain opinions of eminent law-
yers how far our present privileges would be affected
in case of a change of government, by our coming

1 Petitions had been sent to the Assembly, charging William Moore,
president of the Court of Common Pleas in Chester County, with mis-
conduct in his office. Moore was summoned to appear before the
House, which he refused to do. The House found him guilty, how-
ever, and requested the governor to remove him from office. This
was declined by the governor, till he should investigate the case; and
in the meantime Moore published a defence containing language which
the Assembly voted to be slanderous and insulting. It appeared in
evidence also, that William Smith, provost of the College, had been
concerned in revising and correcting this piece before it was published.
Smith was then arrested, and both he and Moore were imprisoned.
The public was much agitated by the controversy. The governor
took the part of the accused. Smith and Moore ultimately appealed
to the King in Council, where it was decided that the Assembly had
transcended their powers, and that their conduct was reprehensible.
A summary of the case is contained in Gordon's History of Pennsyl-
vania, p. 352. — Editor.

1758] Benjamin Franklin 229

immediately under the crown. I send you a copy of
this case, with the opinion of our counsel upon it,
who is esteemed the best acquainted with our
American affairs and constitutions, as well as with
government law in general. He being also thoroughly
knowing in the present views of the Board of Trade,
and in their connexions and characters, has given
me withal, as a friend, some prudential advice in a
separate sheet distinct from his law opinion, because
the law opinion might necessarily appear where he
would not care the advice should be seen. I send
you, also, a copy of this, and should be glad of your
sentiments upon it. One thing that he recommends
to be done before we push our point in Parliament,
is removing the prejudices that art and accident have
spread among the people of this country against us,
and obtaining for us the good opinion of the bulk of
mankind without doors. This I hope we have it in
our power to do, by means of a work now nearly
ready for the press, calculated to engage the atten-
tion of many readers, and at the same time to efface
the bad impressions received of us ; but it is thought
best not to publish it till a little before the next ses-
sion of Parliament.1

The Proprietors are determined to discard their
present governor, as soon as they can find a suc-
cessor to their mind. They have lately offered the
government to one Mr. Graves, a gentleman of the

1 The work here alluded to is undoubtedly the Historical Review of
the Constitution and Government of Pennsylvania, which was first pub-
lished in the year 1759. See letter to David Hume, under date of Sep-
tember 27, 1760.

230 The Works of [1758

Temple, who has had it for some time under con-
sideration, and makes a difficulty of accepting it.
The beginning of the week it was thought he would
accept; but on Thursday night I was told he had
resolved to refuse it. I know not, however, whether
he may not yet be prevailed on. He has the char-
acter of a man of good understanding and good
dispositions, — [incomplete].

CLXXIV

TO JOHN LINING, AT CHARLESTON

London, 17 June, 1758.

Dear Sir: — In a former letter I mentioned the
experiment for cooling bodies by evaporation, and
that I had, by repeatedly wetting the thermometer
with common spirits, brought the mercury down five
or six degrees. Being lately at Cambridge, and men-
tioning this in conversation with Dr. Hadley, pro-
fessor of chemistry there, he proposed repeating the
experiments with ether, instead of common spirits as
the ether is much quicker in evaporation. We ac-
cordingly went to his chamber, where he had both
ether and a thermometer. By dipping first the ball
of the thermometer into the ether, it appeared that
the ether was precisely of the same temperament
with the thermometer, which stood then at 65 ; for
it made no alteration in the height of the little col-
umn of mercury. But when the thermometer was
taken out of the ether, and the ether, with which the

1758] Benjamin Franklin 231

ball was wet, began to evaporate, the mercury sunk
several degrees. The wetting was then repeated by
a feather that had been dipped into the ether, when
the mercury sunk still lower.

We continued this operation, one of us wetting
the ball, and another of the company blowing on it
with the bellows to quicken the evaporation, the
mercury sinking all the time, till it came down to 7,
which is 25 degrees below the freezing point, when we
left off. Soon after it passed the freezing point a
thin coat of ice began to cover the ball. Whether
this was water collected and condensed by the cold-
ness of the ball from the moisture in the air or from
our breath; or whether the feather, when dipped
into the ether, might not sometimes go through it
and bring up some of the water that was under it, I
am not certain ; perhaps all might contribute. The
ice continued increasing till we ended the experi-
ment, when it appeared near a quarter of an inch
thick all over the ball, with a number of small spic-
ula, pointing outwards. From this experiment one
may see the possibility of freezing a man to death on
a warm summer's day, if he were to stand in a pas-
sage through which the wind blew briskly, and to be
wet frequently with ether, a spirit that is more in-
flammable than brandy or common spirits of wine.

It is but within these few years that the European
philosophers seem to have known this power in na-
ture, of cooling bodies by evaporation. But in the
east they have long been acquainted with it. A
friend tells me there is a passage in Bernier's Travels
through Indostan, written near one hundred years

232 The Works of [1758

ago, that mentions it as a practice (in travelling over
dry deserts in that hot climate) to carry water in
flasks wrapped in wet woollen cloths, and hung on
the shady side of the camel, or carriage, but in the
free air; whereby, as the cloths gradually grow drier,
the water contained in the flasks is made cool. They
have likewise a kind of earthen pots, unglazed,
which let the water gradually and slowly ooze
through their pores, so as to keep the outside a little
wet, notwithstanding the continual evaporation,
which gives great coldness to the vessel and the
water contained in it. Even our common sailors
seem to have had some notion of this property; for
I remember that, being at sea when I was a youth,
I observed one of the sailors, during a calm in the
night, often wetting his finger in his mouth, and then
holding it up in the air, to discover, as he said, if the
air had any motion, and from which side it came;
and this he expected to do by finding one side of his
finger grow suddenly cold, and from that side he
should look for the next wind ; which I then laughed
at as a fancy.

May not several phenomena hitherto unconsid-
ered or unaccounted for be explained by this prop-
erty? During the hot Sunday at Philadelphia, in
June, 1750, when the thermometer was up at 100
in the shade, I sat in my chamber without exercise,
only reading or writing, with no other clothes on than
a shirt and a pair of long linen drawers, the windows
all open, and a brisk wind blowing through the
house ; the sweat ran off the backs of my hands, and
my shirt was often so wet as to induce me to call for

1758] Benjamin Franklin 233

dry ones to put on. In this situation, one might
have suspected that the natural heat of the body,
96, added to the heat of the air, 100, should jointly
have created or produced a much greater degree of
heat in the body; but the fact was that my body
never grew so hot as the air that surrounded it, or
the inanimate bodies immersed in the same air. For
I remember well that the desk, when I laid my arm
upon it; a chair, when I sat down in it; and a dry
shirt out of the drawer, when I put it on — all felt
exceeding warm to me, as if they had been warmed
before a fire. And I suppose a dead body would
have acquired the temperature of the air, though a
living one, by continual sweating, and by the eva-
poration of that sweat, was kept cold.

May not this be a reason why our reapers in Penn-
sylvania, working in the open field in the clear hot
sunshine common in our harvest- time,1 find them-
selves well able to go through that labor without
being much incommoded by the heat, while they
continue to sweat, and while they supply matter for
keeping up that sweat, by drinking frequently of a
thin evaporable liquor, water mixed with rum ; but,
if the sweat stops, they drop, and sometimes die sud-
denly, if a sweating is not again brought on by drink-
ing that liquor, or, as some rather choose in that
case, a kind of hot punch, made with water, mixed
with honey, and a considerable proportion of vinegar?

1 Pennsylvania is in about lat. 40, and the sun, of course, about 1 2
degrees higher, and therefore much hotter, than in England. Their
harvest is about the end of June or beginning of July, when the sun is
nearly at the highest. — F.

234 The Works of [1758

May there not be in negroes a quicker evapora-
tion of the perspirable matter from their skins and
lungs, which, by cooling them more, enables them to
bear the sun's heat better than whites do? (if that is
a fact, as it is said to be ; for the alleged necessity of
having negroes rather than whites to work in the
West India fields is founded upon it,) though the
color of their skins would otherwise make them more
sensible of the sun's heat, since black cloth heats
much sooner and more, in the sun, than white cloth.
I am persuaded, from several instances happening
within my knowledge, that they do not bear cold
weather so well as the whites ; they will perish when
exposed to a less degree of it, and are more apt to
have their limbs frost-bitten; and may not this be
from the same cause?

Would not the earth grow much hotter under the
summer sun if a constant evaporation from its sur-
face, greater as the sun shines stronger, did not, by
tending to cool it, balance, in some degree, the
warmer effects of the sun's rays? Is it not owing to
the constant evaporation from the surface of every
leaf, that trees, though shone on by the sun, are
always, even the leaves themselves, cool to our
sense? at least much cooler than they would other-
wise be? May it not be owing to this that, fanning
ourselves when warm, does really cool us, though the
air is itself warm that we drive with the fan upon
our faces? For the atmosphere round and next to
our bodies, having imbibed as much of the perspired
vapor as it can well contain, receives no more, and
the evaporation is therefore checked and retarded

1758] Benjamin Franklin 235

till we drive away that atmosphere, and bring drier
air in its place, that will receive the vapor, and
thereby facilitate and increase the evaporation. Cer-
tain it is that mere blowing of air on a dry body does
not cool it, as any one may satisfy himself by blowing
with a bellows on the dry ball of a thermometer ; the
mercury will not fall; if it moves at all, it rather
rises, as being warmed by the friction of the air on
its surface.

To these queries of imagination I will only add
one practical observation, — that wherever it is
thought proper to give ease in cases of painful in-
flammation in the flesh (as from burnings or the
like) by cooling the part, linen cloths wet with spirit
and applied to the part inflamed, will produce the
coolness required, better than if wet with water, and
will continue it longer. For water, though cold
when first applied, will soon acquire warmth from
the flesh, as it does not evaporate fast enough; but
the cloths wet with spirit will continue cold as long
as any spirit is left to keep up the evaporation, the
parts warmed escaping as soon as they are warmed,
and carrying off the heat with them. I am, Sir, &c,

B. Franklin.

CLXXV

TO MRS. DEBORAH FRANKLIN

London, 6 September, 1758.

My Dear Child: — In mine of June ioth, by the
Mercury, Captain Robinson, I mentioned our having

236 The Works of [1758

been at Cambridge. We stayed there a week, being
entertained with great kindness by the principal
people, and shown all the curiosities of the place;
and returning by another road to see more of the
country, we came again to London. I found the
journey advantageous to my health, increasing both
my health and spirits, and therefore, as all the great
folks were out of town, and public business at a
stand, I the more easily prevailed with myself to
take another journey, and accept of the invitation
we had, to be again at Cambridge at the Commence-
ment, the beginning of July. We went accordingly,
were present at all the ceremonies, dined every day
in their halls, and my vanity was not a little grati-
fied by the particular regard shown me by the chan-
cellor and vice-chancellor of the University and the
heads of colleges.

After the Commencement we went from Cam-
bridge through Huntingdonshire into Northumber-
landshire, and at Wellingborough, on inquiry, we
found still living Mary Fisher, whose maiden name
was Franklin, daughter and only child of Thomas
Franklin, my father's eldest brother. She is five
years older than sister Dowse, and remembers her
going away with my father and his then wife and
two other children to New England, about the year
1685. We have had no correspondence with her
since my uncle Benjamin's death, now near thirty
years. I knew she had lived at Wellingborough, and
had married there to one Mr. Richard Fisher, a
grazier and tanner, about fifty years ago, but did not
expect to see either of them alive, so inquired for

1758] Benjamin Franklin 237

their posterity. I was directed to their house, and
we found them both alive, but weak with age, very
glad however to see us. She seems to have been a
very smart, sensible woman. They are wealthy,
have left off business, and live comfortably. They
have had only one child, a daughter, who died when
about thirty years of age, unmarried. She gave me
several of my uncle Benjamin's letters to her, and
acquainted me where the other remains of the fam-
ily lived, of which I have, since my return to London,
found out a daughter of my father's only sister, very
old, and never married. She is a good, clever woman,
but poor, though vastly contented with her situation,
and very cheerful. The others are in different parts
of the country. I intend to visit them, but they
were too much out of our tour in that journey.

From Wellingborough we went to Ecton, about
three or four miles, being the village where my
father was born, and where his father, grandfather,
and great-grandfather had lived, and how many of
the family before them we know not. We went first
to see the old house and grounds ; they came to Mr.
Fisher with his wife, and after letting them for some
years, finding his rent something ill paid, he sold
them. The land is now added to another farm, and
a school kept in the house. It is a decayed old
stone building, but still known by the name of
Franklin House. Thence we went to visit the rector
of the parish, who lives close by the church, a very
ancient building. He entertained us very kindly,
and showed us the old church register, in which were
the births, marriages, and burials of our ancestors

238 The Works of [1758

for two hundred years, as early as his book began,
His wife, a good-natured, chatty old lady (grand-
daughter of the famous Archdeacon Palmer, who
formerly had that parish, and lived there), remem-
bered a great deal about the family; carried us out
into the churchyard, and showed us several of their
gravestones, which were so covered with moss that
we could not read the letters, till she ordered a hard
brush and basin of water, with which Peter scoured
them clean, and then Billy copied them. She enter-
tained and diverted us highly with stories of Thomas
Franklin, Mrs. Fisher's father, who was a convey-
ancer, something of a lawyer, clerk of the county
courts, and clerk to the Archdeacon in his visita-
tions; a very leading man in all county affairs, and
much employed in public business. He set on foot
a subscription for erecting chimes in their steeple,
and completed it, and we heard them play. He
found out an easy method of saving their village
meadows from being drowned, as they used to be
sometimes by the river, which method is still in
being; but, when first proposed, nobody could con-
ceive how it could be; "but, however," they said,
"if Franklin says he knows how to do it, it will be
done." His advice and opinion were sought for on
all occasions by all sorts of people, and he was looked
upon, she said, by some as something of a conjurer.
He died just four years before I was born, on the
same day of the same month.

Since our return to London, I have had a kind
letter from cousin Fisher, and another from the rec-
tor, which I send you.

1758] Benjamin Franklin 239

From Ecton we went to Northampton, where we
stayed part of the day ; then went to Coventry, and
from thence to Birmingham. Here, upon inquiry,
we soon found out yours, and cousin Wilkinson's,
and cousin Cash's relations. First, we found out
one of the Cashes, and he went with us to Rebecca
Flint's, where we saw her and her husband. She
is a turner and he a buttonmaker; they have no
children; were very glad to see any person that
knew their sister Wilkinson; told us what letters
they had received, and showed us some of them;
and even showed us that they had, out of respect,
preserved a keg, in which they had received a present
of some sturgeon. They sent for their brother,
Joshua North, who came with his wife immediately
to see us; he is a turner also, and has six children;
a lively, active man. Mrs. Flint desired me to tell
her sister, that they live still in the old house she
left them in, which I think she says was their father's.
From thence Mr. North went with us to your cousin
Benjamin's.1

CLXXVI

TO HUGH ROBERTS

London, 16 September, 1758.

Dear Friend: — Your kind letter of June ist gave
me great pleasure. I thank you for the concern you
express about my health, which at present seems
tolerably confirmed by my late journey into different

1 The remainder of the letter is missing.

240 The Works of [1758

parts of the kingdom, and have been highly enter-
taining as well as useful to me. Your visits to my
little family in my absence are very obliging, and I
hope you will be so good as to continue them. Your
remark on the thistle and the Scotch motto made
us very merry, as well as your string of puns. You
will allow me to claim a little merit or demerit in the
last, as having had some hand in making you a pun-
ster; but the wit of the first is keen, and all your
own.

Two of the former members of the Junto, you tell
me, are departed this life, Potts and Parsons. Odd
characters both of them. Parsons a wise man, that
often acted foolishly ; Potts a wit, that seldom acted
wisely. If enough were the means to make a man
happy, one had always the means of happiness, with-
out ever enjoying the thing; the other had always
the thing, without ever possessing the means. Par-
sons, even in his prosperity, always fretting; Potts,
in the midst of his poverty, ever laughing. It
seems, then, that happiness in this life rather de-
pends on internals than externals ; and that, besides
the natural effects of wisdom and virtue, vice and
folly, there is such a thing as a happy or an unhappy
constitution. They were both our friends, and loved
us. So, peace to their shades. They had their vir-
tues as well as their foibles; they were both honest
men, and that alone, as the world goes, is one of the
greatest of characters. They were old acquaint-
ances, in whose company I formerly enjoyed a great
deal of pleasure and I cannot think of losing them
without concern and regret.

1758] Benjamin Franklin 241

I shall, as you suppose, look on every opportunity
you give me of doing you service, as a favor, because
it will afford me pleasure. I know how to make
you ample returns for such favors, by giving you
the pleasure of building me a house. You may do
it without losing any of your own time ; it will only
take some part of that you now spend in other
folks' business. It is only jumping out of their
waters into mine.

I am grieved for our friend Syng's loss. You and
I, who esteem him, and have valuable sons our-
selves, can sympathize with him sincerely. I hope
yours is perfectly recovered, for your sake as well as
for his own. I wish he may be, in every respect, as
good and as useful as his father. I need not wish
him more; and can only add that I am, with great
esteem, dear friend, yours affectionately,

B. Franklin.
P. S. — I rejoice to hear of the prosperity of the
Hospital, and send the wafers. I do not quite like
your absenting yourself from that good old club, the
Junto. Your more frequent presence might be a
means of keeping them from being all engaged in
measures not the best for the public welfare. I ex-
hort you, therefore, to return to your duty ; and, as
the Indians say, to confirm my words, I send you a
Birmingham tile. I thought the neatness of the
figures would please you.

VOL. III.— 16.

242 The Works of [1758

CLXXVII

TO MRS. JANE MECOM

London, 16 September, 1758.

Dear Sister: — I received your favor of June 17th.
I wonder you have had no letter from me since my
being in England. I have wrote you at least two,
and I think a third before this, and, what was next
to waiting on you in person, sent you my picture.
In June last I sent Benny a trunk of books, and
wrote to him. I hope they are come to hand, and
that he meets with encouragement in his business,
I congratulate you on the conquest of Cape Breton,
and hope, as your people took it by praying the
first time, you will now pray that it may never be
given up again, which you then forgot. Billy is
well, but in the country. I left him at Tunbridge
Wells where we spent a fortnight, and he is now gone
with some company to see Portsmouth. We have
been together over a great part of England this
summer, and, among other places, visited the town
our father was born in, and found some relations in
that part of the country still living.

Our cousin Jane Franklin, daughter of our uncle
John, died about a year ago. We saw her husband,
Robert Page, who gave us some old letters to his
wife from uncle Benjamin. In one of them, dated
Boston, July 4, 1723, he writes that your uncle
Josiah has a daughter Jane, about twelve years old,
a good-humored child. So keep up to your charac-
ter, and don't be angry when you have no letters.
In a little book he sent her, called None but Christ,

1758] Benjamin Franklin 243

he wrote an acrostic on her name, which for name-
sake's sake, as well as the good advice it contains, I
transcribe and send you, viz. :

Illuminated from on high,
And shining brightly in your sphere,
Ne'er faint, but keep a steady eye,
Expecting endless pleasures there.

Flee vice as you'd a serpent flee;
Raise faith and hope three stories higher,
And let Christ's endless love to thee
Ne'er cease to make thy love aspire.

Kindness of heart by words express,
Let your obedience be sincere,
In prayer and praise your God address,
Nor cease, till he can cease to hear.

After professing truly that I had a great esteem
and veneration for the pious author, permit me a
little to play the commentator and critic on these
lines. The meaning of three stories higher seems
somewhat obscure. You are to understand, then,
that faith, hope, and charity have been called the
three steps of Jacob's ladder, reaching from earth to
heaven; our author calls them stories, likening reli-
gion to a building, and these are the three stories of
the Christian edifice. Thus improvement in religion
is called building up and edification. Faith is, then,
the ground floor; hope is up one pair of stairs. My
dear beloved Jenny, don't delight so much to dwell,
in those lower rooms, but get as fast as you can into
the garret, for in truth the best room in the house is
charity. For my part, I wish the house was turned

244 The Works of [1758

upside down ; it is so difficult (when one is fat) to go
up stairs; and not only so, but I imagine hope and
faith may be more firmly built upon charity, than
charity upon faith and hope. However that may be,
I think it the better reading to say —

Raise faith and hope one story higher.

Correct it boldly, and I'll support the alteration;

for, when you are up two stories already, if you raise

your building three stories higher you will make

five in all, which is two more than there should be,

you expose your upper rooms more to the winds and

storms; and, besides, I am afraid the foundation

will hardly bear them, unless indeed you build with

such light stuff as straw and stubble, and that, you

know, won't stand fire. Again, where the author

says —

Kindness of heart by words express,

strike out words, and put in deeds. The world is too
full of compliments already. They are the rank
growth of every soil, and choke the good plants of
benevolence and beneficence ; nor do I pretend to be
the first in this comparison of words and actions to
plants; you may remember an ancient poet, whose
works we have all studied and copied at school long

ago:

A man of words and not of deeds
Is like a garden full of weeds.

It is a pity that good works, among some sorts of
people, are so little valued, and good words admired
in their stead; I mean seemingly pious discourses,

1759] Benjamin Franklin 245

instead of humane, benevolent actions. Those they
almost put out of countenance, by calling mo-
rality rotten morality, righteousness ragged right-
eousness, and even filthy rags. So much by way of
commentary.

My wife will let you see my letter, containing an
account of our travels, which I would have you read
to sister Dowse, and give my love to her. I have
no thoughts of returning till next year, and then may
possibly have the pleasure of seeing you and yours;
taking Boston in my way home. My love to brother
and all your children, concludes at this time from,
dear Jenny, your affectionate brother,

B. Franklin.

CLXXVIII

TO MISS MARY STEVENSON

Craven Street, 4 May, 1759.

My Dear Child: — Hearing that you were in the
Park last Sunday, I hoped for the pleasure of seeing
you yesterday at the oratorio in the Foundling Hos-
pital; but, though I looked with all the eyes I had,
not excepting even those I carry in my pocket, I
could not find you; and this morning your good
mamma has received a line from you, by which we
learn that you are returned to Wanstead.

It is long since you heard from me, though not a day
passes in which I do not think of you with the same
affectionate regard and esteem I ever had for you.
My not writing is partly owing to an inexcusable

246 The Works of [1760

indolence, which I find grows upon me as I grow
in years, and partly to an expectation I have
had, from week to week, of making a little journey
into Essex, in which I intended to call at Wanstead,
and promised to myself the pleasure of seeing you
there. I have now fixed this day se'nnight for that
journey, and propose to take Mrs. Stevenson out
with me, leave her with you till the next day, and
call for her on Saturday in my return. Let me know
by a line if you think any thing may make such a
visit from us at that time improper or inconvenient.
Present my sincerest respects to Mrs. Tickell, and
believe me ever, dear Polly, your truly affectionate
friend and humble servant,

B. Franklin.
P. S. — We have company that dine with us to-day,
and your careful mamma, being busied about many
things, cannot write. Will did not see you in the
Park. Mr. Hunter and his sister are both gone.
God prosper their voyage. My compliments to Miss
Pitt.

CLXXIX

TO LORD KAMES *

London, 3 January, 1760.

My Dear Lord: — You have been pleased kindly
to desire to have all my publications. I had daily

1 Henry Home, better known by his title of Lord Kames, which he
assumed, according to the custom of Scotland, on being appointed in
1752 a judge of the Court of Session. He was born in Berwick County
in 1696, and was educated to the profession of the law, in which he

1760] Benjamin Franklin 247

expectations of procuring some of them from a
friend to whom I formerly sent them when I was in
America, and postponed writing to you, till I should
obtain them; but at length he tells me he cannot
find them; very mortifying this to an author, that
his works should so soon be lost ! So I can only send
you my Observations on the Peopling of Countries,
which happens to have been reprinted here; The
Description of the Pennsylvania Fire-place, a machine
of my contriving ; and some little sketches that have
been printed in the Grand Magazine, which I should
hardly own, did I not know that your friendly par-
tiality would make them seem at least tolerable.

How unfortunate I was, that I did not press you
and Lady Karnes more strongly to favor us with
your company farther. How much more agreeable
would our journey have been, if we could have en-
joyed you as far as York. We could have beguiled
the way, by discoursing on a thousand things, that
now we may never have an opportunity of consider-
ing together; for conversation warms the mind,

became distinguished as an advocate and a judge. But his greatest
eminence was derived from his literary productions, which were num-
erous, and some of them celebrated, particularly his Elements of Criti-
cism, published in 1762; his Sketches of the History of Man, in 1773;
and a small work published in 1761, entitled An Introduction to the
Art of Thinking, which was originally compiled for the use of his own
children. It is in two parts, the first a series of moral maxims, the
second illustrations by little apologues, invented for the purpose; and
anecdotes of different kinds, many of them, however, but little adapted
to the end. Dr. Franklin, in a visit to Scotland in 1759, with his son
William, passed some time with Lord Karnes, and a friendship grew
out of their intimacy which lasted during their lives. Lord Karnes
died December 27, 1782, in the eighty-seventh year of his age. —
W. T. F.

248 The Works of [1760

enlivens the imagination, and is continually starting
fresh game, that is immediately pursued and taken,
and which would never have occurred in the duller
intercourse of epistolary correspondence. So that
whenever I reflect on the great pleasure and advan-
tage I received from the free communication of sen-
timent, in the conversation we had at Karnes, and
in the agreeable little rides to the Tweed side, I shall
for ever regret our premature parting.

No one can more sincerely rejoice than I do on the
reduction of Canada ; and this is not merely as I am
a colonist, but as I am a Briton. I have long been
of opinion, that the foundations of the future grandeur
and stability of the British empire lie in America;
and though, like other foundations, they are low
and little now, they are, nevertheless, broad and
strong enough to support the greatest political struc-
ture that human wisdom ever yet erected. I am,
therefore, by no means for restoring Canada. If we
keep it, all the country from the St. Lawrence to the
Mississippi will in another century be filled with
British people. Britain itself will become vastly
more populous, by the immense increase of its com-
merce; the Atlantic sea will be covered with your
trading ships; and your naval power, thence con-
tinually increasing, will extend your influence round
the whole globe, and awe the world! If the French
remain in Canada, they will continually harass our
colonies by the Indians, and impede if not prevent
their growth ; your progress to greatness will at best
be slow, and give room for many accidents that may
for ever prevent it. But I refrain, for I see you

1760] Benjamin Franklin 249

begin to think my notions extravagant, and look
upon them as the ravings of a mad prophet.

Your Lordship's kind offer of Penn's picture is
extremely obliging. But, were it certainly his pic-
ture, it would be too valuable a curiosity for me to
think of accepting it. I should only desire the favor
of leave to take a copy of it. I could wish to know
the history of the picture before it came into your
hands, and the grounds for supposing it his. I have
at present some doubts about it; first, because the
primitive Quakers declared against pictures as a
vain expense; a man's suffering his portrait to be
taken was conceived as pride; and I think to this
day it is very little practised among them. Then, it
is on a board ; and I imagine the practice of painting
portraits on boards did not come down so low as
Penn's time; but of this I am not certain. My other
reason is an anecdote I have heard, viz., that when
old Lord Cobham was adorning his gardens at Stow
with busts of famous men, he made inquiry of the
family for the picture of William Penn, in order to
get a bust formed from it, but could find none ; that
Sylvanus Bevan, an old Quaker apothecary, remark-
able for the notice he takes of countenances, and a
knack he has of cutting in ivory strong likenesses of
persons he has once seen, hearing of Lord Cobham 's
desire, set himself to recollect Penn's face, with
which he had been well acquainted; and cut a little
bust of him in ivory, which he sent to Lord Cobham,
without any letter or notice that it was Penn's. But
my Lord, who had personally known Penn, on seeing
it, immediately cried out, "Whence comes this? It

250 The Works of [1760

is William Penn himself ! ' ' And from this little bust,
they say, the large one in the gardens was formed.

I doubt, too, whether the whisker was not quite
out of use at the time when Penn must have been of
an age appearing in the face of that picture. And
yet, notwithstanding these reasons, I am not with-
out some hope that it may be his; because I know
some eminent Quakers have had their pictures pri-
vately drawn and deposited with trusty friends ; and
know, also, that there is extant in Philadelphia a
very good picture of Mrs. Penn, his last wife. After
all, I own I have a strong desire to be satisfied con-
cerning this picture ; and as Bevan is yet living here,
and some other old Quakers that remember William
Penn, who died but 17 18, I would wish to have it
sent to me carefully packed up in a box by the
wagon, (for I would not trust it by sea), that I may
obtain their opinion. The charges I shall very
cheerfully pay; and if it proves to be Penn's picture,
I shall be greatly obliged to your Lordship for leave
to take a copy of it, and will carefully return the
original.1

My son joins with me in the most respectful com-
pliments to you and Lady Karnes. Our conversa-
tion, till we came to York, was chiefly a recollection
of what we had seen and heard, the pleasures we had
enjoyed, and the kindnesses we had received, in
Scotland, and how far that country had exceeded
our expectations. On the whole, I must say, I think
the time we spent there was six weeks of the densest
happiness I have met with in any part of my life;

1 Time has vindicated Franklin's doubts about this picture. — Ed.

1760] Benjamin Franklin 251

and the agreeable and instructive society we found
there in such plenty has left so pleasing an impres-
sion on my memory, that, did not strong connexions
draw me elsewhere, I believe Scotland would be the
country I should choose to spend the remainder of
my days in. I have the honor to be, with the sin-
cerest esteem and affection, my dear Lord, &c.,

B. Franklin.

CLXXX

TO JOHN HUGHES

London, 7 January, 1760.

Dear Sir: — On my return from our northern
journey I found several of your obliging favors, for
which please to accept my hearty thanks. There
has been for some time a talk of peace, and probably
we should have had one this winter, if the King of
Prussia's late misfortunes had not given the enemy
fresh spirits, and encouraged them to try their luck
another campaign, and exert all their remaining
strength, in hopes of treating with Hanover in their
hands. If this should be the case, possibly most of
our advantages may be given up again at the treaty,
and some among our great men begin already to pre-
pare the minds of people for this, by discoursing that
to keep Canada would draw on us the envy of other
powers, and occasion a confederation against us;
that the country is too large for us to people; not
worth possessing, and the like. These notions I am
every day and every hour combating, and I think

252 The Works of [1760

not without some success. The event God only
knows. The argument that seems to have the prin-
cipal weight is, that, in case of another war, if we
keep possession of Canada, the nation will save two
or three millions a year, now spent in defending the
American colonies, and be so much the stronger in
Europe, by the addition of the troops now employed
on that side of the water. To this I add, that the
colonies would thrive and increase in a much greater
degree, and that a vast additional demand would
arise for British manufactures to supply so great an
extent of Indian territory, with many other topics,
which I urge occasionally, according to the company
I happen into, or the persons I address. And, on
the whole, I natter myself that my being here at
this time may be of some service to the general
interest of America.

The acts of last year have all come to hand, but
not all in a condition to be laid before the King for
his approbation, as the governor's proposed amend-
ments are tacked to them, and no distinction as to
which were agreed to, or whether any or none; so
that, in some of the most material acts, there is no
ascertaining what is intended to be law or what not.
This mistake was fallen into, I suppose, from the
late practice of sending home the bills refused by the
governor, with his proposed amendments certified
by the clerk of the House, and under the great seal,
that the true state of such refused bills might be
known here; but, when bills are passed into laws,
the copies to be sent here should be taken from the
Rolls Office after the laws are deposited there, and

1760] Benjamin Franklin 253

certified by the Master of the Rolls to be true copies ;
and then the governor, under the great seal, certifies
that the Master of the Rolls is such an officer, and
that credit ought to be given to his certificate; or
otherwise that those copies are true copies, agree-
able to the laws passed by him as governor. But
the certificates with these laws only express that
such bills were sent up to him for his assent on such
a day; that he proposed the annexed amendment
on such a day, and on such a day he passed the bills
without saying a word whether the amendments
were agreed to or not. Indeed, by the part of the
minutes which came l

CLXXXI

TO MRS. DEBORAH FRANKLIN

London, 5 March, 1760.

My Dear Child: — I received the enclosed some
time since from Mr. Strahan. I afterwards spent an
evening in conversation with him on the subject.
He was very urgent with me to stay in England, and
prevail with you to remove hither with Sally. He
proposed several advantageous schemes to me,
which appeared reasonably founded. His family is
a very agreeable one: Mrs. Strahan, a sensible and
good woman, the children of amiable characters, and
particularly the young man, who is sober, ingenious,
and industrious, and a desirable person. In point

1 The remainder of the letter is lost.

254 The Works of [1760

of circumstances there can be no objection, Mr.
Strahan being in such a way as to lay up a thousand
pounds every year from the profits of his business,
after maintaining his family and paying all charges.
I gave him, however, two reasons why I could not
think of removing hither: one, my affection to Penn-
sylvania, and long established friendships and other
connexions there; the other, your invincible aver-
sion to crossing the seas. And without removing
hither, I could not think of parting with my daugh-
ter to such a distance. I thanked him for the regard
shown to us in the proposal, but gave him no expec-
tation that I should forward the letters. So you are
at liberty to answer or not, just as you think proper.
Let me, however, know your sentiments. You need
not deliver the letter to Sally, if you do not think it
proper.

My best respects to Mr. Hughes, Mr. Bartram,
and all inquiring friends. I am your ever loving

husband,

B. Franklin.

P. S. — I have wrote several letters to you lately,
but can now hardly tell by what ships.

CLXXXII

TO MISS MARY STEVENSON

Craven Street, i May, 1760.

I embrace, most gladly, my dear friend's proposal
of a subject for our future correspondence ; not only

1760] Benjamin Franklin 255

as it will occasion my hearing from her more fre-
quently, but as it will lay me under a necessity of
improving my own knowledge, that I may be better
able to assist in her improvement. I only fear my
necessary business and journeys, with the natural
indolence of an old man, will make me too unpunc-
tual a correspondent. For this I must hope some
indulgence. But why will you, by the cultivation of
your mind, make yourself still more amiable, and a
more desirable companion for a man of understand-
ing, when you are determined, as I hear, to live
single? If we enter, as you propose, into moral as
well as natural philosophy, I fancy, when I have
established my authority as a tutor, I shall take upon
me to lecture you a little on the chapter of duty.

But, to be serious, our easiest mode of proceeding,
I think, will be for you to read some books that I
may recommend to you; and, in the course of your
reading, whatever occurs that you do not thor-
oughly apprehend, or that you clearly conceive and
find pleasure in, may occasion either some questions
for further information, or some observations that
show how far you are satisfied and pleased with your
author. These will furnish matter for your letters
to me, and, in consequence, mine also to you.

Let me know, then, what books you have already
perused on the subject intended, that I may the
better judge what to advise for your next reading.
And believe me ever, my dear good girl, your affec-
tionate friend and servant,

B. Franklin.

256 The Works of [1760

CLXXXIII

TO LORD KAMES

London, 3 May, 1760.

My Dear Lord: — I have endeavoured to comply
with your request in writing something on the pres-
ent situation of our affairs in America, in order to
give more correct notions of the British interest
with regard to the colonies, than those I found many
sensible men possessed of. Enclosed you have the
production, such as it is. I wish it may, in any
degree, be of service to the public. I shall at least
hope this from it, for my own part, that you will
consider it as a letter from me to you, and take its
length as some excuse for being so long a coming.1

I am now reading with great pleasure and im-
provement your excellent work, The Principles of
Equity. It will be of the greatest advantage to the
judges in our colonies, not only in those which have
courts of chancery, but also in those which, having
no such courts, are obliged to mix equity with com-
mon law. It will be of more service to the colony
judges, as few of them have been bred to the law. I
have sent a book to a particular friend, one of the
judges of the Supreme Court in Pennsylvania.

I will shortly send you a copy of the "Chapter"
you are pleased to mention in so obliging a manner ;
and shall be extremely obliged in receiving a copy of
the collection of Maxims for the Conduct of Life,

1 This was probably the tract, entitled The Interest of Great Britain
Considered, which was first published in 1760.

1760] Benjamin Franklin 257

which you are preparing for the use of your children.
I purpose likewise a little work for the benefit of
youth, to be called The Art of Virtue. From the
title I think you will hardly conjecture what the
nature of such a book may be. I must therefore
explain it a little. Many people lead bad lives that
would gladly lead good ones, but do not know how to
make the change. They have frequently resolved
and endeavoured it; but in vain, because their en-
deavours have not been properly conducted. To
expect people to be good, to be just, to be temperate,
&c, without showing them how they should become
so, seems like the ineffectual charity mentioned by
the Apostle, which consists in saying to the hungry,
the cold, and the naked, "Be ye fed, be ye warmed,
be ye clothed," without showing them how they
should get food, fire, or clothing.

Most people have naturally some virtues, but none
have naturally all the virtues. To acquire those
that are wanting, and secure what we acquire, as well
as those we have naturally, is as properly an art as
painting, navigation, or architecture. If a man
would become a painter, navigator, or architect, it
is not enough that he is advised to be one, that he
is convinced by the arguments of his adviser that
it would be for his advantage to be one, and that
he resolves to be one, but he must also be taught
the principles of the art, be shown all the methods
of working, and how to acquire the habits of using
properly all the instruments; and thus regularly
and gradually he arrives, by practice, at some per-
fection in the art. If he does not proceed thus, he

VOL. 111. — 17.

258 The Works of [1760

is apt to meet with difficulties that discourage him,
and make him drop the pursuit.

My Art of Virtue has also its instruments, and
teaches the manner of using them. Christians are
directed to have faith in Christ, as the effectual
means of obtaining the change they desire. It may,
when sufficiently strong, be effectual with many; for
a full opinion, that a teacher is infinitely wise, good,
and powerful, and that he will certainly reward and
punish the obedient and disobedient, must give
great weight to his precepts, and make them much
more attended to by his disciples. But many have
this faith in so weak a degree, that it does not pro-
duce the effect. Our Art of Virtue may, therefore,
be of great service to those whose faith is unhappily
not so strong, and may come in aid of its weakness.
Such as are naturally well disposed, and have been
so carefully educated, as that good habits have been
early established, and bad ones prevented, have less
need of this art; but all may be more or less bene-
fited by it. It is, in short, to be adapted for univer-
sal use. I imagine what I have now been writing
will seem to savour of great presumption. I must
therefore speedily finish my little piece, and com-
municate the manuscript to you, that you may judge
whether it is possible to make good such pretensions.
I shall at the same time hope for the benefit of your
corrections. I am, &c,

B. Franklin.

1760] Benjamin Franklin 259

CLXXXIV

TO PETER FRANKLIN1

London, 7 May, 1760.

It has, indeed, as you observe, been the

opinion of some very great naturalists, that the sea
is salt only from the dissolution of mineral or rock
salt, which its waters happened to meet with. But
this opinion takes it for granted, that all water was
originally fresh, of which we can have no proof. I
own I am inclined to a different opinion, and rather
think all the water on this globe was originally salt,
and that the fresh water we find in springs and
rivers, is the produce of distillation. The sun raises
the vapors from the sea, which form clouds, and fall
in rain upon the land, and springs and rivers are
formed of that rain. As to the rock salt found in
mines, I conceive that, instead of communicating its
saltness to the sea, it is itself drawn from the sea,
and that of course the sea is now fresher than it was
originally. This is only another effect of nature's
distillery, and might be performed various ways.

It is evident from the quantities of sea-shells and
the bones and teeth of fishes found in high lands,
that the sea has formerly covered them. Then,
either the sea has been higher than it now is, and has
fallen away from those high lands, or they have been
lower than they are, and were lifted up out of the
water to their present height, by some internal
mighty force, such as we still feel some remains of,

1 An elder brother of the author, who resided many years at New-
port, in Rhode Island.

260 The Works of [1760

when whole continents are moved by earthquakes.
In either case, it may be supposed that large hollows,
or valleys among hills, might be left filled with sea-
water, which evaporating, and the fluid part drying
away in a course of years, would leave the salt cover-
ing the bottom ; and that salt, coming afterwards to
be covered with earth from the neighbouring hills,
could only be found by digging through that earth.
Or, as we know from their effects, that there are deep,
fiery concerns under the earth, and even under the
sea, if at any time the sea leaks into any of them,
the fluid parts of the water must evaporate from
that heat, and pass off through some volcano, while
the salt remains, and by degrees, and continual
accretion, becomes a great mass. Thus the cavern
may at length be filled, and the volcano connected
with it cease burning, as many it is said have done;
and future miners, penetrating such cavern, find
what we call a salt-mine. This is a fancy I had on
visiting the salt-mines at Norwich, with my son. I
send you a piece of the rock salt which he brought
up with him out of the mine. I am, &c,

B. Franklin.

CLXXXV

TO ALEXANDER SMALL, LONDON

12 May, 1760.

Dear Sir: — Agreeably to your request, I send
you my reasons for thinking that our northeast
storms in North America begin first, in point of

1760] Benjamin Franklin 261

time, in the southwest parts; that is to say, the air
in Georgia, the farthest of our colonies to the south-
west, begins to move southwesterly before the air
of Carolina, which is the next colony northeastward ;
the air of Carolina has the same motion before the
air of Virginia, which lies still more northeastward;
and so on northeasterly through Pennsylvania, New
York, New England, &c, quite to Newfoundland.

These northeast storms are generally very violent,
continue sometimes two or three days, and often do
considerable damage in the harbours along the coast.
They are attended with thick clouds and rain.

What first gave me this idea, was the following
circumstance. About twenty years ago, a few more
or less, I cannot from my memory be certain, we
were to have an eclipse of the moon at Philadelphia,
on a Friday evening, about nine o'clock. I intended
to observe it, but was prevented by a northeast
storm, which came on about seven, with thick clouds
as usual, that quite obscured the whole hemisphere.
Yet when the post brought us the Boston newspaper,
giving an account of the effects of the same storm in
those parts, I found the beginning of the eclipse had
been well observed there, though Boston lies north-
east of Philadelphia about four hundred miles. This
puzzled me, because the storm began with us so soon
as to prevent any observation, and, being a north-
east storm, I imagined it must have begun rather
sooner in places farther to the northeastward than
it did at Philadelphia. I therefore mentioned it in a
letter to my brother, who lived at Boston; and he
informed me the storm did not begin with them till

262 The Works of [1760

near eleven o'clock, so that they had a good observa-
tion of the eclipse; and upon comparing all the
other accounts I received from the several colonies,
of the time of beginning of the same storm, and,
since that, of other storms of the same kind, I found
the beginning to be always later the farther north-
eastward. I have not my notes with me here in
England, and cannot, from memory, say the propor-
tion of time to distance, but I think it is about an
hour to every hundred miles.

From thence I formed an idea of the cause of
these storms, which I would explain by a familiar
instance or two. Suppose a long canal of water
stopped at the end by a gate. The water is quite
at rest till the gate is open, then it begins to move
out through the gate; the water next the gate is
first in motion, and moves towards the gate; the
water next to that first water moves next, and so on
successively, till the water at the head of the canal
is in motion, which is last of all. In this case, all
the water moves indeed towards the gate, but the
successive times of beginning motion are the con-
trary way, viz., from the gate backwards to the head
of the canal. Again, suppose the air in a chamber
at rest, no current through the room till you make
a fire in the chimney. Immediately the air in the
chimney, being rarefied by the fire, rises; the air
next the chimney flows in to supply its place, mov-
ing towards the chimney; and, in consequence, the
rest of the air successively, quite back to the door.
Thus to produce our northeast storms, I suppose
some great heat and rarefaction of the air in or

1760] Benjamin Franklin 263

about the Gulf of Mexico; the air thence rising has
its place supplied by the next more northern, cooler,
and therefore denser and heavier air; that, being in
motion, is followed by the next more northern air,
&c, &c, in a successive current, to which current
our coast and inland ridge of mountains give the
direction of northeast, as they lie northeast and
southwest.

This I offer only as an hypothesis to account for
this particular fact; and perhaps, on farther exam-
ination, a better and truer may be found. I do not
suppose all storms generated in the same manner.
Our northwest thunder-gusts in America, I know are
not; but of them I have written my opinion fully
in a paper which you have seen. I am, &c,

B. Franklin.

CLXXXVI

TO MISS STEVENSON, AT WANSTEAD

Craven Street, 16 May, 1760.

I send my good girl the books I mentioned to her
last night. I beg her to accept of them as a small
mark of my esteem and friendship. They are writ-
ten in the familiar, easy manner, for which the
French are so remarkable ; and afford a good deal of
philosophic and practical knowledge, unembarrassed
with the dry mathematics used by more exact
reason ers, but which is apt to discourage young
beginners.

I would advise you to read with a pen in your

264 The Works of [1760

hand, and enter in a little book short hints of what
you find that is curious, or that may be useful; for
this will be the best method of imprinting such par-
ticulars in your memory, where they will be ready,
either for practice on some future occasion, if they
are matters of utility, or at least to adorn and im-
prove your conversation, if they are rather points of
curiosity. And as many of the terms of science are
such, as you cannot have met with in your common
reading, and may therefore be unacquainted with, I
think it would be well for you to have a good dic-
tionary at hand, to consult immediately when you
meet with a word you do not comprehend the pre-
cise meaning of. This may at first seem trouble-
some and interrupting; but it is a trouble that will
daily diminish, as you will daily find less and less
occasion for your dictionary, as you become more
acquainted with the terms; and in the mean time
you will read with more satisfaction, because with
more understanding.

When any point occurs, in which you would be
glad to have farther information than your book
affords you, I beg you would not in the least appre-
hend that I should think it a trouble to receive and
answer your questions. It will be a pleasure, and
no trouble. For though I may not be able, out of
my own little stock of knowledge, to afford you
what you require, I can easily direct you to the
books, where it may most readily be found. Adieu,
and believe me ever, my dear friend, yours affec-
tionately,

B. Franklin.

J76o] Benjamin Franklin 265

CLXXXVII

TO MISS MARY STEVENSON

Craven Street, ii June, 1760.

It is a very sensible question you ask, how the
air can affect the barometer, when its opening ap-
pears covered with wood? If indeed it was so
closely covered as to admit of no communication
of the outward air to the surface of the mercury,
the change of weight in the air could not possibly
affect it. But the least crevice is sufficient for the
purpose; a pinhole will do the business. And if
you could look behind the frame to which your
barometer is fixed, you would certainly find some
small opening.

There are indeed some barometers in which the
body of mercury at the lower end is contained in a
close leather bag, and so the air cannot come into
immediate contact with the mercury; yet the same
effect is produced. For, the leather being flexible,
when the bag is pressed by any additional weight of
air, it contracts, and the mercury is forced up into
the tube; when the air becomes lighter, and its
pressure less, the weight of the mercury prevails,
and it descends again into the bag.

Your observation on what you have lately read
concerning insects is very just and solid. Super-
ficial minds are apt to despise those who make that
part of the creation their study, as mere triflers;
but certainly the world has been much obliged to
them. Under the care and management of man,
the labors of the little silkworm afford employment

266 The Works of [1760

and subsistence to thousands of families, and be-
come an immense article of commerce. The bee, too,
yields us its delicious honey, and its wax useful to a
multitude of purposes. Another insect, it is said,
produces the cochineal, from which we have our rich
scarlet dye. The usefulness of the cantharides, or
Spanish flies, in medicine, is known to all, and thou-
sands owe their lives to that knowledge. By human
industry and observation, other properties of other
insects may possibly be hereafter discovered, and of
equal utility. A thorough acquaintance with the
nature of these little creatures may also enable man-
kind to prevent the increase of such as are noxious,
or secure us against the mischiefs they occasion.
These things doubtless your books make mention of;
I can only add a particular late instance which I had
from a Swedish gentleman of good credit. In the
green timber, intended for ship-building at the
King's yards in that country, a kind of worms were
found, which every year became more numerous and
more pernicious, so that the ships were greatly dam-
aged before they came into use. The King sent
Linnaeus, the great naturalist, from Stockholm, to
inquire into the affair, and see if the mischief was
capable of any remedy. He found, on examination,
that the worm was produced from a small egg, de-
posited in the little roughnesses on the surface of
the wood, by a particular kind of fly or beetle ; from
which the worm, as soon as it was hatched, began to
eat into the substance of the wood, and after some
time came out again a fly of the parent kind, and so
the species increased. The season in which the fly

1760] Benjamin Franklin 267

laid its eggs, Linnaeus knew to be about a fortnight (I
think) in the month of May, and at no other time in
the year. He therefore advised, that, some days
before that season, all the green timber should be
thrown into the water, and kept under water till the
season was over. Which being done by the King's
order, the flies, missing their usual nests, could not
increase; and the species was either destroyed or
went elsewhere; and the wood was effectually pre-
served; for, after the first year, it became too dry
and hard for their purpose.

There is, however, a prudent moderation to be
used in studies of this kind. The knowledge of na-
ture may be ornamental, and it may be useful; but
if, to attain an eminence in that, we neglect the
knowledge and practice of essential duties, we de-
serve reprehension. For there is no rank in natural
knowledge of equal dignity and importance with
that of being a good parent, a good child, a good
husband or wife, a good neighbour or friend, a good
subject or citizen — that is, in short, a good Christian.
Nicholas Gimcrack, therefore, who neglected the care
of his family, to pursue butterflies, was a just object
of ridicule, and we must give him up as fair game to
the satirist.

Adieu, my dear friend, and believe me ever
Yours affectionately,

B. Franklin.

268 The Works of [1760

CLXXXVIII

TO MRS. DEBORAH FRANKLIN

London, 27 June, 1760.

My Dear Child: — I wrote a line to you by the
packet to let you know we were well, and I promised
to write you fully by Captain Budden, and answer
all your letters, which I accordingly now sit down to
do. I am concerned that so much trouble should be
given you by idle reports concerning me. Be satis-
fied, my dear, that while I have my senses, and God
vouchsafes me his protection, I shall do nothing un-
worthy the character of an honest man, and one that
loves his family.

I have not yet seen Mr. Beatty, nor do I know
where to write to him. He forwarded your letter to
me from Ireland. The paragraph of your letter, in-
serted in the papers, related to the negro school. I
gave it to the gentlemen concerned, as it was a tes-
timony in favor of their pious design. But I did not
expect they would print it with your name. They
have since chosen me one of the Society, and I am
at present chairman for the current year. I enclose
you an account of their proceedings.1

1 This relates to a scheme which had been set on foot by the philan-
thropic Dr. Thomas Bray, who passed a large part of his life in per-
forming deeds of benevolence and charity. He became acquainted
at The Hague with M. D'Allone, who approved and favored his schemes.
M. D'Allone, during his lifetime, gave to Dr. Bray a considerable sum
of money, which was to be applied to the conversion of negroes in the
British Plantations, and at his death he left an additional sum of nine
hundred pounds for the same object. Dr. Bray formed an association
for the management and proper disposal of these funds. He died in
1730, and the same trust continued to be executed by a company of
gentlemen, called "Dr. Bray's Associates." Dr. Franklin was for
several years one of these associates.

1760] Benjamin Franklin 269

I did not receive the Prospect of Quebec, which you
mention that you sent me. Peter continues with
me, and behaves as well as I can expect, in a coun-
try where there are many occasions of spoiling ser-
vants, if they are ever so good. He has as few
faults as most of them, and I see with only one eye
and hear only with one ear; so we rub on pretty
comfortably. King, that you inquire after, is not
with us. He ran away from our house near two
years ago, while we were absent in the country; but
was soon found in Suffolk, where he had been taken
into the service of a lady, that was very fond of the
merit of making him a Christian, and contributing to
his education and improvement. As he was of little
use, and often in mischief, Billy consented to her
keeping him while we stay in England. So the lady
sent him to school, had him taught to read and
write, to play on the violin and French horn, with
some other accomplishments more useful in a ser-
vant. Whether she will finally be willing to part
with him, or persuade Billy to sell him to her, I
know not. In the mean time he is no expense to us.

The accounts you give me of the marriages of our
friends are very agreeable. I love to hear of every
thing that tends to increase the number of good
people. You cannot conceive how shamefully the
mode here is a single life. One can scarce be in the
company of a dozen men of circumstance and for-
tune, but what it is odds that you find on inquiry
eleven of them are single. The great complaint is
the excessive expensiveness of English wives.

I am extremely concerned with you at the misfor-

270 The Works of [1760

tune of our friend Mr. Griffith. How could it pos-
sibly happen ? It was a terrible fire that of Boston.
I shall contribute here towards the relief of the
sufferers. Our relations have escaped, I believe,
generally; but some of my particular friends must
have suffered greatly.

I think you will not complain this year, as you
did the last, of being so long without a letter. I
have wrote to you very frequently ; and shall not be
so much out of the way of writing this summer as I
was the last. I hope our friend Bartram is safely
returned to his family. Remember me to him in
the kindest manner.

Poor David Edwards died this day week, of a con-
sumption. I had a letter from a friend of his,
acquainting me that he had been long ill, and in-
capable of doing business, and was at board in the
country. I feared he might be in straits, as he
never was prudent enough to lay up any thing. So
I wrote to him immediately, that, if he had occasion,
he might draw on me for five guineas. But he died
before my letter got to hand. I hear the woman, at
whose house he long lodged and boarded, has buried
him and taken all he left, which could not be much,
and there are some small debts unpaid. He main-
tained a good character at Bury, where he lived
some years, and was well respected, to my know-
ledge, by some persons of note there. I wrote to you
before, that we saw him at Bury, when we went
through Suffolk into Norfolk, the year before last.
I hope his good father, my old friend, continues well.

Give my duty to mother, and love to my dear

1760] Benjamin Franklin 271

Sally. Remember me affectionately to all inquiring
friends, and believe me ever, my dearest Debby,
your loving husband,

B. Franklin.

CLXXXIX

TO MISS MARY STEVENSON

London, 13 September, 1760.

My Dear Friend: — I have your agreeable letter
from Bristol, which I take this first leisure hour to
answer, having for some time been much engaged in
business.

Your first question, What is the reason the water
at this place, though cold at the spring, becomes warm
by pumping? it will be most prudent in me to forbear
attempting to answer, till, by a more circumstantial
account, you assure me of the fact. I own I should
expect that operation to warm, not so much the
water pumped as the person pumping. The rubbing
of dry solids together has been long observed to pro-
duce heat; but the like effect has never yet, that I
have heard, been produced by the mere agitation of
fluids, or friction of fluids with solids. Water in a
bottle, shook for hours by a mill-hopper, it is said,
discovered no sensible addition of heat. The pro-
duction of animal heat by exercise is therefore to be
accounted for in another manner, which I may here-
after endeavour to make you acquainted with.

This prudence of not attempting to give reasons
before one is sure of facts, I learned from one of your

272 The Works of [1760

sex, who, as Selden tells us, being in company with
some gentlemen that were viewing and considering
something which they called a Chinese shoe, and dis-
puting earnestly about the manner of wearing it,
and how it could possibly be put on, put in her
word, and said modestly, Gentlemen, are you sure it
is a shoe ? Should not that be settled first ?

But I shall now endeavour to explain what I said
to you about the tide in rivers, and to that end shall
make a figure, which, though not very like a river
may serve to convey my meaning. Suppose a canal
one hundred and forty miles long, communicating at
one end with the sea, and filled therefore with sea
water. I choose a canal at first, rather than a river,
to throw out of consideration the effects produced by
the streams of fresh water from the land, the in-
equality in breadth, and the crookedness of courses.

Let A C be the head of the canal; C D, the bot-
tom of it; D F, the open mouth of it, next the sea.
Let the straight pricked line B G represent low-
water mark, the whole length of the canal; A F,
high- water mark. Now if a person, standing at E,
and observing, at the time of high water there, that
the canal is quite full at that place up to the line E,
should conclude that the canal is equally full to the

1760] Benjamin Franklin 273

same height from end to end, and therefore there
was as much more water come into the canal since it
was down at low-water mark as would be included
in the oblong space A B G F, he would be greatly
mistaken. For the tide is a wave, and the top of the
wave, which makes high water, as well as every
other lower part, is progressive ; and it is high water
successively, but not at the same time, in all the
several points between G F and A B. And in such
a length as I have mentioned it is low water at F G,
and also at A B, at or near the same time with its
being high water at E; so that the surface of the
water in the canal, during that situation, is properly
represented by the curve pricked line BEG. And,
on the other hand, when it is low water at E H, it is
high water both at F G and at A B, at or near the
same time ; and the surface would then be described
by the inverted curve line, A H F.

In this view of the case, you will easily see that
there must be very little more water in the canal at
what we call high water, than there is at low water,
those terms not relating to the whole canal at the
same time, but successively to its parts. And, if you
suppose the canal six times as long, the case would
not vary as to the quantity of water at different
times of the tide ; there would only be six waves in
the canal at the same time, instead of one, and the
hollows in the water would be equal to the hills.

That this is not mere theory, but conformable to
fact, we know by our long rivers in America. The
Delaware, on which Philadelphia stands, is in this
particular similar to the canal I have supposed of

VOL. III. — It

274 The Works of [1760

one wave ; for, when it is high water at the Capes or
mouth of the river, it is also high water at Phila-
delphia, which stands about one hundred and forty
miles from the sea; and there is at the same time a
low water in the middle between the two high waters ;
where, when it comes to be high water, it is at the
same time low water at the Capes and at Philadel-
phia. And the longer rivers have some a wave and
a half, some two, three, or four waves, according to
their length. In the shorter rivers of this island,
one may see the same thing in part; for instance,
it is high water at Gravesend an hour before it is
high water at London Bridge ; and twenty miles be-
low Gravesend, an hour before it is high water
at Gravesend. Therefore at the time of high water
at Gravesend the top of the wave is there, and the
water is then not so high by some feet where the top
of the wave was an hour before, or where it will be
an hour after, as it is just then at Gravesend.

Now we are not to suppose, because the swell or
top of the wave runs at the rate of twenty miles an
hour, that therefore the current, or water itself of
which the wave is composed, runs at that rate. Far
from it. To conceive this motion of a wave, make
a small experiment or two. Fasten one end of a
cord in a window near the top of a house, and let the
other end come down to the ground ; take this end
in your hand, and you may, by a sudden motion,
occasion a wave in the cord that will run quite up to
the window; but though the wave is progressive
from your hand to the window, the parts of the rope
do not proceed with the wave, but remain where

1760] Benjamin Franklin 275

they were, except only that kind of motion that pro-
duces the wave. So if you throw a stone into a
pond of water when the surface is still and smooth,
you will see a circular wave proceed from the stone
as its centre, quite to the sides of the pond; but the
water does not proceed with the wave, it only rises
and falls to form it in the different parts of its course ;
and the waves that follow the first, all make use of
the same water with their predecessors.

But a wave in water is not indeed in all circum-
stances exactly like that in a cord; for, water being
a fluid, and gravitating to the earth, it naturally
runs from a higher place to a lower; therefore the
parts of the wave in water do actually run a little
both ways from its top towards its lower sides,
which the parts of the wave in the cord cannot do.
Thus, when it is high and standing water at Graves-
end, the water twenty miles below has been running
ebb, or towards the sea for an hour, or ever since
it was high water there; but the water at London
Bridge will run flood, or from the sea yet another
hour, till it is high water, or the top of the wave
arrives at that bridge, and then it will have run ebb
an hour at Gravesend, &c, &c. Now this motion of
the water, occasioned only by its gravity, or ten-
dency to run from a higher place to a lower, is by no
means so swift as the motion of its wave. It scarce
exceeds perhaps two miles in an hour.

If it went, as the wave does, twenty miles an hour,
no ships could ride at anchor in such a stream, nor
boats row against it.

In common speech, indeed, this current of the

276 The Works of [1760

water both ways from the top of the wave is called
the tide; thus we say the tide runs strong, the tide
runs at the rate of one, two, or three miles an hour,
&c., and when we are at a part of the river behind
the top of the wave, and find the water lower than
high-water mark, and running towards the sea, we
say the tide runs ebb; and when we are before the
top of the wave, and find the water higher than
low-water mark, and running from the sea, we say
the tide runs flood; but these expressions are only
locally proper; for a tide, strictly speaking, is one
whole wave, including all its parts higher and lower,
and these waves succeed one another about twice in
twenty-four hours.

This motion of the water, occasioned by its grav-
ity, will explain to you why the water near the
mouths of rivers may be salter at high water than
at low. Some of the salt water, as the tide wave
enters the river, runs from its top and fore side, and
mixes with the fresh, and also pushes it back up the
river.

Supposing that the water commonly runs during
the flood at the rate of two miles in an hour, and
that the flood runs five hours, you see that it can
bring at most into our canal only a quantity of water
equal to the space included in the breadth of the
canal, ten miles of its length, and the depth between
low and high-water mark ; which is but a fourteenth
part of what would be necessary to fill all the space
between low and high-water mark for one hundred
and forty miles, the whole length of the canal.

And indeed such a quantity of water as would fill

1760] Benjamin Franklin 277

that whole space, to run in and out every tide, must
create so outrageous a current, as would do infinite
damage to the shores, shipping, &c, and make the
navigation of a river almost impracticable.

I have made this letter longer than I intended,
and therefore reserve for another what I have fur-
ther to say on the subject of tides and rivers. I
shall now only add that I have not been exact in the
numbers, because I would avoid perplexing you with
minute calculations, my design at present being
chiefly to give you distinct and clear ideas of the
first principles.

After writing six folio pages of philosophy to a
young girl, is it necessary to finish such a letter with
a compliment? Is not such a letter of itself a com-
pliment? Does it not say she has a mind thirsty
after knowledge, and capable of receiving it; and
that the most agreeable things one can write to her
are those that tend to the improvement of her un-
derstanding? It does indeed say all this, but then
it is still no compliment; it is no more than plain
honest truth, which is not the character of a com-
pliment. So if I would finish my letter in the mode,
I should yet add something that means nothing, and
is merely civil and polite. But, being naturally awk-
ward at every circumstance of ceremony, I shall not
attempt it. I had rather conclude abruptly with
what pleases me more than any compliment can
please you, that I am allowed to subscribe myself
Your affectionate friend,

B. Franklin.

278 The Works of [1760

CXC

THE INTEREST OF GREAT BRITAIN CONSIDERED, WITH
REGARD TO HER COLONIES AND THE ACQUISI-
TIONS OF CANADA AND GUADALOUPE x

I have perused with no small pleasure, the Letter
Addressed to Two Great Men, and the Remarks on
that letter. It is not merely from the beauty, the
force, and perspicuity of expression, or the general
elegance of manner, conspicuous in both pamphlets,
that my pleasure chiefly arises; it is rather from
this, that I have lived to see subjects of the greatest
importance to this nation publicly discussed without
party views or party heat, with decency and polite-
ness, and with no other warmth than what a zeal for
the honor and happiness of our King and country
may inspire ; and this by writers whose understand-

1 When the war with France was drawing to its close, the question
whether Canada was to be given up to the French or retained as a
set-off for acquisitions in the West Indies was much and warmly-
debated. The Earl of Bath published a Letter to Two Great Men (Pitt
and Newcastle), recommending the retention of Canada as the more
valuable; and shortly afterwards Remarks on the Letter to Two Great
Men, attributed by some to Edmund Burke, and by some to William
Burke, appeared, — the writer preferring Guadeloupe to Canada.

At this stage of the debate Franklin contributed this pamphlet to
the discussion. It provoked a reply, supposed also to have been
written by Burke, who stated that he should confine his remarks to
the writer of this performance, because of all those who had treated
the opposite side of the question "he is clearly the ablest, the most
ingenious, the most dexterous, and the most perfectly acquainted with
the fort and faible of the argument, and we may therefore conclude
that he has said every thing in the best manner that the cause would
bear."

It is difficult now to understand how such a debate could have been
provoked by such a question, and not at all surprising that Franklin's
view prevailed. — Editor.

1760] Benjamin Franklin 279

ing, however they may differ from each other,
appears not unequal to their candor and the up-
rightness of their intention.

But, as great abilities have not always the best
information, there are, I apprehend, in the Remarks
some opinions not well founded, and some mistakes
of so important a nature, as to render a few observa-
tions on them necessary for the better information
of the public.

The author of the Letter, who must be every way
best able to support his own sentiments, will, I hope,
excuse me, if I seem officiously to interfere; when he
considers, that the spirit of patriotism, like other
qualities good and bad, is catching, and that his long
silence, since the Remarks appeared, has made us
despair of seeing the subject farther discussed by his
masterly hand. The ingenious and candid Re-
marker, too, who must have been misled himself,
before he employed his skill and address to mislead
others, will certainly, since he declares he aims at no
seduction, be disposed to excuse even the weakest
effort to prevent it.

And surely, if the general opinions that possess
the minds of the people may possibly be of conse-
quence in public affairs, it must be fit to set those
opinions right. If there is danger, as the Remarker
supposes, that "extravagant expectations" may
embarass "a virtuous and able ministry," and "ren-
der the negotiation for peace a work of infinite diffi-
culty," * there is no less danger that expectations too
low, through want of proper information, may have

1 Remarks, p. 6.

280 The Works of [1760

a contrary effect; may make even a virtuous and
able ministry less anxious and less attentive to the
obtaining points, in which the honor and interest of
the nation are essentially concerned ; and the people
less hearty in supporting such a ministry and its
measures.

The people of this nation are indeed respectable,
not for their numbers only, but for their under-
standing and their public spirit. They manifest the
first by their universal approbation of the late pru-
dent and vigorous measures, and the confidence they
so justly repose in a wise and good prince, and an
honest and able administration ; the latter they have
demonstrated by the immense supplies granted in
Parliament unanimously, and paid through the whole
kingdom with cheerfulness. And since to this spirit
and these supplies our "victories and successes"1
have, in great measure, been owing, is it quite right,
is it generous, to say, with the Remarker, that the
people " had no share in acquiring them"? The
mere mob he cannot mean, even where he speaks of
the madness of the people; for the madness of the
mob must be too feeble and impotent, armed as the
government of this country at present is, to "over-
rule,"2 even in the slightest instances, the virtue
" and moderation" of a firm and steady ministry.

While the war continues, its final event is quite
uncertain. The victorious of this year may be the
vanquished of the next. It may therefore be too
early to say, what advantages we ought absolutely
to insist on, and make the sine quibus non of a peace.

1 Remarks, p. 7. 2 Ibid., p. 7.

1760] Benjamin Franklin 281

If the necessity of our affairs should oblige us to
accept of terms less advantageous than our present
successes seem to promise us, an intelligent people,
as ours is, must see that necessity, and will acquiesce.
But as a peace, when it is made, may be made has-
tily; and as the unhappy continuance of the war
affords us time to consider, among several advan-
tages gained or to be gained, which of them may be
most for our interest to retain, if some and not all
may possibly be retained, I do not blame the public
disquisition of these points as premature or useless.
Light often arises from a collision of opinions, as fire
from flint and steel ; and if we can obtain the benefit
of the light, without danger from the heat sometimes
produced by controversy, why should we discourage
it?

Supposing then that Heaven may still continue to
bless his Majesty's arms, and that the event of this
just war may put it in our power to retain some of
our conquests at the making of a peace; let us
consider :

1 . The Security of a Dominion, a justifiable and pru-
dent Ground upon which to demand Cessions
from an Enemy.

Whether we are to confine ourselves to those pos-
sessions only that were "the objects for which we
began the war." l This the Remarker seems to
think right, when the question relates to " Canada,
properly so-called; it having never been mentioned

1 Remarks, p. 1 9.

282 The Works of [1760

as one of those objects, in any of our memorials or
declarations, or in any national or public act what-
soever." But the gentleman himself will probably
agree, that if the cession of Canada would be a real
advantage to us, we may demand it under his second
head, as an " indemnification for the charges in-
curred" in recovering our just rights; otherwise,
according to his own principles, the demand of
Guadaloupe can have no foundation. That "our
claims before the war were large enough for posses-
sion and for security too," x though it seems a clear
point with the ingenious Remarker, is, I own, not so
with me. I am rather of the contrary opinion, and
shall presently give my reasons.

But first let me observe that we did not make
those claims because they were large enough for
security, but because we could rightfully claim no
more. Advantages gained in the course of this war
may increase the extent of our rights. Our claims
before the war contained some security; but that is
no reason why we should neglect acquiring more
when the demand of more is become reasonable.
It may be reasonable in the case of America to ask
for the security recommended by the author of the
Letter,2 though it would be preposterous to do it in
many cases. His proposed demand is founded on
the little value of Canada to the French; the right
we have to ask, and the power we may have to insist
on, an indemnification for our expenses; the diffi-
culty the French themselves will be under of re-

1 Remarks, p. 19.

2 Page 30 of the Letter, and p. 21 of the Remarks.

1760] Benjamin Franklin 283

straining their restless subjects in America from
encroaching on our limits and disturbing our trade ;
and the difficulty on our part of preventing encroach-
ments that may possibly exist many years without
coming to our knowledge.

But the Remarker "does not see why the argu-
ments employed concerning a security for a peace-
able behaviour in Canada would not be equally
cogent for calling for the same security in Europe." *
On a little farther reflection, he must, I think, be
sensible that the circumstances of the two cases are
widely different. Here we are separated by the best
and clearest of boundaries, the ocean, and we have
people in or near every part of our territory. Any
attempt to encroach upon us by building a fort,
even in the obscurest corner of these Islands, must
therefore be known and prevented immediately. The
aggressors also must be known, and the nation they
belong to would be accountable for their aggression.
In America it is quite otherwise. A vast wilder-
ness, thinly or scarce at all peopled, conceals with
ease the march of troops and workmen. Important
passes may be seized within our limits, and forts
built in a month, at a small expense, that may cost
us an age and a million to remove. Dear experience
has taught this. But what is still worse, the wide-
extended forests between our settlements and
theirs are inhabited by barbarous tribes of savages
that delight in war, and take pride in murder; sub-
jects properly neither of the French nor English,
but strongly attached to the former by the art and

1 Remarks, p. 28.

284 The Works of [1760

indefatigable industry of priests, similarity of super-
stitions, and frequent family alliances. These are
easily, and have been continually, instigated to fall
upon and massacre our planters, even in times of
full peace between the two crowns, to the certain
diminution of our people and the contraction of our
settlements.1 And though it is known they are sup-
plied by the French, and carry their prisoners to
them, we can, by complaining, obtain no redress, as
the governors of Canada have a ready excuse, that

1 Dr. Clarke, in his Observations on the Late and Present Conduct of
the French, etc., printed at Boston, 1755, says:

"The Indians in the French interest are, upon all proper opportuni-
ties, instigated by their priests (who have generally the chief manage-
ment of their public councils) to acts of hostility against the English,
even in time of profound peace between the two crowns. Of this
there are many undeniable instances. The war between the Indians
and the colonies of the Massachusetts Bay and New Hampshire, in
1733, by which those colonies suffered so much damage, was begun by
the instigation of the French; their supplies were from them; and
there are now original letters of several Jesuits to be produced, whereby
it evidently appears that they were continually animating the Indians,
when almost tired with the war, to a further prosecution of it. The
French not only excited the Indians, and supported them, but joined
their own forces with them in all the late hostilities that have been
committed within his Majesty's province of Nova Scotia. And from
an intercepted letter this year from the Jesuits at Penobscot, and from
other information, it is certain that they have been using their utmost
endeavours to excite the Indians to new acts of hostility against his
Majesty's colony of the Massachusetts Bay; and some have been com-
mitted. The French not only excite the Indians to acts of hostility,
but reward them for it, by buying the English prisoners of them, for the
ransom of each of which they afterwards demand of us the price that
is usually given for a slave in these colonies. They do this under the
specious pretence of rescuing the poor prisoners from the cruelties and
barbarities of the savages; but in reality to encourage them to con-
tinue their depredations, as they can by this means get more by hunt-
ing the English than by hunting wild beasts; and the French, at the
same time, are thereby enabled to keep up a large body of Indians,
entirely at the expense of the English."

1760] Benjamin Franklin 285

the Indians are an independent people, over whom
they have no power, and for whose actions they are,
therefore, not accountable. Surely circumstances so
widely different may reasonably authorize different
demands of security in America from such as are
usual or necessary in Europe.

The Remarker, however, thinks that our real de-
pendence for keeping " France or any other nation
true to her engagements must not be in demanding
securities, which no nation whilst independent can
give, but on our own strength and our own vigi-
lance." z No nation that has carried on a war with
disadvantage, and is unable to continue it, can be
said under such circumstances to be independent;
and, while either side thinks itself in a condition to
demand an indemnification, there is no man in his
senses but will, cceteris paribus, prefer an indemnifi-
cation that is a cheaper and more effectual security
than any other he can think of. Nations in this
situation demand and cede countries by almost every
treaty of peace that is made. The French part of
the island of St. Christopher's was added to Great
Britain in circumstances altogether similar to those
in which a few months may probably place the
country of Canada. Farther security has always
been deemed a motive with a conqueror to be less
moderate; and even the vanquished insist upon se-
curity as a reason for demanding what they acknow-
ledge they could not otherwise properly ask.

The security of the frontier of France on the side
of the Netherlands was always considered in the

1 Remarks, p. 25.

286 The Works of [1760

negotiation that began at Gertrudenberg and ended
with that war. For the same reason they demanded
and had Cape Breton. But a war, concluded to the
advantage of France, has always added something
to the power, either of France or the House of Bour-
bon. Even that of 1733, which she commenced with
declarations of her having no ambitious views, and
which finished by a treaty at which the ministers of
France repeatedly declared, that she desired nothing
for herself, in effect gained for her Lorraine, an in-
demnification ten times the value of all her North
American possessions.

In short, security and quiet of princes and states
have ever been deemed sufficient reasons, when sup-
ported by power, for disposing of rights; and such
dispositions have never been looked on as want of
moderation. It has always been the foundation of
the most general treaties. The security of Germany
was the argument for yielding considerable posses-
sions there to the Swedes; and the security of Eu-
rope divided the Spanish monarchy by the partition
treaty, made between powers who had no other
right to dispose of any part of it. There can be no
cession, that is not supposed at least to increase the
power of the party to whom it is made. It is enough
that he has a right to ask it, and that he does it not
merely to serve the purposes of a dangerous ambition.

Canada, in the hands of Britain, will endanger the
kingdom of France as little as any other cession ; and
from its situation and circumstances cannot be hurt-
ful to any other state. Rather, if peace be an ad-
vantage, this cession may be such to all Europe.

1760] Benjamin Franklin 287

The present war teaches us, that disputes arising in
America may be an occasion of embroiling nations,
who have no concerns there. If the French remain
in Canada and Louisiana, fix the boundaries as you
will between us and them, we must border on each
other for more than fifteen hundred miles. The
people that inhabit the frontiers are generally the
refuse of both nations, often of the worst morals,
and the least discretion; remote from the eye, the
prudence, and the restraint of government. In-
juries are therefore frequently, in some part or other
of so long a frontier, committed on both sides, re-
sentment provoked, the colonies are first engaged,
and then the mother countries. And two great
nations can scarce be at war in Europe, but some
other prince or state thinks it a convenient oppor-
tunity to revive some ancient claim, seize some
advantage, obtain some territory, or enlarge some
power at the expense of a neighbour. The flames
of war, once kindled, often spread far and wide, and
the mischief is infinite. Happy it proved to both
nations, that the Dutch were prevailed on finally to
cede the New Netherlands (now the province of New
York) to us at the peace of 1674; a peace that has
ever since continued between us, but must have been
frequently disturbed, if they had retained the pos-
session of that country, bordering several hundred
miles on our colonies of Pennsylvania westward,
Connecticut and the Massachusetts eastward. Nor
is it to be wondered at, that people of different lan-
guage, religion, and manners, should in those remote
parts engage in frequent quarrels, when we find that

288 The Works of [1760

even the people of our own colonies have frequently
been so exasperated against each other, in their dis-
putes about boundaries, as to proceed to open vio-
lence and bloodshed.

2. Erecting Forts in the back Settlements, almost in no
Instance a sufficient Security against the Indians
and the French; but the Possession of Canada
implies every Security, and ought to be had, while
in our Power.

But the Remarker thinks we shall be sufficiently
secure in America, if we " raise English forts at such
passes as may at once make us respectable to the
French and to the Indian nations.1 The security
desirable in America may be considered as of three
kinds: 1. A security of possession, that the French
shall not drive us out of the country. 2. A security
of our planters from the inroads of savages, and the
murders committed by them. 3. A security that the
British nation shall not be obliged, on every new
war, to repeat the immense expense occasioned by
this, to defend its possessions in America.

Forts in the most important passes may, I ac-
knowledge, be of use to obtain the first kind of secur-
ity ; but, as those situations are far advanced beyond
the inhabitants, the expense of maintaining and
supplying the garrisons will be very great, even in
time of full peace, and immense on every interrup-
tion of it; as it is easy for skulking parties of the
enemy, in such long roads through the woods, to

1 Remarks, p. 25.

1760] Benjamin Franklin 289

intercept and cut off our convoys, unless guarded
continually by great bodies of men.

The second kind of security will not be obtained
by such forts, unless they were connected by a wall
like that of China, from one end of our settlements
to the other. If the Indians, when at war, marched
like the Europeans, with great armies, heavy can-
non, baggage, and carriages; the passes through
which alone such armies could penetrate our coun-
try, or receive their supplies, being secured, all might
be sufficiently secure. But the case is widely differ-
ent; they go to war, as they call it, in small parties;
from fifty men down to five. Their hunting life has
made them acquainted with the whole country, and
scarce any part of it is impracticable to such a party.
They can travel through the woods even by night,
and know how to conceal their tracks. They pass
easily between your forts undiscovered; and pri-
vately approach the settlements of your frontier
inhabitants. They need no convoys of provisions
to follow them; for whether they are shifting from
place to place in the woods, or lying in wait for an
opportunity to strike a blow, every thicket and every
stream furnishes so small a number with sufficient
subsistence. When they have surprised separately
and murdered and scalped a dozen families, they
are gone with inconceivable expedition through un-
known ways; and it is very rare that pursuers have
any chance of coming up with them. In short, long
experience has taught our planters that they cannot
rely upon forts as a security against Indians; the
inhabitants of Hackney might as well rely upon the

VOL. III. — 19.

290 The Works of [1760

Tower of London, to secure them against highway-
men and housebreakers.

As to the third kind of security, that we shall not
in a few years, have all we have done to do over
again in America, and be obliged to employ the same
number of troops and ships, at the same immense
expense, to defend our possessions there, while we
are in proportion weakened here ; such forts, I think,
cannot prevent this. During a peace, it is not to be
doubted the French, who are adroit at fortifying,
will likewise erect forts in the most advantageous
places of the country we leave them; which will
make it more difficult than ever to be reduced in
case of another war. We know, by experience of
this war, how extremely difficult it is to march an
army through the American woods, with its neces-
sary cannon and stores, sufficient to reduce a very
slight fort. The accounts at the treasury will tell
you what amazing sums we have necessarily spent
in the expeditions against two very trifling forts,
Duquesne and Crown Point. While the French re-
tain their influence over the Indians, they can easily
keep our long-extended frontier in continual alarm,
by a very few of those people; and, with a small
number of regulars and militia, in such a country, we
find they can keep an army of ours in full employ
for several years. We therefore shall not need to be
told by our colonies, that if we leave Canada, how-
ever circumscribed, to the French, "we have done
nothing ' ' * ; we shall soon be made sensible ourselves
of this truth, and to our cost.

1 Remarks, p. 26.

i76°] Benjamin Franklin 291

I would not be understood to deny, that even if
we subdue and take Canada, some few forts may be
of use to secure the goods of the traders, and protect
the commerce, in case of any sudden misunderstand-
ing with any tribe of Indians ; but these forts will
be best under the care of the colonies interested in
the Indian trade, and garrisoned by their provincial
forces, and at their own expense. Their own inter-
est will then induce the American governments to
take care of such forts in proportion to their import-
ance, and see that the officers keep their corps full,
and mind their duty. But any troops of ours placed
there, and accountable here, would in such remote
and obscure places, and at so great a distance from
the eye and inspection of superiors, soon become of
little consequence, even though the French were left
in possession of Canada. If the four independent
companies, maintained by the crown in New York
more than forty years, at a great expense, consisted,
for most part of the time, of faggots chiefly; if their
officers enjoyed their places as sinecures, and were
only, as a writer l of that country styles them, a kind
of military monks; if this was the state of troops
posted in a populous country, where the imposition
could not be so well concealed, what may we expect will
be the case of those that shall be posted two, three,
or four hundred miles from the inhabitants, in such
obscure and remote places as Crown Point, Oswego,
Duquesne, or Niagara? They would scarce be even
faggots; they would dwindle to mere names upon
paper, and appear nowhere but upon the muster-rolls.

1 Douglass.

292 The Works of [1760

Now all the kinds of security we have mentioned
are obtained by subduing and retaining Canada.
Our present possessions in America are secured ; our
planters will no longer be massacred by the Indians,
who, depending absolutely on us for what are now
become the necessaries of life to them (guns, powder,
hatchets, knives, and clothing), and having no other
Europeans near, that can either supply them, or in-
stigate them against us, there is no doubt of their
being always disposed, if we treat them with com-
mon justice, to live in perpetual peace with us. And,
with regard to France, she cannot, in case of another
war, put us to the immense expense of defending
that long-extended frontier; we shall then, as it
were, have our backs against a wall in America; the
sea-coast will be easily protected by our superior
naval power; and here "our own watchfulness and
our own strength ' ' will be properly, and cannot but
be successfully, employed. In this situation, the
force now employed in that part of the world may
be spared for any other service here or elsewhere;
so that both the offensive and defensive strength of
the British empire, on the whole, will be greatly
increased.

But to leave the French in possession of Canada,
when it is in our power to remove them, and depend
(as the Remarker proposes) on our own "strength
and watchfulness " * to prevent the mischiefs that
may attend it, seems neither safe nor prudent.
Happy as we now are, under the best of kings, and in
the prospect of a succession promising every felicity

1 Remarks, p. 25.

1760] Benjamin Franklin 293

a nation was ever blessed with; happy, too, in the
wisdom and vigor of every part of the administra-
tion, we cannot, we ought not to promise ourselves
the uninterrupted continuance of those blessings.
The safety of a considerable part of the state,
and the interest of the whole, are not to be trusted
to the wisdom and vigor of future administra-
tions, when a security is to be had more effectual,
more constant, and much less expensive. They who
can be moved by the apprehension of dangers so
remote, as that of the future independence of our
colonies (a point I shall hereafter consider), seem
scarcely consistent with themselves, when they sup-
pose we may rely on the wisdom and vigor of an
administration for their safety. I should indeed
think it less material whether Canada were ceded to
us or not, if I had in view only the security of pos-
session in our colonies. I entirely agree with the
Remarker, that we are in North America, "a far
greater continental as well as naval power," and
that only cowardice or ignorance can subject our
colonies there to a French conquest. But, for the
same reason, I disagree with him widely upon an-
other point.

3, The Blood and Treasure spent in the American
Wars, not spent in the Cause of the Colonies
alone.

I do not think that our "blood and treasure have
been expended," as he intimates, "in the cause of
the colonies," and that we are "making conquests

294 The Works of [1760

for them ' ' ■ ; yet I believe this is too common an
error. I do not say they are altogether unconcerned
in the event. The inhabitants of them are, in com-
mon with the other subjects of Great Britain,
anxious for the glory of her crown, the extent of her
power and commerce, the welfare and future repose
of the whole British people. They could not, there-
fore, but take a large share in the affronts offered
to Britain; and have been animated with a truly
British spirit to exert themselves beyond their
strength, and against their evident interest. Yet
so unfortunate have they been, that their virtue has
made against them; for upon no better foundation
than this have they been supposed the authors of a
war carried on for their advantage only.

It is a great mistake to imagine that the American
country in question between Great Britain and
France is claimed as the property of any individual
or public body in America; or that the possession of
it by Great Britain is likely, in any lucrative view,
to redound at all to the advantage of any person
there. On the other hand, the bulk of the inhabi-
tants of North America are land-owners, whose lands
are inferior in value to those of Britain, only by
the want of an equal number of people. It is true,
the accession of the large territory claimed before the
war began (especially if that be secured by the pos-
session of Canada), will tend to the increase of the
British subjects, faster than if they had been con-
fined within the mountains ; yet the increase within
the mountains only, would evidently make the com-

1 Remarks, p. 25.

1760] Benjamin Franklin 295

parative population equal to that of Great Britain,
much sooner than it can be expected when our
people are spread over a country six times as large.
I think this is the only point of light in which this
account is to be viewed, and is the only one in which
any of the colonies are concerned.

No colony, no possessor of lands in any colony,
therefore, wishes for conquests, or can be benefited
by them, otherwise than as they may be a means of
securing peace on their borders. No considerable
advantage has resulted to the colonies by the con-
quests of this war, or can result from confirming
them by the peace, but what they must enjoy in
common with the rest of the British people; with
this evident drawback from their share of these ad-
vantages, that they will necessarily lessen or at least
prevent the increase of the value of what makes the
principal part of their private property, their land.
A people spread through the whole tract of country
on this side the Mississippi, and secured by Canada
in our hands, would probably for some centuries find
employment in agriculture, and thereby free us at
home effectually from our fears of American manu-
factures. Unprejudiced men well know, that all the
penal and prohibitory laws that were ever thought
on will not be sufficient to prevent manufactures in
a country whose inhabitants surpass the number
that can subsist by the husbandry of it. That this
will be the case in America soon, if our people remain
confined within the mountains, and almost as soon
should it be unsafe for them to live beyond, though
the country be ceded to us, no man acquainted with

296 The Works of [1760

political and commercial history can doubt. Manu-
factures are founded in poverty. It is the multitude
of poor without land in a country, and who must
work for others at low wages or starve, that enables
undertakers to carry on a manufacture, and afford
it cheap enough to prevent the importation of the
same kind from abroad, and to bear the expense of
its own exportation.

But no man, who can have a piece of land of his
own, sufficient by his labor to subsist his family in
plenty, is poor enough to be a manufacturer, and
work for a master. Hence, while there is land
enough in America for our people, there can never
be manufactures to any amount or value. It is a
striking observation of a very able pen, that the
natural livelihood of the thin inhabitants of a forest
country is hunting; that of a greater number, pas-
turage; that of a middling population, agriculture;
and that of the greatest, manufactures; which last
must subsist the bulk of the people in a full country,
or they must be subsisted by charity, or perish.
The extended population, therefore, that is most
advantageous to Great Britain, will be best effected,
because only effectually secured, by the possession of
Canada.

So far as the being of our present colonies in North
America is concerned, I think indeed with the Re-
marker, that the French there are not " an enemy to
be apprehended " l ; but the expression is too vague
to be applicable to the present, or indeed to any
other case. Algiers, Tunis, and Tripoli, unequal as

1 Remarks, p. 27.

1760] Benjamin Franklin 297

they are to this nation in power and numbers of
people, are enemies to be still apprehended ; and the
Highlanders of Scotland have been so for many ages,
by the greatest princes of Scotland and Britain. The
wild Irish were able to give a great deal of disturb-
ance even to Queen Elizabeth, and cost her more
blood and treasure than her war with Spain. Can-
ada, in the hands of France, has always stinted the
growth of our colonies, in the course of this war, and
indeed before it; has disturbed and vexed even the
best and strongest of them; has found means to
murder thousands of their people, and unsettle a
great part of their country. Much more able will it
be to starve the growth of an infant settlement.
Canada has also found means to make this nation
spend two or three millions a year in America; and
a people, how small soever, that in their present
situation can do this as often as we have a war with
them, is, methinks, "an enemy to be apprehended."
Our North American colonies are to be considered
as the frontier of the British empire on that side. The
frontier of any dominion being attacked, it becomes
not merely "the cause" of the people immediately
attacked, the inhabitants of that frontier, but prop-
erly "the cause" of the whole body. Where the
frontier people owe and pay obedience, there they
have a right to look for protection. No political
proposition is better established than this. It is
therefore invidious to represent the "blood and
treasure" spent in this war as spent in "the cause
of the colonies" only; and that they are "absurd
and ungrateful, " if they think we have done nothing,

298 The Works of [1760

unless we "make conquests for them," and reduce
Canada to gratify their "vain ambition," &c. It
will not be a conquest for them, nor gratify any vain
ambition of theirs. It will be a conquest for the
whole; and all our people will, in the increase of
trade and the ease of taxes, find the advantage of it.

Should we be obliged at any time to make a war
for the protection of our commerce, and to secure the
exportation of our manufactures, would it be fair to
represent such a war merely as blood and treasure
spent in the cause of the weavers of Yorkshire, Nor-
wich, or the West, the cuttlers of Sheffield, or the
button-makers of Birmingham? I hope it will ap-
pear, before I end these sheets, that if ever there
was a national war, this is truly such a one; a war
in which the interest of the whole nation is directly
and fundamentally concerned. Those who would
be thought deeply skilled in human nature affect to
discover self-interested views everywhere, at the
bottom of the fairest, the most generous conduct.
Suspicions and charges of this kind meet with ready
reception and belief in the minds even of the multi-
tude, and therefore less acuteness and address than
the Remarker is possessed of would be sufficient to
persuade the nation generally that all the zeal and
spirit manifested and exerted by the colonies in this
war was only in "their own cause," to "make con-
quest for themselves," to engage us to make more
for them, to gratify their own "vain ambition."

But should they now humbly address the mother
country in the terms and the sentiments of the Re-
marker; return her their grateful acknowledgments

760] Benjamin Franklin 299

for the blood and treasure she had spent in "their
cause ' ' ; confess that enough had now been done " for
them"; allow that "English forts, raised in proper
passes, will, with the wisdom and vigor of her ad-
ministration," be a sufficient future protection; ex-
press their desires that their people may be confined
within the mountains, lest, if they be suffered to
spread and extend themselves in the fertile and
pleasant country on the other side, they should
" increase infinitely from all causes," " live wholly on
their own labor," and become independent; beg,
therefore, that the French may be suffered to remain
in possession of Canada, as their neighbourhood may
be useful to prevent our increase, and the removing
them may " in its consequences be even dangerous ": ;
— I say, should such an address from the colonies
make its appearance here (though, according to the
Remarker, it would be a most just and reasonable
one), would it not, might it not, with more justice
be answered: " We understand you, Gentlemen, per-
fectly well; you have only your interest in view;
you want to have the people confined within your
present limits, that in a few years the lands you are
possessed of may increase tenfold in value. You
want to reduce the price of labor by increasing num-
bers on the same territory, that you may be able to
set up manufactures and vie with your mother
country. You would have your people kept in a
body, that you may be more able to dispute the
commands of the crown, and obtain an independ-
ency. You would have the French left in Canada

1 Remarks, pp. 50, 51.

300 The Works of [1760

to exercise your military virtue, and make you a
warlike people, that you may have more confidence
to embark in schemes of disobedience, and greater
ability to support them. You have tasted, too, the
sweets of two or three millions sterling per
annum spent among you by our fleets and forces,
and you are unwilling to be without a pretence for
kindling up another war, and thereby occasioning a
repetition of the same delightful doses. But, Gen-
tlemen, allow us to understand our interest a little
likewise; we shall remove the French from Canada,
that you may live in peace, and we be no more
drained by your quarrels. You shall have land
enough to cultivate, that you may have neither
necessity nor inclination to go into manufactures,
and we will manufacture for you, and govern you."
A reader of the Remarks may be apt to say: " If
this writer would have us restore Canada on princi-
ples of moderation, how can we, consistent with
those principles, retain Guadaloupe, which he repre-
sents of so much greater value?" I will endeavour
to explain this ; because, by doing it, I shall have an
opportunity of showing the truth and good sense of
the answer to the interested application I have just
supposed. The author, then, is only apparently and
not really inconsistent with himself. If we can ob-
tain the credit of moderation by restoring Canada,
it is well; but we should, however, restore it at all
events; because it would not only be of no use to us,
but "the possession of it (in his opinion) may in
its consequences be dangerous." J As how? Why,

1 Remarks, pp. 50, 51.

1760] Benjamin Franklin 301

plainly (at length it comes out), if the French are
not left there to check the growth of our colonies,
" they will extend themselves almost without bounds
into inland parts, and increase infinitely from all
causes; becoming a numerous, hardy, independent
people ; possessed of a strong country, communicat-
ing little or not at all with England, living wholly
on their own labor, and in process of time know-
ing little and inquiring little about the mother
country."

In short, according to this writer, our present
colonies are large enough and numerous enough ; and
the French ought to be left in North America to pre-
vent their increase, lest they become not only use-
less, but dangerous to Britain. I agree with the
gentleman, that, with Canada in our possession, our
people in America will increase amazingly. I know
that their common rate of increase, where they are
not molested by the enemy, is doubling their num-
bers every twenty-five years, by natural generation
only; exclusive of the accession of foreigners.1 I
think this increase continuing would probably, in a
century more, make the number of British subjects

1 The reason of this greater increase in America than in Europe is,
that in old settled countries, all trades, farms, offices, and employ-
ments are full: and many people refrain from marriage till they see
an opening, in which they can settle themselves, with a reasonable
prospect of maintaining a family; but in America, it being easy to
obtain land, which, with moderate labor will afford subsistence and
something to spare, people marry more readily and earlier in life,
whence arise a numerous offspring and the swift population of those
countries. It is a common error, that we cannot fill our provinces, or
increase the number of them, without draining this nation of its people.
The increase alone of our present colonies is sufficient for both those
purposes. — F.

302 The Works of [1760

on that side the water more numerous than they now
are on this; but, —

4. Not necessary that the American Colonies should
cease being useful to the Mother Country. Their
Preference over the West India Colonies stated.

— I am far from entertaining, on that account, any
fears of their becoming either useless or dangerous
to us; and I look on those fears to be merely imagi-
nary and without any probable foundation. The
Remarker is reserved in giving his reasons ; as, in his
opinion, this "is not a fit subject for discussion." I
shall give mine, because I conceive it a subject
necessary to be discussed; and the rather, as those
fears, how groundless and chimerical soever, may,
by possessing the multitude, possibly induce the
ablest ministry to conform to them against their own
judgment; and thereby prevent the assuring to the
British name and nation a stability and permanency,
that no man acquainted with history durst have
hoped for, till our American possessions opened the
pleasing prospect.

The Remarker thinks that our people in America,
" finding no check from Canada, would extend them-
selves almost without bounds into the inland parts,
and increase infinitely from all causes." The very
reason he assigns for their so extending, and which
is indeed the true one (their being " invited to it by
the pleasantness, fertility, and plenty of the coun-
try"), may satisfy us that this extension will con-
tinue to proceed as long as there remains any

1760] Benjamin Franklin
pleasant, fertile country within their reach. And if
we even suppose them confined by the waters of the
Mississippi westward, and by those of St. Lawrence
and the Lakes to the northward, yet still we shall
leave them room enough to increase, even in the
matter of settling now practised there, till they
amount to perhaps a hundred millions of souls.
This must take some centuries to fulfil ; and in the
mean time this nation must necessarily supply them
with the manufactures they consume; because the
new settlers will be employed in agriculture; and
the new settlements will so continually draw off the
spare hands from the old, that our present colonies
will not, during the period we have mentioned, find
themselves in a condition to manufacture, even for
their own inhabitants, to any considerable degree,
much less for those who are settling behind them.

Thus our trade must, till that country becomes as
fully peopled as England (that is, for centuries to
come), be continually increasing, and with it our
naval power; because the ocean is between us and
them, and our ships and seamen must increase as
that trade increases.

The human body and the political differ in this:
that the first is limited by nature to a certain stature,
which, when attained, it cannot ordinarily exceed;
the other, by better government and more prudent
policy, as well as by the change of manners, and
other circumstances, often takes fresh starts of
growth, after being long at a stand, and may add
tenfold to the dimensions it had for ages been con-
fined to. The mother, being of full stature, is in a

304 The Works of [1760

few years equalled by a growing daughter; but in the
case of a mother-country and her colonies, it is quite
different. The growth of the children tends to in-
crease the growth of the mother, and so the difference
and superiority are longer preserved. Were the in-
habitants of this island limited to their present num-
ber by any thing in nature, or by unchangeable
circumstances, the equality of population between
the two countries might indeed sooner come to pass ;
but sure experience, in those parts of the island where
manufactures have been introduced, teaches us that
people increase and multiply in proportion as the
means and facility of gaining a livelihood increase;
and that this island, if they could be employed, is
capable of supporting ten times the present number
of people.

In proportion, therefore, as the demand increases
for the manufactures of Britain, by the increase of
people in her colonies, the number of her people at
home will increase; and with them the strength as
well as the wealth of the nation. For satisfaction in
this point, let the reader compare in his mind the
number and force of our present fleets with our fleet
in Queen Elizabeth's time,1 before we had colonies.
Let him compare the ancient with the present state
of our towns on or near our western coast (Manches-
ter, Liverpool, Kendal, Lancaster, Glasgow, and the
countries round them) that trade with any manufac-
tures for our colonies (not to mention Leeds, Hali-
fax, Sheffield, and Birmingham), and consider what
a difference there is in the numbers of people, build-

1 Namely forty sail, none of more than forty guns.

1760] Benjamin Franklin 305

ings, rents, and the value of land and of the produce
of land ; even if he goes back no farther than is within
man's memory. Let him compare those countries
with others on the same island, where manufactures
have not yet extended themselves; observe the
present difference, and reflect how much greater our
strength may be, if numbers give strength, when our
manufactures shall occupy every part of the island
where they can possibly be subsisted.

But, say the objectors, " there is a certain distance
from the sea, in America, beyond which the expense
of carriage will put a stop to the sale and consump-
tion of your manufactures; and this, with the diffi-
culty of making returns for them, will oblige the in-
habitants to manufacture for themselves ; of course,
if you suffer your people to extend their settle-
ments beyond that distance, your people become
useless to you ' ' ; and this distance is limited by some
to two hundred miles, by others to the Appalachian
mountains.

Not to insist on a plain truth, that no part of a
dominion from whence a government may on occa-
sion draw supplies and aids both of men and money
(though at too great a distance to be supplied with
manufactures from some other part) is therefore to
be deemed useless to the whole, I shall endeavour to
show that these imaginary limits of utility, even in
point of commerce, are much too narrow. The in-
land parts of the continent of Europe are farther
from the sea than the limits of settlement proposed
for America. Germany is full of tradesmen and
artificers of all kinds, and the governments there,

VOL. III. — 20.

306 The Works of [1760

are not all of them always favorable to the commerce
of Britain; yet it is a well-known fact, that our manu-
factures find their way even into the heart of Ger-
many. Ask the great manufacturers and merchants
of the Leeds, Sheffield, Birmingham, Manchester, and
Norwich goods; and they will tell you that some of
them send their riders frequently through France or
Spain, and Italy, and up to Vienna, and back through
the middle and northern parts of Germany, to show
samples of their wares, and collect orders, which
they receive by almost every mail to a vast amount.
Whatever charges arise on the carriage of goods
are added to the value, and all paid by the con-
sumer.

If these nations, over whom we can have no gov-
ernment, over whose consumption we can have no
influence but what arises from the cheapness and
goodness of our wares, whose trade, manufactures, or
commercial connexions are not subject to the control
of our laws, as those of our colonies certainly are in
some degree, — I say, if these nations purchase and
consume such quantities of our goods, notwithstand-
ing the remoteness of their situation from the sea,
how much less likely is it that the settlers in Amer-
ica, who must for ages be employed in agriculture
chiefly, should make cheaper for themselves the
goods our manufacturers at present supply them
with, even if we suppose the carriage five, six, or
seven hundred miles from the sea as difficult and
expensive as the like distance into Germany, whereas
in the latter the natural distances are frequently
doubled by political obstructions — I mean the

1760] Benjamin Franklin 307

intermixed territories and clashing interests of
princes.1

But when we consider that the inland parts of
America are penetrated by great navigable rivers,
and there are a number of great lakes, communicat-
ing with each other, with those rivers, and with the
sea, very small portages here and there excepted 2 ;
that the sea-coasts (if one may be allowed the ex-
pression) of those lakes only amount at least to two
thousand seven hundred miles, exclusive of the
rivers running into them, many of which are navi-
gable to a great extent for boats and canoes, through
vast tracts of country; — how little likely is it that
the expense on the carriage of our goods into those
countries should prevent the use of them. If the
poor Indians in those remote parts are now able to
pay for the linen, woollen, and iron wares they are
at present furnished with by the French and English
traders, though Indians have nothing but what they
get by hunting, and the goods are loaded with all
the impositions fraud and knavery can contrive to

1 This was before the consolidation of Europe by the Bonapartes,
and when, as Sir C. Whitworth asserts in his State of Trade: "Each
state in Germany is jealous of its neighbours; and hence, rather than
facilitate the export or transmit of its neighbour's products or manu-
factures, they have all recourse to strangers."

2 From New York into Lake Ontario, the land-carriage of the several
portages altogether amounts to but about twenty-seven miles. From
Lake Ontario into Lake Erie, the land-carriage at Niagara is but
about twelve miles. All the lakes above Niagara communicate by
navigable straits, so that no land-carriage is necessary to go out of one
into another. From Presqu' Isle on Lake Erie there are but fifteen
miles land-carriage, and that a good wagon-road, to Beef River, a
branch of the Ohio, which brings you into a navigation of many thou-
sand miles inland, if you take together the Ohio, the Mississippi, and
all the great rivers and branches that run into them. — F.

308 The Works of [1760

enhance their value, will not industrious English
farmers, hereafter settled in those countries, be much
better able to pay for what shall be brought them
in the way of fair commerce?

If it is asked, What can such farmers raise, where-
with to pay for the manufactures they may want
from us ? I answer, that the inland parts of America
in question are well known to be fitted for the pro-
duction of hemp, flax, potash, and, above all, silk;
the southern parts may produce olive oil, raisins, cur-
rants, indigo, and cochineal; not to mention horses
and black cattle, which may easily be driven to the
maritime markets, and at the same time assist in
conveying other commodities. That the commodi-
ties first mentioned may easily, by water and land
carriage, be brought to the sea-ports from interior
America, will not seem incredible, when we reflect
that hemp formerly came from the Ukraine, the
most southern parts of Russia, to Wologda, and
down the Dwina to Archangel; and hence, by a
perilous navigation, round the North Cape to Eng-
land and other parts of Europe. It now comes from
the same country up the Dnieper, and down the
Duna, with much land-carriage. Great part of the
Russian iron, no high-priced commodity, is brought
three hundred miles by land and water from the
heart of Siberia. Furs (the produce too of America)
are brought to Amsterdam from all parts of Siberia,
even the most remote — Kamtschatka. The same
country furnishes me with another instance of ex-
tended inland commerce.

It is found worth while to keep up a mercantile

J76o] Benjamin Franklin 309

communication between Pekin in China and Peters-
burg. And none of these instances of inland com-
merce exceed those of the courses by which, at
several periods, the whole of the trade of the East was
carried on. Before the prosperity of the Mameluke
dominion in Egypt fixed the staple for the riches
of the East at Cairo and Alexandria (whither they
were brought from the Red Sea), great part of those
commodities were carried to the cities of Cashgar
and Balk. This gave birth to those towns, that still
subsist upon the remains of their ancient opulence,
amidst a people and country equally wild. From
thence those goods were carried down the Amu (the
ancient Oxus) to the Caspian Sea, and up the Wolga
to Astrachan; from whence they were carried over
to and down the Don, to the mouth of that river;
and thence again the Venetians directly, and the
Genoese and Venetians indirectly, by way of Karfa
and Trebisond, dispersed them through the Mediter-
ranean and some other parts of Europe.

Another part of those goods was carried over land
from the Wolga to the rivers Duna and Neva; from
both they were carried to the city by Wisbuy in the
Baltic (so eminent for its sea-laws); and from the
city of Ladoga on the Neva, we are told, they were
even carried by the Dwina to Archangel; and from
thence round the North Cape. If iron and hemp
will bear the charge of carriage from this inland
country, other metals will, as well as iron; and cer-
tainly silk, since three pence per pound is not above
one per cent, on the value, and amounts to twenty-
eight pounds per ton. If the growths of a country

3io The Works of [1760

find their way out of it, the manufactures of the
country where they go will infallibly find their way
into it.

They who understand the economy and principles
of manufactures, know that it is impossible to estab-
lish them in places not populous ; and, even in those
that are populous, hardly possible to establish them
to the prejudice of the places already in possession of
them. Several attempts have been made in France
and Spain, countenanced by government, to draw
from us, and establish in those countries, our hard-
ware and woollen manufactures, but without success.

The reasons are various. A manufacture* is part
of a great system of commerce, which takes in con-
veniences of various kinds: methods of providing
materials of all sorts, machines for expediting and
facilitating labor, all the channels of correspondence
for vending the wares, the credit and confidence
necessary to found and support this correspondence,
the mutual aid of different artisans, and a thousand
other particulars which time and long experience
have gradually established. A part of such a sys-
tem cannot support itself without the whole; and
before the whole can be obtained the part perishes.
Manufactures, where they are in perfection, are car-
ried on by multiplicity of hands, each of which is
expert only in his own part ; no one of them a master
of the whole ; and, if by any means spirited away to
a foreign country, he is lost without his fellows.
Then it is a matter of the extremest difficulty to
persuade a complete set of workmen, skilled in all
parts of a manufactory, to leave their country to-

1760] Benjamin Franklin 311

gether, and settle in a foreign land. Some of the
idle and drunken may be enticed away; but these
only disappoint their employers, and serve to dis-
courage the undertaking. If by royal munificence,
and an expense that the profits of the trade alone
would not bear, a complete set of good and skilful
hands are collected and carried over, they find so
much of the system imperfect, so many things want-
ing to carry on the trade to advantage, so many
difficulties to overcome, and the knot of hands so
easily broken by death, dissatisfaction, and deser-
tion, that they and their employers are discouraged
together, and the project vanishes into smoke.

Hence it happens that established manufactures
are hardly ever lost, but by foreign conquest, or by
some eminent interior fault in manners or govern-
ment— a bad police oppressing and discouraging the
workmen, or religious persecutions driving the sober
and industrious out of the country. There is, in
short, scarce a single instance in history of the con-
trary, where manufactures have once taken firm
root. They sometimes start up in a new place; but
are generally supported, like exotic plants, at more
expense than they are worth for any thing but
curiosity, until these new seats become the refuge
of the manufacturers driven from the old ones.

The conquest of Constantinople, and final reduc-
tion of the Greek empire, dispersed many curious
manufacturers into different parts of Christendom.
The former conquests of its provinces had before
done the same. The loss of liberty in Verona, Milan,
Florence, Pisa, Pistoia, and other great cities of

312 The Works of [1760

Italy, drove the manufacturers of woollen cloths into
Spain and Flanders. The latter first lost their trade
and manufactures to Antwerp and the cities of Bra-
bant; from whence, by persecution for religion, they
were sent into Holland and England; while the civil
wars, during the minority of Charles the First of
Spain, which ended in the loss of the liberty of their
great towns, ended too in the loss of the manufac-
tures of Toledo, Segovia, Salamanca, Medina del
Compo, &c. The revocation of the Edict of Nantz
communicated to all the Protestant part of Europe
the paper, silk, and other valuable manufactures of
France, almost peculiar at that time to that country,
and till then in vain attempted elsewhere.

To be convinced, that it is not soil and climate,
nor even freedom from taxes, that determines the
residence of manufactures, we need only turn our
eyes on Holland, where a multitude of manufactures
are still carried on, perhaps more than on the same
extent of territory anywhere in Europe, and sold on
terms upon which they cannot be had in any other
part of the world. And this too is true of those
growths which by their nature and the labor required
to raise them come the nearest to manufactures.

As to the commonplace objection to the North
American settlements, that they are in the same
climate, and their produce the same, as that of England:
In the first place, it is not true ; it is particularly not
so of the countries now likely to be added to our
settlements; and of our present colonies, the pro-
ducts— lumber, tobacco, rice, and indigo, great arti-
cles of commerce — do not interfere with the products

1760] Benjamin Franklin 313

of England. In the next place, a man must know
very little of the trade of the world, who does not
know that the greater part of it is carried on between
countries whose climates differ very little. Even
the trade between the different parts of these British
Islands is greatly superior to that between England
and all the West India Islands put together.

If I have been successful in proving that a consid-
erable commerce may and will subsist between us
and our future most inland settlements in North
America, notwithstanding their distance, I have
more than half proved that no other inconveniency
will arise from their distance. Many men in such a
country must "know," must "think," and must
"care" about the country they chiefly trade with.
The juridical and other connexions of government
are yet a faster hold than even commercial ties, and
spread, directly and indirectly, far and wide. Busi-
ness to be solicited and causes depending create a
great intercourse, even where private property is not
divided in different countries; yet this division will
always subsist where different countries are ruled by
the same government. Where a man has landed
property both in the mother country and the pro-
vince, he will almost always live in the mother coun-
try. This, though there were no trade, is singly a
sufficient gain. It is said that Ireland pays near a
million sterling annually to its absentees in England.
The balance of trade from Spain, or even Portugal,
is scarcely equal to this.

Let it not be said we have no absentees from North
America. There are many, to the writer's know-

314 The Works of [1760

ledge; and if there are at present but few of them
that distinguish themselves here by great expense,
it is owing to the mediocrity of fortune among the
inhabitants of the northern colonies, and a more equal
division of landed property than in the West India
Islands, so that there are as yet but few large estates.
But if those who have such estates reside upon and
take care of them themselves, are they worse sub-
jects than they would be if they lived idly in England ?
Great merit is assumed for the gentlemen of the
West Indies,1 on the score of their residing and
spending their money in England. I would not
depreciate that merit, — it is considerable; for they
might, if they pleased, spend their money in France ;
but the difference between their spending it here and
at home is not so great. What do they spend it in
when they are here, but the produce and manufac-
tures of this country? and would they not do the
same if they were at home? Is it of any great im-
portance to the English farmer, whether the West
India gentleman comes to London and eats his beef,
pork, and tongues, fresh, or has them brought to him
in the West Indies, salted? Whether he eats his
English cheese and butter, or drinks his English ale,
at London or in Barbadoes? Is the clothier's, or
the mercer's, or the cutler's, or the toyman's profit
less, for their goods being worn and consumed by the
same persons residing on the other side of the ocean ?
Would not the profits of the merchant and mariner
be rather greater, and some addition made to our
navigation, ships, and seamen ? If the North Ameri-

1 Remarks, pp. 47, 48, &c.

1760] Benjamin Franklin 315

can gentleman stays in his own country, and lives
there in that degree of luxury and expense, with
regard to the use of British manufactures, that his
fortune enables him to do, may not his example,
from the imitation of superiors so natural to man-
kind spread the use of those manufactures among
hundreds of families around him, and occasion a
much greater demand for them than it would do if
he should remove and live in London?

However this may be, if, in our views of immedi-
ate advantage, it seems preferable that the gentle-
men of large fortunes in North America should reside
much in England, it is what may surely be expected
as fast as such fortunes are acquired there. Their
having "colleges of their own for the education of
their youth, ' ' will not prevent it. A little knowledge
and learning acquired increases the appetite for
more, and will make the conversation of the learned
on this side the water more strongly desired. Ire-
land has its university likewise; yet this does not
prevent the immense pecuniary benefit we receive
from that kingdom. And there will always be, in the
conveniences of life, the politeness, the pleasures, the
magnificence of the reigning country, many other at-
tractions besides those of learning, to draw men of
substance there, where they can, apparently at least,
have the best bargain of happiness for their money.

Our trade to the West India Islands is undoubt-
edly a valuable one ; but whatever is the amount of
it, it has long been at a stand. Limited as our sugar
planters are by the scantiness of territory, they can-
not increase much beyond their present number;

316 The Works of [1760

and this is an evil, as I shall show hereafter, that will
be little helped by our keeping Guadaloupe.

The trade to our northern colonies is not only
greater, but yearly increasing with the increase of
the people; and even in a greater proportion, as the
people increase in wealth and the ability of spend-
ing, as well as in numbers.1 I have already said,

1 The writer has obtained accounts of the exports to North America
and the West India Islands, by which it appears that there has been
some increase of trade to those Islands, as well as to North America,
though in a much less degree. The following extract from these ac-
counts will show the reader, at one view, the amount of the exports
to each, in two different terms of five years; the terms taken at ten
years' distance from each other, to show the increase, viz. :

First term, from 1744 to 1748, inclusive.
Northern Colonies. West India Islands.

1744 £640,114 12 4 £796,112 17 9

1745 S34,3i6 2 5 5°3>669 19 9

1746 754,945 4 3 472,994 16 7

1747 726,648 5 5 856,463 18 6

1748 830,243 16 9 734,095 15 3

Total, £3,486,268 1 2 3-363,337 10 10

Difference, 122,930 10 4

£3,486,268 1 2
Second term, from 1754 to 1758, inclusive.

West India Islands.
£685,675 3 o
694,667 13 3
733-458 16 3
776,488 o 6
877,571 19 11

Total, £7,414,057 4 3 3,767,841 12 11

Difference, 3,646,215 11 4

Northern Colonies.
£1,246,615
11
1,177,848
10
1,428,720
10
1,727,924
10
1,832.948
10

£7,414,057 4 3

In the first term, total of West India Islands, £3,363,337 10 10

In the second term, ditto .... 3,767,841 12 11

Increase, only £404,504 2 1

In the first term, total for the northern colonies, 3, 486, 268 1 2

In the second term, ditto .... 7,414,057 4 3

Increase, £3,927,789 3 1

By these accounts it appears that the exports to the West India
Islands, and to the northern colonies, were in the first term nearly

1760] Benjamin Franklin 317

that our people in the northern colonies double in
about twenty-five years, exclusive of the accession
of strangers. That I speak within bounds, I appeal
to the authentic accounts frequently required by the
Board of Trade, and transmitted to that Board by
the respective governors; of which accounts I shall
select one as a sample, being that from the colony
of Rhode Island * ; a colony that of all the others
receives the least addition from strangers. For the

equal (the difference being only £122,930 10s. 4^.), and in the second
term, the exports to those islands had only increased £404,504 2s. id.
Whereas the increase to the northern colonies is £3,927,789 3s. id.,
almost four millions.

Some part of this increased demand for English goods may be
ascribed to the armies and fleets we have had both in North America
and the West Indies; and so much for what is consumed by the sol-
diery; their clothing, stores, ammunition, &c, sent from hence on
account of the government, being (as is supposed) not included in
these accounts of merchandise exported; but, as the war has occa-
sioned a great plenty of money in America, many of the inhabitants
have increased their expense.

N. B. — These accounts do not include any exports from Scotland to
America, which are doubtless proportionably considerable; nor the
exports from Ireland. — F.

Certain discrepancies in the above figures are hereby given as origi-
nally printed. — Editor.

1 Copy of the Report of Governor Hopkins to the Board of Trade, on
the Numbers of People in Rhode Island.

In obedience to your Lordship's commands, I have caused the
within account to be taken by officers under oath. By it there appears
to be in this colony at this time 35,939 white persons, and 4,697 blacks,
chiefly negroes.

In the year 1730, by order of the then Lords Commissioners of Trade
and Plantations, an account was taken of the number of people in
this colony, and then there appeared to be 15,302 white persons, and
2,633 blacks.

Again in the year 1748, by like order, an account was taken of the
number of people in this colony, by which it appears that there were
at that time 29,755 white persons and 4,373 blacks.

Stephen Hopkins.

Colony of Rhode Island, Dec. 24, 175s.

3i8

The Works of

[1760

increase of our trade to those colonies, I refer to the
accounts frequently laid before Parliament by the
officers of the customs, and to the custom-house
books; from which I have also selected one account,
that of the trade from England, exclusive of Scot-
land, to Pennsylvania ' ; a colony most remarkable
for the plain, frugal manner of living of its inhabit-
ants, and the most suspected of carrying on manu-
factures, on account of the number of German
artisans who are known to have transplanted them-
selves into that country; though even these, in truth,
when they come there, generally apply themselves
to agriculture, as the surest support and most ad-
vantageous employment.

By this account it appears, that the exports to
that province have, in twenty-eight years, increased
nearly in the proportion of seventeen to one ; whereas
the people themselves, who by other authentic ac-
counts appear to double their numbers (the strangers
who settle there included) in about sixteen years,

An Account of the Value of the Exports from England to Pennsyl-
vania in one Year, taken at different Periods, viz.

1723 they amounted

only to £15,992
4

1730 they were

48,592
5
56,690
7
75.295
4
82,404

i7
1752

201,666
11
268,426
6

N. B. — The accounts for 1758 and 1759 were not then completed;
but those acquainted with the North American trade know that the
increase in those two years had been in a still greater proportion, the
last year being supposed to exceed any former year by a third; and
this owing to the increased ability of the people to spend, from the
greater quantities of money circulating among them by the war.

1760] Benjamin Franklin 319

cannot in the twenty-eight years have increased in a
greater proportion than as four to one. The addi-
tional demand, then, and consumption of goods from
England, of thirteen parts in seventeen, more than
the additional number would require, must be ow-
ing to this: that the people, having by their in-
dustry mended their circumstances, are enabled to
indulge themselves in finer clothes, better furniture,
and a more general use of all our manufactures than
heretofore.

In fact, the occasion for English goods in North
America, and the inclination to have and use them,
is, and must be for ages to come, much greater than
the ability of the people to pay for them; they must
therefore, as they now do, deny themselves many
things they would otherwise choose to have, or in-
crease their industry to obtain them. And thus, if
they should at any time manufacture some coarse
article, which, on account of its bulk or some other
circumstance, cannot so well be brought to them
from Britain, it only enables them the better to pay
for finer goods, that otherwise they could not in-
dulge themselves in; so that the exports thither are
not diminished by such manufacture, but rather
increased. The single article of manufacture in these
colonies, mentioned by the Remarker, is hats made
in New England. It is true, there have been, ever
since the first settlement of that country, a few hat-
ters there, drawn thither probably at first by the
facility of getting beaver, while the woods were but
little cleared, and there was plenty of those animals.
The case is greatly altered now. The beaver skins

320 The Works of [1760

are not now to be had in New England, but from
very remote places and at great prices. The trade
is accordingly declining there ; so that, far from being
able to make hats in any quantity for exportation,
they cannot supply their own home demand ; and it
is well known that some thousand dozens are sent
thither yearly from London, Bristol, and Liverpool,
and sold cheaper than the inhabitants can make
them of equal goodness.

In fact, the colonies are so little suited for estab-
lishing of manufacture, that they are continually
losing the few branches they accidentally gain. The
working braziers, cutlers, and pewterers, as well as
hatters, who have happened to go over from time
to time and settle in the colonies, gradually drop the
working part of their business, and import their re-
spective goods from England, whence they can have
them cheaper and better than they can make them.
They continue their shops indeed, in the same way
of dealing; but become sellers of braziery, cutlery,
pewter, hats, &c, brought from England, instead of
being makers of those goods.

5. The American Colonies not dangerous in their Na-
ture to Great Britain.

Thus much as to the apprehension of our colonies
becoming useless to us. I shall next consider the
other supposition, that their growth may render
them dangerous. Of this, I own, I have not the least
conception, when I consider that we have already
fourteen separate governments on the maritime coast

i76o] Benjamin Franklin 321

of the continent; and, if we extend our settlements,
shall probably have as many more behind them on
the inland side. Those we now have are not only
under different governors, but have different forms
of government, different laws, different interests,
and some of them different religious persuasions and
different manners.

Their jealousy of each other is so great, that how-
ever necessary a union of the colonies has long been,
for their common defence and security against their
enemies, and how sensible soever each colony has
been of that necessity, yet they have never been
able to effect such a union among themselves, nor
even to agree in requesting the mother country to
establish it for them. Nothing but the immediate
command of the crown has been able to produce
even the imperfect union, but lately seen there, of
the forces of some colonies. If they could not agree
to unite for their defence against the French and
Indians, who were perpetually harassing their settle-
ments, burning their villages, and murdering their
people, can it reasonably be supposed there is any
danger of their uniting against their own nation,
which protects and encourages them, with which
they have so many connexions and ties of blood,
interest, and affection, and which, it is well known,
they all love much more than they love one an-
other?

In short, there are so many causes that must
operate to prevent it, that I will venture to say a
union amongst them for such a purpose is not merely
improbable, it is impossible. And if the union of

VOL. III.— 21

322 The Works of [1760

the whole is impossible, the attempt of a part must
be madness, as those colonies that did not join the
rebellion would join the mother country in suppress-
ing it. When I say such a union is impossible, I
mean without the most grievous tyranny and oppres-
sion. People who have property in a country which
they may lose, and privileges which they may en-
danger, are generally disposed to be quiet, and even
to bear much, rather than hazard all. While the
government is mild and just, while important civil
and religious rights are secure, such subjects will be
dutiful and obedient. The waves do not rise but when
the winds blow.

What such an administration as the Duke of
Alva's in the Netherlands might produce, I know
not ; but this, I think, I have a right to deem impos-
sible. And yet there were two very manifest differ-
ences between that case and ours; and both are in
our favor. The first, that Spain had already united
the seventeen provinces under one visible govern-
ment, though the States continued independent ; the
second, that the inhabitants of those provinces were
of a nation, not only different from, but utterly
unlike the Spaniards. Had the Netherlands been
peopled from Spain, the worst of oppression had
probably not provoked them to wish a separation of
government. It might, and probably would, have
ruined the country; but never would have produced
an independent sovereignty. In fact, neither the
very worst of governments, the worst of politics in
the last century, nor the total abolition of their re-
maining liberty, in the provinces of Spain itself, in

1760] Benjamin Franklin 323

the present, have produced any independency in
Spain that could be supported. The same may be
observed of France.

And let it not be said that the neighbourhood of
these to the seat of government has prevented a
separation. While our strength at sea continues, the
banks of the Ohio, in point of easy and expeditious
conveyance of troops, are nearer to London than
the remote parts of France and Spain to their respec-
tive capitals, and much nearer than Connaught and
Ulster were in the days of Queen Elizabeth. Nobody
foretells the dissolution of the Russian monarchy
from its extent ; yet I will venture to say the eastern
parts of it are already much more inaccessible from
Petersburg than the country on the Mississippi is
from London, — I mean, more men, in less time,
might be conveyed to the latter than the former dis-
tance. The rivers Oby, Jenessa, and Lena do not
facilitate the communication half so well by their
course, nor are they half so practicable as the Ameri-
can rivers. To this I shall only add the observation
of Machiavel, in his Prince: that a government sel-
dom long preserves its dominion over those who are
foreigners to it; who, on the other hand, fall with
great ease, and continue inseparably annexed to the
government of their own nation ; which he proves by
the fate of the English conquests in France. Yet
with all these disadvantages, so difficult is it to over-
turn an established government, that it was not
without the assistance of France and England that
the United Provinces supported themselves; which
teaches us that —

324 The Works of [1760

6. The French remaining in Canada, an Encourage-
ment to Disaffections in the British Colonies.
If they prove a Check, that Check of the most
barbarous Nature —

if the visionary danger of independence in our
colonies is to be feared, nothing is more likely to
render it substantial than the neighbourhood of for-
eigners at enmity with the sovereign governments,
capable of giving either aid,1 or an asylum, as the
event shall require. Yet against even these disad-
vantages, did Spain preserve almost ten provinces
merely through their want of union; which, indeed,
could never have taken place among the others, but

1 The aid Dr. Franklin alludes to must probably have consisted in
early and full supplies of arms, officers, intelligence, and trade of
export and of import, through the river St. Lawrence, on risks both
public and private; in the encouragement of splendid promises and a
great ally; in the passage from Canada to the back settlements being
shut to the British forces; in the quiet of the great body of Indians;
in the support of emissaries and discontented citizens; in loans and
subsidies to Congress, in ways profitable to France; in a refuge to be
granted them in case of defeat, in vacant lands, as settlers; in the
probability of war commencing earlier between England and France,
at the Gulf of St. Lawrence (when the shipping taken were rightfully
addressed to Frenchmen) than in the present case. All this might
have happened as soon as America's distaste of England had exceeded
the fear of the foreign nation ; a circumstance frequently seen possible
in history, and which the British ministers took care should not be
wanting.

This explanation would have been superfluous, had not the opinion
been very general in England, that had not the French been removed
from Canada, the revolt of America never would have taken place. Why,
then, were the French not left in Canada at the peace of 1763? Or,
since they were not left there, why was the American dispute begun ?
Yet, in one sense, perhaps this opinion is true; for had the French been
left in Canada, the English ministers would not only have sooner felt,
but sooner have seen, the strange fatality of their plans. — B. V.

1760] Benjamin Franklin 325

for causes, some of which are in our case impossible,
and others it is impious to suppose possible.

The Romans well understood that policy, which
teaches the security arising to the chief government
from separate States among the governed, when they
restored the liberties of the States of Greece (op-
pressed but united under Macedon) by an edict that
every State should live under its own laws.1 They
did not even name a governor. Independence of
each other and separate interests (though among a
people united by common manners, language, and I
may say religion; inferior neither in wisdom, brav-
ery, nor their love of liberty to the Romans them-
selves) were all the security the sovereigns wished
for their sovereignty.

It is true, they did not call themselves sovereigns;
they set no value on the title; they were contented
with possessing the thing. And possess it they did,
even without a standing army. What can be a
stronger proof of the security of their possession?
And yet, by a policy similar to this throughout, was
the Roman world subdued and held, a world com-
posed of above a hundred languages and sets of man-
ners, different from those of their masters.2 Yet

lWOmnes Graecorum civitates, quse in Europa, quagque in Asia
essent, libertatem ac suas leges haberent," etc. — Li v., lib. xxxiii.,
cap. 30.

2 When the Romans had subdued Macedon and Illyricum, they were
both formed into republics by a decree of the Senate, and Macedon was
thought safe from the danger of a revolution, by being divided into a
division common among the Romans, as we learn from the tetrarchs
in Scripture. " Omnium primum liberos esse placebat Macedonas
atque Illyrios; ut omnibus gentibus appareret, arma populi Romani
non liberis servitutem, sed contra servientibus libertatem afferre; ut

326 The Works of [1760

this dominion was unshakable, till the loss of liberty
and corruption of manners in the sovereign State
overturned it.

But what is the prudent policy inculcated by the
Remarker to obtain this end — security of dominion
over our colonies? It is, to leave the French in
Canada to "check" their growth; for otherwise, our
people may "increase infinitely from all causes."1
We have already seen in what manner the French
and their Indians check the growth of our colonies.
It is a modest word, this check, for massacring
men, women, and children! The writer would, if
he could, hide from himself, as well as from the
public, the horror arising from such a proposal, by
couching it in general terms. It is no wonder he
thought it a "subject not fit for discussion" in his
letter, though he recommends it as "a point that
should be the constant object of the minister's
attention ! ' '

But if Canada is restored on this principle, will
not Britain be guilty of all the blood to be shed, all
the murders to be committed, in order to check this
dreaded growth of our own people? Will not this
be telling the French in plain terms, that the horrid

et in libertate gentes quae essent, tutam earn sibi perpetuamque sub
tutela populi Romani esse; et, quas sub regibus viverent, et in presens
tempus mitiores eos justioresque respectu populi Romani habere se, et,
si quando bellum cum populo Romano regibus fuisset suis, exitum ejus

victoriam Romanis, sibi libertatem, allaturum crederent In

quatuor regiones describi Macedoniam, ut suum quaeque concilium
haberet, placuit; et dimidium tributi, quam quod regibus ferre soliti
erant, populo Romano pendere. Similia his et in Illyricum mandata."
— Liv., lib. xlv., cap. 18.
1 Remarks, pp. 50, 51.

1760] Benjamin Franklin 327

barbarities they perpetrate with Indians on our col-
onists are agreeable to us; and that they need not
apprehend the resentment of a government with
whose views they so happily concur? Will not the
colonies view it in this light ? Will they have reason
to consider themselves any longer as subjects and
children, when they find their cruel enemies hallooed
upon them by the country from whence they sprung ;
the government that owes them protection, as it
requires their obedience ? Is not this the most likely
means of driving them into the arms of the French,
who can invite them by an offer of security their
own government chooses not to afford them? I
would not be thought to insinuate that the Remarker
wants humanity. I know how little many good-
natured persons are affected by the distresses of
people at a distance, and whom they do not know.
There are even those who, being present, can sym-
pathize sincerely with the grief of a lady on the sud-
den death of a favorite bird, and yet can read of the
sinking of a city in Syria with very little concern.

If it be, after all, thought necessary to check the
growth of our colonies, give me leave to propose a
method less cruel. It is a method of which we have
an example in Scripture. The murder of husbands,
of wives, of brothers, sisters, and children, whose
pleasing society has been for some time enjoyed,
affects deeply the respective surviving relations; but
grief for the death of a child just born is short and
easily supported. The method I mean is that which
was dictated by the Egyptian policy, when the
"infinite increase" of the children of Israel was

328 The Works of [1760

apprehended as dangerous to the State.1 Let an act
of Parliament then be made, enjoining the colony
midwives to stifle in the birth every third or fourth
child. By this means you may keep the colonies to
their present size. And if they were under the hard
alternative of submitting to one or the other of these
schemes for checking their growth, I dare answer
for them, they would prefer the latter.

But all the debate about the propriety or impro-
priety of keeping or restoring Canada is possibly too
early. We have taken the capital indeed, but the
country is yet far from being in our possession; and
perhaps never will be; for, if our ministers are per-
suaded by such counsellors as the Remarker, that
the French there are "not the worst of neighbours,"
and that, if we had conquered Canada, we ought, for
our own sakes, to restore it, as a check to the growth
of our colonies, I am then afraid we shall never take
it. For there are many ways of avoiding the com-
pletion of the conquest, that will be less exception-
able and less odious than the giving it up.

7. Canada easily peopled without draining Great Brit-
ain of any of its Inhabitants.

The objection I have often heard, that, if we had
Canada, we could not people it without draining
Britain of its inhabitants, is founded on ignorance

1 "And Pharaoh said unto his people: Behold, the people of the
children of Israel are more and mightier than we. Come on, let us
deal wisely with them, lest they multiply, and it come to pass, that,
when there falleth out any war, they join also unto our enemies and
fight against us, and so get them up out of the land. And the king
spake to the Hebrew midwives," etc. — Exodus, ch. i.

1760] Benjamin Franklin 329

of the nature of population in new countries. When
we first began to colonize in America, it was neces-
sary to send people, and to send seed-corn; but it is
not now necessary that we should furnish, for a new
colony, either the one or the other. The annual in-
crement alone of our present colonies, without dimin-
ishing their numbers, or requiring a man from hence,
is sufficient in ten years to fill Canada with double
the number of English that it now has of French
inhabitants.1 Those who are Protestants among the
French will probably choose to remain under the
English government; many will choose to remove,
if they can be allowed to sell their lands, improve-
ments, and effects; the rest in that thin-settled
country will in less than half a century, from the
crowds of English settling round and among them,
be blended and incorporated with our people both in
language and manners.

8. The Merits of Guadaloupe to Great Britain over-
valued, yet likely to be paid much dearer for, than
Canada.

In Guadaloupe the case is somewhat different ; and
though I am far from thinking 2 we have sugar-land
enough,3 I cannot think Guadaloupe is so desirable

1 In fact, there have not gone from Britain itself to our colonies,
these twenty years past, to settle there, so many as ten families a year;
the new settlers are either the offspring of the old, or emigrants from
Germany or the north of Ireland.

2 Remarks, pp. 30, 34.

3 It is often said, we have plenty of sugar-land still unemployed in
Jamaica; but those who are well acquainted with that island know
that the remaining vacant land in it is generally situated among moun-
tains, rocks, and gullies, that make carriage impracticable, so that no

33° The Works of [1760

an increase of it, as other objects the enemy would
probably be infinitely more ready to part with. A
country, fully inhabited by any nation, is no proper
possession for another of different languages, man-
ners, and religion. It is hardly ever tenable at less
expense than it is worth. But the isle of Cayenne,
and its appendix, Equinoctial France, having but
very few inhabitants, and these therefore easily re-
moved, would indeed be an acquisition every way
suitable to our situation and desires. This would
hold all that migrate from Barbadoes, the Leeward
Islands, or Jamaica. It would certainly recall into
an English government, in which there would be
room for millions, all who have before settled or
purchased in Martinico, Guadaloupe, Santa Cruz, or
St. John's; except such as know not the value of an
English government, and such I am sure are not
worth recalling.

But should we keep Guadaloupe, we are told it
would enable us to export £300,000 in sugars. Ad-
mit it to be true, though perhaps the amazing increase
of English consumption might stop most of it here,
to whose profit is this to redound ? To the profit of
the French inhabitants of the island ; except a small
part, that should fall to the share of the English pur-
chasers, but whose whole purchase-money must first
be added to the wealth and circulation of France.
I grant, however, much of this £300,000 would be

profitable use can be made of it; unless the price of sugars should so
greatly increase, as to enable the planter to make very expensive
roads, by blowing up rocks, erecting bridges, &c, every two or three
hundred yards.

1760] Benjamin Franklin 331

expended in British manufactures. Perhaps, too, a
few of the land-owners of Guadaloupe might dwell
and spend their fortunes in Britain, though probably
much fewer than of the inhabitants of North Amer-
ica. I admit the advantage arising to us from these
circumstances, as far as they go, in the case of Guada-
loupe, as well as in that of our other West India
settlements. Yet even this consumption is little
better than that of an allied nation would be, who
should take our manufactures and supply us with
sugar, and put us to no great expense in defending
the place of growth.

But, though our own colonies expend among us
almost the whole produce of our sugar,1 can we, or
ought we to promise ourselves this will be the case
of Guadaloupe? One £100,000 will supply them
with British manufactures; and supposing we can
effectually prevent the introduction of those of
France, which is morally impossible in a country
used to them, the other £200,000 will still be spent
in France, in the education of their children and sup-
port of themselves; or else be laid up there, where
they will always think their home to be.

Besides this consumption of British manufactures,
much is said of the benfit we shall have from the
situation of Guadaloupe ; and we are told of a trade
to the Caraccas and Spanish Main. In what respect
Guadaloupe is better situated for this trade than
Jamaica, or even our other islands, I am at a loss to
guess. I believe it to be not so well situated for
that of the Windward coast, as Tobago and St.

1 Remarks, p. 47.

332 The Works of [1760

Lucia; which in this, as well as other respects,
would be more valuable possessions, and which, I
doubt not, the peace will secure to us. Nor is it
nearly so well situated for that of the rest of the
Spanish Main as Jamaica. As to the greater safety
of our trade by the possession of Guadaloupe, ex-
perience has convinced us that in reducing a single
island, or even more, we stop the privateering busi-
ness but little. Privateers still subsist, in equal if not
greater numbers, and carry the vessels into Martinico
which before it was more convenient to carry into
Guadaloupe. Had we all the Caribbees, it is true,
they would in those parts be without shelter.

Yet, upon the whole, I suppose it to be a doubtful
point, and well worth consideration, whether our
obtaining possession of all the Caribbees would be
more than a temporary benefit; as it would neces-
sarily soon fill the French part of Hispaniola with
French inhabitants, and thereby render it five times
more valuable in time of peace, and little less than
impregnable in time of war, and would probably end
in a few years in the uniting the whole of that great
and fertile island under a French government. It is
agreed on all hands, that our conquest of St. Christo-
pher's, and driving the French from thence, first
furnished Hispaniola with skilful and substantial
planters, and was consequently the first occasion of
its present opulence. On the other hand, I will
hazard an opinion, that, valuable as the French pos-
sessions in the West Indies are, and undeniable as the
advantages they derive from them, there is some-
what to be weighed in the opposite scale. They

1760] Benjamin Franklin 333

cannot at present make war with England, without
exposing those advantages, while divided among the
numerous islands they now have, much more than
they would were they possessed of St. Domingo only ;
their own share of which would, if well cultivated,
grow more sugar than is now grown in all their West
India Islands.

I have before said I do not deny the utility of the
conquest, or even of our future possession, of Guada-
loupe, if not bought too dear. The trade of the
West Indies is one of our most valuable trades. Our
possessions there deserve our greatest care and at-
tention. So do those of North America. I shall not
enter into the invidious task of comparing their due
estimation. It would be a very long and a very dis-
agreeable one, to run through every thing material
on this head. It is enough to our present point, if
I have shown that the value of North America is
capable of an immense increase, by an acquisition
and measures that must necessarily have an effect
the direct contrary of what we have been indus-
triously taught to fear; and that Guadaloupe is,
in point of advantage, but a very small addition to
our West India possessions; rendered many ways
less valuable to us than it is to the French, who will
probably set more value upon it than upon a country
[Canada] that is much more valuable to us than to
them.

There is a great deal more to be said on all the
parts of these subjects; but as it would carry me
into a detail that I fear would tire the patience of my
readers, and which I am not without apprehensions

334 The Works of [1760

I have done already, I shall reserve what remains
till I dare venture again on the indulgence of the
public.1

CXCI

TO LORD KAMES

Coventry, 27 September, 1760.

My Dear Lord: — We are here upon a journey,
which when first proposed was to have extended
farther than the season will now permit. We de-
signed going over to Ireland, and, having made the
tour of that country, we were to have crossed from
its northern part to Dumfries, or some other port on
your coast, which would have given us the pleasing
opportunity of seeing once more our friends in Scot-
land. This, if we could have left London early in
the summer; but the litigation between our pro-
vince and its Proprietor, in which we were engaged,
confined us in London till the middle of this month.
That cause is indeed at length ended, and in a great
degree to our satisfaction; but, by its continuing so
long, we are disappointed in our hopes of spending
some more happy days at Karnes with you and your
amiable family.

I do not pretend to charge this to your account as
a letter. It is rather to acknowledge myself in your
debt, and to promise payment. It is some time

1 Dr. Franklin is reported to have said that in writing this pam-
phlet he received considerable assistance from a learned friend, who,
it is stated, on the authority of William T. Franklin, was Richard
Jackson.

1760] Benjamin Franklin 335

since I received your obliging favor of June last.
When I return to London, which we intend after see-
ing Cheshire, Wales, Bristol, and spending some
time at Bath, I hope to be a more punctual corres-
pondent. I am your Lordship's most obedient and
humble servant,

B. Franklin.
P. S. — Our thanks to Lady Karnes for the receipt.
Enclosed we send the Chapter.1

CXCII

TO DAVID HUME

Coventry, 27 September, 1760.

Dear Sir: — I have too long postponed answering
your obliging letter, a fault I will not attempt to
excuse, but rather rely on your goodness to forgive
it, if I am more punctual for the future.

I am obliged to you for the favorable sentiments
you express of the pieces sent to you; though the
volume relating to our Pennsylvania affairs was not
written by me, nor any part of it, except the remarks
on the Proprietor's estimate of his estate, and some
of the inserted messages and reports of the Assembly,
which I wrote when at home, as a member of com-
mittees appointed by the House for that service.
The rest was by another hand.2

1 This "Chapter" was the Parable against Persecution, first pub-
lished by Lord Kames.

3 The treatise here mentioned is probably the Historical Review of
the Constitution and Government of Pennsylvania, which has hitherto

336 The Works of [1760

But though I am satisfied, by what you say, that
the Duke of Bedford was hearty in the scheme of the
expedition, I am not so clear that others in the ad-
ministration were equally in earnest in that matter.
It is certain, that after the Duke of Newcastle's first
orders to raise troops in the colonies, and promise to
send over commissions to the officers, with arms and
clothing for the men, we never had another syllable
from him for eighteen months ; during all which time
the army lay idle at Albany for want of orders and
necessaries ; and it began to be thought at last that,
if an expedition had ever been intended, the first
design and the orders given must, through the mul-
tiplicity of business here at home, have been quite
forgotten.1

I am not a little pleased to hear of your change
of sentiments in some particulars relating to Amer-
ica; because I think it of importance to our general
welfare, that the people of this nation should have
right notions of us, and I know no one that has it
more in his power to rectify their notions than Mr.
Hume. I have lately read with great pleasure, as I
do every thing of yours, the excellent Essay on the
Jealousy of Commerce. I think it cannot but have
a good effect in promoting a certain interest, too
little thought of by selfish man, and scarcely ever
mentioned, so that we hardly have a name for it;
I mean the interest of humanity, or common good of

been published in the various editions of Franklin's works as from
his pen. This letter to Hume removes all doubt that it was from an-
other hand, though there is no doubt that Franklin encouraged and
contributed to the expense of its publication. — Editor.

1 This was the expedition projected against Canada in the year 1 746.

1760] Benjamin Franklin

0>3,

mankind. But, I hope, particularly from that
Essay, an abatement of the jealousy, that reigns
here, of the commerce of the colonies, at least so far
as such abatement may be reasonable.

I thank you for your friendly admonition relating
to some unusual words in the pamphlet. It will be
of service to me. The "pejorate" and the "colon-
ize," since they are not in common use here, I give
up as bad ; for certainly in writings intended for per-
suasion and for general information, one cannot be
too clear; and every expression in the least obscure
is a fault. The " unshakeable" too, though clear, I
give up as rather low. The introducing new words,
where we are already possessed of old ones sufficiently
expressive, I confess must be generally wrong, as it
tends to change the language; yet, at the same
time, I cannot but wish the usage of our tongue per-
mitted making new words, when we want them, by
composition of old ones whose meanings are already
well understood. The German allows of it, and it
is a common practice with their writers. Many of
our present English words were originally so made;
and many of the Latin words. In point of clearness,
such compound words would have the advantage
of any we can borrow from the ancient or from for-
eign languages. For instance, the word inaccessible,
though long in use among us, is not yet, I dare say,
so universally understood by our people, as the word
uncomeatable would immediately be, which we are
not allowed to write. But I hope, with you, that we
shall always in America make the best English of
this Island our standard, and I believe it will be so.

VOL. III. — 22.

3$S The Works of [1760

I assure you it often gives me pleasure to reflect how
greatly the audience (if I may so term it) of a good
English writer will, in another century or two, be
increased by the increase of English people in our
colonies.

My son presents his respects with mine to you
and Dr. Monro. We received your printed circular
letter to the members of the Society,1 and purpose
some time next winter to send each of us a little
philosophical essay. With the greatest esteem, I
am, dear Sir, your most obedient and most humble
servant, B. Franklin.

CXCIII

TO JOHN BASKERVILLE a

Craven Street, London, 1760.

Dear Sir: — Let me give you a pleasant instance
of the prejudice some have entertained against your
work. Soon after I returned, discoursing with a
gentleman concerning the artists of Birmingham, he
said you would be a means of blinding all the readers

1 A Philosophical Society lately established at Edinburgh.

2 John Baskerville, a celebrated English printer, was born in the
year 1706. He inherited a small estate, and occupied himself for sev-
eral years in teaching a school at Birmingham. Possessing a taste for
painting, he entered into a lucrative branch of japanning, in which
business he continued for life, and acquired by it a fortune, which
made him independent. In the year 1750, he turned his thoughts
towards an improvement in type-founding and printing. Several
years were spent before he could produce such types as pleased him,
and he expended six hundred pounds in the process. The profits of
the undertaking, however, were not in proportion to the enterprise
and expense attending it; as will be seen by the following extract from

1760] Benjamin Franklin 339

in the nation; for the strokes of your letters, being
too thin and narrow, hurt the eye, and he could
never read a line of them without pain. ' ' I thought, ' '
said I, "you were going to complain of the gloss of
the paper, some object to." "No, no," says he, "I
have heard that mentioned, but it is not that; it is
in the form and cut of the letters themselves; they
have not that height and thickness of the stroke,
which make the common printing so much the
more comfortable to the eye." You see this gentle-
man was a connoisseur. In vain I endeavoured to

a letter which he wrote to Dr. Franklin, dated Birmingham, September
7, 1767. Dr. Franklin was at that time on a visit to Paris.

"After having obtained the reputation of excelling in the most use-
ful art known to mankind, of which I have your testimony, is it not
to the last degree provoking, that I cannot get even bread by it? I
must starve, had I no other dependence. I have offered the London
booksellers to print for them within five per cent as low as their common
currency, but cannot get from them a single job. I offered my whole
apparatus of letter- founding, printing, etc., to the Court of France by
the Duke de Nivernois, when he was ambassador here, for eight thou-
sand pounds, which was politely refused as being too large a sum.
Mr. Godfroy, who may be heard of at Mr. Sayde's, optician to the
King, lately told our good friend, Mr. Boulton, that France wished
to be possessed of my printing, &c, on moderate terms, in which I
heartily join.

" The intention of this is, therefore, to beg the favor of you to pro-
pose and recommend this affair, as Mr. Godfroy may point out the
way. I want only to set on foot a treaty; if they will not come to my
terms, I may possibly come to theirs. Suppose we reduce the price
to six thousand pounds. Louis the Fourteenth would have given
three times that sum, or Czar Peter. Let the reason of my parting
with it be, the death of my son and intended successor, and, having
acquired a moderate fortune, I wish to consult my ease in the after-
noon of life, as I am now turned of sixty."

The French government did not accept the offer. Baskerville died
on the 8th of January, 1775. In the year 1779, his types were pur-
chased by a literary Society in Paris for £3700, and were employed in
printing Beaumarchais' edition of Voltaire.

34° The Works of [1760

support your character against the charge ; he knew
what he felt, and could see the reason of it, and sev-
eral other gentlemen among his friends had made
the same observation, &c.

Yesterday he called to visit me, when, mischiev-
ously bent to try his judgment, I stepped into my
closet, tore off the top of Mr. Caslon's specimen, and
produced it to him as yours, brought with me from
Birmingham, saying, I had been examining it, since
he spoke to me, and could not for my life perceive
the disproportion he mentioned, desiring him to
point it out to me. He readily undertook it, and
went over the several fonts, showing me everywhere
what he thought instances of that disproportion, and
declared that he could not then read the specimen
without feeling very strongly the pain he had men-
tioned to me. I spared him that time the confusion
of being told that these were the types he had been
reading all his life with so much ease to his eyes, the
types his adored Newton is printed with, on which
he has pored not a little; nay, the very types his
own book is printed with (for he is himself an au-
thor), and yet never discovered this painful dispro-
portion in them, till he thought they were yours. I
am, &c, B. Franklin.

CXCIV

TO MRS. DEBORAH FRANKLIN

London, 1760.

My Dear Child: — Yesterday I received your let-
ter of February 10th, in which you mention that it

1760] Benjamin Franklin 341

was some months since you heard from me. During
my journey I wrote several times to you, particularly
from Liverpool and Glasgow, and since my return
some very long letters, that might have been with
you before your last to me, but I suppose the severe
winter on your coast, among other delays, has kept
the vessels out. One packet, Bonnel, was blown
quite back to England.

I am sorry for the death of your black boy, as you
seem to have had a regard for him. You must have
suffered a great deal in the fatigue of nursing him

in such a distemper. F has wrote me a very

idle letter, desiring me not to furnish the woman,
pretending to be his wife, with any thing on his
account, and says the letters she shows are a forgery.
But I have one she left with me, in which he acknow-
ledges her to be his wife, and the children his, and
I am sure it is his handwriting by comparing it
with this he has now wrote to me and a former one.
So he must be a very bad man, and I am glad
I never knew him. She was sick and perishing
with her children in the beginning of the winter,
and has had of me in all about four guineas.
What is become of her now, I know not. She
seemed a very helpless body, and I found her in
some falsehoods that disgusted me; but I pitied
the poor children, the more as they were descended,
though remotely, from our good old friends, whom
you remember.

I have now the pleasure to acquaint you that our
business draws near a conclusion, and that in less
than a month we shall have a hearing, after which

342 The Works of [1760

I shall be able to fix a time for my return.1 My
love to all, from, dear Debby, your affectionate
husband, B. Franklin.

cxcv

TO THE PRINTER OF THE LONDON CHRONICLE

Sir: — I met lately with an old quarto book on a
stall, the titlepage and the author's name wanting,
but containing discourses, addressed to some king
of Spain, extolling the greatness of monarchy, trans-
lated into English, and said in the last leaf to be
printed at London, by Bonham Norton and John
Bill, " Printers to the King's most excellent Majestie,
MDCXXIX." The author appears to have been a
Jesuit, for, speaking of that order in two places, he
calls it our Society. Give me leave to communicate
to the public a chapter of it, so apropos to our pres-
ent situation (only changing Spain for France), that
I think it well worth general attention and observa-
tion, as it discovers the arts of our enemies, and may
therefore help in some degree to put us on our guard
against them.

What effect the artifices here recommended might
have had in the times when our author wrote, I can-
not pretend to say; but I believe, the present age
being more enlightened and our people better ac-
quainted than formerly with our true national in-
terest, such arts can now hardly prove so generally

1 The business was not concluded so soon as he anticipated. The
hearing came on, but a strong opposition was made by the Proprietors'
counsel against the Pennsylvania claims.

1760] Benjamin Franklin 343

successful; for we may with pleasure observe, and
to the honor of the British people, that, though writ-
ings and discourses like these have lately not been
wanting, yet few in any of the classes he particular-
izes seem to be affected by them, but all ranks and
degrees among us persist hitherto in declaring for a
vigorous prosecution of the war, in preference to an
unsafe, disadvantageous, or dishonorable peace ; yet,
as a little change of fortune may make such writings
more attended to, and give them greater weight, I
think the publication of this piece, as it shows the
spring from whence these scribblers draw their pois-
oned waters, may be of public utility.

A Briton.

"Chap. XXXIV

" On the Means of disposing the Enemie to Peace.

"Warres, with whatsoever Prudence undertaken,
and conducted, do not always succeed. Many
Thinges out of Man's Power to governe, such as
Dearth of Provision, Tempests, Pestilence, and the
like, oftentimes interfering and totally overthrowing
the best Designes; so that these Enemies (England
and Holland) of our Monarchy though apparently
at first the weaker, may by disastrous Events of
Warre, on our Parte, become the stronger, and
though not in such degree as to endanger the Bodie
of this great Kingdom, yet, by their greater Power
of Shipping and Aptness in Sea Affairs, to be able
to cut off, if I may so speake, some of its smaller
Limbs and Members that are remote therefrom and

344 The Works of [1760

not easily defended, to wit, our Islands and Colonies
in the Indies; thereby however depriving the Bodie
of its wonted Nourishment, so that it must thence-
forthe languish and grow weake, if those Parts are
not recovered, which possibly may by continuance
of Warre be found unlikelie to be done. And the
Enemie, puffed up with their successes, and hoping
still for more, may not be disposed to Peace on such
Termes as would be suitable to the honor of your
Majestie, and to the Welfare of your State and Sub-
jects. In such Case, the following Meanes may have
good Effect.

"It is well knowne, that these Northerne People,
though hardie of Bodie and bold in Fight, be never-
theless, through overmuch Eating and other Intem-
perance, slowe of Wit, and dull in Understanding, so
that they are ofttimes more easilie to be governed
and turned by Skill than by Force. There is, there-
fore, always Hope that, by wise Counsel and dexter-
ous Management, those Advantages, which through
cross Accidents in Warre have been lost, may again
with Honour be recovered. In this Place I shall say
little of the Power of Money secretly distributed
among Grandees, or their Friends or Paramours;
that Method being in all Ages known and practised.
If the minds of Enemies can be changed, they may be
brought to grant willingly and for nothing what
much Gold would scarcely have otherwise prevailed
to obtaine. Yet, as the procuring this Change is to
be by fitte Instruments, some few Doubloones will
not unprofitably be distributed by your Majestie.
The manner whereof I shall now briefly recite.

j76o] Benjamin Franklin 345

" In those Countries, and particularly in England,
there are not wanting Menne of Learning, ingenious
Speakers and Writers, who are nevertheless in lowe
Estate, and pinched by Fortune. These, being pri-
vately gained by proper Meanes, must be instructed
in their Sermons, Discourses, Writings, Poems, and
Songs, to handle and specially inculcate Points like
these which folio we. Let them magnifie the Bless-
ings of Peace, and enlarge mightilie thereon, which
is not unbecoming grave Divines and other Christian
Menne. Let them expatiate on the Miseries of
Warre, the Waste of Christian Blood, the growing
Scarcitie of Labourers and Workmen, the Dearness
of all foreign Wares and Merchandise, the Interrup-
tion of Commerce, the Captures of Ships, the Increase
and great Burthen of Taxes. Let them represent
the Warre as an unmeasurable Advantage to Par-
ticulars, and to Particulars only (thereby to excite
en vie against those, who manage and provide for the
same), while so prejudicial to the Commonweale and
People in general. Let them represent the Advan-
tages gained against us, as trivial and of little Im-
port; the Places taken from us, as of small Trade
and Produce, inconvenient for Situation, unwhole-
some for Ayre and Climate, useless to their Nations,
and greatlie chargeable to keepe, draining the home
Countrie both of Menne and Money.

" Let them urge, that, if a Peace be forced on us,
and those Places withheld, it will nourishe secret
Griefe and Malice in the King and Grandees of
Spain, which will ere long breake forthe in new
Warres, when those Places may again be retaken,

346 The Works of [1760

without the Merit and Grace of restoring them will-
ingly for Peace's Sake. Let them represent the
making or Continuance of Warres, from views of
Gaine, to be base and unworthy a brave People, as
those made from Views of Ambition are mad and
wicked. Let them insinuate, that the Continuance
of the present Warre, on their Parte, hath these In-
gredients in its Nature. Then let them magnifie the
great Power of your Majestie, and the Strength of
your Kingdome, the inexhaustible Wealthe of your
Mines, the Greatness of your Incomes, and thence
your Abilitie of continuing the Warre; hinting
withal the new Alliances you may possiblie make;
at the same time setting forth the sincere Disposi-
tion you have for Peace, and that it is only a Con-
cerne for your Honor, and the Honor of your Realme,
that induceth you to insist on the Restitution of the
places taken.

" If, with all this, they shrewdly intimate, and
cause it to be understood by artful Wordes and be-
lieved, that their own Prince is himself in Heart for
Peace, on your Majestie's Termes, and grieved at
the Obstinacy and Perverseness of those among his
People, who are for continuing the Warre, a marvel-
lous Effect shall by these Discourses and Writings
be produced; and a wonderful strong Partie shall
your Majestie raise among your Enemies in Favour
of the Peace you desire; insomuch that their own
Princes and wisest Counsellours will in a Sorte be
constrained to yeeld thereto. For, in this Warre of
Wordes, the Avarice and Ambition, the Hope and
Fears, and all the Crowd of humane Passions will

1760] Benjamin Franklin 347

be raised and put in Array to fight for your Interests
against the reall and substantiall Interest of their
own Countries. The simple and undiscerning Many
shall be carried away by the Plausibilitie and Well-
seeming of these Discourses; and the Opinions be-
coming more popular, all the Rich Menne, who have
great Possessions, and fear the Continuance of Taxes,
and hope Peace will end them, shall be emboldened
thereby to crie aloud for Peace; their Dependents,
who are many, must do the same.

" All Merchaunts, fearing Loss of Ships and greater
Burthens on Trade by further Duties and Subsidies,
and hoping greater Profits by the ending of the
Warre, shall join in the crie for Peace. All the
Usurers and Lenders of Money to the State, who on
a Peace hope great Profits on their Bargains, and
fear if the Warre be continued the State shall become
bankeroute, and unable to pay them; these, who
have no small Weighte, shall join the crie for Peace.
All, who maligne the bold Conductors of the Warre,
and envie the Glorie they may have thereby ob-
tained ; these shall crie aloud for Peace, hoping, that,
when the Warre shall cease, such Menne becoming
less necessarie shall be more lightly esteemed, and
themselves more sought after. All the Officers of
the Enemie's Armies and Fleets, who wish for Re-
pose and to enjoy their Salaries or Rewardes in
Quietnesse and without Peril; these, and their
Friends and Families, who desire their Safetie and
the Solace of their Societie, shall all crie for Peace.

" All those, who be timorous by Nature, amongste
whom be reckoned Menne of Learning that lead

348 The Works of [1761

sedentarie Lives, doing little Exercise of Bodie, and
thence obtaining but few and weake Spirits; great
Statesmen, whose natural Spirits be exhausted by
much Thinking, or depressed by overmuch Feasting ;
together with all Women, whose Power, weake as
they are, is not a little amongste the Menne; these
shall incessantly speake for Peace. And finally all
Courtiers, who suppose they conforme thereby to
the Inclinations of the Prince (ad Exemplum Regis,
&c); all who are in Places, fear to lose them, or
hope for better ; all who are out of Places, and hope
to obtaine them; with all the worldly minded
Clergy, who seeke Preferment; these, with all the
Weigh te of their Character and Influence, shall join
the crie for Peace; till it becomes one universal
Clamour, and no Sound, but that of Peace, Peace,
Peace, shall be heard from every Quarter.

"Then shall your Majestie's Termes of Peace be
listened to with much readinesse, the Places taken
from you be willingly restored, and your Kingdome,
recovering its Strength, shall only need to waite a
few Years for more favourable Occasions, when the
Advantages to your Power, proposed by beginning
the Warre, but lost by its bad Successe, shall, with
better Fortune, be finally obtained."

CXCVI

TO HUGH ROBERTS

London, 26 February, 1761.

Dear Friend: — I think I have before acknow-
ledged the receipt of your favor of the 15th of the

1761] Benjamin Franklin 349

5th month, 1760. (I use your own notation, be-
cause I cannot tell what month it was, without reck-
oning.) I thank you for it, however, once more. I
received it by the hand of your son, and had the
pleasure withal of seeing him grown up a solid, sen-
sible young man. You will have, I see, a great deal
of satisfaction in him, and I congratulate you cor-
dially on that head.

I was glad to hear that the Hospital is still sup-
ported. I write to the managers by this ship. In
my journeys through England and Scotland I have
visited several of the same kind, which I think were
all in a good way. I send you by this ship sundry of
their accounts and rules, which were given me. Pos-
sibly you may find a useful hint or two in some of
them. I believe we shall be able to make a small
collection here ; but I cannot promise it will be very
considerable.

You tell me you sometimes visit the ancient
Junto. I wish you would do it oftener. I know
they all love and respect you, and regret your ab-
senting yourself so much. People are apt to grow
strange, and not understand one another so well,
when they meet but seldom. Since we have held
that Club till we are grown gray together, let us hold
it out to the end. For my own part, I find I love
company, chat, a laugh, a glass, and even a song,
as well as ever, and at the same time relish bet-
ter than I used to do the grave observations and
wise sentences of old men's conversation; so that
I am sure the Junto will be still as agreeable to me
as it ever has been. I therefore hope it will not

35° The Works of [1761

be discontinued as long as we are able to crawl

together.1

I thank you for the frequent kind visits you are

so good as to make to my little family. I now hope

in a little time to have the pleasure of seeing them,

and thanking my friends in person. With the sin-

cerest esteem and regard, I am, dear friend, yours

affectionately,

B. Franklin.

CXCVII

TO MISS MARY STEVENSON

Craven Street, Monday, 30 March, 1761.

My Dear Friend: — Supposing the fact that the
water of the well at Bristol is warmer after some

1 One of Franklin's songs for the Junto, of a political complexion,
has been found among his manuscripts, which was probably written
about the time of the Stamp Act, or a little later. The allusion to
France, in the last stanza but one, would seem to refer to that period.
The author was then in England, and it is not known for what occa-
sion the song was composed.

THE MOTHER COUNTRY A SONG.

" We have an old mother that peevish has grown;
She snubs us like children that scarce walk alone;
She forgets we 're grown up and have sense of our own,
Which nobody can deny, deny,
Which nobody can deny.

" If we don't obey orders, whatever the case,
She frowns, and she chides, and she loses all pati-
Ence, and sometimes she hits us a slap in the face,
Which nobody can deny, &c.

" Her orders so odd are, we often suspect
That age has impaired her sound intellect;

1761] Benjamin Franklin 351

time pumping, I think your manner of accounting
for that increased warmth very ingenious and prob-
able. It did not occur to me, and therefore I doubted
of the fact.

You are, I think, quite right in your opinion, that
the rising of the tides in rivers is not owing to the
immediate influence of the moon on the rivers. It
is rather a subsequent effect of the influence of the
moon on the sea, and does not make its appearance
in some rivers till the moon has long passed by. I
have not expressed myself clearly, if you have un-
derstood me to mean otherwise. You know I have
mentioned it as a fact, that there are in some rivers
several tides all existing at the same time; that is,
two, three, or more high-waters, and as many low-
waters, in different parts of the same river, which
cannot possibly be all effects of the moon's imme-
diate action on that river, but they may be subse-
quent effects of her action on the sea.

In the enclosed paper you will find my sentiments

But still an old mother should have due respect,
Which nobody can deny, &c.

" Let 's bear with her humors as well as we can;
But why should we bear the abuse of her man?
When servants make mischief, they earn the rattan,
Which nobody should deny, &c.

" Know too, ye bad neighbours, who aim to divide
The sons from the mother, that still she 's our pride;
And if ye attack her we 're all of her side,
Which nobody can deny, &c.

" We '11 join in her lawsuits, to baffle all those,
Who, to get what she has, will be often her foes;
For we know it must all be our own, when she goes,
Which nobody can deny, deny,
Which nobody can deny."

352 The Works of [1761

on several points relating to the air and the evapora-
tion of water. It is Mr. Collinson's copy, who took
it from one I sent through his hands to a correspond-
ent in France some years since ; I have, as he desired
me, corrected the mistakes he made in transcribing,
and must return it to him ; but if you think it worth
while you may take a copy of it. I would have
saved you any trouble of that kind, but had not
time.

Some day in the next or the following week I pur-
pose to have the pleasure of seeing you at Wanstead.
I shall accompany your good mamma thither, and
stay till the next morning, if it may be done without
incommoding your family too much. We may then
discourse any points in that paper that do not seem
clear to you, and, taking a walk to Lord Tilney's
ponds, make a few experiments there to explain the
nature of the tides more fully. In the mean time,
believe me to be, with the highest esteem and
regard,

Your sincerely affectionate friend,

B. Franklin.

CXCVIII

TO JOSIAH QUINCY

London, 8 April, 1761.

Dear Sir: — I received your very obliging letter
of December 25th, by the hand of your valuable
son, who had before favored me now and then with

1761] Benjamin Franklin 353

a kind visit. I congratulate you on his account, as
I am sure you must have a great deal of satisfaction
in him. His ingenuous, manly, and generous be-
haviour, in a transaction here with the Society of
Arts, gave me great pleasure, as it was much to his
reputation.1

I am glad my weak endeavours for our common
interest were acceptable to you and my American
friends. I shall be very happy indeed if any good
arises from them. The people in power here do
now seem convinced of the truth of the principles I
have inculcated, and incline to act upon them; but
how far they will be able to do so at a peace, is still
uncertain, especially as the war in Germany grows
daily less favorable to us. My kinsman, Williams,
was but ill informed in the account he gave you of
my situation here. The Assembly voted me fifteen
hundred pounds sterling when I left Philadelphia,
to defray the expense of my voyage and negotia-
tions in England, since which they have given
nothing more, though I have been here near four
years. They will, I make no doubt, on winding up
the affair, do what is just; but they cannot afford
to be extravagant, as that report would make
them.

Pray make my best respects acceptable to your
amiable family, and do me the justice to believe
that no one more sincerely wishes a continuance

1 The gentleman here mentioned was Edmund Quincy, a merchant
of Boston and the eldest son of Josiah Quincy. He had been in trade
several years, and went to London to arrange a mercantile correspond-
ence there. He died at sea, March 31, 1768, on his homeward voyage
from the West Indies, at the age of thirty-five.

VOL. HI.— 23.

354 The Works of [1761

of your happiness than, dear friend, yours most
affectionately,

B. Franklin.1

CXCIX

TO HENRY POTTS, ESQ.

Craven Street, 23d April, 1761.

Sir: — In obedience to the commands of His Ma-
jesty's Postmaster General, signified to me by you,
I have considered Governor Boone's letter to My
Lord Bessborough, and the extract of his letter to
John Pownall, Esq., Secretary to the Board of
Trade, containing a complaint of some inconven-
iency to him, arising from "the posts not passing
through Perth Amboy and Burlington (the route
established by Act of Parliament) in their way be-
tween Philadelphia and New York ' ' ; and alledging,
that "thro' this omission it has happened and may
happen again that dispatches received by him from
the plantation office could not be answered by the
first pacquet, whence he may sometimes appear
tardy to their lordships with all the inclination to be
otherwise, etc."

It is true that the post route was thro' the towns
of Burlington and Amboy in New Jersey, before and

1 Josiah Quincy, to whom the above letter was written, resided in
Braintree, Mass., and was the father of the distinguished patriot,
Josiah Quincy, Jr., who will be mentioned hereafter. An early ac-
quaintance and attachment had been formed between Mr. Quincy, the
father, and Dr. Franklin, the particulars of which are described by the
latter in his autobiography.

1761] Benjamin Franklin 355

at the time of making the Act of Queen Anne for
establishing the post office, and therefore those
towns were mentioned in the Act, so far as to settle
the rates of postage between them and the cities of
New York and Philadelphia; but it has never been
understood that the route was established by such
mention of those places, or that the Act bound the
post-office to continue the posts in any route then
used, if one better and more convenient could be
found. Nor, indeed, would such restraints in an
Act of Parliament relating to America be of utility,
but the contrary. For our first settlements there
being near the sea, the first roads are of course along
the coast where interrupting waters from bays and
inlets are more frequent, and rivers wider and more
difficult of passage; but in process of time, as the
people settle farther back and clear the upland coun-
try, more convenient roads are found, the bays and
inlets avoided, and the interruption of ferries less
frequent, as many rivers are fordable up the country
that cannot be cross 'd near their mouths but in
boats.

Something like this has been the case with regard
to the old and new roads thro' the province of New
Jersey. As soon as the new road in the upper parts
of that province was open'd travellers between
Philadelphia and New York began gradually to
abandon the old road, which was not so convenient;
and after some time, on an application made to Col.
Spotswood, then deputy postmaster-general, the
post route was also chang'd from the old road to the
new.

356 The Works of [1761

This change was made about thirty years ago and
some years before I had any concern in the office;
but as it was a matter much talk'd of at the time, I
remember well the reasons that were given for the
change which were these, viz. :

That the ferry over the River Delaware from Bris-
tol to Burlington, to be pass'd in travelling the old
road, was a mile and half wide, and in winter often
incumbered with ice, so as greatly to delay the post:
that the old road, from Burlington to Amboy, was
for 50 miles chiefly a heavy loose sand, very fatigu-
ing to the horses; that being thro' a barren country,
it was not well-inhabited, nor the inns well supply 'd
with provisions; that being less travelled than for-
merly, there was not the same care taken to provide
suitable accommodations for travellers, so that no
gentlemen passing between New York and Phila-
delphia, tho' desirous of riding post, could well
travel with him : that this gradual disuse of the road
occasioned less care to be taken of the bridges,
which were often out of repair, so that in rainy
seasons, crossing the brooks and branches of rivers
became dangerous and sometimes impracticable, to
the great delay and injury of travellers: that the
ferry over to Amboy, necessary to be pass'd on this
road, was near two miles wide, being at the mouth
of the Raritan River, and often so rough from high
winds, or so incumbered with ice as to be impassable
for many hours, to the great delay of the post as
well as other travellers : and after the post was got
to Amboy, he had still three large ferries to cross
between that place and New York, viz.: the ferry

1761] Benjamin Franklin 357

over to Staten Island, the ferry from Staten Island
to Long Island, 3 miles wide, and the ferry from
Long Island to New York; in all which places the
ferrymen were generally very dilatory, and back-
ward to carry the post in bad weather, availing them-
selves of every excuse, as they were by law to re-
ceive no ferriage of him. On the other hand the new
road was over better ground and kept in better
repair; there were everywhere good accommoda-
tions at the inns; Delaware River was to be cross 'd
at Trenton and Raritan River at Brunswick, where
they were both narrow, and the latter fordable at
low water; and the people at Elizabeth Town Point
undertook voluntarily to have a stout boat always
ready to carry the post and his company directly to
New York, by which the three last mentioned ferries
were avoided.

The change being accordingly made, the post went
no more thro' Burlington and Amboy; but those
places on that account suffered very little inconven-
iency, for an office was still continu'd at each of
them, and their letters sent over to proper places on
the new post road, to be carried forward by the post ;
and this was easy to do, it being only cross the ferry
from Burlington to Bristol, thro' which the post
goes, and but 4 miles from Amboy to Woodbridge
thro' which he also goes. And the letters for Bur-
lington were in like manner sent over to that office
from Bristol, and those for Amboy sent to that
office from Woodbridge. Tho' the letters to and
from each place by post were always extremely few,
as they are towns of little or no foreign trade, the

358 The Works of [1761

chief dealing with Amboy being with New York, and
that of Burlington with Philadelphia, to and from
which places boats are going almost every day, by
which they always chose to send their letters, even
when the post pass'd thro' them. On the other
hand, two other large and thriving towns, who make
much more use of the post, are accommodated by it
on the New York road, viz., Trenton and Bruns-
wick; not to mention Prince Town, where a college
is lately erected, Woodbridge and Elizabeth Town,
thro' all of which places the new road passes, and
where offices have been long established.

It is now near 24 years that I have been concern 'd
in the management of the offices between Philadel-
phia and New York, and in all that time have had
no complaint made to me of inconvenience from the
posts continuing the route I found them in. And
I must own myself at a loss to conceive the difficulty
Governor Boone mentions of his corresponding regu-
larly with the Board of Trade, and that " dispatches
receiv'd from their Lordships could not be answered
by the first pacquet, thro' the posts' omission of
Burlington and Amboy in their route." His Excel-
lency resides at Amboy, and the letters for him
which arrive at New York in the pacquet, must be
forwarded to him at farthest within three days, as
the post goes from New York twice a week and
passes within four miles of Amboy at Woodbridge,
where the Governor's letters are left, and sent to him
immediately by a special messenger from the office
there; the post returns twice a week from Philadel-
phia to New York, and passing thro' Woodbridge,

1761] Benjamin Franklin 359

takes up and carries forward any letters left there.
The pacquet stays at New York at least 20 days, and
during that time the post passes 6 times thro' Wood-
bridge to New York, and would carry forward any
letters the Governor should lodge at Woodbridge for
that purpose. And if he happens to be at Burling-
ton with his Assembly the post passes equally often
thro' Bristol (within a mile and a half of him, only
just cross a ferry), where it cannot be much trouble
to send his letters. So that on the whole I am per-
suaded it must appear, when duly considered, that
his Excellency's want of punctuality in his corres-
pondence with their Lordships cannot justly be
charged to the account of the post-office. Mr. Bar-
nard, immediate predecessor of Governor Boone,
tho' he also lived at Amboy, made no complaint of
this kind that I ever heard of. Nor did the next
preceding Governor Belcher, tho' he lived great part
of his time at Burlington. The governors of New
Jersey have sometimes liv'd on the new road, at
Trenton and at Elizabeth Town; and as there is no
fixed place of residence for governors in that pro-
vince, future governors may happen to chuse some
of the towns on the new road; so that if the post
route were chang'd to gratify Governor Boone, the
next governor might desire to have it back again.
And I apprehend that the delays formerly experi-
enced so frequently in the detention of the post by
the wide ferries in the winter, would, if the old route
was resumed, occasion great dissatisfaction to the
governors of Pennsylvania, New York and New
England, who, as well as the merchants of their

360 The Works of [1761

great trading towns would probably remonstrate
warmly against it.

Nevertheless, if His Majesty's Postmaster General
should upon the whole think fit to order the old
route to be resumed, and the new one with all the
offices so long established upon it to be drop't, it is
my duty to carry their orders into execution, which
I shall do with great readiness and fidelity. I am,
Sir, your most Obedient humble servant.

B. Franklin.1

CC

TO EDWARD PENNINGTON

London, 9 May, 1761.

Sir: — I enclose you a letter from your kinsman,
Mr. Springet Penn, with whom I had no acquaint-
ance until lately, but have the pleasure to find him
a very sensible, discreet young man, with excellent
dispositions, which makes me the more regret that
the government as well as property of our province
should pass out of that line. There has, by his ac-
count, been something very mysterious in the con-
duct of his uncle, Mr. Thomas Penn, towards him.
He was his guardian; but instead of endeavouring
to educate him at home under his eye in a manner
becoming the elder branch of their house, has from
his infancy been endeavouring to get rid of him.

1 From Documents Relating to the Colonial History of New Jersey,
vol. ix. (first series), p. 265.

2 Mr. Pennington was an eminent merchant of Philadelphia. There
was a family connection between his ancestors and William Penn's
first wife, whose name before her marriage was Springet.

1761] Benjamin Franklin 361

He first proposed sending him to the East Indies.
When that was declined, he had a scheme of sending
him to Russia; but the young gentleman's mother
absolutely refusing to let him go out of the kingdom,
unless to Pennsylvania to be educated in the college
there, he would by no means hear of his going
thither, but bound him an apprentice to a county
attorney in an obscure part of Sussex, which, after
two years' stay, finding that he was taught nothing
valuable, nor could see any company that might
improve him, he left, and returned to his mother,
with whom he has been ever since, much neglected
by his uncle, except lately that he has been a little
civil, to get him to join in a power of attorney to
W. Peters and R. Hockley for the sale of some Phila-
delphia lots, of which he is told three undivided
fourth parts belong to him. But he is not shown
the right he has to them; nor has he any plan of
their situation, by which he may be advised of their
value; nor was he told, till lately, that he had any
such right, which makes him suspect that he may
have other rights that are concealed from him.

In some letters to his father's eldest brother,
Springet Penn, whose heir he is, he finds that Sir
William Keith surveyed for him, the said Springet,
a manor of seventy-five thousand acres on the Sus-
quehanna, which he called Springetsbury, and would
be glad to know what became of that survey, and
whether it was ever conveyed away. By searching
the records, you may possibly obtain some light in
this and other land affairs, that may be for his inter-
est. The good inclinations you have shown towards

362 The Works of [1761

that interest, in a letter that has been shown to me,
encourage me to recommend this matter earnestly
to your care and prudence ; and the more privately
you carry on your inquiries, for the present, the bet-
ter it will be.

His uncle has lately proposed to him to buy of
him Pennsbury manor house, with one thousand
acres of the land near the house, pretending that his
principal reason for doing it was not the value of the
land, but an inclination he had to possess the an-
cient home of the head of the family, and a little
land round it just to support it. You know the
situation of that manor, and can judge whether it
would be prudent to sell the part proposed from the
rest, and will advise him concerning it. He has re-
fused to treat about it at present, as well as to sign
the power of attorney for the sale of the city lots;
upon which his late guardian has brought in an
account against him, and demands a debt of four
hundred pounds, which he urges him to pay, for that,
as he says, he very much wants the money, which
does not seem to look well.

Not only the Land Office may be searched for war-
rants and surveys to the young gentleman's ancestors,
but also the Record Office for deeds of gift from the
first proprietor, and other subsequent grants or con-
veyances. I may tell you in confidence that some
lawyers are of opinion that the government was not
legally conveyed from the eldest branch to others of
the family ; but this is to be farther inquired into,
and at present it is not to be talked of. I am, with
much esteem, Sir, &c, B. Franklin.

1761] Benjamin Franklin 363

CCI

TO MRS. DEBORAH FRANKLIN

Utrecht, in Holland, 14 September, 1761.

My Dear Child: — I wrote to you just before we
left London, that we were about to make a short
tour to Holland. I wrote to you since from Ant-
werp, in Flanders, and am now to acquaint you,
that, having seen almost all the principal places, and
the things worthy of notice, in those two countries,
we are on our return to London, where we hope to be
next Saturday or Sunday, that we may not miss the
Coronation. At Amsterdam I met with Mr. Crellius
and his daughter, that was formerly Mrs. Neigh.
Her husband, Dr. Neigh, died in Carolina, and she
is married again and lives very well in that city.
They treated us with great civility and kindness, and
will be so obliging as to forward this letter to you, a
ship being bound to New York from Amsterdam.
We are in good health, and have had a great deal of
pleasure and received a good deal of information in
this tour, that may be useful when we return to
America. My love to my dear Sally, and affection-
ate regards to all. Billy presents his duty. I am,
my dear Debby, your ever loving husband,

B. Franklin.

CCII

TO MISS MARY STEVENSON

Craven Street, 29 October, 1761.

My dear Polly's good mamma bids me write two
or three lines, by way of apology for her so long

364 The Works of [1761

omitting to write. She acknowledges the receiving
of two agreeable letters from her beloved daughter,
enclosing one for Sally Franklin, which was much
approved (excepting one word only) and sent as
directed.

The reasons of her not writing are, that her time
all day is fully taken up, during the daylight, with
the care of her family, and — lying abed in the morn-
ing. And her eyes are so bad that she cannot see to
write in the evening — for playing at cards. So she
hopes that one, who is all goodness, will certainly
forgive her, when her excuses are so substantial. As
for the secretary, he has not a word to say in his own
behalf, though full as great an offender, but throws
himself upon mercy; pleading only that he is, with
the greatest esteem and sincerest regard, his dear
Polly's ever affectionate friend,

B. Franklin.

CCIII

TO LORD KAMES

London, November, 1761.

My Dear Lord: — It is long since I have afforded
myself the pleasure of writing to you. As I grow in
years, I find I grow more indolent, and more apt to
procrastinate. I am indeed a bad correspondent;
but what avails confession without amendment?

When I come so late with my thanks for your
truly valuable Introduction to the Art of Thinking,
can I have any right to inquire after your Elements

1761] Benjamin Franklin 365

of Criticism t I promise myself no small satisfaction
in perusing that work also, when it shall appear. By
the first, you sow thick in the young mind the seeds
of good sense concerning moral conduct, which, as
they grow and are transplanted into life, must
greatly adorn the character and promote the happi-
ness of the person. Permit me to say that I think
I never saw more solid, useful matter contained in
so small a compass, and yet the method and expres-
sion so clear that the brevity occasions no obscurity.
In the other you will, by alluring youth to the prac-
tice of learning, strengthen their judgment, improve
and enlarge their understanding, and increase their
abilities of being useful.

To produce the number of valuable men necessary
in a nation for its prosperity, there is much more
hope from schemes of early institution than from
reformation. And as the power of a single man to
do national service, in particular situations of influ-
ence, is often immensely great, a writer can hardly
conceive the good he may be doing when engaged
in works of this kind. I cannot, therefore, but wish
you would publish it as soon as your other important
employments will permit you to give it the finishing
hand.

With these sentiments you will not doubt my
being serious in the intention of finishing my Art of
Virtue. It is not a mere ideal work. I planned it
first in 1732. I have from time to time made, and
caused to be made, experiments of the method with
success. The materials have been growing ever
since. The form only is now to be given; in which

366 The Works of [1761

I purpose employing my first leisure, after my return
to my other country.

Your invitation to make another jaunt to Scot-
land, and offer to meet us half way en famille, was
extremely obliging. Certainly I never spent my
time anywhere more agreeably, nor have I been in
any place where the inhabitants and their conversa-
tion left such lastingly pleasing impressions on my
mind, accompanied with the strongest inclination
once more to visit that hospitable, friendly, and
sensible people. The friendship your Lordship
in particular honors me with would not, you may
be assured, be among the least of my induce-
ments. My son is in the same sentiments with me.
But we doubt we cannot have that happiness, as
we are to return to America early in the next
spring.

I am ashamed that I have been so useless a mem-
ber to your Philosophical Society, since they did me
the honor of admitting me. But I think it will not
be long before they hear from me. I should be very
glad to see Dr. Cullen's paper on Fire. When may
we expect the publication? I have, as you have
heard, been dealing in Smoke, and I think it not diffi-
cult to manage, when one is once acquainted thor-
oughly with the principles. But as the causes are
various, so must the remedies be; and one cannot
prescribe to a patient at such a distance, without
first having a clear state of its case. If you should
ever take the trouble of sending me a description of
the circumstances of your smoky chimneys, perhaps
I might offer something useful towards their cure.

1761] Benjamin Franklin 367

But doubtless you have doctors equally skilful
nearer home.

I sent one of your Principles of Equity as a present
to a particular friend of mine, one of the judges of
the Supreme Court in Pennsylvania, where, as there
is no court of chancery, equity is often mixed with
the common law in their judgments. I since re-
ceived two letters from him. In the first, when he
had read but part of the work, he seemed to think
something wanting in it. In the next, he calls his
first sentiments in question. I think I will send you
the letters, though of no great importance, lest,
since I have mentioned them, you should think his
remarks might be of more consequence. You can
return them when any friend is coming this way.

May I take the freedom of recommending the
bearer, Mr. Morgan, to your Lordship's protection.
He purposes residing some time in Edinburgh, to
improve himself in the study of physic, and I think
will one day make a good figure in the profession,
and be of some credit to the school he studies in, if
great industry and application, joined with natural
genius and sagacity, afford any foundation for the
presage. He is the son of a friend and near neigh-
bour of mine in Philadelphia, so that I have known
him from a child, and am confident the same ex-
cellent dispositions, good morals, and prudent be-
haviour, that have procured him the esteem and
affection of all that knew him in his own country,
will render him not unworthy the regard, advice,
and countenance your Lordship may be so good as
to afford him.

368 The Works of [1762

My son (with whom I have lately made the tour of

Holland and Flanders) joins with me in best wishes

for you and Lady Karnes, and your amiable children.

We hope, however far we may be removed from

you, to hear frequently of your welfare, and of the

fortunes of your family; being with the sincerest

esteem and regard, my dear friend, yours most

affectionately,

B. Franklin.

CCIV

TO DAVID HUME

London, 24 January, 1762.

Dear Sir: — In compliance with my Lord Mari-
schal's request, communicated to me by you, when
I last had the pleasure of seeing you, I now send you
what at present appears to me to be the shortest and
simplest method of securing buildings, &c, from the
mischiefs of lightning. Prepare a steel rod five or
six feet long, half an inch thick at its biggest end,
and tapering to a sharp point; which point should
be gilt to prevent its rusting. Let the big end of
the rod have a strong eye or ring of half an inch
diameter: Fix this rod upright to the chimney or
highest part of the house, by means of staples, so as
it may be kept steady. Let the pointed end be up-
wards, and rise three or four feet above the chimney
or building that the rod is fixed to. Drive into the
ground an iron rod of about an inch diameter, and
ten or twelve feet long, that has also an eye or ring

1762] Benjamin Franklin 369

in its upper end. It is best that the rod should be
at some distance from the foundation of the building,
not nearer than ten feet, if your ground will allow
so much. Then take as much length of iron rod of
about half an inch diameter, as will reach from the
eye in the rod above, to that in the rod below; and
fasten it securely to those rods, by passing its ends
through the rings, and bending those ends till they
likewise form rings.

This length of rod may either be in one or several
pieces. If in several, let the ends of the pieces be
also well hooked to each other. Then close and
cover every joint with lead, which is easily done, by
making a small bag of strong paper round the joint,
tying it close below, and then pouring in the melted
lead; it being of use in these junctures, that there
should be considerable quantity of metalline contact
between piece and piece. For, if they were only
hooked together and so touched each other but in
points, the lightning, in passing through them, might
melt and break them where they join. The lead
will also prevent the weakening of the joints by rust.
To prevent the shaking of this rod by the wind, you
may secure it by a few staples to the building, till it
comes down within ten feet of the ground, and thence
carry it off to your ground rod ; near to which should
be planted a post, to support the iron conductor
above the heads of people walking under it.

If the building be large and long, as an hundred
feet or upwards, it may not be amiss to erect a
pointed rod at each end, and form a communication
by an iron rod between them. If there be a well

37° The Works of [1762

near the house, so that you can by such a rod form
a communication from your top rod to the water, it
is rather better to do so than to use the ground rod
above mentioned. It may also be proper to paint
the iron, to render it more durable by preserving it
from rust.

A building thus guarded will not be damaged by
lightning, nor any person or thing therein killed,
hurt, or set on fire. For either the explosion will be
prevented by the operation of the point, or, if not
prevented, then the whole quantity of lightning ex-
ploded near the house, whether passing from the
cloud to the earth, or from the earth to the cloud,
will be conveyed in the rods. And though the iron
be crooked round the corner of the building, or make
ever so many turns between the upper and lower
rod, the lightning will follow it, and be guided by it,
without affecting the building. I omit the philo-
sophical reasons and experiments on which this prac-
tice is founded, for they are many, and would make
a book. Besides they are already known to most of
the learned throughout Europe. In the American
British colonies many houses have been, since the
year 1752, guarded by these principles. Three facts
have only come to my knowledge of the effects of
lightning on such houses.

If I have not been explicit enough in my direc-
tions, I shall, on the least intimation, endeavour to
supply the defect.

I am, &c.

B. Franklin.

1762] Benjamin Franklin 371

CCV

TO E. KINNERSLEY

London, 20 February, 1762.

Sir: — I received your ingenious letter of the 12th
of March last, and thank you cordially for the ac-
count you give me of the new experiments you have
lately made in electricity. It is a subject that still
affords me pleasure, though of late I have not much
attended to it.

Your second experiment, in which you attempted,
without success, to communicate positive electricity
by vapor ascending from electrized water, reminds
me of one I formerly made, to try if negative elec-
tricity might be produced by evaporation only. I
placed a large heated brass plate, containing four or
five square feet, on an electric stand ; a rod of metal,
about four feet long, with a bullet at its end, ex-
tended from the plate horizontal^. A light lock of
cotton, suspended by a fine thread from the ceiling,
hung opposite to, and within an inch of, the bullet.
I then sprinkled the heated plate with water, which
arose fast from it in vapor. If vapor should be dis-
posed to carry off the electrical, as it does the com-
mon, fire from bodies, I expected the plate would,
by losing some of its natural quantity, become nega-
tively electrized. But I could not perceive, by any
motion in the cotton, that it was at all affected;
nor, by any separation of small cork balls suspended
from the plate, could it be observed that the plate
was in any manner electrified.

Mr. Canton here has also found, that two tea-cups,

372 The Works of [1762

set on electric stands, and filled, one with boiling,
the other with cold, water, and equally electrified,
continued equally so, notwithstanding the plentiful
evaporation from the hot water. Your experiment
and his, agreeing, show another remarkable differ-
ence between electric and common fire. For the
latter quits most readily the body that contains it,
where water, or any other fluid, is evaporating from
the surface of that body, and escapes with the vapor.
Hence the method, long in use in the East, of cool-
ing liquors by wrapping the bottles round with a wet
cloth, and exposing them to the wind. Dr. Cullen,
of Edinburgh, has given some experiments of cooling
by evaporation; and I was present at one made by
Dr. Hadley, then Professor of Chemistry at Cam-
bridge, when, by repeatedly wetting the ball of a
thermometer with spirit, and quickening the evap-
oration by the blast of a bellows, the mercury fell
from sixty-five, the state of warmth in the common
air, to seven, which is twenty-two degrees below
freezing; and, accordingly, from some water mixed
with the spirit, or from the breath of the assistants,
or both, ice gathered in small spicula round the ball
to the thickness of near a quarter of an inch. To
such a degree did the mercury lose the fire it before
contained, which, as I imagine, took the opportunity
of escaping, in company with the evaporating par-
ticles of the spirit, by adhering to those particles.

Your experiment of the Florence flask and boiling
water is very curious. I have repeated it, and found
it to succeed as you describe it, in two flasks out of
three. The third would not charge when filled with

i7623 Benjamin Franklin 373

either hot or cold water. I repeated it, because I
remembered I had once attempted to make an elec-
tric bottle of a Florence flask, filled with cold water,
but could not charge it at all ; which I then imputed
to some imperceptible cracks in the small, extremely
thin bubbles, of which that glass is full, and I con-
cluded none of that kind would do. But you have
shown me my mistake. Mr. Wilson had formerly
acquainted us that red-hot glass would conduct elec-
tricity; but that so small a degree of heat as that
communicated by boiling water would so open the
pores of extremely thin glass, as to suffer the electric
fluid freely to pass, was not before known. Some
experiments similar to yours have, however, been
made here, before the receipt of your letter, of which
I shall now give you an account.

I formerly had an opinion that a Ley den bottle,
charged and then sealed hermetically, might retain
its electricity for ever; but having afterwards some
suspicion that possibly that subtile fluid might, by
slow, imperceptible degrees, soak through the glass,
and in time escape, I requested some of my friends,
who had conveniences for doing it, to make trial,
whether, after some months, the charge of a bottle
so sealed would be sensibly diminished. Being at
Birmingham, in September, 1760, Mr. Bolton of that
place opened a bottle that had been charged, and its
long tube neck hermetically sealed in the January
preceding. On breaking off the end of the neck,
and introducing a wire into it, we found it possessed
of a considerable quantity of electricity, which was
discharged by a snap and spark. This bottle had

374 The Works of [1762

lain near seven months on a shelf, in a closet, in con-
tact with bodies that would undoubtedly have car-
ried off all its electricity, if it could have come readily
through the glass. Yet, as the quantity manifested
by the discharge was not apparently so great as
might have been expected from a bottle of that size
well charged, some doubt remained, whether part
had escaped while the neck was sealing, or had since,
by degrees, soaked through the glass. But an ex-
periment of Mr. Canton's, in which such a bottle
was kept under water a week, without having its
electricity in the least impaired, seems to show that
when the glass is cold, though extremely thin, the
electric fluid is well retained by it. As that ingen-
ious and accurate experimenter made a discovery
like yours, of the effect of heat in rendering thin
glass permeable by that fluid, it is but doing him
justice to give you his account of it, in his own words,
extracted from his letter to me, in which he com-
municated it, dated October 31st, 1760, viz.:

" Having procured some thin glass balls, of about
an inch and a half in diameter, with stems or tubes,
of eight or nine inches in length, I electrified them,
some positively on the inside, and others negatively,
after the manner of charging the Ley den bottle, and
sealed them hermetically. Soon after I applied the
naked balls to my electrometer, and could not dis-
cover the least sign of their being electrical, but
holding them before the fire, at the distance of six
or eight inches, they became strongly electrical in a
very short time, and more so when they were cool-

1762] Benjamin Franklin 375

ing. These balls will, every time they are heated,
give the electrical fluid to, or take it from, other
bodies, according to the plus or minus state within
them. Heating them frequently, I find, will sensibly
diminish their power ; but keeping one of them under
water a week did not appear in the least degree to
impair it. That which I kept under water was
charged on the 2 2d of September last, was several
times heated before it was kept in water, and has
been heated frequently since, and yet it still retains
its virtue to a very considerable degree. The break-
ing two of my balls accidentally gave me an oppor-
tunity of measuring their thickness, which I found
to be between seven and eight parts in a thousand
of an inch.

" A down feather in a thin glass ball, hermetically
sealed, will not be affected by the application of an
excited tube, or the wire of a charged phial, unless
the ball be considerably heated; and if a glass pane
be heated till it begins to grow soft, and in that state
be held between the wire of a charged phial and the
discharging wire, the course of the electrical fluid
will not be through the glass, but on the surface,
round by the edge of it."

By this last experiment of Mr. Canton's it appears
that though by a moderate heat thin glass becomes,
in some degree, a conductor of electricity, yet when
of the thickness of a common pane it is not, though
in a state near melting, so good a conductor as to
pass the shock of a discharged bottle. There are
other conductors which suffer the electric fluid to

376 The Works of [1762

pass through them gradually, and yet will not con-
duct a shock. For instance, a quire of paper will
conduct through its whole length, so as to electrify a
person who, standing on wax, presents the paper to
an electrified prime conductor; but it will not con-
duct a shock even through its thickness only ; hence
the shock either fails, or passes by rending a hole in
the paper. Thus a sieve will pass water gradually,
but a stream from a fire-engine would either be
stopped by it, or tear a hole through it.

It should seem, that, to make glass permeable to
the electric fluid, the heat should be proportioned to
the thickness. You found the heat of boiling water,
which is but two hundred and ten, sufficient to ren-
der the extreme thin glass in a Florence flask per-
meable even to a shock. Lord Charles Cavendish,
by a very ingenious experiment, has found the heat
of four hundred requisite to render thicker glass
permeable to the common current.

' ' A glass tube (see Plate I . ) , of which the part CB was
solid, had wire thrust in each end, reaching to B and C.

"A small wire was tied on at D, reaching to the
floor, in order to carry off any electricity that might
run along upon the tube.

"The bent part was placed in an iron pot, filled
with iron filings; a thermometer was also put into
the filings; a lamp was placed under the pot; and
the whole was supported upon glass.

" The wire A being electrified by a machine, before
the heat was applied, the corks at E separated, at
first upon the principle of the Ley den phial.

\yr

',/"■

Plate I. Vol. III., p. 376.

1762] Benjamin Franklin 377

" But after the part CB of the tube was heated to
six hundred, the corks continued to separate, though
you discharged the electricity by touching the wire
at E, the electrical machine continuing in motion.

" Upon letting the whole cool, the effect remained
till the thermometer was sunk to four hundred."

It were to be wished that this noble philosopher
would communicate more of his experiments to the
world, as he makes many, and with great accuracy.

You know I have always looked upon and men-
tioned the equal repulsion, in cases of positive and of
negative electricity, as a phenomenon difficult to be
explained. I have sometimes, too, been inclined,
with you, to resolve all into attraction ; but, besides
that attraction seems in itself as unintelligible as re-
pulsion, there are some appearances of repulsion
that I cannot so easily explain by attraction; this,
for one instance. When the pair of cork balls are
suspended by flaxen threads from the end of the
prime conductor, if you bring a rubbed glass tube
near the conductor, but without touching it, you see
the balls separate, as being electrified positively; and
yet you have communicated no electricity to the
conductor, for, if you had, it would have remained
there after withdrawing the tube ; but the closing of
the balls immediately thereupon, shows that the
conductor has no more left in it than its natural
quantity. Then, again approaching the conductor
with the rubbed tube, if, while the balls are sepa-
rated, you touch with a finger that end of the con-
ductor to which they hang, they will come together

378 The Works of [1762

again, as being, with that part of the conductor,
brought to the same state with your finger — that is,
the natural state. But the other end of the con-
ductor, near which the tube is held, is not in that
state, but in the negative state, as appears on re-
moving the tube ; for then part of the natural quan-
tity left at the end near the balls, leaving that end
to supply what is wanting at the other, the whole
conductor is found to be equally in the negative
state. Does not this indicate that the electricity of
the rubbed tube had repelled the electric fluid, which
was diffused in the conductor while in its natural
state, and forced it to quit the end to which the
tube was brought near, accumulating itself on the
end to which the balls were suspended? I own I
find it difficult to account for its quitting that end,
on the approach of the rubbed tube, but on the sup-
position of repulsion; for while the conductor was
in the same state with the air — that is, the natural
state, it does not seem to me easy to suppose that
an attraction should suddenly take place between
the air and the natural quantity of the electric fluid
in the conductor, so as to draw it to, and accumulate
it on, the end opposite to that approached by the
tube; since bodies possessing only their natural
quantity of that fluid are not usually seen to attract
each other, or to affect mutually the quantities of
electricity each contains.

There are likewise appearances of repulsion in
other parts of nature. Not to mention the violent
force with which the particles of water, heated to
a certain degree, separate from each other, or those

1762] Benjamin Franklin 379

of gunpowder, when touched with the smallest spark
of fire, there is the seeming repulsion between the
same poles of the magnet, a body containing a
subtile movable fluid in many respects analogous to
the electric fluid. If two magnets are so suspended
by strings as that their poles of the same denomina-
tion are opposite to each other, they will separate
and continue so; or if you lay a magnetic steel bar
on a smooth table, and approach it with another
parallel to it, the poles of both in the same position,
the first will recede from the second, so as to avoid
the contact, and may thus be pushed (or at least
appear to be pushed) off the table. Can this be
ascribed to the attraction of any surrounding body
or matter drawing them asunder, or drawing the one
away from the other? If not, and repulsion exists
in nature, and in magnetism, why may it not ex-
ist in electricity? We should not indeed multiply
causes in philosophy without necessity; and the
greater simplicity of your hypothesis would recom-
mend it to me, if I could see that all appearances
would be solved by it. But I find, or think I find,
the two causes more convenient than one of them
alone. Thus I might solve the circular motion of
your horizontal stick, supported on a pivot, with
two pins at their ends, pointing contrary ways, and
moving in the same direction when electrified,
whether positively or negatively: when positively,
the air opposite to the points, being electrized posi-
tively, repels the points ; when negatively, the
air opposite the points also, by their means, elec-
trized negatively, attraction takes place between the

380 The Works of [1762

electricity in the air behind the heads of the pins
and the negative pins, and so they are, in this case,
drawn in the same direction that in the other they
were driven. You see I am willing to meet you
half way, a complaisance I have not met with in our
brother Nollet, or any other hypothesis-maker, and
therefore may value myself a little upon it, especially
as they say I have some ability in defending even
the wrong side of a question, when I take it in hand.
What you give as an established law of the elec-
tric fluid, "That quantities of different densities
mutually attract each other, in order to restore the
equilibrium," * is, I think, not well founded, or else
not well expressed. Two large cork balls, suspended
by silk strings, and both well and equally electrified,
separate to a great distance. By bringing into con-
tact with one of them another ball of the same size,
suspended likewise by silk, you will take from it half
its electricity. It will then, indeed, hang at a less
distance from the other, but the full and the half
quantities will not appear to attract each other —
that is, the balls will not come together. Indeed, I
do not know any proof we have, that one quantity

1 This letter from Franklin is in reply to another from Kinnersley,
dated the 12th March, 1762, in which he said:

"The doctrine of repulsion in electrized bodies I begin to be some-
what doubtful of. I think all the phenomena on which it is founded
may be well enough accounted for without it. Will not cork balls,
electrized negatively, separate as far as when electrized positively?
And may not their separation in both cases be accounted for upon the
same principle — namely, the mutual attraction of the natural quantity
in the air, and that which is denser or rarer in the cork balls ? it being
one of the established laws of this fluid, that quantities of different
densities shall mutually attract each other, in order to restore the
equilibrium. "

1762] Benjamin Franklin 381

of electric fluid is attracted by another quantity of
that fluid, whatever difference there may be in their
densities. And, supposing in nature a mutual at-
traction between two parcels of any kind of matter,
it would be strange if this attraction should subsist
strongly while those parcels were unequal, and cease
when more matter of the same kind was added to
the smallest parcel, so as to make it equal to the
biggest. By all the laws of attraction in matter
that we are acquainted with, the attraction is
stronger in proportion to the increase of the masses,
and never in proportion to the difference of the
masses. I should rather think the law would be:
"That the electric fluid is attracted strongly by
all other matter that we know of, while the parts
of that fluid mutually repel each other." Hence its
being equally diffused (except in particular circum-
stances) throughout all other matter. But this you
jokingly call "electrical orthodoxy." It is so with
some at present, but not with all; and, perhaps, it
may not always be orthodoxy with anybody. Opin-
ions are continually varying, where we cannot have
mathematical evidence of the nature of things; and
they must vary. Nor is that variation without its
use, since it occasions a more thorough discussion,
whereby error is often dissipated, true knowledge is
increased, and its principles become better under-
stood and more firmly established.

Air should have, as you observe, " its share of the
common stock of electricity, as well as glass, and,
perhaps, all other electrics per se." But I suppose
that, like them, it does not easily part with what it

382 The Works of [1762

has, or receive more, unless when mixed with some
non-electric, as moisture, for instance, of which there
is some in our driest air. This, however, is only a
supposition; and your experiment of restoring elec-
tricity to a negatively electrized person, by extend-
ing his arm upwards into the air, with a needle
between his fingers, on the point of which light may
be seen in the night, is, indeed, a curious one. In
this town the air is generally moister than with us,
and here I have seen Mr. Canton electrify the air in
one room positively, and in another, which com-
municated by a door, he has electrized the air nega-
tively. The difference was easily discovered by his
cork balls, as he passed out of one room into another.
Pere Beccaria, too, has a pretty experiment, which
shows that air may be electrized. Suspending a
pair of small light balls, by flaxen threads, to the
end of his prime conductor, he turns his globe some
time, electrizing positively, the balls diverging and
continuing separate all the time. Then he presents
the point of a needle to his conductor, which gradu-
ally drawing off the electric fluid, the balls approach
each other, and touch, before all is drawn from the
conductor; opening again as more is drawn off, and
separating nearly as widely as at first, when the con-
ductor is reduced to the natural state. By this it
appears that when the balls came together the air
surrounding the balls was just as much electrized as
the conductor at that time ; and more than the con-
ductor, when that was reduced to its natural state.
For the balls, though in the natural state, will
diverge, when the air that surrounds them is elec-

1762] Benjamin Franklin 383

trized plus or minus, as well as when that is in its
natural state and they are electrized plus or minus
themselves. I foresee that you will apply this ex-
periment to the support of your hypothesis, and I
think you may make a good deal of it.

It was a curious inquiry of yours, whether the
electricity of the air, in clear, dry weather, be of the
same density at the height of two or three hundred
yards, as near the surface of the earth; and I am
glad you made the experiment. Upon reflection, it
should seem probable that whether the general state
of the atmosphere at any time be positive or nega-
tive, that part of it which is next the earth will be
nearer the natural state, by having given to the
earth in one case, or having received from it in the
other. In electrizing the air of a room, that which
is nearest the walls, or floor, is least altered. There
is only one small ambiguity in the experiment, which
may be cleared by more trials ; it arises from the sup-
position that bodies may be electrized positively by
the friction of air blowing strongly on them, as it
does on the kite and its string. If at some times the
electricity appears to be negative, as that friction is
the same, the effect must be from a negative state of
the upper air.

I am much pleased with your electrical thermome-
ter, and the experiments you have made with it. I
formerly satisfied myself, by an experiment with my
phial and siphon, that the electricity of the air was
not increased by the mere existence of an electric
atmosphere within the phial ; but I did not know, till
you now inform me, that heat may be given to it by

384 The Works of [1762

an electric explosion. The continuance of its rare-
faction, for some time after the discharge of your
glass jar and of your case of bottles, seems to make
this clear. The other experiments on wet paper, wet
thread, green grass, and green wood, are not so satis-
factory ; as possibly the reducing part of the moisture
to vapor, by the electric fluid passing through it,
might occasion some expansion which would be
gradually reduced by the condensation of such vapor.
The fine silver thread, the very small brass wire, and
the strip of gilt paper are also subject to a similar
objection, as even metals, in such circumstances, are
often partly reduced to smoke, particularly the gild-
ing on paper.

But your subsequent beautiful experiment on the
wire, which you made hot by the electric explosion,
and in that state fired gunpowder with it, puts it out
of all question, that heat is produced by our artificial
electricity, and that the melting of metals in that way
is not by what I formerly called a cold fusion. A late
instance here of the melting of bell- wire in a house
struck by lightning, and parts of the wire burning
holes in the floor on which they fell, has proved the
same with regard to the electricity of nature. I was
too easily led into that error by accounts given, even
in philosophical books, and from remote ages down-
wards, of melting money in purses, swords in scab-
bards, &c, without burning the inflammable matters
that were so near those melted metals. But men are,
in general, such careless observers, that a philosopher
cannot be too much on his guard in crediting their
relations of things extraordinary, and should never

1762] Benjamin Franklin 385

build an hypothesis on any thing but clear facts and
experiments, or it will be in danger of soon falling, as
this does, like a house of cards.

How many ways there are of kindling fire, or pro-
ducing heat in bodies! By the sun's rays, by col-
lision, by friction, by hammering, by putrefaction, by
fermentation, by mixtures of fluids, by mixtures of
solids with fluids, and by electricity. And yet the
fire when produced, though in different bodies it may
differ in circumstances, as in color, vehemence, &c,
yet in the same bodies is generally the same. Does
not this seem to indicate that the fire existed in the
body, though in a quiescent state, before it was by
any of these means excited, disengaged, and brought
forth to action and to view? May it not continue a
part, and even a principal part, of the solid sub-
stance of bodies ? If this should be the case, kindling
fire in a body would be nothing more than developing
this inflammable principle, and setting it at liberty
to act in separating the parts of that body, which
then exhibits the appearances of scorching, melting,
burning, &c. When a man lights a hundred candles
from the flame of one, without diminishing that flame,
can it be properly said to have communicated all that
fire? When a single spark from a flint, applied to
a magazine of gunpowder, is immediately attended
with this consequence, that the whole is in flame,
exploding with immense violence, could all this fire
exist first in the spark? We cannot conceive it.
And thus we seem led to this supposition, that there
is fire enough in all bodies to singe, melt, or burn
them, whenever it is, by any means, set at liberty,

VOL. III. — 25.

386 The Works of [1762

so that it may exert itself upon them, or be disen-
gaged from them. This liberty seems to be afforded
it by the passage of electricity through them, which
we know can and does, of itself, separate the parts
even of water ; and, perhaps, the immediate appear-
ances of fire are only the effects of such separations.
If so, there would be no need of supposing that the
electric fluid heats itself by the swiftness of its motion,
or heats bodies by the resistance it meets with in
passing through them. They would only be heated
in proportion as such separation could be more easily
made. Thus a melting heat cannot be given to a
large wire in the flame of a candle, though it may to
a small one ; and this, not because the large wire re-
sists less that action of the flame which tends to
separate its parts, but because it resists it more than
the smaller wire ; or because the force being divided
among more parts acts weaker on each.

This reminds me, however, of a little experiment
I have frequently made, that shows, at one operation,
the different effects of the same quantity of electric
fluid passing through different quantities of metal.
A strip of tinfoil, three inches long, a quarter of an
inch wide at one end, and tapering all the way to a
sharp point at the other, fixed between two pieces of
glass, and having the electricity of a large glass jar
sent through it, will not be discomposed in the broad-
est part; towards the middle will appear melted in
spots ; where narrower, it will be quite melted ; and
about half an inch of it next the point will be re-
duced to smoke.

You were not mistaken in supposing that your

1762] Benjamin Franklin 387

account of the effect of the pointed rod, in securing
Mr. West's house from damage by a stroke of light-
ning, would give me great pleasure. I thank you for
it most heartily, and for the pains you have taken in
giving me so complete a description of its situation,
form, and substance, with the draft of the melted
point. There is one circumstance, viz., that the
lightning was seen to diffuse itself from the foot of
the rod over the wet pavement, which seems, I think,
to indicate that the earth under the pavement was
very dry, and that the rod should have been sunk
deeper, till it came to earth moister, and therefore
apter to receive and dissipate the electric fluid. And
although, in this instance, a conductor formed of nail-
rods, not much above a quarter of an inch thick,
served well to convey the lightning, yet some ac-
counts I have seen from Carolina give reason to
think that larger may be sometimes necessary, at
least for the security of the conductor itself, which,
when too small, may be destroyed in executing its
office, though it does, at the same time, preserve the
house. Indeed, in the construction of an instrument
so new, and of which we could have so little experi-
ence, it is rather lucky that we should at first be so
near the truth as we seem to be, and commit so few
errors.

There is another reason for sinking deeper the
lower end of the rod, and also for turning it outwards
under ground to some distance from the foundation ;
it is this, that water dripping from the eaves falls
near the foundation, and sometimes soaks down there
in greater quantities, so as to come near the end of the

388 The Works of [1762

rod, though the ground about it be drier. In such
case, this water may be exploded, that is, blown into
vapor, whereby a force is generated that may damage
the foundation. Water reduced to vapor is said to
occupy fourteen thousand times its former space. I
have sent a charge through a small glass tube, that
has borne it well while empty, but when filled first
with water, was shattered to pieces, and driven all
about the room. Finding no part of the water on the
table, I suspected it to have been reduced to vapor;
and was confirmed in that suspicion afterwards, when
I had filled a like piece of tube with ink, and laid it
on a sheet of clean paper, whereon, after the explo-
sion, I could find neither any moisture nor any sully
from the ink. This experiment of the explosion of
water, which I believe was first made by the most in-
genious electrician, Father Beccaria, may account for
what we sometimes see in a tree struck by lightning,
when part of it is reduced to fine splinters like a
broom ; the sap- vessels being so many tubes contain-
ing a watery fluid, which, when reduced to vapor
rends every tube lengthwise. And perhaps it is this
rarefaction of the fluid in animal bodies killed by
lightning or electricity, that, by separating its fibres,
renders the flesh so tender, and apt so much sooner
to putrefy. I think, too, that much of the damage
done by lightning to stone and brick walls may some-
times be owing to the explosion of water, found dur-
ing showers, running or lodging in the joints or small
cavities or cracks that happen to be in the walls.

Here are some electricians, that recommend knobs
instead of points on the upper end of the rods, from a

1762] Benjamin Franklin 389

supposition that the points invite the stroke. It is
true that points draw electricity at greater distances
in the gradual, silent way ; but knobs will draw at the
greatest distance a stroke. There is an experiment
that will settle this. Take a crooked wire, of the
thickness of a quill, and of such a length as that, one
end of it being applied to the lower part of a charged
bottle, the upper may be brought near the ball on the
top of the wire that is in the bottle. Let one end
of this wire be furnished with a knob, and the other
may be gradually tapered to a fine point. When the
point is presented to discharge the bottle, it must be
brought much nearer before it will receive the stroke,
than the knob requires to be. Points, besides, tend
to repel the fragments of an electrized cloud, knobs
draw them nearer. An experiment, which, I believe,
I have shown you, of cotton fleece hanging from an
electrized body, shows this clearly, when a point or a
knob is presented under it.

You seem to think highly of the importance of this
discovery, as do many others on our side of the water.
Here it is veiy little regarded ; so little, that, though
it is now seven or eight years since it was made pub-
lic, I have not heard of a single house as yet at-
tempted to be secured by it. It is true the mischiefs
done by lightning are not so frequent here as with
us; and those who calculate chances may perhaps
find, that not one death (or the destruction of one
house) in a hundred thousand happens from that
cause, and that therefore it is scarce worth while to
be at any expense to guard against it. But in all
countries there are particular situations of buildings

39° The Works of [1762

more exposed than others to such accidents, and there
are minds so strongly impressed with the apprehen-
sion of them, as to be very unhappy every time a
little thunder is within their hearing. It may there-
fore be well to render this little piece of new know-
ledge as general and as well understood as possible,
since to make us safe is not all its advantage; it is
some to make us easy. And as the stroke it secures
us from might have chanced, perhaps, but once in our
lives, while it may relieve us a hundred times from
those painful apprehensions, the latter may possibly,
on the whole, contribute more to the happiness of
mankind than the former.

Your kind wishes and congratulations are very
obliging.1 I return them cordially; being, with great
regard and esteem, my dear Sir, your affectionate
friend and most obedient humble servant,

B. Franklin.

Accounts from Carolina (mentioned in the foregoing
Letter) of the Effects of Lightning on two of the
Rods commonly affixed to Houses there, for securing
them against Lightning.

Charleston, i November, 1760.

. . . "It is some years since Mr. Raven's rod
was struck by lightning. I hear an account of it was

1 The closing paragraph of Mr. Kinnersley's letter, which invited the
reciprocation of good wishes, ran as follows :

"And now, Sir, I most heartily congratulate you on the pleasure
you must have in finding your great and well grounded expectations
so far fulfilled. May this method of security from the destructive
violence of one of the most awful powers of nature meet with such

1762] Benjamin Franklin 391

published at the time, but I cannot find it. Accord-
ing to the best information I can now get, he had
fixed to the outside of his chimney a large iron rod,
several feet in length, reaching above the chimney;
and to the top of this rod the points were fixed.
From the lower end of this rod, a small brass wire
was continued down to the top of another iron rod
driven into the earth. On the ground-floor in the
chimney stood a gun, leaning against the back wall,
nearly opposite to where the brass wire came down
on the outside. The lightning fell upon the points,
did no damage to the rod they were fixed to; but
the brass wire, all down till it came opposite to the
top of the gun-barrel, was destroyed.1 There the
lightning made a hole through the wall, or back of
the chimney, to get to the gun-barrel,2 down which
it seems to have passed, as, although it did not hurt
the barrel, it damaged the butt of the stock, and
blew up some bricks of the hearth. The brass wire
below the hole in the wall remained good. No other
damage, as I can learn, was done to the house. I
am told the same house had formerly been struck by
lightning, and much damage, before these rods were
invented."

further success, as to induce every good and grateful heart to bless
God for this important discovery! May the benefit thereof be diffused
over the whole globe! May it extend to the latest posterity of man-
kind and make the name of Franklin, like that of Newton, immortal I "

1 A proof that it was not of sufficient substance to conduct with
safety to itself (though with safety so far to the wall) so large a quan-
tity of the electric fluid.

2 A more substantial conductor.

392 The Works of [1762

Mr. William Maine's Account of the Effects of the
Lightning on his Rod, dated at Indian Land, in
South Carolina, August 28, 1760.

. . . " I had a set of electrical points, consisting
of three prongs, of large brass wire tipt with silver,
and perfectly sharp, each about seven inches long;
these were riveted at equal distances into an iron nut
about three quarters of an inch square, and opened
at top equally to the distance of six or seven inches
from point to point, in a regular triangle. This nut
was screwed very tight on the top of an iron rod of
about half an inch diameter, or the thickness of a
common curtain-rod, composed of several joints, an-
nexed by hooks turned at the ends of each joint, and
the whole fixed to the chimney of my house by iron
staples. The points were elevated (a) six or seven
inches above the top of the chimney ; and the lower
joint sunk three feet in the earth, in a perpendicular
direction.

"Thus stood the points on Tuesday last, about
five in the evening, when the lightning broke with a
violent explosion on the chimney, cut the rod square
off just under the nut, and, I am persuaded, melted
the points, nut, and top of the rod, entirely up; as,
after the most diligent search, nothing of either was
found (b), and the top of the remaining rod was
cased over with a congealed solder. The lightning ran
down the rod, starting almost all the staples (c), and
unhooking the joints without affecting the rod (d),
except on the inside of each hook where the joints
were coupled, the surface of which was melted (e),

1762] Benjamin Franklin 393

and left as cased over with solder. No part of the
chimney was damaged (/) , only at the foundation (g) ,
where it was shattered almost quite round, and sev-
eral bricks were torn out (h). Considerable cavities
were made in the earth quite round the foundation,
but most within eight or nine inches of the rod. It
also shattered the bottom weather-board (i) at one
corner of the house, and made a large hole in the
earth by the corner post. On the other side of the
chimney, it ploughed up several furrows in the earth,
some yards in length. It ran down the inside of the
chimney (k), carrying only soot with it, and filled the
whole house with its flash (/), smoke, and dust. It
tore up the hearth in several places (m), and broke
some pieces of China in the buffet (n). A copper
tea-kettle standing in the chimney was beat together,
as if some great weight had fallen upon it (o) ; and
three holes, each about half an inch diameter, melted
through the bottom (p). What seems to me the
most surprising is, that the hearth under the kettle
was not hurt, yet the bottom of the kettle was drove
inward, as if the lightning proceeded from under it
upwards (q), and the cover was thrown to the middle
of the floor (r). The fire-dogs, an iron loggerhead,
an Indian pot, an earthen cup, and a cat were all in
the chimney at the time unhurt, though a great part
of the hearth was torn up (s). My wife's sister, two
children, and a negro wench were all who happened
be in the house at the time; the first and one child
sat within five feet of the chimney, and were so
stunned that they never saw the lightning nor heard
the explosion ; the wench, with the other child in her

394 The Works of [1762

arms, sitting at a greater distance, was sensible of
both ; though every one was so stunned that they did
not recover for some time ; however, it pleased God
that no farther mischief ensued. The kitchen, at
ninety feet distance, was full of negroes, who were
all sensible of the shock; and some of them tell me
that they felt the rod about a minute after, when it
was so hot that they could not bear it in hand."

Remarks by Benjamin Franklin

The foregoing very sensible and distinct account
may afford a good deal of instruction relating to the
nature and effects of lightning, and to the construction
and use of this instrument for averting the mis-
chiefs of it. Like other new instruments, this ap-
pears to have been at first in some respects imperfect ;
and we find that we are, in this as in others, to
expect improvement from experience chiefly; but
there seems to be nothing in the account that should
discourage us in the use of it; since, at the same
time that its imperfections are discovered, the means
of removing them are pretty easily to be learnt from
the circumstances of the account itself; and its
utility upon the whole is manifest.

One intention of the pointed rod is, to prevent a
stroke of lightning. (See Vol. II., page 431 ; Vol. III.,
page 77.) But, to have a better chance of obtaining
this end, the points should not be too near to the top
of the chimney or highest part of the building to which
they are affixed, but should be extended five or six

1762] Benjamin Franklin 395

feet above it; otherwise their operation in silently
drawing off the fire (from such fragments of cloud as
float in the air between the great body of cloud and
the earth) will be prevented. For the experiment with
the lock of cotton hanging below the electrified prime
conductor shows, that a finger under it, being a blunt
body, extends the cotton, drawing its lower point
downwards; when a needle, with its point presented
to the cotton, makes it fly up again to the prime
conductor; and that this effect is strongest when as
much of the needle as possible appears above the end
of the finger ; grows weaker as the needle is shortened
between the finger and thumb; and is reduced to
nothing when only a short part below the point ap-
pears above the finger. Now, it seems, the points of
Mr. Maine's rod were elevated only (a) six or seven
inches above the top of the chimney; which, considering
the bulk of the chimney and the house, was too small
an elevation. For the great body of matter near
them would hinder their being easily brought into a
negative state by the repulsive power of the electrized
cloud, in which negative state it is that they attract
most strongly and copiously the electric fluid from
other bodies and convey it into the earth.

Nothing of the points, &c, could be found. This
is a common effect. (See supra, page 79.) Where
the quantity of the electric fluid passing is too great
for the conductor through which it passes, the metal
is either melted, or reduced to smoke and dissipated ;
but where the conductor is sufficiently large, the fluid
passes in it without hurting it. Thus these three
wires were destroyed, while the rod to which they

396 The Works of [1762

were fixed, being of greater substance, remained un-
hurt; its end only, to which they were joined, being
a little melted, some of the melted part of the lower
ends of those wires uniting with it, and appearing on
it like solder.

(c) (d) (e) As the several parts of the rod were
connected only by the ends being bent round into
hooks, the contact between hook and hook was much
smaller than the rod; therefore the current through
the metal, being confined in those narrow passages,
melted part of the metal, as appeared on examining
the inside of each hook. Where metal is melted by
lightning, some part of it is generally exploded; and
these explosions in the joints appear to have been the
cause of unhooking them, and, by that violent action,
of starting also most of the staples. We learn from
hence, that a rod in one continued piece is preferable
to one composed of links or parts hooked together.

(/) No part of the chimney was damaged; because
the lightning passed in the rod. And this instance
agrees with others in showing, that the second and
principal intention of the rods is obtainable, viz., that
of conducting the lightning. In all the instances yet
known of the lightning's falling on any house guarded
by rods, it has pitched down upon the point of the
rod, and has not fallen upon any other part of the
house. Had the lightning fallen on this chimney,
unfurnished with a rod, it would probably have rent
it from top to bottom, as we see, by the effects of the
lightning on the points and rod, that its quantity was
very great; and we know that many chimneys have
been so demolished. But no part of this was damaged,

1762] Benjamin Franklin 397

only (/) (g) (h) at the foundation, where it was shattered,
and several bricks torn out. Here we learn the prin-
cipal defect in fixing this rod. The lower joint, being
sunk but three feet into the earth, did not, it seems,
go low enough to come at water, or a large body of
earth so moist as to receive readily from its end the
quantity it conducted. The electric fluid therefore,
thus accumulated near the lower end of the rod,
quitted at the surface of the earth, dividing in search
of other passages. Part of it tore up the surface in
furrows, and made holes in it; part entered the
bricks of the foundation, which being near the earth
are generally moist, and, in exploding that moisture,
shattered them. (See supra, page 388.) Part went
through or under the foundation, and got under the
hearth, blowing up great part of the bricks (m) (s),
and producing the other effects (p) (q) (r). The
iron dogs, loggerhead, and iron pot were not hurt,
being of sufficient substance, and they probably pro-
tected the cat. The copper tea-kettle, being thin,
suffered some damage. Perhaps, though found on a
sound part of the hearth, it might at the time of the
stroke have stood on the part blown up, which will
account both for the bruising and melting.

That it ran down the inside of the chimney (k), I
apprehend must be a mistake. Had it done so, I
imagine it would have brought something more than
soot with it; it would probably have ripped off the
pargeting, and brought down fragments of plaster
and bricks. The shake, from the explosion on the
rod, was sufficient to shake down a good deal of
loose soot. Lightning does not usually enter houses

398 The Works of [1762

by the doors, windows, or chimneys, as open passages,
in the manner that air enters them; its nature is, to
be attracted by substances, that are conductors of
electricity; it penetrates and passes in them, and,
if they are not good conductors, as are neither wood,
brick, stone, nor plaster, it is apt to rend them in its
passage. It would not easily pass through the air
from a cloud to a building, were it not for the aid
afforded in its passage by intervening fragments of
clouds below the main body, or by the falling rain.

It is said that the house was filled up with its -flash
(/). Expressions like this are common in accounts
of the effects of lightning, from which we are apt to
understand that the lightning filled the house. Our
language indeed seems to want a word to express the
light of lightning, as distinct from the lightning itself.
When a tree on a hill is struck by it, the lightning of
that stroke exists only in a narrow vein between the
cloud and tree, but its light fills a vast space many
miles round; and people at the greatest distance
from it are apt to say: " The lightning came into our
rooms through our window." As it is in itself ex-
tremely bright, it cannot, when so near as to strike
a house, fail illuminating highly every room in it
through the windows; and this I suppose to have
been the case at Mr. Maine's; and that, except in
and near the hearth, from the causes above men-
tioned, it was not in any other part of the house;
the -flash meaning no more than the light of the light-
ning. It is for want of considering this difference,
that people suppose there is a kind of lightning not
attended with thunder. In fact, there is probably

1762] Benjamin Franklin 399

a loud explosion accompanying every flash of light-
ning, and at the same instant ; but as sound travels
slower than light, we often hear the sound some
seconds of time after having seen the light; and as
sound does not travel so far as light, we sometimes
see the light at a distance too great to hear the sound.

(n) The breaking some pieces of China in the buffet,
may nevertheless seem to indicate that the lightning
was there; but as there is no mention of its having
hurt any part of the buffet, or of the walls of the
house, I should rather ascribe that effect to the con-
cussion of the air, or shake of the house by the
explosion.

Thus to me it appears that the house and its in-
habitants were saved by the rod, though the rod it-
self was unjointed by the stroke; and that, if it had
been made of one piece, and sunk deeper in the earth,
or had entered the earth at a greater distance from
the foundation, the mentioned small damages (ex-
cept the melting of the points) would not have
happened.

CCVI

TO MISS MARY STEVENSON

Monday morning, 8 March, 1762.

Dear Polly: — Your good mamma has just been
saying to me that she wonders what can possibly be
the reason she has not had a line from you in so long
a time. I have made no complaint of that kind, be-
ing conscious that, by not writing myself, I have for-
feited all claim to such favor, though no letters give

400 The Works of [1762

me more pleasure, and I often wish to hear from you;
but indolence grows upon me with years, and writing
grows more and more irksome to me.

Have you finished your course of philosophy ? No
more doubts to be resolved? No more questions to
ask? If so, you may now be at full leisure to im-
prove yourself in cards. Adieu, my dear child, and
believe me ever your affectionate friend,

B. Franklin.

P. S. — Respects to Mrs. Tickell, &c. Mamma bids
me tell you she is lately much afflicted and half a
cripple with the rheumatism. I send you two or
three French Gazettes de Medecine, which I have just
received from Paris, wherein is a translation of the
extract of a letter you copied out for me. You will
return them with my French letters on Electricity,
when you have perused them.

CCVII

TO MISS MARY STEVENSON

London, 22 March, 1762.

I must retract the charge of idleness in your stud-
ies, when I find you have gone through the doubly
difficult task of reading so big a book, on an abstruse
subject, and in a foreign language.

In answer to your question concerning the Leyden
phial. The hand that holds the bottle receives and
conducts away the electric fluid that is driven out of
the outside by the repulsive power of that which is

1762] Benjamin Franklin 401

forced into the inside of the bottle. As long as that
power remains in the same situation, it must prevent
the return of what it had expelled ; though the hand
would readily supply the quantity if it could be re-
ceived. Your affectionate friend,

B. Franklin.

CCVIII

TO MRS. DEBORAH FRANKLIN

London, 24 March, 1762.

Dear Child: — I condole with you most sin-
cerely on the death of our good mother,1 being ex-
tremely sensible of the distress and affliction it must
have thrown you into. Your comfort will be, that no
care was wanting on your part towards her, and that
she had lived as long as this life could afford her any
rational enjoyment. It is, I am sure, a satisfaction
to me, that I cannot charge myself with having ever
failed in one instance of duty and respect to her dur-
ing the many years that she called me son. The cir-
cumstances attending her death were indeed unhappy
in some respects ; but something must bring us all to
our end, and few of us shall see her length of days.
My love to brother John Read, and sister and cousin
Debby, and young cousin Johnny Read, and let
them all know that I sympathize with them all
affectionately.

This I write in haste, Mr. Beatty having just called
on me to let me know, that he is about to set out for

1 Mrs. Read, the mother of Mrs. Franklin.

VOL. III. — 26.

402 The Works of [1762

Portsmouth, in order to sail for America. I am fin-
ishing all business here in order for my return, which
will either be in the Virginia fleet, or by the packet
of May next; I am not yet determined which. I
pray God grant us a happy meeting.

We are all well, and Billy presents his duty. Mr.
Strahan has received your letter, and wonders he has
not been able to persuade you to come over. Mrs.
Stevenson desires her compliments; she expected
Sally would have answered her daughter's letter, that
went with the gold needle. I have received yours by
the last packet, and one from our friend Mr. Hughes.
I will try to write a line to him if I have time. If
not, please to tell him I will do all I can to serve him
in his affair. Acquaint Mr. Charles Norris that I
send him a gardener in Bolitho's ship. The particu-
lars of your letters I shall answer by the same ship.
I can now only add that I am, as ever, my dear
Debby, your affectionate husband,

B. Franklin.

CCIX

FROM DAVID HUME TO B. FRANKLIN

Edinburgh, io May, 1762.

Dear Sir: — I have a great many thanks to give
you for your goodness in remembering my request,
and for the exact description, which you sent me of
your method of preserving houses from thunder. I
communicated it to our Philosophical Society, as you
gave me permission ; and they desire me to tell you,

1762] Benjamin Franklin 403

that they claim it as their own, and intend to enrich
with it the first collection, which they may publish.
The established rule of our Society is, that, after a
paper is read to them, it is delivered by them to some
member, who is obliged, in a subsequent meeting, to
read some paper of remarks upon it.

It was communicated to our friend, Mr. Russel;
who is not very expeditious in finishing any under-
taking; and he did not read his remarks till the last
week, which is the reason why I have been so late
in acknowledging your favor. Mr. Russel's remarks,
besides the just praises of your invention, contained
only two proposals for improving it. One was that
in houses where the rain-water is carried off the roof
by a lead pipe, this metallic body might be employed
as a conductor to the electric fire, and save the ex-
pense of a new apparatus. Another was, that the
wire might be carried down to the foundation of
the house, and be thence conveyed below ground to
the requisite distance, which would better secure it
against accidents. I thought it proper to convey
to you these two ideas of so ingenious a man, that
you might adopt them, if they appear to you well
founded.

I am very sorry that you intend soon to leave our
hemisphere. America has sent us many good things,
gold, silver, sugar, tobacco, indigo, &c. ; but you are
the first philosopher, and indeed the first great man
of letters, for whom we are beholden to her. It is
our own fault that we have not kept him ; whence it
appears that we do not agree with Solomon, that
wisdom is above gold, for we take care never to send

404 The Works of [1762

back an ounce of the latter which we once lay our
fingers upon.

I saw yesterday our friend Sir Alexander Dick, who
desires me to present his compliments to you. We
are all very unwilling to think of your settling in
America, and that there is some chance for our never
seeing you again; but no one regrets it more than
does,

Dear Sir,

Your most affectionate humble servant,

David Hume.

CCX

TO DAVID HUME l

London, 19 May, 1762.

Dear Sir: — It is no small pleasure to me to hear
from you that my paper on the means of preserving
buildings from damage by lightning was acceptable
to the Philosophical Society. Mr. Russel's proposals
of improvement are very sensible and just. A leaden
spout or pipe is undoubtedly a good conductor, so far
as it goes. If the conductor enters the ground just
at the foundation, and from thence is carried horizon-
tally to some well, or to a distant rod driven down-
right into the earth, I would then propose that the
part under the ground should be lead, as less liable
to consume with rust than iron. Because, if the con-
ductor near the foot of the wall should be wasted, the

1 The letter from Mr. Hume, to which this is a reply, may be seen
supra, under date of May 10, 1762.

1762] Benjamin Franklin 405

lightning might act on the moisture of the earth, and
by suddenly rarefying it occasion an explosion that
may damage the foundation. In the experiment of
discharging my large case of electrical bottles through
a piece of small glass tube filled with water, the sud-
denly rarefied water has exploded with a force equal,
I think, to that of so much gunpowder ; bursting the
tube into many pieces, and driving them with vio-
lence in all directions and to all parts of the room.
The shivering of trees into small splinters, like a
broom, is probably owing to this rarefaction of the
sap in the longitudinal pores, or capillary pipes, in
the substance of the wood. And the blowing up of
bricks or stones in a hearth, rending stones out of a
foundation, and splitting of walls, are also probably
effects sometimes of rarefied moisture in the earth,
under the hearth, or in the walls. We should there-
fore have a durable conductor under ground, or con-
vey the lightning to the earth at some distance.

It must afford Lord Marischal a good deal of di-
version to preside in a dispute so ridiculous as that
you mention. Judges in their decisions often use
precedents. I have somewhere met with one that is
what the lawyers call a case in point. The Church
people and the Puritans in a country town had once
a bitter contention concerning the erecting of a May-
pole, which the former desired and the latter opposed.
Each party endeavoured to strengthen itself by ob-
taining the authority of the mayor, directing or for-
bidding a Maypole. He heard their altercation with
great patience, and then gravely determined thus:
" You, that are for having no Maypole, shall have no

406 The Works of [1762

Maypole; and you, that are for having a Maypole,
shall have a Maypole. Get about your business, and
let me hear no more of this quarrel." x

Your compliment of gold and wisdom is very oblig-
ing to me, but a little injurious to your country.
The various value of every thing in every part of this
world arises, you know, from the various proportions
of the quantity to the demand. We are told that
gold and silver in Solomon's time were so plenty, as
to be of no more value in his country than the stones
in the street. You have here at present just such a
plenty of wisdom. Your people are, therefore, not to
be censured for desiring no more among them than
they have ; and if I have any, I should certainly carry
it where, from its scarcity, it may probably come to a
better market.

I nevertheless regret extremely the leaving a coun-
try in which I have received so much friendship, and
friends whose conversation has been so agreeable and
so improving to me ; and that I am henceforth to re-
side at so great a distance from them is no small
mortification to, my dear friend, yours most affec-
tionately,

B. Franklin.

P. S. — My respectful compliments, if you please, to
Sir Alexander Dick, Lord Karnes, Mr. Alexander,
Mr. Russel, and any other inquiring friends. I shall
write to them before I leave the Island.

1 Lord Marischal was a person of consideration in Neufchatel, to whom
Dr. Franklin had communicated, through Mr. Hume, a paper contain-
ing directions for putting up lightning rods.

1762] Benjamin Franklin 407

CCXI

FIRE

Craven Street, 1762.

Did you ever see people at work with spades and
pickaxes, digging a cellar? When they have loos-
ened the earth perhaps a foot deep, that loose earth
must be carried off, or they can go no deeper; it is
in their way, and hinders the operation of the
instruments.

When the first foot of earth is removed, they can
dig and loosen the earth a foot deeper. But if those
who remove the earth should with it take away
the spades and pickaxes, the work will be equally
obstructed as if they had left the loose earth
unremoved.

I imagine the operation of fire upon fuel with the
assistance of air may be in some degree similar to
this. Fire penetrates bodies, and separates their
parts ; the air receives and carries off the parts sepa-
rated, which, if not carried off, would impede the ac-
tion of the fire. With this assistance therefore of a
moderate current of air, the separation increases, but
too violent a blast carries off the fire itself ; and thus
any fire may be blown out, as a candle by the breath,
if the blast be proportionable.

But if air contributed inflammatory matter, as
some have thought, then it should seem that, the
more air, the more flame would be augmented,
which beyond certain bounds does not agree with
the fact.

Some substances take fire, that is, are kindled by

408 The Works of [1762

the application of fire, much sooner than others.
This is in proportion as they are good or bad con-
ductors of fire, and as their parts cohere with less or
more strength. A bad conductor of fire not easily
permitting it to penetrate and be absorbed, and its
force divided among the whole substance, its opera-
tion is so much the stronger on the surface to which
it is applied, and is in a small depth of surface strong
enough to produce the separation of parts which we
will call burning. All oils and fats, wax, sulphur, and
most vegetable substances, are bad conductors of fire.
The oil of a lamp, burning at the top, may be scarce
warm at the bottom; a candle or a stick of wood,
inflamed at one end, is cool at the other. Metals,
which are better conductors, are not so easily kindled,
though, when sufficient fire is applied to them to
separate their parts, they will all burn. But the fire
applied to their surfaces enters more easily, is ab-
sorbed and divided; and not enough left on the
surface to overcome the cohesion of their parts. A
close contact with metals will for the same reason
prevent the burning of more inflammable substances.
A flaxen thread, bound close round an iron poker,
will not burn in the flame of a candle; for it must
imbibe a certain quantity of fire before it can burn,
that is, before its parts can separate ; but the poker,
as fast as the fire arrives, takes it from the thread,
conducts it away, and divides it in its own substance.
Common fire I conceive to be collected by friction
from the common mass of that fluid, in the same
manner as the electrical fluid is collected by friction,
which I have endeavoured to explain in some of my

1762] Benjamin Franklin 409

electrical papers, and, to avoid length in this letter,
refer you to them. In wheels, the particles of grease
and oil acting as so many little rollers, and prevent-
ing friction between the wood and wood, do thereby
prevent the collection of fire.

CCXII

TO MISS MARY STEVENSON

London, 7 June, 1762.

Dear Polly: — I received your favor of the 27th
past, and have since expected your intended philo-
sophical epistle. But you have not had leisure to
write it!

Your good mamma is now perfectly well, as I
think, excepting now and then a few rheumatic com-
plaints, which, however, seem gradually diminishing.
I am glad to hear you are about to enjoy the happi-
ness of seeing and being with your friends at Brom-
ley. My best respects to the good Dr. and Mrs.
Hawkesworth, and say to the dear ladies that I kiss
their hands respectfully and affectionately.

Our ships for America do not sail so soon as I
expected; it will be yet five or six weeks before we
embark, and leave the old world for the new. I
fancy I feel a little like dying saints, who, in parting
with those they love in this world, are only comforted
with the hope of more perfect happiness in the next.
I have, in America, connexions of the most engaging
kind; and, happy as I have been in the friendships

4io The Works of [1762

here contracted, those promise me greater and more
lasting felicity. But God only knows whether these
promises shall be fulfilled. Adieu, my dear good girl,
and believe me ever your affectionate friend.

B. Franklin.

CCXIII

ELECTRICAL EXPERIMENTS ON AMBER

Saturday, 3 July, 1762.

To try, at the request of a friend, whether amber
finely powdered might be melted and run together
again by means of the electrical fluid, I took a piece of
small glass tube, about two inches and a half long, the
bore about one twelfth of an inch diameter, the glass
itself about the same thickness. I introduced into
this tube some powder of amber, and with two pieces
of wire nearly fitting the bore, one inserted at one
end, the other at the other, I rammed the powder
hard between them in the middle of the tube, where
it stuck fast, and was in length about half an inch.
Then, leaving the wires in the tube, I made them part
of the electric circuit, and discharged through them
three rows of my case of bottles. The event was,
that the glass was broke into very small pieces and
those dispersed with violence in all directions. As I
did not expect this, I had not, as in other experi-
ments, laid thick paper over the glass to save my
eyes, so several of the pieces struck my face smartly,
and one of them cut my lip a little, so as to make it
bleed. I could find no part of the amber; but the

1762] Benjamin Franklin 41 1

table where the tube lay was stained very black in
spots, such as might be made by a thick smoke forced
on it by a blast, and the air was filled with a strong
smell, somewhat like that from burnt gunpowder.
Whence I imagined that the amber was burnt, and
had exploded as gunpowder would have done in the
same circumstances.

That I might better see the effect on the amber, I
made the next experiment in a tube formed of a card
rolled up and bound strongly with packthread. Its
bore was about one eighth of an inch diameter. I
rammed powder of amber into this as I had done into
the other, and as the quantity of amber was greater,
I increased the quantity of electric fluid, by discharg-
ing through it at once five rows of my bottles. On
opening the tube I found that some of the powder
had exploded; an impression was made on the tube,
though it was not hurt, and most of the powder re-
maining was turned black, which I suppose might be
by the smoke forced through it from the burned part ;
some of it was hard; but as it powdered again when
pressed by the fingers, I suppose that hardness not to
arise from melting any parts in it, but merely from
my ramming the powder when I charged the tube.

B. Franklin.

CCXIV

TO JOHN BAPTIST BECCARIA

London, 13 July, 1762.

Reverend Sir: — I once promised myself the
pleasure of seeing you at Turin; but as that is not

412 The Works of [1762

now likely to happen, being just about returning to
my native country, America, I sit down to take
leave of you (among others of my European friends
that I cannot see) by writing.

I thank you for the honorable mention you have so
frequently made of me in your letters to Mr. Collinson
and others; for the generous defence you undertook
and executed with so much success, of my electrical
opinions ; and for the valuable present you have made
me of your new work, from which I have received
great information and pleasure. I wish I could in re-
turn entertain you with any thing new of mine on
that subject; but I have not lately pursued it. Nor
do I know of any one here that is at present much
engaged in it.

Perhaps, however, it may be agreeable to you, as
you live in a musical country, to have an account of
the new instrument lately added here to the great
number that charming science was before possessed
of. As it is an instrument that seems peculiarly
adapted to Italian music, especially that of the soft
and plaintive kind, I will endeavour to give you such
a description of it, and of the manner of constructing
it, that you or any of your friends may be enabled to
imitate it, if you incline so to do, without being at the
expense and trouble of the many experiments I have
made in endeavouring to bring it to its present
perfection.

You have doubtless heard the sweet tone that is
drawn from a drinking glass by passing a wet finger
round its brim. One Mr. Puckeridge, a gentleman
from Ireland, was the first who thought of playing

ARMONICA.

p~

S&l.

Wli"'"'1!1

Fig. 2.

Plate II., Vol. III., p. 413.

1762] Benjamin Franklin 4*3

tunes, formed of these tones. He collected a number
of glasses of different sizes, fixed them near each other
on a table, and tuned them by putting into them
water more or less, as each note required. The tones
were brought out by passing his fingers round their
brims. He was unfortunately burned here, with his
instrument, in a fire which consumed the house he
lived in. Mr. E. Delaval, a most ingenious member
of our Royal Society, made one in imitation of it, with
a better choice and form of glasses, which was the
first I saw or heard. Being charmed by the sweet-
ness of its tones, and the music he produced from it,
I wished only to see the glasses disposed in a more
convenient form, and brought together in a narrower
compass, so as to admit of a greater number of tones,
and all within reach of hand to a person sitting before
the instrument, which I accomplished, after various
intermediate trials and less commodious forms, both
of glasses and construction, in the following manner.
The glasses are blown as near as possible in the
form of hemispheres, having each an open neck or
socket in the middle. (See Plate II., Figure 1.) The
thickness of the glass near the brim about a tenth of
an inch, or hardly quite so much, but thicker as it
comes nearer the neck, which in the largest glasses is
about an inch deep, and an inch and half wide within,
these dimensions lessening, as the glasses themselves
diminish in size, except that the neck of the smallest
ought not to be shorter than half an inch. The
largest glass is nine inches diameter, and the smallest
three inches. Between these two are twenty- three
different sizes, differing from each other a quarter of

414 The Works of [1762

an inch in diameter. To make a single instrument
there should be at least six glasses blown of each size ;
and out of this number one may probably pick thirty-
seven glasses (which are sufficient for three octaves
with all the semitones) that will be each either the
note one wants or a little sharper than that note, and
all fitting so well into each other as to taper pretty
regularly from the largest to the smallest. It is true
there are not thirty-seven sizes, but it often happens
that two of the same size differ a note or half note in
tone, by reason of a difference in thickness, and these
may be placed one in the other without sensibly
hurting the regularity of the taper form.

The glasses being chosen, and every one marked
with a diamond the note you intend it for, they are
to be tuned by diminishing the thickness of those
that are too sharp. This is done by grinding them
round from the neck towards the brim, the breadth
of one or two inches, as may be required; often try-
ing the glass by a well-tuned harpsichord, comparing
the tone drawn from the glass by your finger with
the note you want, as sounded by that string of the
harpsichord. When you come nearer the matter, be
careful to wipe the glass clean and dry before each
trial, because the tone is something natter when the
glass is wet than it will be when dry; and grinding
a very little between each trial, you will thereby tune
to great exactness. The more care is necessary in
this, because, if you go below your required tone,
there is no sharpening it again but by grinding some-
what off the brim, which will afterwards require
polishing, and thus increase the trouble.

1762] Benjamin Franklin 415

The glasses being thus tuned, you are to be pro-
vided with a case for them, and a spindle on which
they are to be fixed. (See Plate II., Figure 2.) My
case is about three feet long, eleven inches every way
wide within at the biggest end, and five inches at the
smallest end; for it tapers all the way, to adapt it
better to the conical figure of the set of glasses.
This case opens in the middle of its height, and the
upper part turns up by hinges fixed behind. The
spindle, which is of hard iron, lies horizontally from
end to end of the box within, exactly in the middle,
and is made to turn on brass gudgeons at each end.
It is round, an inch diameter at the thickest end, and
tapering to a quarter of an inch at the smallest. A
square shank comes from its thickest end through the
box, on which shank a wheel is fixed by a screw.
This wheel serves as a fly to make the motion
equable, when the spindle, with the glasses, is turned
by the foot like a spinning-wheel. My wheel is of
mahogany, eighteen inches diameter, and pretty
thick, so as to conceal near its circumference about
twenty-five pounds of lead. An ivory pin is fixed in
the face of this wheel, and about four inches from the
axis. Over the neck of this pin is put the loop of
the string that comes up from the movable step to
give it motion. The case stands on a neat frame
with four legs.

To fix the glasses on the spindle, a cork is first to
be fitted in each neck pretty tight, and projecting a
little without the neck, that the neck of one may not
touch the inside of another when put together, for
that would make a jarring. These corks are to be

4i 6 The Works of [1762

perforated with holes of different diameters, so as to
suit that part of the spindle on which they are to be
fixed. When a glass is put on, by holding it stiffly
between both hands, while another turns the spindle,
it may be gradually brought to its place. But care
must be taken that the hole be not too small, lest, in
forcing it up, the neck should split; nor too large,
lest the glass, not being firmly fixed, should turn or
move on the spindle, so as to touch and jar against
its neighbouring glass. The glasses thus are placed
one in another, the largest on the biggest end of the
spindle, which is to the left hand; the neck of this
glass is towards the wheel, and the next goes into it
in the same position, only about an inch of its brim
appearing beyond the brim of the first; thus pro-
ceeding, every glass when fixed shows about an inch
of its brim (or three quarters of an inch, or half an
inch, as they grow smaller) beyond the brim of the
glass that contains it; and it is from these exposed
parts of each glass that the tone is drawn, by laying
a finger upon one of them as the spindle and glasses
turn round.

My largest glass is G, a little below the reach of a
common voice, and my highest G, including three
complete octaves. To distinguish the glasses the
more readily to the eye, I have painted the apparent
parts of the glasses within side, every semitone white,
and the other notes of the octave with the seven
prismatic colors, viz., C, red; D, orange; E, yellow;
F, green; G, blue; A, indigo; B, purple; and C,
red again; so that glasses of the same color (the
white excepted) are always octaves to each other.

1762] Benjamin Franklin 417

This instrument is played upon, by sitting before
the middle of the set of glasses as before the keys of
a harpsichord, turning them with the foot, and wet-
ting them now and then with a spunge and clean
water. The fingers should be first a little soaked in
water, and quite free from all greasiness ; a little fine
chalk upon them is sometimes useful, to make them
catch the glass and bring out the tone more readily.
Both hands are used, by which means different parts
are played together. Observe, that the tones are
best drawn out when the glasses turn from the ends
of the fingers, not when they turn to them.

The advantages of this instrument are, that its
tones are incomparably sweet beyond those of any
other; that they may be swelled and softened at
pleasure by stronger or weaker pressures of the fin-
ger, and continued to any length; and that the in-
strument, being once well tuned, never again wants
tuning.

In honor of your musical language, I have borrowed
from it the name of this instrument, calling it the
Armonica.1

With great esteem and respect, I am, &c,

B. Franklin.

CCXV

TO OLIVER NEAVE

20 July, 1762.

Dear Sir: — I have perused your paper on sound,
and would freely mention to you, as you desire it,

1 Some other particulars respecting the Armonica may be found in a
letter to M. Dubourg, tinder the date of December 8, 1772. — Editor.

VOL. 111. — 27.

4i 8 The Works of [1762

every thing that appeared to me to need correction;
but nothing of that kind occurs to me, unless it be
where you speak of the air as " the best medium for
conveying sound." Perhaps this is speaking rather
too positively, if there be, as I think there are, some
other mediums that will convey it farther and more
readily. It is a well-known experiment, that the
scratching of a pin at one end of a long piece of tim-
ber may be heard by an ear applied near the other
end, though it could not be heard at the same dis-
tance through the air. And two stones being struck
smartly together under water, the stroke may be
heard at a greater distance by an ear also placed
under water, than it can be heard through the air.
I think I have heard it near a mile; how much
farther it may be heard I know not; but suppose a
great deal farther, because the sound did not seem
faint, as if at a distance, like distant sounds through
air, but smart and strong, and as if present just at
the ear. I wish you would repeat these experiments
now you are upon the subject, and add your own
observations. And, if you were to repeat, with your
naturally exact attention and observation, the com-
mon experiment of the bell in the exhausted re-
ceiver, possibly something new may occur to you, in
considering :

1 . Whether the experiment is not ambiguous ; that
is, whether the gradual exhausting of the air, as it
creates an increasing difference of pressure on the out-
side, may not occasion in the glass a difficulty of
vibrating, that renders it less fit to communicate to
the air without the vibrations that strike it from

1762] Benjamin Franklin 419

within; and the diminution of the sound arise from
this cause, rather than from the diminution of the
air?

2. Whether, as the particles of air themselves are
at a distance from each other, there must not be some
medium between them, proper for conveying sound,
since otherwise it would stop at the first particle?

3. Whether the great difference we experience in
hearing sounds at a distance, when the wind blows
towards us from the sonorous body, or towards that
from us, can be well accounted for by adding to or
subtracting from the swiftness of sound the degree
of swiftness that is in the wind at the time? The
latter is so small in proportion, that it seems as if it
could scarce produce any sensible effect, and yet the
difference is very great. Does not this give some
hint, as if there might be a subtile fluid, the conduc-
tor of sound, which moves at different times in differ-
ent directions over the surface of the earth, and
whose motion may perhaps be much swifter than
that of the air in our strongest winds; and that, in
passing through air, it may communicate that mo-
tion to the air which we call wind, though a motion
in no degree so swift as its own ?

4. It is somewhere related that a pistol, fired on
the top of an exceeding high mountain, made a noise
like thunder in the valleys below. Perhaps this fact
is not exactly related; but, if it is, would not one
imagine from it that the rarer the air, the greater
sound might be produced in it from the same cause ?

5. Those balls of fire which are sometimes seen
passing over a country, computed by philosophers to

420 The Works of [1762

be often thirty miles high at least, sometimes burst
at that height; the air must be exceeding rare
there, and yet the explosion produces a sound that
is heard at that distance, and for seventy miles
round on the surface of the earth, so violent too as
to shake buildings and give an apprehension of an
earthquake. Does not this look as if a rare atmos-
phere, almost a vacuum, was no bad conductor of
sound?

I have not made up my own mind on these points,
and only mention them for your consideration,
knowing that every subject is the better for your
handling it. With the greatest esteem, I am, &c,

B. Franklin.

CCXVI

TO MR. WILLIAM STRAHAN AT BATH

London, 20 July, 1762.

Dear Sir: — I received your very kind letter and
invitation to Bath where I am sure I could spend
some days very happily with you and Mrs. Strahan,
if my time would permit; but the man-of-war, that
is to be our convoy, is under sailing orders for the
30th of this month so that 't is impossible for me to
leave London till I leave it forever, having at least
twenty days' work to do in the ten days that are
only left me.

I shall send to the Angel Inn in Oxford a parcel
directed to you, containing books I send as presents
to some acquaintance there ; which I beg you would

1762] Benjamin Franklin 421

cause to be delivered. I shall write a line to one
of them, as you desire. The parcel is to go by the
Thursday's coach.

I hope for the pleasure of seeing you before I set
out. Billy and Mrs. Stevenson join in respects and
best wishes for you and Mrs. Strahan, with, dear
Friend,

Yours affectionately,

B. Franklin.

P. S. — I feel here like a thing out of its place, and
useless because it is out of its place. How then can
I any longer be happy in England ? You have great
powers of persuasion, and might easily prevail on me
to do any thing; but not any longer to do nothing.
I must go home. Adieu.

CCXVII

TO MR. WILLIAM STRAHAN AT OXFORD

London, 23 July, 1762.

Dear Straney: — As Dr. Hawkesworth calls you,
I send you inclosed a line to my good friend Dr.
Kelley; which you will do me the favour to deliver
with the parcel directed to him. As it is vacation
time I doubt whether any other acquaintance of
mine may be in Oxford, or at least any on whose
good nature I could so far presume; tho' according
to the way of the world, having received a civility,
gives one a kind of right to demand another; they
took the trouble of showing me Oxford, and therefore
The Works of [1762

I might request them to show it to any of my
friends. None of the Oxford people are under any
other obligation to me than that of having already
oblig'd me, and being oblig'd to go on as they have
begun. My best respects to Mrs. Strahan, and love
to little Peggy. They say we are to sail in a week
or ten days. I expect to see you once more. I
value myself much, on being able to resolve on
doing the right thing, in opposition to your almost
irresistible eloquence, secretly supported and backed
by my own treacherous inclinations. Adieu, my
dear friend.

Yours affectionately,

B. Franklin.

CCXVIII

TO MISS MARY STEVENSON

Portsmouth, ii August, 1762.

My Dear Polly: — This is the best paper I can
get at this wretched inn, but it will convey what is
intrusted to it as faithfully as the finest. It will
tell my Polly how much her friend is afflicted that
he must, perhaps, never again see one for whom he
has so sincere an affection, joined to so perfect an
esteem, who he once flattered himself might become
his own, in the tender relation of a child, but can
now entertain such pleasing hopes no more. Will
it tell how much he is afflicted? No, it cannot.

Adieu, my dearest child. I will call you so. Why
should I not call you so, since I love you with all

I762] Benjamin Franklin 423

the tenderness of a father? Adieu. May the God
of all goodness shower down his choicest blessings
upon you, and make you infinitely happier than
that event would have made you. And wherever I
am, believe me to be, with unalterable affection, my
dear Polly, your sincere friend,1

B. Franklin.

CCXIX

TO LORD KAMES

Portsmouth, 17 August, 1762.

My Dear Lord : — I am now waiting here only for
a wind to waft me to America, but cannot leave this
happy island and my friends in it without extreme
regret, though I am going to a country and a people
that I love. I am going from the old world to the
new; and I fancy I feel like those who are leaving
this world for the next: grief at the parting; fear
of the passage; hope of the future. These different
passions all affect their minds at once; and these
have tendered me down exceedingly. It is usual for
the dying to beg forgiveness of their surviving
friends, if they have ever offended them.

Can you, my Lord, forgive my long silence, and
my not acknowledging till now the favor you did me
in sending me your excellent book? Can you make

1 Franklin had earnestly desired his son to marry Miss Stevenson.
William, however, became too much interested in a young West Indian
girl named Downs, and was already affianced to her. The tone of this
letter shows that it was a bitter disappointment to the father, as it
was no doubt a misfortune to the son.
The Works of [1762

some allowance for a fault in others which you have
never experienced in yourself; for the bad habit of
postponing from day to day what one every day re-
solves to do to-morrow? — a habit that grows upon
us with years, and whose only excuse is we know not
how to mend it. If you are disposed to favor me
you will also consider how much one's mind is taken
up and distracted by the many little affairs one has
to settle before the undertaking such a voyage, after
so long a residence in a country; and how little, in
such a situation, one's mind is fitted for serious and
attentive reading; which, with regard to the Ele-
ments of Criticism, I intended before I should write.
I can now only confess and endeavour to amend. In
packing up my books, I have reserved yours to read
on the passage. I hope I shall therefore be able to
write to you upon it soon after my arrival. At pres-
ent I can only return my thanks, and say that the
parts I have read gave me both pleasure and in-
struction; that I am convinced of your position,
new as it was to me, that a good taste in the arts
contributes to the improvement of morals; and
that I have had the satisfaction of hearing the
work universally commended by those who have
read it.

And now, my dear Sir, accept my sincere thanks
for the kindness you have shown me, and my best
wishes of happiness to you and yours. Wherever I
am, I shall esteem the friendship you honor me with
as one of the felicities of my life ; I shall endeavour
to cultivate it by a more punctual correspondence;
and I hope frequently to hear of your welfare and

1762] Benjamin Franklin 425

prosperity. Adieu, my dear friend, and believe me
ever most affectionately yours,

B. Franklin.1

CCXX

TO MR. WILLIAM STRAHAN

Portsmouth, Monday, 23 August, 1762.

Dear Sir: — I have been two nights on board ex-
pecting to sail, but the wind continuing contrary,
am just now on shore again, and have met with
your kind letter of the 20th. I thank you even for
the reproofs it contains, tho' I have not altogether de-
served them. I cannot, I assure you, quit even this
disagreeable place without regret, as it carries me
still farther from those I love, and from the oppor-
tunities of hearing of their welfare. The attraction
of reason is at present for the other side of the water,
but that of inclination will be for this side. You
know which usually prevails. I shall probably make
but this one vibration and settle here forever. No-
thing will prevent it, if I can, as I hope I can, prevail
with Mrs. F. to accompany me, especially if we have
a peace. I will not tell you that to be near and with
you and yours is any part of my inducement. It
would look like a compliment extorted from me by
your pretences to insignificancy. Nor will I own

1 Though Dr. Franklin sailed from England in the latter half of
August, and soon after writing this letter, he did not reach Philadel-
phia until the ist of November. He had been absent five years, hav-
ing arrived in England in July, 1757. The Assembly of Pennsylvania
promptly voted their thanks to him for his services as their agent.

426 The Works of [1762

that your persuasions and arguments have wrought
this change in my former resolutions; tho' it is true
that they have frequently intruded themselves into
my consideration whether I would or not. I trust,
however, that we shall once more see each other, and
be happy again together, which God, &c.

My love to Mrs. Strahan, and your amiable and
valuable children. Heaven bless you all whatever
becomes of

Your much oblig'd and affectionate friend,

B. Franklin.

CCXXI

TO JOHN PRINGLE, IN LONDON

Philadelphia, i December, 1762.

Sir: — During our passage to Madeira, the weather
being warm, and the cabin windows constantly open
for the benefit of the air, the candles at night flared
and ran very much, which was an inconvenience. At
Madeira, we got oil to burn, and with a common glass
tumbler or beaker, slung in wire, and suspended to
the ceiling of the cabin, and a little wire hoop for the
wick, furnished with corks to float on the oil, I made
an Italian lamp, that gave us very good light all over
the table. The glass at bottom contained water to
about one third of its height ; another third was taken
up with oil ; the rest was left empty that the sides of
the glass might protect the flame from the wind.
There is nothing remarkable in all this; but what
follows is particular. At supper, looking on the

1762] Benjamin Franklin 427

lamp, I remarked that though the surface of the oil
was perfectly tranquil, and duly preserved its posi-
tion and distance with regard to the brim of the glass,
the water under the oil was in great commotion,
rising and falling in irregular waves, which continued
during the whole evening. The lamp was kept burn-
ing as a watch-light all night, till the oil was spent
and the water only remained. In the morning I
observed that though the motion of the ship con-
tinued the same, the water was now quiet, and its
surface as tranquil as that of the oil had been the
evening before. At night again, when oil was put
upon it, the water resumed its irregular motions, ris-
ing in high waves almost to the surface of the oil,
but without disturbing the smooth level of that sur-
face. And this was repeated every day during the
voyage.

Since my arrival in America I have repeated the
experiment frequently thus. I have put a pack-
thread round a tumbler, with strings to the same,
from each side, meeting above it in a knot at about a
foot distance from the top of the tumbler. Then
putting in as much water as would fill about one
third part of the tumbler, I lifted it up by the knot,
and swung it to and fro in the air; when the water
appeared to keep its place in the tumbler as steadily
as if it had been ice. But pouring gently in upon
the water about as much oil, and then again swinging
it in the air as before, the tranquillity before pos-
sessed by the water was transferred to the surface of
the oil, and the water under it was agitated with the
same commotions as at sea.

428 The Works of [1762

I have shown this experiment to a number of in-
genious persons. Those who are but slightly ac-
quainted with the principles of hydrostatics, &c, are
apt to fancy immediately that they understand it,
and readily attempt to explain it ; but their explan-
ations have been different, and to me not very
intelligible. Others, more deeply skilled in those
principles, seem to wonder at it, and promise to
consider it. And I think it is worth considering;
for a new appearance, if it cannot be explained by
our old principles, may afford us new ones, of use
perhaps in explaining some other obscure parts of
natural knowledge. I am, &c,

B. Franklin.

CCXXII

TO WILLIAM STRAHAN

Philadelphia, 2 December, 1762.

Dear Straney: — As good Dr. Hawkesworth calls
you, to whom my best respects. I got home well
the 1st of November, and had the happiness to find
my little family perfectly well, and that Dr. Smith's
reports of the diminutions of my friends were all
false. My house has been full of a succession of
them from morning to night, ever since my arrival,
congratulating me on my return with the utmost
cordiality and affection. My fellow citizens, while
I was on the sea, had, at the annual election, chosen
me unanimously, as they had done every year while
I was in England, to be their representative in As-
sembly and would, they say, if I had not disappointed

1762] Benjamin Franklin 429

them by coming privately to town before they heard
of my landing, have met me with 500 horse. Excuse
my vanity in writing this to you who know what has
provoked me to it. My love to good Mrs. Strahan,
and your children, particularly my little wife. I
shall write more fully per next opportunity, having
now only time to add that I am, with unchangeable
affection, my dear friend,

Yours sincerely,

B. Franklin.
Mrs. Franklin and Sally desire their compliments
and thanks to you all for your kindness to me while
in England.

CCXXIII

TO MR. WHITEFORD

Philadelphia, 7 December, 1762.

Dear Sir: — I thank you for your kind congratu-
lations on my son's promotion and marriage.1 If he

1 Very shortly after Franklin's leaving England, his son William
married and was appointed governor of New Jersey. This, his only
surviving son, was born in Pennsylvania, in 1731. His father had
married Miss Read on the 1st of September, in the year 1730. Wil-
liam may therefore be said to have been born in wedlock, though he
was not reputed to be the son of Mrs. Franklin. He did not find a
home in his father's house until he was about a year old, from which
time he was treated both by the doctor and Mrs. Franklin with all the
tenderness and consideration to be expected from the most devoted of
parents.

He was educated with care. He was at an early age appointed
clerk of the House of Assembly of Pennsylvania and postmaster of
Philadelphia. In the French war he attained the rank of captain and
served with credit at Ticonderoga. He accompanied his father to
England in 1756, where he studied law, and in due time was called to

430 The Works of [1762

makes a good governor and husband (as I hope he
will, for I know he has good principles and a good
disposition), these events will both of them give me
continual pleasure.

The taking of the Havana, on which I congratu-
late you, is a conquest of the greatest importance,
and will doubtless contribute a due share of weight
in procuring us reasonable terms of peace. It has
been, however, the dearest conquest, by far, that we
have made this war, when we consider the terrible
havoc made by sickness in that brave army of veter-
ans, now almost totally ruined. I thank you for the

the bar. Not long after this, the University of Oxford accentuated
the compliment which it paid to the father in conferring upon him the
degree of Doctor of Laws, by conferring the degree of Master of Arts
upon his son. On the 9th of September, 1762, his commission as
"Governor of Nova Caesarea or New Jersey in America" was issued.
He got on very well with his people until the news of the battle of Lex-
ington reached them, and which greatly inflamed them. Lord Ster-
ling, one of the members of the governor's council, immediately
accepted a military commission under the Provincial Congress. The
governor suspended him. From this moment all harmony between
the governor and the council was at an end. The Assembly, which
had been prorogued on the 24th of May preceding, was called upon by
proclamation to convene again June 20th. This was regarded as a
contempt of the Continental Congress, and the governor was thereupon
declared by the Assembly an enemy of his country, deprived of his
salary, arrested, and finally sent to Connecticut a prisoner of war. He
was detained a prisoner there two years and five months. He was
then released and repairing to New York, became President of the
Board of Associated Royalists.

After a sojourn of about four years in New York, he sailed for Eng-
land in August, 1782. The personal estate which he was obliged to
sacrifice to his loyalty, amounting to £1,800, was restored to him by
the English government, and an annual allowance of £300 was made
to him, in addition to a pension of £500, or half his salary and per-
quisites, which had been previously granted to him. He died Nov.
17, 1 81 3, at the age of 82 years.

His marriage, referred to in the letter to Mr. Whiteford, was with a

1762] Benjamin Franklin 431

humorous and sensible print you sent me, which af-
forded me and several of my friends great pleasure.
The piece from your own pencil is acknowledged to
bear a strong and striking likeness, but it is otherwise

such a picture of your friend as Dr. S would

have drawn, black, and all black. I think you will
hardly understand this remark, but your neighbour
Mrs. Stevenson can explain it. Painting has scarce
made her appearance among us; but her sister art,
poetry, has some votaries. I send you a few blos-
soms of American verse, the lispings of our young
Muses, which I hope your motherly critics will treat
with some indulgence.

West Indian lady, whose maiden name was Elizabeth Downs. She is
described as amiable and accomplished. She died on the 28 th of
July, 1778, in the 49th year of her age.

The fact that William Franklin received an appointment of so much
dignity as that of governor of the province of New Jersey, at a time
when the relations of the colonies and the mother country were already
darkened by the shadows of coming dissensions, was regarded with
some suspicion by some of the people of Pennsylvania. The appoint-
ment was no doubt intended to detach the doctor from the popular
party. "I am told," said Thomas Penn, one of the Proprietaries,
writing to Governor Hamilton, "you will find Mr. Franklin more
tractable, and I believe we shall, in matters of prerogative; as his son
must obey instructions, and what he is ordered to do his father cannot
well oppose in Pennsylvania."

The artifice had its perfect work upon the son, who, to the infinite
chagrin of the father, from that time forth became the servile instru-
ment of the ministry, and in due course of time, as already stated, a
pensioned refugee in London.

The ministers, however, were not long in discovering that their
blandishments had been wasted upon the doctor, whose zeal and
vigilance in maintaining the rights of the colonies increased with every
new provocation.

Between the doctor and his son there was no intercourse from the
beginning to the end of the war. A partial reconciliation, however,
took place in 1784, and just before the former returned from Europe
for the last time. — Editor.
The Works of [1762

I shall never touch the sweet strings of the British
lyre, without remembering my British friends, and
particularly the kind giver of the instrument, who
has my best wishes of happiness for himself and for
his wife and his children, when it pleases God to send
him any. I am, dear Sir, with the sincerest esteem,

&c.

B. Franklin.

CCXXIV

TO MR. PETER FRANKLIN, AT NEWPORT

. . You may acquaint the gentlemen that
desired you to inquire my opinion of the best method
of securing a powder magazine from lightning, that I
think they cannot do better than to erect a mast not
far from it, which may reach fifteen or twenty feet
above the top of it, with a thick iron rod in one piece
fastened to it, pointed at the highest end, and reach-
ing down through the earth till it comes to water.
Iron is a cheap metal ; but, if it were dearer, as this is
a public thing, the expense is insignificant ; therefore
I would have the rod at least an inch thick, to allow
for its gradually wasting by rust ; it will last as long
as the mast, and may be renewed with it. The sharp
point for five or six inches should be gilt.

But there is another circumstance of importance to
the strength, goodness, and usefulness of the powder,
which does not seem to have been enough attended
to : I mean the keeping it perfectly dry. For want of
a method of doing this, much is spoiled in damp

1762] Benjamin Franklin 433

magazines, and much so damaged as to become of
little value. If, instead of barrels, it were kept in
cases of bottles well corked ; or in large tin canisters,
with small covers shutting close by means of oiled
paper between, or covering the joining on the canis-
ter ; or, if in barrels, then the barrels lined with thin
sheet-lead; no moisture in either of these methods
could possibly enter the powder, since glass and
metals are both impervious to water.

By the latter of these means you see tea is brought
dry and crisp from China to Europe, and thence to
America, though it comes all the way by sea in the
damp hold of a ship. And by this method, grain,
meal, &c, if well dried before it is put up, may be
kept for ages sound and good.

There is another thing very proper to line small
barrels with ; it is what they call tinfoil, or leaf -tin,
being tin milled between rollers till it becomes as thin
as paper, and more pliant, at the same time that its
texture is extremely close. It may be applied to the
wood with common paste, made with boiling water
thickened with flour; and, so laid on, will lie very
close and stick well; but I should perfer a hard,
sticky varnish for that purpose, made of linseed oil
much boiled. The heads might be lined separately,
the tin wrapping a little round their edges. The
barrel, while the lining is laid on, should have the end
hoops slack, so that the staves standing at a little
distance from each other may admit the head into its
groove. The tinfoil should be plied into the groove.
Then, one head being put in, and that end hooped
tight, the barrel would be fit to receive the powder,
The Works of [1751-1763

and when the other head is put in and the hoops
drove up, the powder would be safe from moisture,
even if the barrel were kept under water. This tin-
foil is but about eighteen pence sterling a pound, and
is so extremely thin that, I imagine, a pound of it
would line three or four powder barrels.

I am, &c.,

B. Franklin.

CCXXV

b. franklin's services in the general assembly

I751-
Aug. 13. Takes his seat in Assembly. Put on a

Committee to prepare a Bill, same day.

Aug. 15. Sent up with a Message to Gov11 Js Hn.

Aug. 17. On a Commee to prepare an answer to
Gov11 Messages.

Aug. 20. Reports on the subject of a Bridge over
Skuylkill.

Aug. 22. Reports on the subject of Indian Ex-
penses.
Seven Resolutions N. C. D., of his Draw-
ing, upon that Report.
Appointed on a Committee to draw an ad-
dress to the Bonrick [mutilated] ing in
pursuance of those Resolves.

Aug. 23. Reported the same.

Aug. 24. It was approved — but not put on the
Minutes.

Oct. 14. Return 'd a Member for Philada.
Sent on a Message to the Gov.

1751-1763] Benjamin Franklin 435

I751-
Oct. 15. On the Committee of Accts., and Commec

of Grievances, and Commee to revise the

Minutes.
Oct. 16. On Committee of Correspondence.

I752-

Feb. 3. On a Message to the Governor.

Feb. 7. On Commee to inspect Accts.

Feb. 8. On D° to consider a Petition of Bakers.

Feb. 17. On D° for examining the laws relating to
fees.

Feb. 24. On D° for a Bill relating to Dogs.

March 6. On D° to answer a Message.

March 11. On D° to see the Great Seal affixed to
laws.
On D° to inquire into the State of our
Paper Currency, Trade, Numbers of
People, &c.

Aug. 13. On a Message to the Gov?" with the Bill of
Fees.

Aug. 20. On a Committee for Conference with the
Govf on that Bill.
Makes report in writing on the State of
Currency, &c.

Aug. 21. Ordered to meet some of the Council, &c.

Aug. 22. On a Message to Governor.

Oct. 14. Return 'd a Member for Philada.
Sent on a Message to the Govr.

Oct. 17. Appointed on 4 Committees, viz., Griev-
ances, Revisal of Minutes [and?i] Ac-
counts, Correspondence, Laws, [muti-
lated] [?wi]th the Speaker to procure
Books and Maps.

436 The Works of [17 51-1763

x752-
Oct. 17. ... Committee to bring in a Bill . . .

the Govr on the Navy Bill . . . Com-
mittee [prejpare a Message ... of
the Comee of Grievances

1753-

May 30. On a Committee to consider the Repre-
sentation to the Proprietaries of 1751.
and the answer thereto.
On D° to prepare an Answer to Govr Mes-
sage.

Sept. 1 . On a Committee to consider Govr propos 'd
Amendmts to a Money Bill.

Sept. 4. On a Committee to Answer the Governrs.
Message.

Sept. 7. On D° to report on a Message from the
Govr.
175 [mutilated]

Sept. 15. Return 'd again for Philada.

Sent on a Message to the Govr.

Sept. 16. Appointed on 4 Committees, viz., Corre-
spondence, Grievances, Accts., Revisal
of Minutes.

Sept. 17. On two more Committees, viz., To inspect
the laws; and the State of Trade, Cur-
rency, &c.

1754.
Feb. 5. Reports thereupon —

Feb. 14. Translates a French Letter to Govr Din-

widdie.
Feb. 15. Reports on the Laws.
Feb. 26. On a Committee for Indian Trade.

I7SI-1763l

I754-
March 5.

March 6.
March 7.
April 5.
April

April 12.
April 13.

April 15.
April 18.

Aug. 9.

1754-
Oct. 14.
Oct. 15.

Dec. 31.

March 17.
March 18.

1755-
March 20.

Benjamin Franklin
On D° for considering a Petition for laying

out Townships.
On D° for bringing in a Bill respecting the

holding of Courts.
On D° to consider the Western Bounds.
Reports on D°.

On a Committee to bring in a Money Bill.
Gov1" appoints him a Commissioner for the

Albany Treaty.
Approved by the Assembly.
On a Committee to inquire into the facts

of a Petition.
On D° to answer a Message from the Govr.
A number of Resolves drawn up by him

and agreed to.
On a Committee to bring in a Money Bill.

Return 'd for Philada.

Appointed on Committees of Grievances,
and Revisals of Minutes, and Corre-
spondence.

Representation to the Proprietaries, draw
[mutilated] . . . Augc 3 . . . put
on the Votes ... 5. [mutilated]

Takes his seat in . . . house.

On a Committee to answer . . . and
d . . . the Answers.

On a Commee to answer an . . . Mes-
sage.

Lays before the house . . . rec'd from
the Gov1
1755-

March 22.

April 1.
April 2.

April 9.
May. 12

May 14-

May 16.
June 13.

June 14.

June 17.
June 17.
June 24.
July 28.
July 29.

The Works of

[1751-1763

On a Commee to bring in a bill relating to
provisions exported.

Requested to consider of establishing a
Post for General Braddock.

Memorial from Josiah Quincy drawn by
him.

Sundry orders of his proposing and draw-
ing to supply N. England with pro-
visions, &c.

Gives his proposal to the House about the
post which was agreed to.

Receives the thanks of the House for his
great Services in his late journey to the
back country, etc.

On a Committee to prepare a slate of the
Bills.

On D° to prepare a Message to the Govr.

On D° to answer another Message and he
draws the answer.

Communicates to the House the letters of
thanks he had received from Gen. Sir
Peter Halkes and Col. Dunbar.

On a Commee to answer a Message of the
Govr.

On D° to prepare a Bill.

On D° to prepare another Bill.

On D° to answer a Message.

On D° to D°.

On D° to prepare a Bill for granting 50,-

000 £ to the King's use.
Sent with it to the Govr.

1751-1763] Benjamin Franklin 439

1755-
Aug. 5. On D° to answer his Message of Amend-
ments.
Aug. 6. On D° to answer a Message and draws it
— a long one.
On D° for a Bill to provide Quarters for the
King's Troops.
Aug. 13. On D° to answer a long Message.
Aug. 21. On D° to answer a Message.
Aug. 22. To dispose of money for the defense of the

frontiers.
Sept. 15. On D° to prepare a Bill for regulating In-
spectors.
Sept. 19. Requested by the House to endeavour to
prevail with Col. Dunbar to discharge
servants and apprentices.
On a Committee to answer a Message.
Produces to the House a letter to himself
from T. Hutchison,1 which induces the
grant of 10,000 £ to Massachusetts.
Sept. 17. Returned for Philada.

Sent with verbal Message to Govr.
On 4 Committees : Correspondence, Griev-
ances, Minutes, Laws.
On D° to bring in a Money Bill 60,-

000 £.
On D° to prepare Bill for supplying our

Indians.
On D° to answer a Message.
Nov. 10. On a Co. [mutilated] answer a Message.

1 Governor of the province of Massachusetts and author of the letters
which, some eight years later, were destined to work his ruin. — Ed.

44© The Works of [1751-1763

i755»

Nov. 13. On D° [mutilated] . . . sides two appli-
cations to the House from Quakers, and
from the Mayor of Philada, &c.

Nov. 17. On D° to answer a Message.

Nov. 19. B . . . Leave . . . brings in a Militia
Bill
On a Committee to answer a Message.

Nov. 20. On a Committee to amend the Militia Bill.

Nov. 22. On D° to consider Govrs message.

Nov. 25. On D° to bring in a Money Bill exempting
the Propriey. Estate in consideration of
their gift of 5,000 £.

Nov. 29. On D° to answer a Message.

Dec. 3. On D° to answer a Message.

1756.
Feb. I still on the Frontiers building forts.

Feb. 7. On Commee to prepare an Address to Gov
respecting the enlistment of Servants
and draws it.
Feb. 19. Lays before the house letters to him from
Gen. Shirley.
On a Commee to answer a Message.
March 3. Brings in a Bill by leave of the House to

Regulate soldiers, &c.
March 5. Watch and Lamp Bill brought in.
March 10. On Committee to amend soldiers' Bill.
March 13. Moves the House again on this Bill.

On Commee for that purpose.
March 17. Sent with the Bill to the Govr.

Goes to Virginia.
May 12. On Commee to answer a Message.
June 2. On D° to D°.

1751-1763] Benjamin Franklin 441

i7S6.

July 22. Then at N. York, charg'd with an address

to Gen1 Shirley, going to England.
Aug. 17. On Commee to bring in a Bill granting
40,000 £.
W. M. Denny, Govr.

On Commee to prepare address to the Gov-
ernor.
On D° to prepare Answers to Govrs.

Speech and Message.
On a Message to the Governor.
Draws a long Paper of Remarks on Propy.

Instructions.
Appointed a Commissioner in the Act

. . . 60,000 £.
On a Commee to prepare reasons in answer

... to the Bill.
Draws resolutions relating . . .
On Commee to prepare a new B . . . D°
to D° ... up with the 30,000 £
Bi . . .
Oct. 14. Return 'd for Philada.
Oct. 18. Order on 3 Committees: Correspondence

Grievances, Minutes.
Oct. 21. On D° for preparing a Bill to regulate the
hire of carriages.

Oct. 22. On D° for D° Billeting of soldiers.

Oct. 26. On D° to confer with Gov1* about In-
dians.
Oct. 27. With leave brings in a Bill to regulate

forces of this Province.
Oct. 28. As President of the Hospital lays before
the House the Accts. thereof.

Aug.
Aug.

20.

21.

Aug.

3°-

Sept.
Sept.

1.
3-

Sept.

8.

Sept.

*3'

Sept.

16.

442 The Works of [1751-1763

1756.

Oct. 28. On a Committee to prepare another Militia
Bill.

Oct. 29. On D° to answer Govr Message.

Nov. 5. On D° to compare Bills.

On D° to accompany the Governor to
treat with Indians [at] Easton.

Nov. 23. On D° to prepare a Message to the Gov1".

Dec. 2. On D° to examine Journals of House of
Commons concerning Elections.

Dec. 3. Reports on the same.

Dec. 8. On a Commee to prepare answer to Govr's
Message.

Dec. 16. On D° to D° Message concerning Quarters.

Dec. 18. On D° to D°.

Dec. 19. On D° to confer with the Gov1".

Dec. 22. On D° to answer a Message abt Quarters.

Dec. 24. On D° to prepare a Bill for granting
100,000 £ by Tax.

Jan. 11. On D° to prepare a Bill to relieve Inn-
keepers.

Jan. 24. On D° to prepare a Bill to strike a sum of
Pap. money.

Jan. 28. On D° to wait on the Govr with a Mes-
sage.

Jan. 29. Reports concerning the Treaty at Easton.
Is nominated to go to England.

Feb. 1 . On a Committee to prepare a new Bill for
granting 100,000 £.

Feb. 3. Accepts the appointment to England.
Appointed Agent.

Feb. 7. On a Commee to answer a Message.

Feb. 12. On D° to D°.

i75i-i763l Benjamin Franklin 443

1756.

March 22. Govr agrees to pass the Bill for 100,000 £.
This was after B. F.'s Conference with
him and Ld Loudon.

1759-
Feb. 21. Proprietaries' message to the Assembly
representing Mr. F. as not a person of
Candour, &c.
His heads of Complaint.
Answer thereto by Paris.
. . .27. Supply . . . B . . . for 100,000 £
Taxing the P'y Estate passe . . .
[mutilated]
... by Gov . . . eny

. . . Return' . . . Philada . . .

1760.

Oct. 14. Retd for Philada.

Oct. 15. Continu'd Agent with R. Charles.

Oct. 18. Governor Hamilton refuses to certify the
Assembly's appointment of Franklin
and Charles as Agents, &c.
The Assembly order a Certificate from a
Notary and appoint a Committee to
consider the Govr's refusal, &c. And
order the Grant of the Crown to be

receiv'd by B. F. and lodg'd in

the Bank in several names.

Sept. 19. Bills ordered to be drawn on B. F. for the
amount of the Parliamentary Grant.

1762.
May 6. Several letters of different dates received
from him.
1762.

Sept. 21.

Oct. 15.

1763.
Jan. 10.
Jan. 12.
Jan. 14.
Jan. 18.
Jan. 21.
Jan. 28.
Feb. 8.
Feb. 19.

March 4.

March 29.
March 31.

Apr .

The Works of

[1763

D° . . . informing that he had taken his
passage, and left the affairs of the
Province with Mr. Jackson.

Return 'd again, as in all the preceding
years, a member from Philada.

In the House again, and on a Committee.

On another.

On another and another.

Engagement of B. F. and R. C. recited.

On a Committee to prepare a Bill.

On D° for another Bill and another.

On a Committee for another Bill.

Report on his Accounts and thanks

order 'd.
Balance of his Acct. order 'd to be paid —

^2214 10 o.
On a Committee for a Bill.
Thanks given him by the Speaker in . . .

form, and answer . . .
[Mutilated] On a Comm. . . . &c. to

ansr. . . . propose . . . Bill.

CCXXVI

TO MRS. GREENE *

Philadelphia, 23 January, 1763.

I received with great pleasure my dear friend's
favor of December 20th, as it informed me that you

1 Formerly Miss Catharine Ray, at the date married to Mr. Wm.
Greene, who was afterwards Governor of Rhode Island.

1763] Benjamin Franklin 445

and yours are all well. Mrs. Franklin admits of your
apology for dropping the correspondence with her,
and allows your reasons to be good ; but hopes, when
you have more leisure, it may be resumed. She joins
with me in congratulating you upon your present
happy situation. I thank you for your kind invita-
tion. I purpose a journey into New England in the
spring or summer coming. I shall not fail to pay my
respects to you and Mr. Greene, when I come your
way. Please to make my compliments acceptable to
him. I have had a most agreeable time of it in
Europe. I have in company with my son been in
most parts of England, Scotland, Flanders and Hol-
land; and generally have enjoyed a good share of
health. If you had asked the rest of your questions,
I could have more easily made this letter longer.
Let me have them in your next. I think I am not
much altered; at least my esteem and regard for
my Katy (if I may still be permitted to call her so)
is the same, and I believe will be unalterable, whilst
I am, &c, B. Franklin.

P. S. — My best respects to your good brother and
sister Ward. My daughter presents her compli-
ments. My son is not yet arrived.

CCXXVII

to

Philadelphia, 9 February, 1763.

Sir : — It is now six years, since, in obedience to the
order of the House, I undertook a voyage to England,
to take care of their affairs there.

446 The Works of [1763

Fifteen hundred pounds of the publick money was
at different times put into my hands, for which
I ought to account, and I was instructed to keep
accounts of the disbursements I sh [torn out] make
in the publick service.

But I soon found such accounts were in many
instances impracticable. For example, I took my
son with me, partly to assist me as a clerk and other-
ways in the publick service, and partly to improve
him by showing him the world. His services were
considerable, but so intermixed with private ser-
vices, as that I could not well attend to [sic]. I
made journies, partly for the health, and partly that
I might, by country visits to persons of influence,
have more convenient opportunities of discoursing
them on our publick affairs, the expense of which
journeys was not easily proportion 'd and separated.
And being myself honour 'd with visits from persons
of quality and distinction, I was obliged for the credit
of the province to live in a fashion and expense, suit-
able to the publick character I sustain 'd, and much
above what I should have done if I had been con-
sider'd merely as a private person : and this difference
of expense was not easy to distinguish, and charge in
my accounts. The long sickness and frequent re-
lapses I had the first and part of the second winter,
occasioned by a change of climate, were many ways
expensive to me, of which I could keep no acct. if
indeed I ought to have charg'd the province with
such expenses. The disbursement of the following
sums I have however accounts and receipts to
avouch, viz. [The rest wanting.]

1763] Benjamin Franklin 447

CCXXVIII

TO WILLIAM STRAHAN

Philadelphia, 23 February, 1763.

Dear Straney: — I have only time to write one
line by this conveyance, just to congratulate you on
the glorious peace you have made, the most advan-
tageous for the British nation, in my opinion, of any
your annals have recorded. The places you have
left or restor'd to the French, I look upon to be
so much in our power in case of a future war, as
to be so many hostages or pledges of their good
behaviour.

Love to Mrs. Strahan and your children. Billy
joins in every affectionate sentiment, with, dear
friend, Yours affectionately,

B. Franklin.

CCXXIX

CONGELATION OF QUICKSILVER — COLD PRODUCED BY
EVAPORATION T

Perth Amboy, 26 February, 1763.

The most remarkable discovery that has been made
within these three years is, that quicksilver is in real-
ity a melted metal, with this character only, that of
all others it requires the least heat to melt it. The
Academy of Sciences at Petersburg have found that
by dipping a mercurial thermometer into repeated

1 This is a fragment of a letter in the handwriting of Franklin, but it
is not known to whom it was written.

448 The Works of [1763

cooling mixtures, and so taking from the mercury the
heat that was in it, they have brought it down some
hundred degrees (the exact number I cannot remem-
ber) below the freezing point, when the mercury be-
came solid and would sink no longer, and then the
glass being broke it came out in the form of a silver
bullet adhering to a wire, which was the slender part
that had been in the tube. Upon trial it was found
malleable, and was hammered out to the bigness of a
half-crown, but soon after, on receiving a small de-
gree of warmth, it returned gradually to its fluid state
again. This experiment was repeated by several
members of that Academy two winters successively,
and an authentic account of it transmitted to our
Royal Society.

I suppose you have seen in the second volume of
the new Philosophical Essays of the Edinburgh So-
ciety an account of some experiments to produce cold
by evaporation, made by Dr. Cullen, who mentions
the like having been before made at Petersburg. I
think it is but lately that our European philosophers
have known or acknowledged any thing of such a
power in nature. But I find it has been long known
in the east. Bernier, in the account of his travels in
India, written above a hundred years since, mentions
the custom of travellers carrying their water in flasks
covered with wet wrappers, and hung to the pom-
mels of their saddles, so as that the wind might act
upon them, and so cool the water. I have also seen
a kind of jar for cooling water, made of potter's earth
glazed, and so porous that the water gradually oozed
through to the surface, supplying water just sufficient

1763] Benjamin Franklin 449

for a constant evaporation. I tried it, and found the
water within much cooler in a few hours. This jar
was brought from Egypt.

ccxxx

TO MISS MARY STEVENSON

Philadelphia, 25 March, 1763.

My Dear Polly : — Your pleasing favor of Novem-
ber nth is now before me. It found me, as you
supposed it would, happy with my American friends
and family about me; and it made me more happy
in showing me, that I am not yet forgotten by the
dear friends I left in England. And, indeed, why
should I fear they will ever forget me, when I feel so
strongly that I shall ever remember them?

I sympathize with you sincerely in your grief at
the separation from your old friend, Miss Pitt. The
reflection that she is going to be more happy, when
she leaves you, might comfort you, if the case were
likely to be so circumstanced ; but, when the country
and company she has been educated in, and those
she is removing to, are compared, one cannot possibly
expect it. I sympathize no less with you in your
joys. But it is not merely on your account that I
rejoice at the recovery of your dear Dolly's * health.
I love that dear good girl myself, and I love her other
friends. I am, therefore, made happy by what must
contribute so much to the happiness of them all.

1 Miss Dorothea Blount.

VOL. HI. — 29

450 The Works of [1763

Remember me to her, and to every one of that
worthy and amiable family, most affectionately.

Remember me in the same manner to your and my
good Dr. and Mrs. Hawkesworth. You have lately,
you tell me, had the pleasure of spending three days
with them at Mrs. Stanley's. It was a sweet society.
I, too, once partook of that same pleasure, and can
therefore feel what you must have felt. Remember
me also to Mr. and Mrs. Stanley, and to Miss Arlond.

Of all the enviable things England has, I envy it
most its people. Why should that petty Island,
which, compared to America, is but a stepping-stone
in a brook, scarce enough of it above water to keep
one's shoes dry; why, I say, should that little Island
enjoy, in almost every neighbourhood, more sensible,
virtuous, and elegant minds, than we can collect in
ranging a hundred leagues of our vast forests ? But
it is said the Arts delight to travel westward. You
have effectually defended us in this glorious war, and
in time you will improve us. After the first cares
for the necessaries of life are over, we shall come to
think of the embellishments. Already, some of our
young geniuses begin to lisp attempts at painting,
poetry, and music. We have a young painter now
studying at Rome. Some specimens of our poetry I
send you, which, if Dr. Hawkesworth 's fine taste can-
not approve, his good heart will at least excuse. The
manuscript piece is by a young friend of mine, and
was occasioned by the loss of one of his friends, who
lately made a voyage to Antigua to settle some
affairs, previous to an intended marriage with an
amiable young lady here, but unfortunately died

1763] Benjamin Franklin 45 J

there. I send it to you, because the author is a great
admirer of Mr. Stanley's musical compositions, and
has adapted this piece to an air in the sixth Concerto
of that gentleman, the sweetly solemn movement of
which he is quite in raptures with. He has attempted
to compose a recitativo for it, but, not being able to
satisfy himself in the bass, wishes I could get it sup-
plied. If Mr. Stanley would condescend to do that
for him, he would esteem it as one of the highest
honours, and it would make him excessively happy.
You will say that a recitativo can be but a poor speci-
men of our music. It is the best and all I have at
present, but you may see better hereafter.

I hope Mr. Ralph's affairs are mended since you
wrote. I know he had some expectations, when I
came away, from a hand that would help him. He
has merit, and one would think ought not to be so
unfortunate.

I do not wonder at the behaviour you mention of

Dr. S towards me, for I have long since known

him thoroughly. I made that man my enemy by
doing him too much kindness. It is the honestest
way of acquiring an enemy. And, since it is conven-
ient to have at least one enemy, who, by his readi-
ness to revile one on all occasions, may make one
careful of one's conduct, I shall keep him an enemy
for that purpose; and shall observe your good
mother's advice, never again to receive him as a
friend. She once admired the benevolent spirit
breathed in his sermons. She will now see the just-
ness of the lines your laureate Whitehead addressed
to his poets, and which I now address to her:

452 The Works of [1763

"Full many a peevish, envious, slanderous elf
Is, in his works, benevolence itself.
For all mankind, unknown, his bosom heaves;
He only injures those with whom he lives.
Read, then, the man; — does truth his actions guide,
Exempt from petulance, exempt from pride f
To social duties does his heart attend,
As son, as father, husband, brother, friend t
Do those, who know him, love him f If they do,
You've my permission, you may love him too."

Nothing can please me more, than to see your philo-
sophical improvements, when you have leisure to
communicate them to me ; I still owe you a long let-
ter on that subject, which I shall pay. I am vexed
with Mr. James, that he has been so dilatory in Mr.
Madison's Armonica. I was unlucky in both the
workmen that I permitted to undertake making those
instruments. The first was fanciful, and never could
work to the purpose, because he was ever conceiv-
ing some new improvement, that answered no end.
The other I doubt is absolutely idle. I have recom-
mended a number to him from hence, but must stop
my hand.

Adieu, my dear Polly, and believe me, as ever, with
the sincerest esteem and regard, your truly affection-
ate friend and humble servant,

B. Franklin.

P. S. — My love to Mrs. Tickell and Mrs. Rooke,
and to Pitty, when you write to her. Mrs. Franklin
and Sally desire to be affectionately remembered to
you. I find the printed poetry I intended to enclose
will be too bulky to send. I shall send it by a ship
that goes shortly from hence.

1763] Benjamin Franklin 453

CCXXXI

TO JONATHAN WILLIAMS 1

Philadelphia, 13 April, 1763.

Loving Kinsman: — You may remember that
about ten years since, when I was at Boston, you and
my brother sent directions here to attach on Grant's
right to some land here by virtue of a mortgage given
him by one Pitt. Nothing effectual could be done in
it at that time, their being a prior mortgage undis-
charged. That prior mortgage is now near expiring,
and Grant's will take place. Pitt's widow is desirous
of being enabled to sell the place, which cannot be
done without paying off Grant's mortgage. There-
fore, if your old demand against Grant still subsists,
you may empower me in any manner you think
proper to recover it.

Is Grant living? Or, if dead, are there any of his
representatives among you ? Inquire. Because here
is a person desirous of purchasing, who perhaps may
inquire them out and get a discharge from them be-
fore your claim is brought forward, unless the attach-
ment formerly made in your behalf is still good,
which I am inclined to think may be.

I am going in a few days to Virginia, but expect to
be back in three or four weeks. However, send
what you have to say on this subject to my son, at

1 Jonathan Williams married Grace Harris, a niece of Dr. Franklin's,
and was the father of Jonathan Williams, who acted as a commercial
agent for the United States in France during a large part of the Revo-
lution, and whose name often occurs in the course of this correspond-
ence. The son, after filling important stations as a colonel of engineers
and superintendent of the Military Academy at West Point, died May
20, 1815.
The Works of [1763

Burlington, who was formerly empowered by you,
and he will take the steps necessary, if I should not
be returned, I am your loving uncle,

B. Franklin.

CCXXXII

TO WILLIAM STRAHAN

Philadelphia, June 2, 1763.

Dear Friend : — I have just received your favour
of February 28th, being but lately returned home
from Virginia. Dr. Kelley, in his letter, appears the
same sensible, worthy, friendly man I ever found
him, and Smith, as usual, just the reverse. I have
done with him ; for I believe nobody here will prevail
with me to give him another meeting. I communi-
cated your postscript to B. Mecom, and received the
enclosed from him. I begin to fear things are going
wrong with him. I shall be at New York in a few
days, and will endeavour to secure you as far as it
may be in his power, and will write you from thence.
My love to good Mrs. Strahan and to your children.
I hope to live to see George a bishop. Sally is now
with her brother in the Jerseys. Mrs. Franklin joins
with me in best wishes, &c. I am, dear Sir,

Your most obedient and most hum. servt.,

B. Franklin.

I fear my letter to you per Captain Friend never
came to hand, as I hear he is taken. It was the ship
I came over in, the Carolina. I wrote pretty fully to
you and Mr. Stephenson, but kept no copies.

1763] Benjamin Franklin 455

CCXXXIII

TO MISS MARY STEVENSON

Woodbridge, New Jersey, io June, 1763.

I wrote to my dear friend's good mamma to-day,
and said I should hardly have time to write to you;
but finding a spare half hour I will indulge myself in
the pleasure of spending it with you. I have just re-
ceived your most agreeable epistle of March nth.
The ease, the smoothness, the purity of diction, and
delicacy of sentiment that always appear in your let-
ters never fail to delight me ; but the tender filial re-
gard you constantly express for your old friend is
particularly engaging. Continue, then, to make him
happy from time to time with that sweet intercourse,
and take in return all he can give you, his sincerest
wishes for you of every kind of felicity.

I hope that by the time this reaches you an ac-
count will arrive of your dear Pitty's safe landing in
America among her friends. Your Dolly, too, I
hope, has perfectly recovered her health, and then
nothing will remain to give you uneasiness or anxiety.
Heaven bless you, and believe me ever, my dear
child, your affectionate friend and humble servant,

B. Franklin.

CCXXXIV

TO WILLIAM STRAHAN

Woodbridge, New Jersey, io June, 1763.

Dear Straney: — I am here in my way to New
England, where I expect to be till towards the end of

456 The Works of [1763

summer. I have writ to you lately, and have no-
thing to add. 'T is against my conscience to put you
to the charge of a shilling for a letter that has nothing
in it to any purpose ; but as I have wrote to some of
your acquaintance by this opportunity, I was afraid
you would not forgive me if I did not write also to
you. This is what people get by not being always as
good-natured as they should be. I am glad, how-
ever that you have this fault; for a man without
faults is a hateful creature. He puts all his friends
out of countenance; but I love you exceedingly. I
am glad to hear that friend was dismissed and got
safe with his ship to England, for I think I wrote you
a long letter by him, and fear'd it was lost; tho' I
have forgot what was in it, and perhaps it was not
very material; but now you have it. Tell me
whether George is to be a Church or Presbyterian
parson. I know you are a Presbyterian yourself;
but then I think you have more sense than to stick
him into a priesthood that admits of no promotion.
If he was a dull lad it might not be amiss, but
George has parts, and ought to aim at a mitre. God
bless you, and farewell. If I write much more I
must use a cover, which will double the postage.
So I prudently cut short (thank me for it) with, Dear
Straney,
Your affectionate friend and hum. servant,

B. Franklin.

1763] Benjamin Franklin 457

ccxxxv

TO MRS DEBORAH FRANKLIN

New York, 16 June, 1763.

My Dear Child: — We left Woodbridge on Tues-
day morning and went to Elizabethtown, where I
found our children returned from the Falls, and
very well. The Corporation were to have a dinner
that day at the Point for their entertainment, and
prevailed on us to stay. There were all the princi-
pal people, and a great many ladies. After dinner
we set out, and got here before dark. We waited on
the governor and on General Amherst yesterday,
dined with Lord Stirling, went in the evening to my
old friend Mr. Kennedy's funeral, and are to dine
with the general to-day. Mr. Hughes and daughter
are well, and Betsy Holt. I have not yet seen B.
Mecom, but shall to-day. I am very well.

I purpose to take Sally, at all events, and write for
her to-day to be ready to go in the packet that sails
next Friday week. If there is no other suitable com-
pany, Mr. Parker will go with her and take care of
her. I am glad you sent some wax candles with the
things to Boston. I am now so used to them that
I cannot do well without them. You spent your
Sunday very well, but I think you should go oftener
to church. I approve of your opening all my Eng-
lish letters, as it must give you pleasure to see that
people who knew me there so long and so intimately
retain so sincere regard for me.

My love to Mr. Rhoads when you see him, and
desire he would send me an invoice of such locks,

458 The Works of [1763

hinges, and the like, as cannot be had at Philadelphia,
and will be necessary for my house, that I may send
for them. Let me know from time to time how it
goes on. Mr. Foxcroft and Mr. Parker join in com-
pliments to you and cousin Lizzy. Mr. F. prays

his mamma to forgive him, and he will be a bet-
ter boy. I am, my dear Debby, your affectionate

husband,

B. Franklin.

END OF VOLUME III.

i III

I i

Pill1!

II

ftp