NYPL RESEARCH LIBRARIES

(

)

I

THE LiIFE

or

ELBRIDGE GERRY.

SKSrctu <&onttmpovzv& Setters.

FROM THE CLOSE OF THE AMERICAN REVOLUTION.

By JAMES T. AUSTIN.

BOSTON :

WELLS AND LILLY— COURT-STREET.

1829.

• ** • •

* ' -

■ * * >

DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS, TO WIT:

District Clerlft Office.

BEIT BF.Mn-.lwmi'.TlKD, that on the first day of January, A. D. 1829, in the fifty-
third year of the Independents «P rfic UnHcd ouiura ur AumVii, vvrli^ anil Lilly, of the
■aid District, have deposited in this Office the Title of a Book, the Bight whereof they
claim as Proprietors, in the words following, to wit :

" The Life of F.lhridge Gerry. With Contemporary Letters. From the close of the
American Revolution. By James T. Austin."

In conformity to the Act of the Congress of the United States, entitled " An Act for
the encouragement of Learning, by securing the Copies of Maps, Charts and Books, to the
Authors and Proprietors of such Copies, during the times therein mentioned ;" and also to
an Act, entitled, " An act supplementary to an Act, entitled An Act for the encourage-
ment of Learning, by securing the Copies of Maps, Charts and Books, to the Authors and
Proprietors of such Copies during the times therein mentioned ; and extending the Benefits
thereof to the Arts of Designing, Engraving, and Etching Historical, and other Prints."

JNO. W. DAVIS,
Clerk of the District of Massachusetts

ADVERTISEMENT.

The continuation of the Biography promised in
the first volume is now submitted to the public; —
sooner indeed than was then intended — but in de-
ference to the opinion of many whom the author
did not feel at liberty to disregard.

Boston, Massachusetts,

January 1, 1829,

CONTENTS.

PAGE

CHAPTER I.

State of the country Convention at Annapolis... At

Philadelphia form a constitution of government for the
United States Details of its progress - - - 1

CHAPTER II.

Disapproves the constitution His letter to the legislature

of Massachusetts Objections considered Parties on

the merits of the constitution Judge Dana proposes to

annihilate Rhode Island Massachusetts convention to

consider the constitution of the United States Proceed-
ings in convention Governour Hancock Constitu-
tion adopted . - - - - - 38

CHAPTER III.

Popular feeling in Massachusetts on the adoption of the con-
stitution Letter to General Warren The Federal

party become a majority Consequences Mr. Gerry

a candidate for Congress Letter to the Electors

Letter to the Governour To General Warren - 79

CHAPTER IV.

First Congress of United States Parties therein

Speech on amendments to the Constitution The pub-
lic creditors Employments of private life Origin of

the Democratic party Commentary on the account of it

given by the biographer of Washington French revo-
lution British treaty Chosen to the Electoral Col- ,

VI CONTENTS.

FACE

lege of Massachusetts Votes for Mr. Adams Cor-
respondence with Mr. Jefferson on the election With

a lady - - - - - - - 98

CHAPTER V.

Cabinet of President Adams Mr. Gerry nominated on a

mission to France Hostility of Mr. Pickering Ac-
ceptance urged by Mr. Jefferson Letter from Mr. Otis

Arrival in Paris State of France Retrospective

history of the connexion between France and the United
States - - - - - - - 146

CHAPTER VI.

History of the joint mission of Messrs. Pinckney, Marshall

and Gerry to the French republic Messrs. Marshall

and Pinckney leave France Mr. Gerry remains

His conduct - 190

CHAPTER VII.

Commentary on the mission to France, and strictures on
colonel Pickering's publications in relation to it - - 239

CHAPTER VIII.

Commentary on the mission continued Further strictures

on Mr. Pickering's publications - 279

CHAPTER IX.

Returns to Massachusetts Proposed for Governour of

the Commonwealth Private life Pecuniary and

domestic misfortune Character Member of the

electoral college of Massachusetts .Presides at a meet-
ing in relation to the attack on the frigate Chesapeake - 296

«

CHAPTER X.

Elected Governour of Massachusetts Conciliatory tem-
per of the administration Degree of doctor of laws

conferred on him by Harvard College Inauguration o£

i

CONTENTS. Vll

PAGE

president Kirkland Reelected governour of Massachu-
setts Policy of the administration changed Speech

to the legislature Measures of the republican party

Their character considered Doctrine of libel

Correspondence with judge Parker Message to the le-
gislature on the same subject Message on the resour-
ces of the state Complies with a requisition of the

government of the United States for a detachment of mi-
litia Is superseded as governour of Massachusetts - 313

CHAPTER XL

Elected vice-president of the United States Address of

congratulation from his friends in Massachusetts Na-
tional and state policy Presides in the senate of the

United States The cabinet His opinion of the op-
position in Massachusetts Sudden death Funeral

Proposed bill to continue his salary to his widow lost

in the house of representatives His monument

Inscription ------ 403, 404

ERRATA.

Page 21, note, for cong. read conv.

Page 83, 18th line, for disunion read discussion.

Page 104, 5th line, dele the subject of.

Page 227, 17th line, for 1748 read 1798.

Page 279, 15th line, dele the semicolon after the word forgotten.

Page 307, 29th line, fox for read from.

Page 328, 8th line, for mass read Massachusetts.

Page 399, 6th line, for show read shew.

THE LIFE

OF

ELBRIOGE GERRY.

CHAPTER I.

Slate of the country Convention at Annapolis At Philadel-
phia form a constitution of government for the United States

Details of Us progress.

A former volume has recounted the agency of
this distinguished citizen in the service of his coun-
try, from the dawn of the revolution until after the
peace of 1 7J53. It closed at a period when retir-
ing from the scenes of his former labours, he was
entering on new engagements in private life, with
the honours of a well earned popularity, and the
richer treasure of domestic happiness.

The relaxation then allowed him was hardly in-
terrupted by a place in the house of representa-
tives of Massachusetts, to which his fellow towns-
men immediately elected him on his return from
the congress of the United States, as a mark of

vol. ii. 1

2 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

their affection and respect.* But the habits of his
life were too strongly interwoven with the public
interest to render him an indifferent spectator of
political affairs, which notwithstanding the cessa-
tion of hostilities, were not less alarming than dur-
ing the most disastrous periods of the war.

The government of the United States had a
merely nominal existence in 1786. Foreign pow-
ers beheld its weakness almost without disguising
their contempt. They seemed to be guided by a
belief, that, altho' the relation of the colonies to
Great Britain had been nominally dissolved, there
was a natural inability in a people to preserve the
forms of self-government, and that a period of an-
archy would place the spoils of freedom within
their reach, or that the new nation would revert to
its former dependence, chastened and humbled
by the wearisome and useless exertions it had
made.

The condition of things at home presented the
same gloomy appearance. The authority of con-
gress had fallen from its original dignity. It was
manifest that it could not long compress or direct
the separate power of the states, whose conflict-
ing interests threatened every day a dissolution of
the confederacy. The high personal character,
which had once constituted the principal sanction

* Congress having passed a resolve for appointing commis-
sioners to settle with the contractors of the army, the ollice was
conferred on Mr. Gerry, but he declined accepting it.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 3

of its measures, was departing from its councils.
The statesmen of the revolution, dissatisfied with
its imbecility, had mostly retired to other depart-
ments ; the tew who remained were unable to pre-
serve its original energy. Some of them honestly
believed that its vitality could not be prolonged,
and that patriotism might permit it to expire, in
the hope of evoking from its ashes a spirit of higher
capacity and power.

MR. KING TO MR. GERRY.

New-York, Jan. 7, 1787.

My Dear Sir,

Congress is not yet organized, and it is uncer-
tain when it will be ; the anxiety and dissatisfac-
tion still continues, which has for some time exist-
ed, concerning the government of these states.
God only knows what will prove the issue. It is
most certain that things will not long continue in
their present condition if foreseeing the dangers
which hang over us, we do not unite in measures
calculated to establish the public happiness ; I am
confident that no man will be able to bear up
against the calamitous events, which will other-
wise force themselves into existence.

You have seen the Virginia law for the appoint-
ment of delegates to a convention in Philadelphia
in May ; Gen. Washington, Mr. Wythe, Randolph,

4 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

Madison and others are appointed for this con-
vention. Pennsylvania have appointed Mifflin, the
two Morris, Fitzsimmons and three others on the
part of that state ; Hamilton, who is a member of
the assembly of this state, will exert himself to in-
duce them to send members ; Jay and others are
opposed to the measure, not alone because it is un-
authorized, but from an opinion that the result will
prove inefficacious.

General Washington will not attend, although
there will be at the same time and place a gene-
ral meeting of deputies from all the state societies
of the Cincinnati. If Massachusetts should send
deputies, for Godsake be careful who are the
men ; the times are becoming critical ; a movement
of this nature ought to be carefully observed by
every member of the community.

I beg you to be assured of the constant friend-
ship of

Your's sincerely,

Rufus King*
Hon. Mr. Gerry.

Among the most obvious causes for the embar-
rassments and distress of the country was the con-
dition of its commerce. In separating from Great
Britain, the United States had become with re-
gard to that country a foreign nation, and could
not expect an exemption from her navigation laws,

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 5

at least without conceding an equivalent, which
there was no general authority to regulate or prof-
fer. The importance of the American trade had
been felt both before and during the war of the
revolution, and it readily presented itself to the
statesmen of the day as an instrument to be used
for the securing of reciprocal advantages with the
commercial countries of Europe. It was therefore
determined to take such measures as would place
this great interest under one central power, who
should direct it for the general good, and a con-
vention for this purpose was projected to assemble
at Annapolis in Maryland. Delegates were ac-
cordingly appointed by several states, to convene
there on the first Monday of Sept. 1786; and Mas-
sachusetts authorized "Lieut, governour Gushing,
Elbridge Gerry, Francis Dana and Stephen Hig-
ginson to meet such commissioners as might be ap-
pointed by other states of the union, for the pur-
pose of considering the trade of the United States,
of examining the relative situation and trade of the
said states, of considering how far an uniform sys-
tem in their commercial regulations might be ne-
cessary to their common interest and permanent
harmony, and of reporting to the United States in
congress assembled such an act relative to this
great object as when agreed to by them, and con-
firmed by the legislature of every state, will en-
able the United States in congress assembled ef-
fectually to provide for the same."

6 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

In this cautious manner was the first step taken
to establish a government of authority over the se-
parate states. But the measure was evidently too
limited and inefficient for the purposes intended.
The commissioners from Massachusetts viewed it
in this light, and severally declined accepting the
appointment, and the delegates of the few states
who assembled at the time designated, did little
more than give currency to a conviction that a
radical change in the organization of the govern-
ment would be necessary for its safety.

A project was gradually maturing to hold a
general convention in Philadelphia, with exten-
sive powers and ampler duties. In Massachusetts
a rebellion had broken out against the local gov-
ernment, and the rebels had resorted to arms.
The utmost energy of the civil and an expensive
exertion of military power was required to suppress
it. The danger of such a state of things, and the
practical illustration of the doctrine, that a govern-
ment strong enough to execute the laws was de-
manded for the personal security of the citizens,
turned men's minds more seriously to the duty of
providing such stability as should prevent the law-
less repetitions of outrage. The character of the
state was elevated by the firmness and decision of
its constituted authorities, and an argument deduc-
ed from these circumstances for providing the same
useful power for the emergencies of the nation.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 7

MR. KING TO MR. GERRY.

New-York, Feb. 11, 1787.

My Dear Friend,
I congratulate you on the favourable situation of
the government in the western counties ; Lincoln
has undoubtedly answered the most sanguine ex-
pectations of his friends, and indeed I confess has
accomplished, by the aid of warrants, what I did
not apprehend could be effected in that cautious
manner of proceeding.

The declaration of the existence of a rebellion
will do great honour to the government, constitu-
tion and Massachusetts. I can already mark good
consequences in the opinions, which it authorizes
relative to our vigour and spirit. I feel myself a
much more important man than I was in the hu-
mility of a few days past.

I hope the most extensive and minute attention
will now be paid to the eradicating of every seed
of insurgency ; remember however that punish-
ment to be efficacious should not be extensive ;
a few and those of the most consequence should be
the victims of law. Do you attend the legisla-
ture ? How will they stand on the plan of a con-
vention at Philadelphia ? For a number of rea-
sons, although my sentiments are the same as to
the legality of this measure, I think we ought not
to oppose, but to coincide with this project. Let

8 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

the appointment be numerous, and if possible let
the men have a good knowledge of the constitu-
tions and various interests of the several states,
and of the good and bad qualities of the confede-
ration.

Events are hurrying us to a crisis ; prudent and
sagacious men should be ready to seize the most
favourable circumstances to establish a more per-
fect and vigorous government. I hope you will be
at leisure to attend the convention. Madison is
here. I presume he will be preparing himself for
the convention ; you know he is a delegate for
Virginia ; he professes great expectation as to the
good effects of the measure.

Farewell, R. King.

The articles of confederation, which feeble as
they were, yet formed the only cord of connexion
between the states, did not seem to authorize a
general convention of delegates without the advice
and consent of the United States in congress as-
sembled. In some parts of the country their ap-
probation was not deemed indispensable, in others
the movements of the local legislatures were re-
tarded by a deference to the only authority, which
had even the semblance of a control over national
affairs. Popular feeling soon gave a suitable di-
rection to congress, and on 21st February 1787,

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 9

they resolved, in pursuance of the provisions of the
confederation that a convention of delegates, to be
appointed by the several states, be holden at Phi-
ladelphia, on the second Monday of that year, " for
the sole and express purpose of revising the arti-
cles of confederation, and reporting to congress
and the several legislatures, such alterations and
provisions therein, as shall, when agreed to in
congress and confirmed by the states render the
federal constitution adequate to the exigencies
of the government and the preservation of the
union."

This act of congress gave all the legality, which
the existing forms of government required to the
proposed assembly, and a convention was formed
at the time and place appointed in the resolve by
delegates from all the states of the union, except-
ing Rhode Island. Sixty-five persons were elect-
ed members of the convention. Of these, fifty-
five attended its sessions. Six of them had af-
fixed their signature to the declaration of inde-
pendence in 1776. Among the others were the
most distinguished names on the merit roll of the
country, and at their head the illustrious leader of
the American armies, who again lent the weight
of his high personal character to secure with the
fortress of civil institutions, the liberties he had
protected through the vicissitudes of war.

The legislature of Massachusetts, on the 10th
of March, appointed to the honourable and respon-

vol. ii. 2

10 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

sible trust of representing its interests, and the
common interest of the union in the convention
at Philadelphia, Francis Dana, Elbridge Gerry,
Nathaniel Gorham, Rufus King and Caleb Strong.
The great importance attached to the duty is de-
monstrated by the imposing weight of character
selected for its performance.

The convention being organized, Edmund Ran-
dolph, formerly governour of Virginia, on 29th May,
proposed for consideration fifteen resolutions, as
the groundwork of a constitution, and Charles
Pinckney of South Carolina offered a draught of
a national government in sixteen articles. These
several propositions were referred to a committee
of the whole convention, and formed a text for

debate.

The august tribunal to whom this important
subject was intrusted, was the first in the history
of mankind in which a great and free people had
undertaken by their representatives to establish
the principles and forms of civil government. Its
members brought to the mighty task a rare spirit
of patriotism and unimpeached integrity. But
their situation was wholly without precedent.
Questions presented themselves which philosophy
had never attempted to solve, nor experience, that
better teacher in politics, been called upon to de-
cide.

The same intelligence and ability of mind and
the same honest desire to promote the common

LIFE OF ELBR1DGE GERRY. 11

good, might from education or habit or local
situation reason very differently on topics, which
this convention were called to decide. As the
condition of affairs, which rendered some modifi-
cation of the existing government necessary, was
traced to one or another set of causes, so unques-
tionably would be considered the propriety of
erecting a new building, or endeavouring to repair
the tottering fabric, which had become wholly un-
suited to the times.

Among the delegates in convention were many,
who had been practically sensible with what limp-
ing steps the measures of congress had proceed-
ed in the days of revolution, and how imperfectly
its want of authority had been aided by such
auxiliary motives as could be brought to bear on
the people. They had felt the wastefulness and
ruin produced by the negligence or the obstinacy
of those, on whom the government were obliged
to rely without the power to command. They
had beheld the army at one time almost disband-
ed, because there existed no coercive power to
fill its ranks ; and famishing and freezing at an-
other, because there was no lawful way of appro-
priating to its use the resources of the country.
They had seen the credit of the country exhaust-
ed in war, when yet it was rich in those means
on which credit might properly be based ; and in
peace they had found commerce languishing, in-
dustry paralyzed, and the character of the nation

12 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

degraded, because no concentrated power could
direct its natural spirit of enterprise, or arrange
with its rivals a fair competition in proportion
to its means. These members might naturally
enough consider the weakness of the public arm
as the cause of general distress, and be expected
to place their dependence for future prosperity
only on a government strong enough to secure
obedience to its will.

On the other side were many among the dele-
gates at Philadelphia, who in the appropriate walks
of civil life had first been called to withstand the
encroachments of established authority ; who had
commenced their labours in the public service by
investigating and explaining the rights of the peo-
ple in opposition to the claims of the government ;
who had learned as an axiom in politics, that
power, by its own appropriate energy, however
obtained, or by whomsoever possessed, will in-
crease and extend and perpetuate itself; and trac-
ing to this principle all the misery and desolation
of the recent war, and all the sufferings and sa-
crifices, which had been required to bring it to a
close, might very reasonably entertain a jealousy
of every depositary of political power and rely for
the security of public liberty on the inability of
invading it.

With too little power in the government, it was
obvious that neither independence nor tranquillity
could be preserved ; with too much, a battery

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 13

would be erected hostile to liberty. Where was
the exact point in which the advantages of autho-
rity could be realized without its dangers, and
freedom preserved without the hazard of anarchy ?
On this great question the records of history were
silent ; the memorials of former ages were those
of licentiousness or despotism. Rulers and peo-
ple were so constantly in conflict that hostility be-
tween them seemed an unavoidable condition of
human society.

On such a debateable field it is not surprising
that the members of the American convention
could at first find no neutral ground. In addition
to the difficulties already enumerated others exist-
ed in the condition of the country, scarcely less
perplexing. The delegates who assembled were
representatives of sovereign states, met together
in confederacy, each of whose members was equal
to either of the others. In its integral character,
each state exercised all the powers of an inde-
pendent political body, and the new sovereignty,
if one was to be created, could obtain no other
authority than what was shorn from these separate
parts. But the equality existing among these
parts was that of rights, and not of strength.
They differed among themselves in territory, po-
pulation, wealth, physical and moral resources,
and in whatever other means of advancement one
people could have over another. If a contribution
to the common head was to be made in proportion

14 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

to the relative condition of the parts, they would
retain after the existence of the new government,
all their original inequality, and the smaller having
an inferior share of power, could not be expected
very cordially to accede to the plan. If any other
principle was adopted, a sacrifice would be exact-
ed of the larger, in which it was against all the
analogies of human conduct to expect they would
readily concur.

Concession and compromise became therefore
indispensable ; but whatever is thus produced,
though it may have the support of all, rarely pos-
sesses the approbation of any.

When the common good is to be purchased by
individual sacrifice, he whose former risrhts are
curtailed finds it often very difficult to realize that
he has received an equivalent in exchange. There
will naturally be a struggle to make the substruc-
tion as little as possible, and a reluctance both in
demanding and yielding, which may destroy the
beneficial purposes of the original design. The
inconvenience of this state of things was fully felt
by the delegates at Philadelphia.

A question of authority early presented itself
for the consideration of the convention, and miffht
by one form of decision have been fatal to the
hopes of the country. The resolve of the conti-
nental congress authorized the assembling of de-
legates for the sole and express purpose of revis-
ing the articles of the confederation and reporting

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 15

amendments. The commission to the Massachu-
setts members, and to all others appointed by a
state legislature under the operation of this act,
expressly or by necessary implication confined
their authority to this exact object. The mem-
bers from Virginia and some others had been ap-
pointed in pursuance of the recommendation made
by the former convention at Annapolis, indepen-
dent of any resolve of congress, and were not
therefore absolutely bound by its terms. Not-
withstanding this difference, was it not the ex-
pectation of the whole people that the confede-
ration should be revised merely and not destroyed ;
that amendments should be made to the old sys-
tem and not that a new one should be formed,
and would the adoption of either of the plans pro-
posed conform to the authority of the delegates ?

This question, which is not without plausibility
on either side, was of primary importance in an
assembly which could not consistently begin a sys-
tem of free government in an act of usurpation, or
expect the confidence of the people while they
transgressed their authority. Tt was seized upon
with masterly skill by some members of the con-
vention who found that the majority were likely
to adopt a system, which they could not approve,
and who hoped by the practice of legislative tac-
tics of this sort to defeat what they could not in
any other way successfully oppose. But the con-

16 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

vention was rather a committee to advise, than a
senate to decree ; they could only recommend,
they could not enact ; and however limited might
have been the request, which their constituents
made of them, no harm could be done by submit-
ting to the deliberation and good sense of the
community what the authority of the people, and
not the acts of the convention must afterwards
legalize in order to give it effect.

If the authority conferred by congress or by the
several states on the convention at Philadelphia,
extended only to the proposing of repairs in the
old edifice, it is fortunate they were bold enough
to disregard the strict letter of their duty in a
fair execution of the spirit of it, and instead of
propping up the disjointed and crazy building to
commence that splendid architecture, in which
safely reposes the liberties of their country. In
deciding thus to do, the division was not made by
the line, which finally distinguished the different
parties. All the members from Massachusetts
were in the majority.

When these preliminaries were settled, the way
was yet hardly opened for the successful prosecu-
tion of the grand design. Another question pre-
sented itself not connected with any difficulties of
detail. It was, whether the new constitution
should establish a federal or a national govern-
ment ; that is to say, whether it should act upon
the states as states, or upon the people compos-

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 17

ing the states in their individual capacity of citi-
zens. This important question was not only to be
decided prior to all arrangements about the powers
or form of the new government, but it entered so
intimately into every part of the system, that it
was a constantly recurring cause of dissension and
debate.

The propositions of governour Randolph, or as
they were commonly called, the Virginia plan,
avowedly constituted a national government, but
the tone and vigour of the government was to be
raised or depressed, not more by the degree of
power to be given to it, than the manner in which
its power should be deposited. Whenever that
part of the Virginia plan was under consideration
in which these points were presented, great con-
trariety of opinion among the members was alarm-
ingly made manifest.

The discussions, which these important and con-
flicting subjects excited, occupied the convention
until the 15th June. During this period the dis-
position of the members was in a good degree de-
veloped, the advantage of conceited action was
apparent, and the union thus produced began to
establish something like the lines of party. The
courteous and conciliatory temper with which the
session commenced, though sometimes infringed in
the ardour of debate, still maintained its influence
among the members, while difficulties in the way
of any satisfactory conclusion began to present

VOL. II. 3

18 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

themselves in a manner, which it was feared com-
promise could not remove.

In this stage of the convention Mr. Patterson
of New Jersey offered a series of resolutions pro-
posing what he considered a plan of government
strictly federative, in contradistinction to that al-
ready discussed, which was supposed to be wholly
national.

These resolutions resulted from the consultations
of members dissatisfied with the schemes hitherto
debated, and by way of distinction were called the
Jersey resolutions. In the forms of proceeding,
according to the rules and orders of the house,
they were moved as a substitute for the plan of
Virginia. The differences between the two were
principally the following : The Virginia plan pro-
posed a legislature, to derive its powers from the
people, and to consist of two branches. The Jer-
sey resolutions deduced the legislative authority
from the states, and vested it in a single body.
By the Virginia plan, as it was then drawn out,
the legislative authority extended to all national
concerns, had a veto on all state laws, and could
be directed by the will of the majority. The Jer-
sey resolutions confined this authority to certain
enumerated subjects and required in many cases,
the concurrence of more than a majority of mem-
bers. The Virginia plan placed the executive
power in a single officer, removable only by im-
peachment ; the other placed the executive power

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 19

in a plural number, removable on application of a
majority of the states. The Virginia plan provid-
ed for inferior judiciary tribunals ; that of New
Jersey made no arrangement in this particular.

At this period it is obvious that the convention
had made but little progress in the scheme of that
splendid edifice, alike bold and beautiful, which
they afterwards completed.

The two plans were however sufficiently mark-
ed and distinct to bring on again discussions,
which well nigh caused the convention to sepa-
rate. The views and feelings of the members had
by this time become pretty well understood among
themselves. An observer of no common accuracy
and intellectual strength, in an official communica-
tion justifying his own final negative, has classed
them in three parties, of very different sentiments.
One, though a small one, wished to abolish and an-
nihilate all state governments, and to bring for-
ward one general government over this extensive
continent, of a monarchical nature, under certain
restrictions and limitations. The second party was
not for the abolition of the state governments, nor
for the introduction of a monarchical government
under any form, but they wished to establish such
a system as could give their own states undue
power and influence in the government over the
other states. It is in this second class he intend-
ed to include both Mr. Gerry and governour Ran-
dolph. If, by undue power and influence, the

20 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

learned commentator meant only that power and
influence which wealth, population and territory,
would naturally confer in an association where
these were unequally possessed, the description is
not to be complained of as unfair.

Another party, according to the same writer,
considered by him truly federal and republican,
and nearly equal in number to the other two, were
for proceeding upon terms of federal equality ; they
were for taking the existing system as the basis of
their proceedings, and remedying such defects, or
giving such new powers as experience made ne-
cessary. The existing system, it is known, ac-
knowledged the perfect equality of all and every
of the confederated states. From this latter party
emanated the Jersey resolutions.

In the discussions, which followed the introduc-
tion of the resolutions from Jersey, col. Hamilton,
from New- York, presented his views in a scheme
altogether different from either, which had come
before the convention. He said he had well
considered the subject, and was convinced that no
amendment of the confederation could answer the
purpose of a good government, so long as state go-
vernments did in any shape exist, and he had great
doubts whether a national government on the New
Jersey plan could be made effectual. The scheme
of col. Hamilton proposed that the legislature
should consist of two branches, the one to be elect-
ed for three years, the other for good behaviour,

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 21

the former by the people, the latter by electors
chosen by the people. The executive was to con-
sist of a single individual, with the unpretending
name of governour, to be elected by electors chosen
by electors elected by the people, to hold his of-
fice during good behaviour, to have the sole ap-
pointment of the chief officers of the departments,
and the nomination of all others except ministers
to foreign courts. The government of the Union
was also to appoint the chief executive magistrate
of each of the states, in whom was to be placed
an unqualified power of negativing any law about
to be passed in the state over which he presided.

The inferior points of his system conformed to
the boldness of these prominent parts.

*

* Journal of cong. p. 130. Pickering's Review, p. 172. Mar-
shall's biography of Washington, in a note to page 353 of vol.5,
adds, "It has been published by the enemies of Mr. Hamilton,
that he was in favour of a president and senate who should hold
their office during good behaviour." Whether by enemy or
friend the publication was substantially true, unless indeed some
equivocation maybe played upon the words "in favour," and
that it may be conceived he was in fact not in favour of his own
proposition.

Col. H. himself, in a letter to Col. Pickering in 1803, when the
extreme unpopularity of such a proposition was most manifest,
and after the overthrow of the political party of which those
gentlemen were the chiefs, owing, as it unquestionably was, to
their high toned notions of government, availed himself of some
such ingenious distinction. He avows making the proposition,
which it was well known to him was on record, and would one
day be published. "The highest toned propositions, which I
made in the convention were for a president, senate and judges,
during good behaviour ;" but he leaves the reader to infer that

22 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

It is probable the three schemes at that time
before the convention, may be considered as au-

his mind had not settled down definitively in approbation of his
own proposals. " I may add (he says, referring to his project in
convention) that in the course of the discussions in the conven-
tion, neither the propositions thrown out for debate, nor even
those voted in the earlier stages of deliberation, were considered
as evidences of a deliberative opinion in the proposer or voter."
That they show the tendency and bias of the proposer's mind
can hardly admit of doubt. But the apology is unavailing. His
proposition was not thrown out for debate. He did not venture
to urge a direct discussion of it ; but that it was no light or ca-
sual suggestion is proved by the dignity of the place and the high
intellectual character of the speaker, and by the strong corrobo-
rative language at other times used by him in the course of dis-
cussion. Nor can it be excused on the idea that it was in the
earliest stages of deliberation. The proposition was made on
the 18th day of June, when the general sentiments of the dele-
gates had matured and ripened, and when parties marked by
their settled peculiarities of opinion were already defined. It
was introduced on a great and grave occasion, when the whole
force and strength of each individual was called into exertion,
and at a time when the existence of any constitution might
depend on a single vote. There is a completeness in the
scheme of col. H. which might excuse a man from being consid-
ered among his " enemies" if he did publish that the proposer
was in favour of something more than a republican government.
The appointment of a governour to each state by the executive
of the union, and the unqualified veto, which such governour
would have on the state legislatures, would so far change the
relative character of the state governments that a friend of state
sovereignty might be excused for considering them annihilated ;
yet, in his letter above cited, col. H. declares, " I never contem-
plated the abolition of the state governments."

Col. Hamilton's system was introduced by a speech, in
which he maintained and defended the principles, which led to
such startling and novel results. In a mode of illustration not
exactly in the style of eloquence for which he was afterwards

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 23

thorizing the remark of the attorney general of
Maryland before alluded to ; at any rate they pre-
sented three forms of government, as distinct from
each other, as the classes into which, according
to his account, the convention were divided.

The plan of colonel Hamilton was never dis-
tinctly brought into debate ; that of New Jersey
was, after a sharp contest, on motion of Mr. King,
voted to be inadmissible ; and again the conven-
tion seriously betook themselves to the task of
arranging in detail the successive propositions first
submitted from Virginia. In this object, however,
the predominant feelings of the friends of the re-
jected systems were constantly appearing in their
contrarient efforts to consolidate the national pow-
er, or to strengthen the authority of the states, and
to give a more popular form to the projected go-
vernment. As an example of this may be men-
tioned the debate on the tenure of the office of
senator. On one side it was moved (by Mr. Read
of Delaware) that it should be during good beha-
viour. Nine, seven, six and four years were sever-
ally proposed ; Mr. Sherman of Connecticut re-
marked, a bad government is the worse for being

distinguished, he remarked, " 1 confess that my plan and that
from Virginia, are very remote from the ideas of the people.
Perhaps the Jersey plan is nearer their expectation. Rut the
people are gradually ripening in their opinions of government —
they begin to be tired of an excess of democracy ; and what
even is the Virginia plan but pork still, with a little change of
the sauce."

24 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

long. Frequent elections give security and even
permanency. In Connecticut we have existed
132 years under an annual government, and as
as long as a man behaves himself well, he is never
turned out.

Col. Hamilton. We are now forming a repub-
lican government. Real liberty is neither found
in despotism or the extremes of democracy, but
in moderate governments. Those who mean to
form a solid republican government, ought to pro-
ceed to the confines of another government.

Mr. Gerry. It appears to me that the Ameri-
can people have the greatest aversion to monarchy,
and the nearer the new government approaches to
it, the less chance have we for their approbation.

After this debate the question was carried for
five years, and a biennial rotation.

But the utmost strength of the opposing par-
ties was displayed on the question of representa-
tion. It was now well understood that neither
the federative plan of New Jersey nor the monar-
chical scheme offered by the delegate from New-
York, could be successful, but that the Virginia
resolutions must be modified to the acceptance
of the convention or its members would separate
without coming to any result.

But this again brought into operation all those
principles, feelings and attachments, general and
local, by which the several parties in the conven-
tion were already designated. To preserve under

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 25

a national government that federative principle,
which should give each member of the confedera-
cy an equality of power still continued the first
object of the advocates of state rights, which those
who were desirous of a consolidated government,
and those who were willing to preserve the state
sovereignties in their relative importance here
found a common ground, on which their efforts
might be united.

The difficulties on this perplexing subject, and
the fluctuating opinions of the convention are seen
in the progress of the examination, and the differ-
ent votes of the convention at different times.
Governour Randolph's original draught directed
the members of the first* branch to be chosen by
the people of the states and those of the second
by the first, out of a proper number of persons
nominated by the individual legislatures, but their
relative numbers were not defined by him. In
the debate on 7th June, this was altered, and it
was resolved that the members of the second branch
should be chosen by the state legislatures. On
the 11th June, the convention decided that " the
right of suffrage in the first branch of the nation-
al legislature ought not to be according to the rule
established in the articles of confederation," (which
gave each state one vote) "but according to

* In the early period of the convention the popular branch
of the legislature was usually called the first: and the senate the
second. It was subsequently changed.
VOL. II. 4

26 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

some equitable ratio of representation," and after-
wards that the representation should be in pro-
portion to the whole number of white and other
free citizens of every age, sex and condition,
including those bound to servitude for a term of
years, and three-fifths of all other persons not
comprehended in the foregoing description, except
Indians, not paying taxes in each state." And this
modification was at that time agreed to by all the
states but New Jersey and Delaware. The con-
vention then refused to sustain a motion that in
the second branch of the national legislature each
state should have one vote, but resolved that the
right of suffrage in the second branch ought to be
according to the rule established for the first, which
latter proposition was supported by all the large
states and opposed by all the small ones, except-
ing only that New-York voted against it.

As yet however nothing definite was settled.
The several propositions of governour Randolph
and the modifications and amendments of the con-
vention were on the 19th June presented by the
committee of the whole to the house in the shape,
which the votes of the committee had given them,
by which it appeared to be the sense of the com-
mittee that the equality of the states was not to
be allowed in either branch of the legislature, but
a rule was to be established according to some
equitable ratio of representation, which ratio was
yet to be ascertained. On the question whether

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 27

these resolutions should be accepted by the house
they who disapproved the report, " found it ne-
cessary" to use the words of the attorney general
of Maryland " to make a warm and decided oppo-
sition," to which he himself contributed by speak-
ing " upwards of three hours." The report in
favour of inequality in the first branch was sus-
tained, but when the question on a like inequality
in the second branch was taken in the conven-
tion, five states were in favour and five against it ;
the vote of the eleventh, which had only two
members on the floor, being lost by division of
opinion between the delegates.

In such a state of disagreement as to this most
important and essential part of the system, the
convention might well be considered as approach-
ing to the termination of their labours, and aban-
doning to all the storms of anarchy the country,
which they had not ability to preserve. But the
good genius of the nation prevailed. A commit-
tee of compromise was appointed, consisting of
one from each state, of which Mr. Gerry was
elected chairman, who reported that happy ar-
rangement, which substantially now forms the con-
stitution of the United States. It was not how-
ever accomplished without great difficulty, and
produced new discussions in the committee of a
like temper and earnestness with that, which had
marked the discussions in the house. We met,
says Mr. Martin, and discussed the subject of

28 LIFE OF ELBKIDGE GERRY.

difference ; the one side insisted on inequality
of suffrage in both branches, the other insisted on
equality in both ; each party was tenacious of its
sentiments. When it was found that nothing could
induce us to yield the inequality in both branches,
they at length proposed by way of compromise,
if we would accede to their wishes as to the first
branch, they would agree to the equal representa-
tion in the second. To this it was answered, that
there was no merit in the proposal ; it was only
consenting, after they had struggled to put both
their feet on our necks, to take one of them off,
provided we would consent to let them keep the
other on, when they knew at the same time, they
could not put one foot on our necks, unless we
would consent to it, and that by being permitted
to keep on that one foot, they would afterwards be
able to place the other foot on whenever they
pleased.

A majority of the select committee (he conti-
nues) at length agreed to a series of propositions
by way of compromise, part of which related to
the representation in the first branch nearly as the
system is now published, and part of them to the
second branch, securing in that an equal represent-
ation, and reported them as a compromise upon
the express terms that they were wholly to be ac-
cepted or wholly to be rejected ; upon this com-
promise a great number of the members so far en-
gaged themselves that if the system was progress-

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 29

ed upon agreeably to the terms of compromise
they would lend it their names by signing it, and
would not actively oppose it, if their states should
appear inclined to adopt it. Some however, in
which number was myself, who joined in the re-
port, agreed to proceed upon those principles, and
see what kind of a system would ultimately be
formed upon it, yet reserved to themselves in the
most explicit manner the right of finally giving a
solemn dissent to the system if it was thought by
them inconsistent with the freedom and happiness
of their country. This will explain why the mem-
bers of the convention so generally signed their
names to the system ; not because they thoroughly
approved or thought it a proper one, but because
they thought it better than the system attempted
to be forced on them.

This report of the select committee was after
long dissension adopted by a majority of the con-
vention, and the system was proceeded in accord-
ingly. Near a fortnight, perhaps more, was spent
in the discussion of this business, during which we
were on the verge of dissolution, scarce held to-
gether by the strength of a hair, though the public
papers were announcing our extreme unanimity.

The report produced by the committee of com-
promise, and accepted by the house, established
the relative rank of the several states as they would
stand in representation under the forms of the new
constitution, a great and difficult subject, but not

30 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

the only one, which had occasioned an alarming di-
versity of opinion.

The chairman of that committee, without pledg-
ing himself for his vote on the final questions before
the convention, laboured to bring about a satisfac-
tory result of this intricate subject, which ought to
exculpate him from every suspicion of being hostile
to the specific objects of the convention, or of
maintaining an irreconcilable animosity to the plan
in progress.

At the time when this important committee
were endeavouring to reconcile the conflicting
sentiments of their colleagues, it is evident he
must have been sensible of the advantage of ac-
complishing the duty assigned him, and that there
was a possible, and even highly probable expect-
ation of doing so in the way indicated by the course
the convention had pursued.

Factious hostility to any rational form of gene-
ral government, imputed to those who did not con-
cur in the eventual labours of the delegates, can
with no propriety be charged on one who devoted
so many anxious hours to the elaborating a practi-
cable scheme as was employed by the members of
this efficient committee, in whose power it would
have been, at any moment, to have brought the
business of the convention to an unsuccessful ter-
mination.

The report of this committee, by affording some
prospect that one of the most unmanageable points

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 31

of controversy was not fatally decisive of success,
revived the hopes of the assembly, and excited a
new spirit of exertion. A draught of the consti-
tution, as it was presented by the resolutions adopt-
ed in the progress of discussion, was printed for the
exclusive use of the members. After being again
revised and amended, a new edition was printed
for the same purpose. Both of them, and more
essentially the first, differ from the instrument,
which received the signature of the members and
became the supreme law of the land. In these
documents the modifications successively made in
the form of the constitution may be traced, some
of them serving only to show the slow progress by
which the charter of government attained its even-
tual excellence, and others marking changes of a
serious character, which the maturer judgment, or
often the temporizing policy of the parties recom-
mended for adoption.

These tracks of the progress of the convention
are like old charts of a well known coast, more re-
garded by the antiquary, who traces out the errors
of the first adventurers, than by the navigator who
has no interest beyond the most recent discoveries.
They will not however escape the researches
of a curiosity eager to take every shoal and current
in the great sea of political liberty.

The preamble to the first printed copy of the
proposed constitution differs from the one finally
accepted in omitting to state the objects for which

32 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

the constitution is framed. It is simply, " We,
the people of the states of New-Hampshire, &c.
do ordain, declare and establish the following con-
stitution, for the government of ourselves and our
posterity."

With regard to the executive power are the fol-
lowing provisions :

The executive power of the United States shall
be vested in a single person. His style shall be
The President of the United States of America,
and his title shall be his Excellency. He shall
be elected by joint ballot by the legislature. He
shall hold his office during the term of seven years,
but shall not be elected a second time.

He shall appoint officers in all cases not other-
wise provided by this constitution.

He shall be commander in chief of the army
and navy of the United States, and of the militia
of the several states." The important limitation
now found in the constitution, confining this au-
thority over the militia to their being in actual ser-
vice, is omitted.

There is no recognition of a vice-president.

With regard to the legislative power there are
the following provisions :

The legislative power shall be vested in a con-
gress, to consist of two separate and distinct bo-
dies of men, a house of representatives and a se-
nate.

All bills for raising or appropriating money, and

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 33

for fixing the salaries of the officers of government,
shall originate in the house of representatives and
shall not be altered or amended by the senate.
No money shall be drawn from the treasury, but
in pursuance of appropriations that shall originate
in the house of representatives.

No tax or duty shall be laid by the legislature
on articles exported from any state, nor on the mi-
gration or importation of such persons as the seve-
ral states shall think proper to admit, nor shall
such migration or importation be prohibited.

The legislature of the United States shall have
authority to establish such uniform qualifications
of the members of each house, with regard to pro-
perty, as to the said legislature shall seem expe-
dient. The members of each house shall be ine-
ligible and incapable of holding any civil office un-
der the authority of the United States, during the
time for which they shall respectively be elected,
and the members of the senate shall be ineligible
to, and incapable of holding any such office for
one year afterwards.

The members of each house shall receive com-
pensation for their services, to be ascertained and
paid by the state in which they shall be chosen.

Of the senate it is declared,

The senate of the United States shall have
power to make treaties, and to appoint ambassa-
dors, and judges of the supreme court.

VOL. II. 5

34 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

The senate shall choose its own president, and
other officers.

Authority is also given to the senate to consti-
tute a special court, composed of commissioners,
to decide conclusively on all controversies between
states as to jurisdiction or territory, and all contro-
versies concerning lands claimed under different
grants of two or more states.

The judicial power is extended to all other
" controversies between two or more states," and
" to the trial of impeachment of officers of United
States."

The election of a treasurer of the United States
is given to the two houses, and is to be made by
joint ballot.

The second printed edition of the constitution
conforms more nearly to its ultimate provisions.
The changes, which had been ordered, are incorpo-
rated, and the arrangement and collocation of sub-
jects are methodized and put into more appropriate
form.

In addition to some amendments of detail and
of provisions, which had probably escaped attention
at an earlier review, care is evidently bestowed on
the phraseology, and effort made to correct as far
as might be the ambiguity of expression.

For instance, this reprint contains the following
enactments : " The president shall at stated times
receive a fixed compensation for his services, which
shall neither be increased nor diminished during
the period for which he shall have been elected."

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 35

The strict grammatical construction prohibits
any alteration in his duties and not his emolu-
ments. It was on motion so altered as to read in
conformity to the meaning of the draughtsman.
The president shall at stated times receive for his
services a compensation, which shall neither be in-
creased nor diminished.

Again, the clause printed as follows : " The mi-
gration or importation of such persons as the seve-
ral states now existing shall think proper to admit,
&c." is amended to read, " such persons as any of
the states, &c."

Other verbal alterations, the import of which
would be apparent only to an exact and critical
eye, were made with a freedom, which shows the
solicitude of the convention to present in a shape
the most unexceptionable, as well the great princi-
ples they established as the language in which
they should be secured.

The desire of the convention to arrive at such a
result, as notwithstanding the intrinsic difficulties
of the task should receive the support of all its
members, was manifested as well by the closeness
of their application* as by the frequent modification
of the articles, which from time to time was per-
mitted.

* On the 18th August the convention resolved to meet punc-
tually at 10 o'clock every morning, Sundays excepted, and sit
till 4 o'clock P. M., at which time the president should adjourn
the convention, and that no motion for adjournment be allowed.

36 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

MR. GERRY TO GENERAL WARREN.

Philadelphia, Aug. 13, 1787.

My Dear Sir,

It is out of my power in return for the informa-
tion you have given me to inform you of our pro-
ceedings in convention, but I think they will be
complete in a month or six weeks, perhaps sooner.
Whenever they shall be matured I sincerely hope
they will be such as you and I can approve, and
then they will not be engrafted with principles
of mutability, corruption or despotism, principles
which some, you and I know, would not dislike to
find in our national constitution. I wish you had
accepted a seat in congress, for the next year will
be important.

Adieu my dear sir. — Make my respects, &c.

Your sincere friend,

E. Gerry.

Hon. J. Warren.

On the 17th September 1787, this celebrated
assembly announced to the country the result of
its deliberations. Thirty-eight members sub-
scribed the plan proposed. Sixteen signatures are
wanting. Among the latter in addition to the
subject of this memoir, was governour Randolph
and Mr. Mason of Virginia, Mr. Lansing and chief

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 37

justice Yeates of New- York, and Mr. Martin of
Maryland. Mr. Strong* of Massachusetts obtained
leave of absence before the final question was ta-
ken, so that the instrument bears the names of
only two members from that state.

It is somewhat remarkable that while governour
Randolph supplied the original materials out of
which the constitution was elaborated, they suffer-
ed such changes in their passage through the or-
deal of the convention that he thought proper to
withhold his consent to the plan, which they even-
tually assumed.

* Afterwards governour of the commonwealth.

38 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

CHAPTER II.

Objects to the co7istitutio7i His letter to the legislature of

Massachusetts Objections considered Parties on the merits

of the constitution Judge Dana proposes to annihilate Rhode

Island Massachusetts convention to consider the constitution

of the United States Proceedings in convention His letter

to the president Governour Hancock Constitution adopted.

The period, which has elapsed since the conven-
tion at Philadelphia terminated its session has al-
lowed ample opportunity for ascertaining the com-
petency of the constitution, which the wisdom of
that assembly presented to the American people,
for the great purposes it was intended to accom-
plish. Under the government, which from that
time was established, the United States as a na-
tion have acquired rank, wealth and power, which
the eye of patriotism in the widest range of its
prophetic vision could never have foreseen. The
strength of the government for all purposes of na-
tional protection, and its inaptitude to any exertion
adverse to the most perfect political liberty dem-
onstrate the exact balance of those combined and
contrarient principles, which render it formidable
where power is to be exercised for general good,
and harmless where an undue exertion of autho-
rity would endanger the personal security of the
citizen.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 39

How much the prosperity of the country is at-
tributable to the constitution of its government,
how much has resulted from geographical position,
what share has its cause in the intelligence, virtue
and enterprise of the people, and how much has
resulted from the prudence and ability of the suc-
cessive administrations of its affairs, cannot now
with any exactness be ascertained. The road on
which we have travelled, though not without im-
pediments and danger, has conducted us as we
know to an elevated and commanding station ;
what might have been the termination of another
path is shut out from all human observation. En-
joying the great national blessings with which Pro-
vidence has indulged us, we are forbidden to sup-
pose that any other than the course we have taken
could have been equally prosperous.

Under the operation of the constitution the
country has been eminently happy ; and success
so far as it has been procured by the instrumen-
tality of the form of government, may be justly
claimed by the .advocates of that form as proof
of their forecast and political skill. It is however
to be considered that the constitution reported by
the convention, although accepted and ratified by
the people, has never been, or for a single year on-
ly, the actual frame of government for the nation.
Amendments of a character if not essentially to
change its original features, yet calculated to sof-
ten and remould them, were proposed at the first

40 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

session of the first congress in New-York, and by
the assent of the people became very soon a part
of the fundamental law of the country. Between
the advocates in the convention for one form or
another the question is yet open to discussion whe-
ther the existing constitution with all its early
amendments is conformable to the principles urg-
ed by those, who gave it originally their assent,
or restores it to the plan of those, who were induc-
ed to withhold from it at first the sanction of their
names.

Mr. Gerry, as has been already remarked, was
one of a minority in the convention who disapprov-
ed some of the principles, which the constitution
finally assumed, and having arrived at the conclu-
sion in his own mind that it did not comport with
the well being of the country, with regret indeed
but without hesitation he refused it the sanction
of his name.

This act of refusal, even admitting the validity
of the objections, which existed in his own mind,
has been charged upon him as impolitic, injudicious
and unwise. He had laboured, it was said, with
an industry and perseverance in the details of the
scheme, which demonstrated a belief in the neces-
sity of some essential change in the existing order of
things; it must have been manifest that such
change could only be the result of compromise and
concession, and no practical statesman would be-
lieve that, when such were the means of operation,

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 41

all his own favourite objects would be preserved.
The difficulties, too, experienced by him, during
four months of close application to this arduous la-
bour, must have satisfied any man that a new con-
vention would meet only to encounter new diffi-
culties, and that the results, in their present form,
if not the most desirable, were in fact the only
ones, which could ever be obtained. To a states-
man, it was apparent that the alternative was not
between this constitution and a better, but be-
tween this and none.

The objections thus urged did not pass without
due consideration, but they seemed to him to put
policy in opposition to principle, and in such case
the habit of his life left him in no doubt on which
side to take his stand. The question was indeed
momentous. To recommend to others what the
party himself did not approve ; to become responsi-
ble for consequences, the dangers of which were as
firmly believed as if they were visible ; to place
the confiding and industrious people of a great na-
tion under a power, which might crush them by its
weight, or embark them on the stormy ocean of
politics, in a vessel too frail to encounter the perils
of the voyage, was a course of too doubtful integ-
rity to be easily adopted. It was that indeed
which many honourable members of the convention
were willing to take, for reasons unquestionably
satisfactory to themselves, but in the mind of the
delegate from Massachusetts, compromise had its

VOL. ii. 6

42 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

limits, and concession its legitimate bounds ; be-
yond these his ideas of duty forbade him to pass,
and poising himself on his own character, he as-
sumed the responsibility of acting on the principles,
which his judgment approved.

In communicating to his constituents, the legis-
lature of Massachusetts, the constitution adopted
by the convention at Philadelphia, Mr. Gerry an-
nounces his own dissent, and maintains his opin-
ions in the following letter.

MR. GERRY TO THE SENATE AND HOUSE OF RE-
PRESENTATIVES OF MASSACHUSETTS.

New- York, Oct. 18, 1787.

Gentlemen,

I have the honour to enclose, pursuant to my
commission, the constitution proposed by the fede-
ral convention. To this system I gave my dissent,
and shall submit my objections to the honourable
legislature. It was painful for me, on a subject of
such national importance, to differ from the re-
spectable members who signed the constitution.
But conceiving as 1 did that the liberties of Ame-
rica were not secured by the system, it was my
duty to oppose it.

My principal objections to the plan are, that
there is no adequate provision for a representation
of the people ; that they have no security for the

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 43

right of election ; that some of the powers of the
legislature are ambiguous, and others indefinite and
dangerous ; that the executive is blended with
and will have an undue influence over the legisla-
ture ; that the judicial department will be op-
pressive ; that treaties of the highest import-
ance may be formed by the president, with the
advice of two-thirds of a quorum of the senate, and
that the system is without the security of a bill of
rights. These are objections, which are not local,
but apply equally to all the states. As the conven-
tion was called for " the sole and express purpose
of revising the articles of confederation, and report-
ing to congress and the several legislatures, such
alterations and provisions as shall render the fede-
ral constitution adequate to the exigencies of gov-
ernment and the preservation of the union." I
did not conceive that these powers extended to the
formation of the plan proposed, but the convention
being of a different opinion, I acquiesced in it,
being fully convinced, that to preserve the union,
an efficient government was indispensably neces-
sary, and that it would be difficult to make proper
amendments to the articles of confederation. The
constitution proposed has few, if any federal fea-
tures, but is rather a system of national govern-
ment ; nevertheless, in many respects, I think it
has great merit, and by proper amendments may
be adapted to the " exigencies of government and
preservation of liberty." The question on this

44 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

plan involves others of the highest importance :
First, Whether there shall be a dissolution of the
federal government. Secondly, Whether the seve-
ral state governments shall be so altered, as in ef-
fect to be dissolved. Thirdly, Whether, in lieu of
the federal and state governments, the national
constitution now proposed shall be substituted with-
out amendment. Never perhaps were a people
called upon to decide a question of greater magni-
tude. Should the citizens of America adopt the
plan as it now stands, their liberties may be lost ;
or should they reject it altogether, anarchy may
ensue. It is evident therefore that they should
not be precipitate in their decisions ; that the sub-
ject should be well understood, lest they should re-
fuse to support the government, after having hastily
accepted it. if those who are in favour of the con-
stitution, as well as those who are against it, should
preserve moderation, their discussions may afford
much information, and finally direct to a happy
issue. It may be urged by some, that an implicit
confidence should be placed in the convention ; but
however respectable the members may be who
signed the constitution, it must be admitted that a
free people are the proper guardians of their rights
and liberties ; that the greatest men may err, and
that their errors are sometimes of the greatest mag-
nitude. Others may suppose that the constitution
may be safely adopted, because therein provision
is made to amend it. But cannot this object be

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 45

better attained before a ratification than after it ?
And should a free people adopt a form of govern-
ment under conviction that it wants amendment ?
Some may conceive that, if the plan is not ac-
cepted by the people, they will not unite in ano-
ther : but surely while they have the power to
amend, they are not under the necessity of reject-
ing it. I have been detained here longer than I
expected, but shall leave this in a day or two for
Massachusetts, and on my arrival shall submit the
reasons (if required by the legislature) on which
my objections are grounded.

I shall only add, that as the welfare of the union
requires a better constitution than the confedera-
tion, 1 shall think it my duty, as a citizen of Mas-
sachusetts, to support that, which shall be finally
adopted, sincerely hoping it will secure the liberty
and happiness of America. I have the honour to
be, gentlemen, with the highest respect for the
honourable legislature and yourselves, your most
obedient and very humble servant,

E. Gerry.

To the Hon. Samuel Adams, Esq. President of the Senate,
and the Hon. James Warren, Esq. Speaker of the House of
Representatives of Massachusetts.

This official letter sets forth the most prominent
objections which, at the period of the promulgation
of the constitution, that instrument had to encoun-

46 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

ter. But it is obviously not written in the spirit
of a partizan. Popular topics, calculated to excite
the passions of the people, and elsewhere used with
adroitness, ad captandum vulgus, are not enume-
rated ; the advantages of the new system are too
freely admitted for the purposes of an irreconcilable
hostility ; and the intention of supporting it, if le-
gally ratified, is the submission of a good citizen to
the authority of the laws, and not the evidence of
that spirit of rebellion, which would retaliate its
own disappointment by indiscriminate confusion.

It may be proper to review the objections, which
were thus contemporaneously made to the consti-
tution of the United States by the subject of this
memoir, and ascertain, if possible, how far they
have received any countenance from time.

Of the truth of the first assertion, no one, it
would seem, could now honestly entertain a doubt.
The passions, which in that period of controversy
obscured the judgment of the community, have
been tranquillized, and no longer obscure that
proud principle of independence, which adheres,
against all the allurements of popular favour, to the
performance of duty.

The convention had deliberated under the strict-
est injunctions of secrecy. Its arguments, opinions
or motives could be known only by their results. It
enumerated among its members men of the most
distinguished talents, the most exalted virtue, and
the most extensive influence. The name of its

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 47

president was a tower of strength. What a con-
vention, thus constituted, proposed to the people,
could not want support ; what they on their great
responsibility recommended, had already the ad-
vantage of anticipated success ; and the individual,
who in a conclave of such men dared trust his
own judgment, and risk his character and fame in
opposition to their influence, ventured on a perilous
duty, which nothing but conscious integrity would
attempt, and the most fearless independence enable
him to perform.

The objection, which is first presented alleges
that there is no adequate security for a representa-
tion by the people.

The security, so far as one is provided, is con-
tained in the second section of Art. 1, which estab-
lishes a definite representation in the house of
representatives, until an enumeration of the inhabi-
tants of the United States, a representation at all
times of one from each state, and a subsequent repre-
sentation, according to a ratio, which is to be de-
termined by congress. There is, therefore, de
faclo, no security except the pleasure of congress,
for any representation after the first census, except
for one representative for each state ; and as the
pleasure of congress could be declared only by the
concurrent vote of the two branches, in one of
which the states were equally represented, and
might desire to preserve that equality in the other,
or their equal weight in the union, by a diminished

48 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

number of representatives in the house, the objec-
tion is theoretically at least made out, and re-
solves itself into another form of expression, for
guarding the relative rights of the states.

The danger here gravely apprehended, strikes
us now as exceedingly fanciful ; but, in the ex-
cited state of mind, which that perplexing sub-
ject, the relative importance of the great and small
states in the confederacy, occasioned, was naturally
enough to be expected.

The constitution had fixed the minimum of re-
presentation. It indicated without requiring an
increase. Was not that indication a sufficient se-
curity ? Would congress, having the right, dare
to make the ratio for a second representative so
high, as virtually to exclude any state from the
privilege of an increased representation ? or would
the senate venture, against the will of the popular
branch, to insist on such an anomaly. In the pub-
lic sentiment and the ultimate power of the people,
was to be found the security sought for. In every
form of civil government is somewhere an ulti-
mate power, which is liable to be abused ; to guard
against the tendency to abuse is the part of wis-
dom ; to prevent its possibility is eminently hope-
less.

The intention of the constitution to secure a gra-
dually increasing representation of the people in
the house of representatives, within such limits as
would not embarrass the despatch of business, is

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 49

indicated by its successive provisions : that each state
shall always have one delegate ; that an enumeration
of the people shall take place within three years,
and afterwards every ten years ; and that, until the
first enumeration, there shall be sixty-five repre-
sentatives. The security for conforming to this
intention would not be more adequate, if its pro-
visions were more precise. The security for the
observance of any provision of the constitution, can-
not be found in the constitution itself. It is derived
from the virtue of the people, and the fidelity of
their agents. The constitution is a chart only, by
which the vessel should be steered ; whether she
keeps her course, mainly depends on the officer at
the helm.

The objection, considered in reference to the
sentiments and feelings of the time, is entitled to
much greater respect than if tried by the standard
of present opinion. The first amendment proposed
by the congress of the United States was intended
to obviate its force, and was ratified by a majority
of the states, but the constitutional number of nine
did not assent to it, whereby it failed to become
part of the frame of government. The want of a
more definite arrangement in this particular, has as
yet produced no practical evil. Other difficulties
have occurred under the article in question, but
the apprehension has probably subsided, which
classed too small a house of representatives among
the practical evils of the American government.

VOL. II. 7

50 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

Indeed, if the theory of the early statesmen be
true, that power every where has a principle of
expansion, a vitality that keeps it constantly grow-
ing and extending itself, the result may as well be
found in the house of representatives, as in any
other depository of this vigorous germ. It is not
easy to see why such an assembly may not extend,
or endeavour to extend its authority, as well as an
individual, in whom by the theory such inclination
is a necessary incident to the possession of power.
A tendency of this sort has occasionally been im-
puted to individual members. The first president
of the United States interposed his authority in a
case of some delicacy, against the pretensions of
the whole house. Its weight and influence, as a
department of the government, has been regularly
increasing from the first operation of the constitu-
tion, and the most distant of the evils, which
threaten the American people, is want of power or
indisposition to exercise it, on the part of their im-
mediate representatives.

The objection that there is no security for the
right of election, refers to the 4 th section of 1st
article, by which the manner of holding elections
for senators and representatives is vested in the
state legislatures, with a power in congress at any
time to make or alter such regulations, except as
to the places of choosing senators.

The fair exercise of this power by congress
could never be objectionable ; by their abusing it

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 51

the electors might be put to extreme inconvenience,
and the right rendered of no value. This extraor-
dinary power over the legislation of the states,
formed every where a formidable argument with
the opposition ; but it has not, in practice, been
the cause of any complaint.

Again it is objected, that the executive is blend-
ed with and will have an undue influence over the
legislature.

The first branch of the objection is in point of
fact true ; but the argument so profoundly main-
tained in the writings of the Federalist, has de-
fended the provision of the constitution in this re-
spect from even theoretical impropriety. The
prophecy of the other part has not been fulfilled.
On the other hand, the democratic principles of
the constitution, which pervade and animate the
whole system, but are chiefly placed in the popu-
lar branch of the legislative department, have con-
stantly and steadily advanced in strength and im-
portance. If there be danger in disturbing the
exact balances, which the constitution has adjusted,
it will come from the opposite quarter to that, which
was predicted by its early opponents.

The power and the will of the people are irre-
sistible agents in whatever government they are
admitted as elements of its composition, and not
only exert their functions in that branch which is the
place of their appropriate activity, but extend their
influence into all the collateral departments, as we

52 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

find in a garrison town, the air of military life dis-
playing somewhat of its character in the manners
of the peaceful citizen ; or in Catholic countries,
the peculiarities of the predominant faith control-
ling the customs and habits of those even who are
not within the pale of the church.

In a government like that prescribed by the con-
vention, establishing the grand democratic axioms
that the people are the source of authority, and
their happiness its sole object, the checks and re-
straints on the popular will, which were imposed to
produce strength, stability and decision, would be
found wonderfully well contrived, if they were able
to promote for any length of time these salutary
objects ; the apprehension of their counteracting
the great design of the government was as lit-
tle to be justified by theory as it has been un-
founded in experience. If the hereditary power
of the British crown, with a permanent and
powerful aristocracy, has not been able at all times
to maintain itself against even a partial represent-
ation of the people, the alarm surely was needless
that any station provided in the American consti-
tution could withstand, much less corrupt and con-
trol, the representatives of the people or the states.

That the judicial department will be oppressive
was a much more plausible objection, which may
yet be, if it has not been unfortunately realized.
This was a new power in the confederacy. It is
of necessity intrusted to a very small number of

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 53

men rendered independent of the popular will by
the tenor of office, and appointed to their high
stations not by means of that connexion, which
creates a sympathy with their fellow citizens, but
because of their professional distinction under a
good administration, or their political zeal and
party attachment under a bad one ; a course of
life, which in the one case renders them in some
degree unacquainted with the state of the public
mind, or in the other prepares them to disregard it.
In the report of the convention too it is to be re-
membered that the judicial power of the United
States extended to cases, in which a state itself
might be a defendant, whereby the whole doctrine
of a confederacy of sovereign states was annihilat-
ed and an association of political corporations sub-
stituted in its place.

The latter authority has been limited by an ar-
ticle of amendment ; and the high and honourable
character of the judicial department has done much
to preserve the confidence of the people ; but cases
have arisen alarmingly confirming the fears of the
opponents of the constitution, and others cannot
but follow, in which great sections of the country
may not think the objection was unreasonable.

Iucleed when it found that in the exercise of le-
gitimate authority a majority of seven or ten men
may set aside the statutes of congress, or of any
of the states, which have passed all the forms of
their respective constitutions, because in the opin-

54 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

ion of this small body they are in violation of the
supreme law of the land, it cannot be doubted that
the cautious republicans of the convention might
well fear that the power would be oppressive.

That other modes of revision in regard to this
necessary power had their several inconveniences
is no answer to the objection urged against this.
The control over the proceedings and decrees of a
state legislature and a state judiciary, which sub-
ject the debateable proposition of constitutionality
to the decision of three or four individuals appoint-
ed by the president of the United States, is in the-
ory a most dangerous state of things, and it may
be well for the public peace if in after time it be
exercised with so much integrity and intelligence,
that it shall not justify the fears entertained by
opponents to the constitution in the convention
of '89.

It is further to be alleged in excuse for the sus-
picions at the commencement of the constitution
in regard to the judicial department, that the
theory of representation, which elsewhere per-
vades the system, is here entirely abandoned. It
was impossible in the nature of things and has not
been attempted. No restriction is laid on the ap-
pointing power, and it would therefore be possible
in the literal exercise of the trust committed to the
president, that with the consent of the senate a
large part of the country should feel that it had no
security on the judicial bench. To those, who
found in the practicability of abuse a reason for

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 55

suspecting it, this might have been sufficient to
justify opposition, but in yielding to it they did not
rely enough on that general public sentiment, which
is the very atmosphere of a republican government,
and is produced by the intelligence and integrity
of the people themselves.

The treaty making power is confessedly one of
the strong points of the constitution, which the
jealous republicans of the day may be excused for
considering with alarm. Its operation has excited
much angry feeling and arrayed the citizens in
ranks of party as violent as those of battle, but
there is nevertheless in the very essence of this
government a redeeming principle, which compels
all the functionaries to make their habitual homage
to the public sentiment, or more properly speaking
so to act that the popular sentiment shall support
the correctness of their proceedings when it shall
dispassionately exercise its judgment. It is this,
which supplies the want of a bill of rights and ren-
ders harmless whatever other articles might seem-
ingly tend to entrench on the great charter of
liberty.

If the amendments proposed by congress at its
first session and which now make part of the con-
stitution, were properly adopted, the further objec-
tion, made by Mr. Gerry before its ratification,
was well founded, viz. that the powers of the le-
gislature were ambiguous, indefinite and danger-
ous. These amendments propose and establish

56 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

ten distinct and important limitations. If the
powers, which they restrain, would without the
amendments have been enjoyed by congress, the
constitution would properly have authorized the
exercise of authority, which it is plain the people
did not intend ; if otherwise, its language was am-
biguous. If it were doubtful whether the powers
not delegated to the United States nor prohibited
to the states, were reserved to the states respect-
ively, or to the people, the constitution was am-
biguous in an essential provision ; and that it was
doubtful must be admitted from the adoption of
the amendment ; or if there was no doubt in the
case, and the constitution conferred such a national
character on the government of the United States
that it took in virtue of its sovereignty whatever
it was not expressly prohibited from taking, a form
of government was adopted so essentially different
from that now existing, that the advocates of the
present establishment could not consistently ap-
prove it.

The indefiniteness and ambiguity of all written
constitutions and of all political declarations, and
indeed of language in its most perfect form, are
constantly witnessed and lamented. They are
without doubt inseparable from the nature of the
human mind and the limitation of its powers. It
is however the good fortune of the people of
these states that whatever of this common imbe-
cility exists in their constitution has not yet real-

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 57

ized the apprehensions of their friends. But even
at this moment its exact meaning is not universal-
ly admitted. Its powers are to be settled by a
construction, which extends or compresses them as
one or another of those rules are applied, which
have advocates in different parts of the country.
Hence it was well observed by an eminent mem-
ber of the convention, on being felicitated on the
appropriate arrangements they had formed, " that
the practicability of the constitution would de-
pend on the construction that should be put on
the powers it conferred."

It is to be remarked that all the objections sug-
gested by Mr. Gerry regarded the tendency of the
constitution to impair the liberties of the people
and the sovereignty of the states, and that it was
on this precise ground that all the opposition it
experienced throughout the United States was
founded. All the amendments, from whatever
quarter proposed, were calculated to restrain this
supposed bias. From those who favoured colonel
Hamilton's propositions it met with no obstacle
or opposition. It is apparent therefore that the
convention had carried the provisions for a strong
government to the utmost extent, which the peo-
ple would bear. In Mr. Gerry's view they were
extended further than was consistent with politi-
cal freedom, and if this question had been sub-
mitted to the people it cannot be doubted that
their answer would by a vast majority have been

VOL. II. 8

58 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

given in the affirmative. But a very different pro-
position was presented. Shall the constitution be
accepted as it is, or must the country still hold to
the floating fragments of the confederation, which
like a stranded ship, was expected every moment
to fall in pieces.

The chance of another convention, or a more
popular government, or of continuing as a united
people, under existing forms, was equally despe-
rate, and the question therefore to be decided by
the freemen of the United States was in fact not
whether they approved the plan offered them by
the convention, but whether such a government as
it provided was not preferable to the anarchy and
confusion which might follow its rejection.

Rejection indeed was not contemplated by Mr.
Gerry. He inclined to accept it conditionally,
and seems to have thought that while the people
had " the power to amend they were not under the
necessity of rejecting it." There is one remark
however, which he submitted to the legislature,
that should have exempted him from the severe
animadversions to which he was subjected, as it
certainly shows that his opposition would be con-
trolled and limited by an intelligent spirit of pa-
triotism.

" As the welfare of the union," he says, " re-
quires a better constitution than the confederation,
I shall think it my duty to support that, which shall

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 59

be finally adopted." This liberality of feeling
distinguished Mr. Gerry's conduct in the whole
business of the convention. From a distinguished
member of that body from South Carolina,* the
following extract of a letter may be introduced as
an offset in some degree for the severe censures
with which he was assailed.

" Your sentiments, my friend, respecting the
effect politics should have in private life entirely
coincide with my own. I felt it a misfortune that
I should be compelled by such judgment as God had
given me to differ so greatly from a man, whose
judgment I so highly venerate, and whose inde-
pendence and integrity I bore witness to during
the whole session. I ardently wished my friend
Gerry to think as I did, that the constitution, with
all its imperfections, is the only thing that can
rescue the states from civil discord and foreign
contempt. Reflecting maturely on the little dispo-
sition of most of the states to submit to any go-
vernment, I preferred giving my consent to a trial
of the constitution with all its imperfections ; that
there are parts I do not like, you well know ; I
ardently wish to draw in public as I ever shall in
private life in unison with a person for whom I
have so great an esteem as for Mr. Gerry, but I
shall not less admire his independent spirit, his
disinterested conduct and his private worth be-

■* Hon. Peirce Butler.

60 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

cause we differ on measures of great public con-

cern."

It is somewhat remarkable that several strong
points of objection to the constitution, which could
not upon any other principle than the unsatisfac-
tory one of a compromise have been acceded to
by Mr. Gerry, and which would certainly in the
eastern states, have been most popular topics of
crimination, find no place in his public letter.
Upon the subject of the ratio of representation in
either branch of the legislature he is wholly silent.
Nothing is urged against the constitution upon the
ground of its admitting the slaves of the southern
states to swell their share of representation, nor
is the insecurity of the state constitutions brought
out very prominently, although in the convention
he had urged this as a reason why the United
States officers should take an oath to support the
constitution of the states, as a provision more ne-
cessary than the one under debate, which provid-
ed for an oath of allegiance by the state-officers
to the constitution of the United States.

It cannot be that these subjects were without
due weight in his mind, but he had probably come
to the conclusion that however it might be desir-
able to modify them, no reasonable expectation
could exist of changing them for others more de-
sirable, and believing that the proposed constitu-
tion had in many respects great merits he was
willing to urge no objection merely with a view

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 61

to victory as a partizan, but to present those only,
which might by proper measures be finally ob-
viated.

In the illustrious names, which were put forward
as advocates and friends of the new system, many
minds found a conclusive evidence in its favour,
which they would not have discovered in the in-
strument itself. The argument ex auctoritate, was
pressed to its utmost limit, when probably those
distinguished individuals were doubtful of its even-
tual success, and for a cause differing essentially
from that of its open assailants, were quite as dis-
trustful of its merits.

That such were the sentiments of colonel Ha-
milton are disclosed not only by his original pro-
position, but by his subsequent conduct. In proof
of this an anecdote has been recorded by Mr. Jef-
ferson, which he sanctions by the solemn declara-
tion " for the truth I attest the God who made
me."

Before the president set out on his southern
tour in April 1791, he addressed a letter of the
14th of that month, from mount Vernon to the
secretary of state, the treasury and of war, desir-
ing that, if any important case should arise during
his absence, they would consult and act on them,
and he requested that the vice-president should
also be consulted. This was the only occasion
on which that officer was ever requested to take
part in a cabinet question. Some occasion of

62 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

consultation arising, I invited those gentlemen
(and the attorney general, as well as I remember)
to dine with me in order to confer on the subject.
After the cloth was removed, and our question
argued and dismissed, conversation began on other
matters, and by some circumstance was led to the
British constitution, on which Mr. Adams observ-
ed " purge that constitution of its corruption, and
give to its popular branch equality of representa-
tion, and it would be the most perfect constitution
devised by the wit of man." Hamilton paused
and said, " purge it of its corruption, and give to
its popular branch equality of representation, and
it would become an impracticable government : as
it stands at present, with all its supposed defects,
it is the most perfect government, which ever ex-
isted."

The same eminent authority thus describes the
feelings of the president of the convention.

" I do believe that general Washington had not
a firm confidence in the durability of our govern-
ment. He was naturally distrustful of men, and
inclined to gloomy apprehensions ; and I was ever
persuaded that a belief that we must at length
end in something like a British constitution had
some weight in his adoption of the ceremonies of
levees, birth days, pompous meetings with con-

* Mr. Jefferson to Dr. Jones, MS. published in the Boston Pa-
triot, 22d July '28.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 63

gress and other forms of the same character, cal-
culated to prepare us gradually for a change, which
he believed possible, and so let it come on with as
little shock as might be, to the public mind. These
are my opinions of general Washington, which I
would vouch at the judgment seat of God, having
been formed on an acquaintance of thirty years."
The opinions or doubts, which are thus unhesi-
tatingly attributed by Mr. Jefferson to the most
eminent of American patriots, have derived coun-
tenance from his address to the people of the
United States, on declining another election.
There is no where in that address any strong ex-
pression of confidence in the permanency of the
constitution. It is not described as the " palla-
dium of liberty," " the impregnable barrier of free-
dom," " the great citadel of free institutions," as
in other places it has been distinguished. On the
contrary, it is mentioned in very cautious terms
as an improvement merely on the past. " You
have improved upon your first essay by the adop-
tion of a constitution of government better calcu-
lated than vour former for an intimate union, and
for the efficacious management of your common
concerns."

The whole tenor of the address proceeds on an
apprehension that the government does not pos-
sess inherently a power of self-preservation, and
that the dangers to which it was exposed might
overturn it. Hence the impressive admonition

64 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

against popular combinations, injudicious altera-
tions, factions, party spirit, and the insidious wiles
of foreign influence. Hence too the props, which
are to support it ; the encouragement of institu-
tions for diffusive education and the cultivation of
public manners, good faith in foreign intercourse
and a spirit that should be neutral, as well as a
political neutrality, during foreign wars ; and
hence too that prophetic apprehension that all
these would not prevent the downward path of
the republic.

" In offering you, my countrymen," is his sin-
cere and affectionate language, " these counsels of
an old and affectionate friend, I dare not hope they
will make the strong and lasting impression I could
wish, that they will control the usual current of
the passions, or prevent our nation from running
the course, which has marked the destiny of na-
tions."

What course and what destiny ? The course
which has led from liberty to despotism, the course
of anarchy, revolution and civil war. The destiny
that subjected Rome to the Caesars, and every
where but in this new world had exiled all princi-
ples of public liberty.

It is not from this to be inferred, that these
statesmen had an abstract preference for monar-
chical or even strong government. Not at all.
The just deduction is that they considered a popu-
lar government as an experiment, as a hazardous

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 65

and unpromising experiment, and to be made suc-
cessful only by the strength of the infusion of those
higher principles which it contained.

The report of the convention was no sooner
known to the people than it divided them into two
opposite and irritable factions. Before the com-
plicated provisions of this new government could
be explained, and certainly before the reasons could
be understood, by which they were opposed or de-
fended, it was manifest that it had its friends and
its enemies, who were assuming towards each
other the temper and manners of organized and
hostile parties.

Its adoption depended on its being ratified by
nine states, and the voice of each state was to be
expressed by a convention elected by the citizens
of the state expressly and solely for that purpose.
To influence public opinion, and to obtain a major
vote in these state conventions, was the great ob-
ject of rivalry.

It cannot be doubted that, for some time after its
promulgation, the constitution had for its opponents a
great majority of the people of the United States.
The novelty of its provisions, the change they
made in relation of the states, and the uncertain-
ty always attending any new operations, in which
wealth and numbers are concerned, were sufficient
of themselves to array against it a formidable
force ; but this force was, in almost every section
of the country, led on by men the most known and

VOL. II. 9

66 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

distinguished in the past history of the nation ; by
men in whose intelligence, integrity and patriotism,
implicit confidence had been reposed in the days
of revolution and war. Comparatively a new set
of men were the fathers of the constitution, who
had yet to acquire that glory, upon which its oppo-
nents were already permitted to recline.

Enthusiasm proportioned to the interests de-
pending, and ardent as the character of those who
took the lead on the great question before the peo-
ple, excited the advocates of the constitution to
immense efforts to secure the ratification they de-
sired, while its opponents, though not wanting in
their duty as watchmen of the public rights, seem
to have contented themselves with such exertion as
their public station required. The press indeed
displayed the conflicting opinions of the parties in
every possible form, while earnestness and perse-
verance seemed to indicate a consciousness that
effort would secure the prize. Something of the
boldness of the prevailing temper may be learned
from judge Dana's letter to Mr. Gerry, dated at
Newport, Rhode Island, where he was temporarily
residing for the benefit of his health, and dated
only a few days before the convention separated.

" This state (Rhode Island) will not choose dele-
gates to the convention, nor order on their delegates
to congress. I hope they will not, as their neglect
will give grounds to strike it out of the union, and
divide its territory between their neighbours. Thus,

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 67

extend Connecticut down to the Narraganset
shore, and running up north through Pawtuxet
river to our south line, so as to leave Providence,
Newport, and all the islands, to Massachusetts,
which, as it would give the commercial part of the
state to Massachusetts, would best accord with the
spirit and genius of our people, while the residue
would perfectly coincide with that of Connecticut.
According to my best observation, such a division
of this state would meet the best approbation of
the commercial part of it, though they are afraid
to take any open measures in the present state of
things, to bring it about. Their interest must dic-
tate such a measure ; they never can be secure
under the present form of government, but will al-
ways labour under the greatest mischief any people
can suffer, that of being ruled by the most ignorant
and unprincipled of their fellow citizens. This
state is too insignificant to have a place on an equal
footing with any of the others in the Union, unless it
be Delaware. Therefore a bold politician would
seize upon the occasion their abominable antifede-
ral conduct presents, for annihilating them as a
separate member of the union."

This must have seemed strange language to the
advocates of state rights.

In the discussions and debate upon the ratifica-
tion of the constitution, its friends had a manifest
advantage, independent of the merits of the instru-
ment, in the state of the question before the people.

68 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

They had to justify and maintain an examina-
ble, defined, written law, of whose evils and ineffi-
cacy nothing could be known, but in the way of
conjecture or alarm. The confederation had almost
expired by its own weakness, and no other had
been prepared to take its place, but the one they
were urging the people to accept. Between that
and the uncertain, undefined and conjectural ar-
rangement, which either in a better or a worse
form, might hereafter be proposed, if indeed the
anarchy, into which the whole community was re-
solving itself, would allow any other to be pro-
posed, the choice could not be doubtful. It was
not necessary for them to defend the new consti-
tution as a perfect, or even an unobjectionable
form of government ; their case was made out, if
the people could be satisfied that the new govern-
ment was better than none, and that whatever
amendments it required might be safely trusted to
the operation of time.

The report of the convention having been laid
before congress, it was by that body, on 28th
September 17(57, " Resolved, that it be transmitted
to the several legislatures, in order to be submitted
to a convention of delegates, chosen in each state
by the people thereof, in conformity to the resolves
of the convention, made and provided in that case."

In obedience to this resolve, delegates on the
part of Massachusetts met in convention at Boston,
on the ninth day of January 1788. Mr. Gerry,

LIFE OF ELBR1DGE GERRY. 69

who had a short time previous to the election re-
moved from his native town of Marblehead, and
established his residence in the village of Cam-
bridge, the seat of Harvard University, was not re-
turned a member of the convention, either because
his recent inhabitancy did not make him eligible,
or more probably because his opinions, in regard
to the constitution, were not in conformity to those
of his new neighbours.

The convention of Massachusetts consisted of
three hundred and sixty members, among whom
were many of the most distinguished and honoura-
ble citizens of the state. It was understood at the
commencement of the session, from the opinions
expressed by the members, or the known senti-
ment in the towns from which they were dele-
gates, that a majority were opposed to a rati-
fication, but it was soon discovered that, what-
ever might be the force of numbers, that of talents,
ability and power in debate, was most triumphantly
with the advocates of the new constitution. A
host of talented young men, destined at a future
day to lead in the legislation or jurisprudence of
the state, had seats in this assembly, and brought
to the interesting discussion of great political ques-
tions those rare intellectual endowments by which
the state, in all its departments, has since most
eminently profited. Professional men were mostly
in favour of the new government ; educated men
and men of property, with many exceptions indeed,

70 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

favoured its adoption ; and in the collisions and
conflict of opinion, the plain, unlettered common
sense of its opponents were no match for the prac-
tised eloquence, the logic, and the learning of its
friends.

Governour Hancock, who was supposed unfriend-
ly to the constitution, was chosen president of the
convention, but ill health detained him from its
meetings, .by means of which all the influence of
the acting president, judge William Cushing, was
in possession of its advocates. Mr. Samuel Adams
was in a good measure neutral. To supply the
defect arising from want of political experience
and character, the majority invited Mr. Gerry to
take a seat in the convention, for the purpose of
giving such information as should from time to
time be required of him. As each of his colleagues
in the convention of Philadelphia was a member
of that of Massachusetts, the invitation had the
invidious character of a compliment to Mr. Gerry,
and a reflection upon their integrity or judgment.
In the mean time, no management was omitted
by the other side to secure in numbers the su-
periority they possessed in talent. The efforts
within doors were seconded by every possible exer-
tion abroad.

The newspapers teemed with essays in every
variety of form, and what argument was unable to
effect, satire, lampoon and scurrility were exhaust-
ed to accomplish. Some arts were resorted to,

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 71

which were supposed to be justified by the great-
ness of the object. Personal addresses, not un-
mixed with threats, were made to some of the
members, and a marked distinction in private in-
tercourse was observed towards the " irreclaim-
able malignants," and those who might be per-
suaded to change their opinions. A report was
soon circulated, that the constitution would be
adopted ; and as a consequence a vessel was put
on the stocks at one of the northern ship yards,
that it might appear that the very first prospect
of a new government would encourage ship
building, commerce, and consequently agricul-
ture, while in truth the money necessary for
the purpose was obtained by voluntary assess-
ment, rather to secure the constitution, than to
make a voyage.

Encouraged by the change of some few in the
assembly, it was thought politic to get rid of Mr.
Gerry, whose known opinion and high personal
character gave a confidence to the opponents of
the constitution, which it would be difficult to de-
stroy.

The awkwardness of his situation rendered this
no troublesome task. To make the matter more
sure, and more aggravating, the giving of the blow
was assigned to a friend, long and intimately asso-
ciated with him in the trying scenes of national
embarrassment.

In withdrawing from the convention, Mr. Gerry

72 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

addressed a letter to the presiding officer, the fol-
lowing extracts from which sufficiently explain
the cause.

EXTRACT FROM MR. GERRY'S LETTER TO VICE-
PRESIDENT CUSHING.

After having on Saturday morning stated an an-
swer to the question proposed the preceding eve-
ning, I perceived that your honourable body were
considering a paragraph, which respected an equal
representation of the states in the Senate, and
one of my honourable colleagues observed that this
was agreed to by a committee consisting of a
member from each state, and that I was one of
the number. This was a partial narrative of facts
which I conceived, placed my conduct in an unfa-
vourable point of light, probably without any such
intention on the part of my colleague.

I was thus reduced to the disagreeable alterna-
tive of addressing a letter to your honour, for cor-
recting this error, or of sustaining the injuries re-
sulting from its unfavourable impression, not in
the least suspecting that when I had committed
myself to the convention, without the right of
speaking in my own defence, any gentleman would
take an undue advantage, from being a member of
the house, to continue the misrepresentation by
suppressing every attempt on my part to state the
facts. I accordingly informed your honour that I

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 73

was preparing a letter, to throw light on the sub-
ject, and at my request, you was so obliging as to
make this communication to the house. My sole
object was to state the matter as it respected my
conduct ; but T soon perceived that it was misun-
derstood by the Hon. Judge Dana, who rose with
an appearance of party virulence that I did not
expect, and followed one misrepresentation with
another, by impressing the house with the idea
that I was entering upon their debates. I request-
ed leave repeatedly, to explain the matter, but he
became more vehement, and I was subjected to
strictures from several parts of the house until it
adjourned, without even being permitted to declare
that I disdained such an intention, and did not
merit such unworthy treatment."

The discussions in convention still proceeded ;
the learning of the law, the sacredness of the
pulpit, and the worldly wisdom of the mercantile
profession were successively put in requisition, and
delighted, and instructed, and overwhelmed an ad-
miring multitude ; but the leaders of the consti-
tution party were afraid to trust the question to a
final vote.

There yet remained a stern mass of opposition,
which although argued down and silenced in a
great degree, was not disheartened nor converted.

A new measure was devised, on the success of
which great confidence was reposed. The gov-
ernour had held his own opinions in reserve; both

VOL. II. 10

74 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

parties chose to claim his vote. In this doubtful
state of things, each was anxious to secure his in-
fluence, while they, who were not his friends, at-
tributed his absence not so much to disease, which
was the assigned cause, as to a desire of knowing
which side should be taken for popularity.

Although the leading advocates of the constitu-
tion were not the personal friends of his excel-
lency, some, over whom they exercised great in-
fluence, were supposed to be much in his confi-
dence ; and if by their means he could be brought
to give his name to the constitution, it was thought
that there would no longer be any doubt of the
result.

A select few of the advocates for the constitu-
tion waited upon the governour in his sick cham-
ber ; they congratulated him that upon his vote,
and those it would draw with it, depended the
greatest question, which could ever agitate the
country. They represented to him the glory he
would acquire in the adopting of so momentous a
matter by his own personal exertion, and the po-
pularity to be gained, by accomplishing this object
in a manner that must be universally acceptable.

The desire of securing a better form of govern-
ment than the existing confederation, was known
to him extensively to prevail, and while the be-
nefits of the proposed constitution rendered it in
many respects desirable, the objections, which had
been made to it, had been fully and anxiously

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 75

considered. They were disposed to take that
middle course, which consulting and uniting the
judgment of the most able and upright men on
both sides, could not fail to meet general approba-
tion. With this view, they had prepared a series
of amendments, which had been the result of most
anxious deliberation. These could not indeed be
incorporated into the constitution by the vote of a
state, but they could accompany the ratification as
the wish and expectation of this important member
of the confederacy, and be by that measure finally
secured. They tendered to his excellency the
honour of proposing them in convention. The
reputation of having devised this middle course,
the credit of announcing it, the imperishable glory
of its success, they had deemed it respectful to
offer to him, that to the fame of having given his
official sanction to the declaration of his country's
independence, might be added that of securing for
it a permanent constitution of government.

The charm was irresistible. Wrapped in his
flannels, Hancock in a day or two took the chair
of the convention, and a scene ensued more in the
character of a dramatic representation, than of
that serious and important business, which was the
occasion of the assembly.

In a speech, wise and plausible enough in it-
self, but sufficiently ludicrous to those behind the
scenes, the governour and president announced
the anxiety of his mind, his doubts, his wishes, his

76 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

conciliatory plan, his recommendation to adopt the
constitution without qualification, and to propose
for future amendment such alterations as respect
for the opinions of the dissatisfied, or a careful re-
gard for public liberty rendered prudent and advis-
able.

The accession of such a man as Hancock, to
the party of the advocates for accepting the con-
stitution, was not without great effect. His high
character and consideration in the community, the
reserve, which circumstances had seemed to im-
pose upon him, the calmness with which he came
into the assembly, the effort, which in defiance of
disease, he again made in the cause of his country,
the moderation of his councils, which appeared to
take a fortunate middle course between the vio-
lence of opposing factions, had a most imposing
effect on the convention, and seemed already to
secure an anticipated triumph. The measure it-
self was discreet and judicious, and the subtlety of
its accomplishment was wholly concealed from
those on whose mind it was intended to operate.
Encouragement now dawned on the advocates of
the constitution, but the favour of the leading op-
positionists was not conciliated, and the final ques-
tion was too important to be submitted to any pos-
sible chance.

It had been the policy of the constitution party
to operate in conversation and at private inter-
views, as well as in open debate on those of the

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 77

opposite side, whom by any means of persuasion
it had been thought possible to change. An aged
and reverend gentleman, conspicuous for the firm-
ness of his opposition and the plain sincerity of his
character, was by that tacit understanding, which
regulated the affairs of this assembly, placed under
the surveillance of a distinguished member of the
legal profession. In the course of the session, the
influence of this honest clergyman had greatly
strengthened the confidence of his neighbours and
friends, and the plainness and directness of his ob-
jections, and his terse and comprehensive mode of
expression, disturbed the efforts of more rhetorical,
and perhaps more logical declaimers.

It was the good fortune of the gentleman above
mentioned, to convert him from an opponent into
a favourer of the constitution, so that notwithstand-
ing his previous sentiments, his vote on the ques-
tion of ratification was promised in the affirmative.

But his vote secured was only one point gained,
and the ingenious commander was desirous of turn-
ing the artillery he had captured on the ranks in
which it had formerly been borne. For this pur-
pose, the reverend gentleman was urged to speak
in convention, and give evidence of his new faith.
" I cannot," said he, " obtain the floor ; the young
men are so ardent and quick of motion, that they
almost always precede me." "But I can," was
the reply of the individual who had been instru-
mental in the change of his political creed. " Do

78 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

you rise when the convention opens in the morn-
ing ; I will do the same ; if the president allows
me the floor I will surrender it to you."

On the following day, the good old gentleman
rose to speak. Haifa dozen voices from each side
of the house, addressed the chair at the same mo-
ment; but the presiding officer gave the individual
referred to the privilege of opening the debate.
" Sir," said he, addressing the president, " I have
some remarks to submit to the convention, but I
see a venerable gentleman opposite to me, desi-
rous of speaking, who though differing from me in
some opinions, I am always accustomed to listen
to with profound respect. I beg leave to waive
my right in his favour."

The change in the mind of the reverend prose-
lyte was then first made known to the convention,
and produced in the ranks of his former associates,
an unaffected alarm, insomuch that one of their
number, disregarding the decorum of debate, could
not refrain from a strong exclamation of surprise,
in the language of the Psalmist, " Help Lord, for
the godly man faileth."

The question was at length taken, on a ratifica-
tion of the constitution by the convention of Mas-
sachusetts, and passed in the affirmative, by a ma-
jority of nineteen out of three hundred and fifty-five
members who voted.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 79

CHAPTER III.

Popular feeling in Massachusetts on the adoption of the Constitu-
tion Letter to General Warren The Federal party become

a majority Consequences Mr. Gerry a candidate for Con-
gress Letter to IheElectors Letter to the Governour

To General Warren.

The triumph of the constitution party in Mas-
sachusetts was celebrated with all the pageantry
of conquest. No victory of the revolution was an-
nounced with greater enthusiasm, and on no occa-
sion was the exultation of success more offensively
displayed. The vanquished in battle had been
treated with greater kindness than those in debate.
Instead of the courteous demeanour, which the gal-
lant conqueror of a foreign foe deems it honoura-
ble to assume, there was a display of that super-
cilious superiority, which marks the triumphs of a
servile war. The state of parties, neither in the
convention nor among the people, could have justi-
fied this extravagant rejoicing, had it not been con-
sidered the most effective measure to swell the
actual strength of the majority, and to extend the
influence of Massachusetts into states whose con-
ventions were yet to assemble. Doubtful of the
real state of public opinion, the constitution party
determined to assume its control, and to secure

80 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

by apparent acclamation, what had been carried
with exceeding difficulty through the forms of de-
bate.

The measure was a wise one. Men naturally
love the side of power. The appearance of supe-
rior strength overawes opposition, and gathers to
its standard that vast mass of the community, who
always belong to the party of the strongest. The
constitution was about to become the law of
the land, and the ambitious, who were desirous of
its honours, the interested, who might solicit the
employments it would confer, and the discontented,
whom any change must benefit, added the force of
their numbers and their influence to those intelli-
gent patriots, who were the supporters of its pro-
visions, from a belief of their inherent propriety.

The great exultation at the time, the formation
of political parties with reference to the question
decided, and the superiority, which subsequent
success seems to have stamped on the judgment of
the advocates of the constitution, have transferred
the honour of the event to those whose manage-
ment was in truth successful rather than their cause.

A general sentiment prevailed that a new form
of government was necessary for the existence of
the American republic ; and as general an opinion
that the constitution, as it came from the conven-
tion at Philadelphia, would not answer the purpo-
ses intended. But the real question presented to
the people, was whether the proposed constitution

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 81

should be accepted as it was, with the hope of ob-
taining after it went into operation, such amend-
ments as were desirable, according to the provi-
sion for that purpose contained in the fifth art^le,
or whether the ratification should be delayed until
the amendments were first incorporated.

It is certainly true, that this was a most import-
ant practical difference, and might well excite much
of the controversy, which ensued, but as in all the
leading states amendments were in fact recom-
mended, and the most important of them were as
speedily as practicable incorporated into the con-
stitution according to the forms of law, two infer-
ences are deducible : 1st, That those members of
the convention at Philadelphia who declined sign-
ing the constitution, were sustained in their refu-
sal by a large majority of the immediate representa-
tives of the people : 2ndly, That the amazing suc-
cess of this great experiment on the practicability
of free institutions, is not to be ascribed solely to
the provisions of the constitution, as at first pro-
posed, but to its actual condition after these im-
portant alterations were made in it : and it is not
a little surprising, that notwithstanding the con-
stitution, if it must have remained as it was first
promulgated, would have been rejected by an im-
mense vote,* and that the indispensable necessi-

*An unqualified ratification was given by Delaware, Pennsyl-
vania, New-Jersey, Connecticut, Georgia, Maryland, and after
the new government had gone into operation, by North Carolina.
VOL. II. 1 1 Amend-

82 LIFE OF ELBRTDGE GERRY.

ty of important amendments was admitted in the
state conventions, and that those amendments
were in truth afterwards incorporated, they whose
great object was accomplished by the adoption of
these amendments, should have been considered
and treated as the vanquished party, and that those
who were willing to accept of a government in a
form to which the people would not consent, should
have been considered, and should have consider-
ed themselves as victors on this great political
arena.

The discussions, which were held in the several
conventions, and by the instrumentality of the
press, did not indeed limit the subject of difference
to the point above supposed. The occasion was
one, which enlisted the pride of men, and made
them competitors rather for victory than for truth.
Exaggeration, misrepresentation and mistake, were

Amendments were proposed by the conventions of Massachu-
setts, South Carolina, New-Hampshire, Virginia and New-York.
Rhode Island ratified the constitution in June 1790, proposing
amendments. The ratification of Pennsylvania was made on 12th
December succeeding the convention, and was charged at the
time with being urged with unfair precipitancy. It occasion-
ed some disgraceful riots, and other marks of popular tumult.
This is the only large state, which accepted the constitution with
out limitation. The commentaries and declaration of rights by
other states, which do not form part of the constitution itself
have nevertheless exercised an important influence in the con-
struction of the powers, which that instrument confers, and form
a contemporaneous exposition of its articles, entitled to great
respect.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 83

the natural consequences. Among much profound
learning, in which the science of civil government
was elaborately and thoroughly explained, and
which will serve while men continue free, indelibly
to mark the line between liberty and licentious-
ness, and to define what force is required for the
purposes of government, without danger to personal
freedom, there was mingled whatever could in-
flame the passions and exasperate the feelings of
the community. They who favoured the new
system, concealed or diminished its objectionable
provisions, and defended such as were of doubtful
utility ; the other side, in retaliation, magnified its
supposed evils, and sounded an alarm for public
liberty probably beyond their fears.

The year 1788 was passed by the statesmen of
the United States under all the agitation and ex-
citement, which attends the disunion of great ques-
tions of political interest, and with the anxiety that
awaits the progress of an important and uncertain
event.

JNot satisfied with having accomplished their
purposes in Massachusetts, the majority, as now
they must be termed, seemed to consider it requi-
site for their complete triumph to run down the re-
putation of all, by whom they had been obstructed.

Past political services, and the character of those
revolutionary patriots, which should have been con-
sidered the property of the nation, were of no avail
in the all absorbing interest of the present divi-

84 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE kGERR¥\

sions, and it was apparent that a new party was
to be formed, whose title to the confidence of the
people was to rest on the zeal or ability with
which they had smoothed the way for the adop-
tion of the new constitution.

MR. GERRY TO GENERAL WARREN.

Cambridge, June 28, 1788.

My Dear Sir,

I wish you would so order your arrangements
as to favour us with a part of your time, although
the alarm of our being together might be such as
to station sentries at Charlestown bridge, and the
fortifications for the defence of the federalists in
Boston.

It is diverting to hear the manner in which
these people amuse themselves at our expense.
They suggest that I shall not be able to keep this
place ; and should it be true, I tell them I hope to
find purchasers out of Boston. Others say I am
much affected by political events, and disposed to
grow melancholy, and so long as this is attended
with a mens conscia recti, they may think as they
please ; for melancholy is like madness, which
has a pleasure none but madmen know.

The convention of New-York will, I am well
informed, annex a bill of rights to a conditional

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 85

ratification, which will remove all our objections,
and it is believed Virginia will do the same. Pat-
rick Henry has been brilliant in that convention,

and very severe on who is reprobated

for his duplicity and versatility. 1 know not what
judgment to form with respect to the final event,
but trust in Providence for protection from the
thraldom, which may be apprehended, unless the
new constitution shall be modified and amended.

Do not let be deterred from visiting us,

for fear that she and may be again distin-
guished in Boston by the appellation of the anti-
federal ladies.

Your's in great friendship,

E. Gerry.

Notwithstanding the light and playful spirit of
this letter, Mr. Gerry felt severely the revulsion
of public opinion, and the loss of that bright popu-
larity, the sunshine and full splendour of which
had hitherto shone upon his political path.

In another letter, alluding to the same topic, he
remarks : " The vigilant enemies of free govern-
ment have been long in the execution of their plan
to hunt down all who remain attached to revolution
principles ; they have attacked us in detail and
have deprived you, Mr. S. Adams and myself in a
great measure of that public confidence to which a
faithful attachment to the public interest entitles

SG LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

us, and they are now aiming to throw Mr. Han-
cock out of the saddle, who, with all his foibles,
is jet attached to the whig cause. There seems
to be a disposition in the dominant party to es-
tablish a nobility of opinion, under whose control
in a short time, will be placed the government of
the union and the states, and whose insufferable
arrogance marks out for degradation all who will
not submit to their authority. It is beginning to
be fashionable to consider the opponents of the
constitution as embodying themselves with the
lower classes of the people, and that one forfeits
all title to the respect of a gentleman, unless he is
one of the privileged order. Is this, my friend, to
be the operation of the free government, which all
our labours in the revolution have tended to pro-
duce ?"

The state of affairs at this period was excessive-
ly galling to honourable men, who next to the
conscientious discharge of duty derived their best
reward from the approbation of the people, and
now saw all the high objects of their laudable am-
bition broken at a blow, But such was the angry
temper of the public mind, or rather such the state
to which an interested part of the community was
disposed to excite it, that not only they who had
decidedly opposed the constitution, but those even
who had not been conspicuously zealous in its de-
fence, were exposed to the pitiless pelting of the
storm, and devoted to obloquy and disgrace.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 87

Divided as the people were, on the question of
acceptance, it is no mark of their stability, that
those who were called to pronounce the conscien-
tious decision of their judgment should lose their
favour by placing themselves in opposition ; and
certainly less to the credit of their justice, that
even an error of judgment on this debateable propo-
sition should cancel the debt of gratitude, which
the whole revolution had accumulated. But other
ages show the insecurity of popular favour, and
other periods of our own history are not deficient
in lessons, which teach its unsubstantial and evan-
escent existence.

The boldness of the party, which had not long
before been even a weak minority, in assuming a
control of public feeling, and fearlessly and rash-
ly assailing the long tried and well favoured ser-
vants of the people, whose claim on the affections
of their fellow citizens might have given currency
even to a bad cause, would be much more the sub-
ject of surprise, if its success had not transfixed
our astonishment.

Such however, was the rapid change of public
sentiment that the constitution party, which at the
elections for the convention had, in many places,
not dared to avow themselves, was now a most
imposing and resistless majority, and flushed with
all the pride of unexpected success, were little
disposed to regard the feelings, the services, or the
character of their defeated adversaries. Indeed,

88 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

in the intemperance of the time, the constitution
question superseded almost every where, all other
considerations. The few days of service in the
state convention were esteemed of more impor-
tance than whole campaigns in the field ; and he
who had only his services ' in the cabinet of the
revolution, as his credentials to public favour, was
almost sure to be superseded by the greater popu-
larity of more recent favourites.

Thus in the election for members of congress,
at the commencement of the new government, Mr.
Fisher Ames, then only known as a young debater
of talents, prevailed over the immortal father of
the revolution, Samuel Adams. General Warren,
whose public character has been displayed in cor-
respondence with the subject of this memoir, and
who had long enjoyed the esteem, and received the
honours of his native state, was unsuccessful in
Plymouth ; and so many others divided the votes
with Mr. Gerry, who was a candidate in Middle-
sex, that no choice was made on that first theatre
of American independence.

The election of senators under the new govern-
ment was equally decisive of the temper of the
times. For many years Mr. Gerry had enjoyed
the most implicit confidence of the general court ;
no mark of their highest esteem had ever been with-
held from him ; and on every occasion in which
his name was presented for their ballots, it had re-
ceived nearly an unanimous vote. Now indeed

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 89

the case was changed ; so changed that his friends
were unwilling to expose him to the mortification
of defeat, by proposing him, according to their
first design, as a candidate for the senate of the
United States.*

The result showed their prudence. Mr. Strong
was chosen by both branches, without opposition.
But the friends of amendments proposed as his
colleague, Dr. Charles Jarvis, personally a great
favourite with the people, who though he voted
for the constitution in the convention, was known
to consider with great respect, the objections that
had been made to it, and to be as solicitous as Mr.
Gerry, to secure the alterations, which had been
proposed. The house of representatives at three
successive ballots gave him a majority of votes ;
but the senate nonconcured in the appointment,
and each time returned a different candidate. The
choice finally settled on honourable Tristram Dal-
ton, who had declared in the state convention his
perfect satisfaction with the constitution as it
stood, without any preference for the amendments
proposed.

By a most fortunate selection of a distinguishing
name, the advocates for the constitution, who were

*More liberal sentiments prevailed in Virginia, where Richard
Henry Lee, the mover of the declaration of independence, and a
strenuous opponent of the constitution was elected to the senate
of the United States against James Madison, its most powerful
advocate.

VOL. II. 12

90 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

fast forming and organizing themselves into a dis-
tinct party in the state, assumed the appellation
of federalists ; yet inasmuch as the chief objec-
tion to the new government consisted in its not
being a federal, but a national system, this pat-
ronymic might more justly have been claimed by
the opposite side. The term however was popu-
lar, and the popular party seized it, and under its
influence have justified the remark of a judicious
observer of affairs, that they who make ballads
and songs for the people have commonly more in-
fluence than those who make the laws.

A second ballot was ordered for Middlesex, and
not only the personal friends of Mr. Gerry, but
that political party, to which he might now be said
to belong, insisted on again placing his name be-
fore the public. The zeal of the one excited the
exertions of the other, and efforts were made by
both, corresponding to the importance of the con-
test. The competitor of Mr. Gerry on the first
trial had been Mr. Nathaniel Gorham, a gentleman
of character and property, whose family had long
been residents in the county. He had himself
presided as chairman of the committee of the
whole, in the convention at Philadelphia, and was
distinguished as an advocate for the constitution
in the convention of Massachusetts. At the sec-
ond trial the votes were divided among several
competitors. On this occasion the public press
opened its batteries of detraction, as if to prove the

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 91

utter insecurity of reputation, when faction is de-
sirous of destroying it.

To judge by some of the journals of that day, it
would be thought that the " antifederal" candidate
for Middlesex had neither experience, talents, or
public character ; that he was some obscure, or
not trustworthy individual, who for the first time
had entered upon public life in the convention, and
grossly mistaking, or willfully counteracting, or
from personal interest desirous of defeating the
public sentiment, was properly to end his labours
with the scene in which they had commenced.

Disgusted with the virulence of the enemies by
whom he was assailed, and averse from reengaging
in the routine of legislative duty, in which he had
all his life been employed, Mr. Gerry addressed
the following letter to the electors of Middlesex :

Friends and Fellow Citizens :
It appearing from your suffrages that I am one of
your candidates for a federal representative, give
me leave for this evidence of your confidence, to
express my warmest acknowledgments, but at the
same time to request that such of you as may
again be disposed to honour me with your votes,
will turn your attention to some other candidate ;
for although I have been long honoured with the
confidence of my countrymen, and am conscious
that a regard to their political happiness has been
the sole motive of my conduct, yet circumstanced

92 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

as I am, an election would by no means be agree-
able.

Since however my name is again, without any
effort or inclination of my own, brought into public
view, I embrace this opportunity to explain that
conduct, for which I have been treated with so
much invective and abuse.

When the question on the constitution was put
in the federal convention, conceiving myself to be
in a land of liberty, where the privilege of delibe-
rating and voting with freedom would be firmly
supported, I voted against the constitution, because
in my opinion, it was in many respects defective.

Had my opinion been founded in error, it would
have been only an error of judgment. But five
states having ratified the constitution, in the ful-
lest expectation of amendments, and two having
rejected it, no one can, I think, deny that my
opinion has been confirmed by a majority of the
union. An attempt has been made by means of
invective, to impair or destroy the privilege men-
tioned ; a privilege, which no good citizen will
ever permit to die in his hands, and which the
good sense of the community will protect as one of
the pillars of a free state.

Some have endeavoured to represent me as an
enemy to the constitution ; than which nothing is
more remote from truth. Since the commence-
ment of the revolution, I have been ever solicitous
for an efficient federal government, conceiving

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 93

that without it we must be a divided and unhap-
py people. A government too democratical, I have
deprecated ; but wished for one that should pos-
sess power sufficient for the welfare of the union,
and at the same time be so balanced as to secure
the governed from the rapacity and domination of
lawless and insolent ambition. To an uncondi-
tional ratification I was therefore opposed, be-
cause thereby every necessary amendment would
be precarious. But as the system is adopted, I
am clearly of opinion that every citizen of the
ratifying states is in duty bound to support it,
and that an opposition to a due administration of
it would not only be unjustifiable, but highly cri-
minal.

Amendments every citizen has a right to urge
without exciting a spirit of persecution, which is
unnecessary in a good cause, and never gains pro-
selytes in a bad one. Every friend of a vigorous
government must, as I conceive, be desirous of
such amendments as will remove the just appre-
hensions of the people, and secure their confidence
and affection. To defeat amendments of this de-
scription, must be in effect to defeat the constitu-
tion itself. When the question on amendments
shall have received a constitutional decision, I shall
cheerfully acquiesce, and in any event, shall be
happy to promote the interests of the respectable
county of Middlesex, of this commonwealth, and
of the United States.

94 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

The part, which I have had to act, and the un-
candid treatment, which I have received in this
matter will, I trust, justify me in being thus ex-
plicit, for I am conscious that every part of my po-
litical conduct has had for its object, the public
welfare.

I am, with the highest respect,

Your humble servant,

E. Gerry.

Whether this declaration was intended to aid,
or prevent his election, his friends would not with-
draw his name, and notwithstanding a powerful
competition, they succeeded in electing him on
the second ballot, by a small majority.

In his letter of acceptance to the governour, he
says, " I am deeply impressed with this honoura-
ble testimony of the electors of Middlesex, after I
had repeatedly informed them of my declining the
appointment. This however has placed me in a
situation, which of all others I wished to avoid ;
being thereby reduced to the disagreeable alterna-
tive of disappointing my fellow citizens, who have
conferred on me their suffrages, or of filling a place,
which the most cogent reasons had urged me to
decline. Under these circumstances, in the criti-
cal state of public affairs, I have preferred the lat-
ter, being determined to sacrifice every personal
consideration, to the acceptance of the office ;
that desirous as I am of the establishment of a

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 95

federal government, no act of mine may have the
least appearance of impeding it."

The sincerity of his views is made more appa-
rent by a letter to his confidential friend.

MR. GERRY TO GENERAL WARREN.

Cambridge, February 15, 1789.

My Dear Sir,

I suspect you will consider me as manifesting a
disposition to change my principles, or of a want
of resolution to adhere to them, when I tell you it
is probable I shall go to congress. Indeed if this
be your opinion, you will alter it when I assure
you of all political events in which I have been
interested, my election I consider as most unfor-
tunate to myself. I had not, during its pendency,
the most remote idea of acceptance, but thought
of it with horror.

I now think the measure one of all others that
threatens destruction to my peace, interest and
welfare, and yet such has been the torrent of abuse
against me, that no person here will listen to my
declining ; my best friends say they shall be sacri-
ficed by my refusal, and that I myself shall be
considered as an obstinate opposer of the govern-
ment, which is an opinion that has recently been
much circulated.

Should I decline then, I am to be considered as

96 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

a non-juror in Great Britain, or an Irish Catholic,
and sooner than so live, I would quit the continent.
In accepting, I see nothing but two years of ex-
treme disagreeables. To gratify my friends, and
to avoid the consequences menaced, I have selected
a certain positive evil ; whether it be the least of
the two, I am yet to learn.

In another letter to the same gentleman, after
having taken his seat in congress, he thus writes :
" I cannot accept your compliments, for I assure
you my situation here is a very awkward one. I
foresaw that it would be impossible for me to feel
easy in a branch of the federal legislature where I
had few or no connexions or friends. Whatever
the state of my case may be upon republican prin-
ciples, I cannot separate it in my mind from an idea
of degradation, when I reflect that the flower of
my life has been spent in the arduous business of
the revolution, and see a preference given to those
who have endured very few of its toils; but we
both know that republics were never remarkable
for the constancy of their attachment, and there-
fore private life is the place in which we are most
to look for happiness, especially when the road to
political honours lies through the mazes of intrigue,
servility and corruption. I have had so much to do
with legislation, that I feel an aversion to any fur-
ther occupation of that kind, and am satisfied that
retirement would most contribute to my own and
my family's happiness, therefore I fear not any

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 97

mortification from my enemies ; but from my friends
I do indeed experience it, by their urging me to
places, which are neither pleasant, lucrative nor
honourable. Their measures put me in trammels ;
had I declined, it would have been said and believed
that I was a determined enemy to the federal gov-
ernment, and my friends would have been reproach-
ed for supporting a man, who would not attend con-
gress to procure the amendments he had warmly in-
sisted upon. Indeed I should have been obliged to
leave the state, to seek a more agreeable residence,
which could only have been done by the sacrifice
of much property ; I have therefore been obliged,
by accepting this place, to submit to a temporary
mortification to counteract the malignity of invete-
rate foes.

" I cannot but smile at the art or folly, for I
know not which is the true cause, of those who
represent me as being elated at my appointment,
when the acceptance is indeed forced upon me by
circumstances, which operate as a great injustice
to myself. As to the new government, I am and
always was a federalist, but not in their sense of
the term. I feel bound in honour to support a
system that has been ratified by a majority of my
fellow citizens ; to oppose it would be to sow the
seeds of civil war, and to lay a foundation for mili-
tary tyranny. I shall be a spectator merely, until
I can form some adequate idea of men and mea-
sures."

VOL. II. 13

98 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

CHAPTER IV.

First Congress of United States Parties therein.. ..Speech on

amendments to the Constitution The public creditors Em-
ployments of private life Origin of the Democratic party

Commentary on the account given by the biographer of Washing-
ton French revolution British treaty Chosen to the

Electoral College of Massachusetts Votes for Mr. Adams

Correspondence with Mr. Jefferson on the election With a lady.

The government of the United States, under
the federal constitution, was organized at New-
York in April 1 789. There was a charm of novelty
in its arrangements well calculated to aid its intrin-
sic merits, and secure a propitious popularity.

Congress however like the nation itself, was
composed of men, who in the national or state
conventions, or in the primary assemblies of the
people, had taken opposite views of the new frame
of government, and formed different estimates of
its worth. Principles, which were brought into
the earlier discussion of its character, had lost none
of their force, and passions, which collision excited,
if they had in some degree subsided, were certain-
ly not extinguished. Honest men of all parties
were disposed to give the new system a fair setting
ofT, and to provide all reasonable equipments for
its long and profitable voyage. Opposition was
unorganized. Indeed as the constitution was the
supreme law of the land, they who objected to its

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 99

ratification, now that their original objections were
unavailing, professed to treat it with the respect
due to sovereign authority.

The political elements collected in the first con-
gress, notwithstanding these appearances, could
not easily assimilate ; and their natural repulsion
was increased by artificial excitements. They by
whose efforts the government had been called into
being, felt themselves its natural guardians, and
were unwilling to share their honours with less
fortunate companions ; while the other class, who
considered their oath of fidelity as security for al-
legiance, resented as derogatory and offensive every
attempt at discrimination. It was soon apparent
that lines of division would be drawn, not easily to
be effaced.

The state elections had given to the federalists*

* In the course of an early debate, Mr. Gerry took occasion to
remark tliat lie did not like the term national, in a resolution then
before the house. However correct it was abstractly consider-
ed, it had acquired in the debates on the constitution, a technical
meaning, and was used to designate a consolidation, and not a
confederacy of the states. The term federal too, he said, properly
belonged to those, who really desiring a federal union, had felt it
a duty to oppose one, which in their view had few fedral princi-
ples, and it was improper that the friends of amending the system
should be called antifederalists, inasmuch as they eminently
were the advocates of a federal government. As the question
had been presented to the people, it was between those who
were then for ratifying the constitution, and those who would
have delayed it, or between ratifiers and anti-ratifiers. These
then should have been their denominations, which by abbre-
viation might entitle them to the appellatives rats, and anti-rats.

100 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

decided superiority in numbers, and an imposing
weight of character. Ambition, not easily ex-
cluded from an assembly of statesmen, secured for
them the arrangements and confederacy of a politi-
cal party. Power was in their hands, and its natu-
ral tendency to self-confidence and pride was not
diminished by the mode of acquiring it.

Stern republicans, who had resisted the existing
form from a jealous apprehension of its conse-
quences, found in thus realizing their fears, new
cause of respect for their judgment, and none for
relinquishing opinions, which experience seemed
to them gradually to confirm. Other incidents
strengthened these convictions. There appeared to
one class of the community too much conformity
in the external form of the new government to the
pageantry of European courts, in levees, audiences
and addresses, not suited to the plain habits of an un-
ostentatious democracy. Efforts to confer high ti-
tles on its great functionaries,* to make a discri-
mination in the rank and emoluments of the two
branches of the legislature : to fix compensation for
services beyond the standard of like duties in the
states, and above all, the latitude of construction,
which there was a supposed inclination to give to
the language of the constitution, early filled many
minds with serious apprehensions.

* The president to be called his highness. So at first voted
in the senate. Some newspapers proposed that the members of
the house of representatives should be called honourable ; sena-
tors to be addressed as right honourable.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 101

The exercise of government patronage was a
further, and as it always has been, an irritating
subject of dissatisfaction and uneasiness. The
friends of amendments, now generally and most
unwisely held up in the light of an opposition ac-
cording to English precedent, began to apprehend
that if they were not marked by a stern principle
of exclusion from participating in the honours of
public employment, they were beheld with suspi-
cion and slight regard.

The composition of the cabinet and appoint-
ments to which the personal knowledge of the
president extended, were not included in their dis-
satisfaction, but beyond that line the unfriendly
influence of a government party was thought to be
visible.

Indeed the personal character of the president
was fortunately for the country a rock, on which
the whole community rested. Implicit confidence
was placed in his patriotism and ability ; and his
alternate gratification and reproof of the leaders of
each party, restrained the tumult of the waves,
which at that early period threatened to sweep
from before them the then unsettled fabric of free-
dom.

It was perhaps pardonable to believe that men,
who opposed the constitution, would embarrass
the government. But there were measures of
such novel and intricate character incident to the
establishment of a federative empire, that a more

102 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

candid consideration of the motives of the public
agents is now due to their fame. A desire to secure
such amendments to the national charter as had
been deemed necessary by the states, was indeed
the anxious wish of those statesmen with whom
Mr. Gerry had acted. To motives derived from a
conviction of their intrinsic importance, were ad-
ded without doubt those, which addressed them-
selves to their pride of opinion and their character
before the people; but even the question of amend-
ments they were willing to postpone to the more
urgent subjects, which the organization of a new
government pressed on their notice.

Mr. Gerry, who unquestionably spoke the senti-
ments of this class, gave ample evidence of their
disposition to aid in good faith those measures of
general interest for which the government was in-
stituted, and of the reluctance with which they
would be driven into opposition by illiberality or
harshness.

" I am of opinion," he said in debate, " that we
should despatch the important subjects now on the
table, and reserve the great questions concerning
the form of the constitution, to a period of tran-
quillity and leisure. It is indeed a momentous
subject, and very near my heart, and I shall be
glad to set about it as speedily as possible ; but I
would not stay the operations of government on
that account. I think our political ship should be
first got under way, and that she be not suffered

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 103

to lay by the wharf, until she beats off her rudder,
or runs a wreck on shore. I wish an early day
may be assigned for the consideration of amend-
ments, to prevent the necessity, which the states
may feel themselves under of calling a new con-
vention. If I am not one of those fascinated ad-
mirers of the system who consider it all perfection,
I am not so blind nor so uncandid, that I cannot
see, or will not acknowledge it has beauties. It
partakes of humanity ; there is blended in it virtue
and vice, excellence and error. If it be referred
to a new convention, we risk some of its best pro-
perties. My opinion was openly given, that it
ought not to have been ratified without amend-
ments, but as the matter now stands, I am firmly
of opinion that the salvation of America depends
on the establishment of this government, whether
amended or not. If this constitution, which is
now ratified, be not supported, I despair of ever
having a government for these United States."

The sentiments thus expressed, were those to
which candid men could take no exception. They
were the honest sentiments of a class of the com-
munity, which if not then an actual majority, was
numerous and respectable enough not wantonly
to have been assalied. It tended nothing to una-
nimity, that such men found themselves looked
upon with suspicion, and their professions listened
to with an incredulity that was little else than an
imputation upon them of stratagem and fraud.

104 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

The feelings, which this state of things excited,
were not calmed or conciliated by the measures
proposed and adopted by congress. There was a
radical difference of principle among the members,
as great, as could be found on the subject of the
subject of the constitution itself, in the proposi-
tions of Mr. Pendleton and the scheme of Colonel
Hamilton. Notwithstanding this fact, which would
sooner or later produce more open discordance, Mr.
Gerry and his political friends lent with good faith
the aid of their abilities and experience to the mea-
sures of the government. In the commercial and
financial departments, where previous application
had given him great facility and acquaintance, he
was early put in requisition, and in forming the
first tariff and tonnage bills, he laboured with great
industry and perseverance. Information, which is
now easily acquired through regular channels, and
is systematized by the assistance of clerks, was
then obtained by the exertion of individual mem-
bers. The vast mass of documents, which went
into the composition of these first bills of revenue,
were collected, arranged and consolidated, by his
personal labour.*

With zeal for an efficient and energetic admin-
istration, and a sincere desire to cooperate in es-
tablishing it, his views and those of his friends

* The voluminous correspondence and the immense statistical
abstracts among his papers, is authority for the remark in the
text.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 105

were in many respects so different from the ma-
jority of congress, that they could not escape the
imputation of conducting a concerted opposition.

"Jtis my rule," said he in a private letter, "to
support such measures as I think good or harmless,
and to oppose those, from whatever quarter they
come, which are in my opinion of a different cha-
racter ; but when the project is ripened into a law,
I feel bound to respect it, however its passage may
have been procured. But this does not satisfy a
certain class of men, who have very pompous no-
tions of government, and seem disposed to make
those powers, which were objectionable in the
theory of government, felt and feared in the prac-
tice of it. There is a strong disposition to make the
administration exclusive, and if there was not more
resistance in the character of the president than
there is in the provisions of the constitution, such
would be most decidedly the case. A fair compe-
tition among honourable men gives alarm. There
are those who wish to increase the value of their
chances, by diminishing the number of rivals, and
to hold nearly one half the community in a state
of alienage, so that they may be no more trusted
than the partizans of the pretender. Even this
would be less intolerable, if they were willing to
take the credit of their design, but while they are
themselves the origin and cause of opposition, by
a superciliousness, which belongs to the better
sort, they contrive to represent the true friends of
VOL. ii. 14

106 LIFE OF ELBKIDGE GERRY.

the people as promoters of strife and division. All
this is painful to us as citizens of a country, which
has suffered so much for freedom, and exceedingly
unpleasant to those who are called into its coun-
cils. The judiciary bill will surprise you. It now
stands so that we are to have a court with original
jurisdiction in cases affecting life, liberty and pro-
perty, without an appeal, and composed of judges
not removable except by conviction on impeach-
ment. But you will consider me as a great anti-
federalist, and to preserve your good opinion I will
not enter into a further explanation of matters de-
pending. They may be changed in their progress,
and I suppose come out perfectly federal, which I
know you will think perfection itself."

Mr. Gerry undervalued his influence in this first
congress of the United States. True indeed, the
spirit of party had its residence there, and the
general character of a statesman was not a suffi-
cient badge of honour, without, wearing the colours
under which he was enrolled. It was true also
that the rank, in which Mr. Gerry was usually
found, was not the party of the strongest, and that
the general supervision and direction of affairs, to
which he had been for many years accustomed,
had passed to other hands ; but on subjects of diffi-
culty and importance, it was impossible that he
should not be listened to with attention and re-
spect. In the discussions, which agitated that as-
sembly, in all matters connected with finance, on

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 107

the proposed discrimination between the public cre-
ditors, on funding the indents of the state treasu-
ries, and the assumption of the state debts, he ex-
pressed very largely his opinions, and was most
generally in the majority of the house.

In the protracted debate upon the first report
of the secretary of the treasury, Mr. Gerry enter-
ed very fully in defence of some of its proposi-
tions, which might have afforded a popular theme
for opposition, if there had been a settled design
to embarrass the operations of the government.

After defending the power of congress to as-
sume and pay the state debts, he enquires, Who
are the holders of state certificates ? Some of the
state creditors, he replies, were officers and sol-
diers of the late army. The first army of the
United States was raised, armed and clothed by
the states. The officers and soldiers have as
strong a claim on the justice of the country, as
those who were enlisted at the close of the war;
a greater indeed, as they came forward in those
dark moments, when to the dangers of ordinary
warfare, were superadded the penalties of rebel-
lion. These men acknowledge no difference in
their rights because they were enlisted by state
instead of continental authority ; for they were
adopted by congress, formed into one army, fought
the same battles, and shared the same hardships,

Another part of the state creditors, are men,
who furnished supplies for the union, during the

108 LJFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

late war. Can any one, who recollects the cir-
cumstance, imagine a difference between them
and continental creditors, except that they came
forward in our extremest need, when the more
distant authority of congress was inadequate to
the occasion. Part of the state debts were conti-
nental debts assumed by the state on the earnest
recommendation of congress ; other parts were
occasioned by the states having undertaken expe-
ditions against the common enemy for the general
good, or having paid to their citizens interest on
the continental debt.

It is said the proposed assumption will raise the
importance of the union and depress the states.
If I thought so I should oppose it, because the
constitutional balance between the states and the
union, ought to be preserved. I view the consti-
tutions of the united and individual states, as form-
ing a great political machine, in which the small
wheels are as essential as the large ones, and if
either are deranged, the movement will be imper-
fect ; but I humbly conceive a contrary policy will
have the effect predicted. Suppose congress
refuse to assume the state debts ; they will
make, as they are able, provision for their own
creditors, but it is doubtful if each of the states
can make a similar arrangement, and if they fail,
the discrimination will most materially impair their
respectability. The United States creditors will
naturally magnify the honesty, integrity and ability

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 109

of the general government, and hold in contempt
and derision, the injustice or poverty of the local
authorities. A clamour might be raised against the
state governments, made more general by the con-
trast between them and the nation, and the pecu-
niary interests of a large class of citizens, operat-
ing to their injury, may have a prejudicial effect
on their permanency or their strength.

The national government may incline to oppress
the states, and I ask whether they would not be
better able to resist this attack if they had no
creditors to provide for. The common maxim is,
out of debt, out of danger, but the opposite ar-
gument reverses it, and in my opinion, very un-
soundly.

A discrimination will establish two contending
parties. They who look to the union for their
payments will be desirous of extending its power
of taxation, revenues, resources and credit. They
who look for their payments to the states, will be
prone to diminish the continental power, for the
purpose of enlarging the funds from which they
are to derive their reward. This discord will de-
feat the operation of both.

It has been suggested that the state debts may
not have been fairly liquidated. I should think
from personal observation there was no ground for
this fear. The creditors of Massachusetts have had
their accounts adjusted quite as strictly as those

110 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

of the federal government. Other states have
acted in the same manner.

It is said we are unacquainted with the ability
of the union, and therefore it is improper to pledge
the public faith for the payment of a debt, which
may possibly exceed its means. I do not now,
and never did, despair of the ability of the United
States to pay their debts. Our finances are in-
deed deranged, but we are taking measures to ex-
tricate ourselves from the evil of such a situation,
and should not be deterred from ascertaining the
amount we owe, from present inability to pay it.
By the secretary's report, we can now pay two
thirds the interest. With increasing resources and
a gradual diminution of the interest, we may
eventually discharge the whole. But let me not
be misunderstood. I would not pledge the gov-
ernment to what it could not perform. I would
not subject it to any engagement, which it might
not be able to make good. But the acknowledg-
ment of our obligation is one thing, the mode of
discharging it, another. The best interest of the
creditors as well as the nation, is to make such
arrangement as by securing the actual perform-
ance of what is just, will so modify the means as
not to make it inconveniently onerous. The se-
cretary's report goes on the ground of admitting
the force of all the public contracts. He allows
no preference as to continental creditors, among

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. Ill

whom, if their claims could be examined, would
be found weightier causes of difference than exist
between the classes, whose rights are severally
referable to the states or the nation. There is
the same principle to prevent discrimination in
either case. Indeed by the constitution, the effi-
cient means of revenue are conveyed to the feder-
al government. The states are almost wholly
without them, and it cannot be reasonable that
they should give up the resources for paying
the interest on their debts, unless those debts are
assumed by the nation. If indeed sir, with limit-
ed resources and a heavy debt, the states are to
commence the operations of the new confederacy,
the smaller will soon be crushed ; the larger will
be scarce able to get along. Their independence
is but nominal ; their sovereignty must exist but
in name, and a consolidated government take the
place of the system, which such a measure would
destroy.

With the second congress of the United States,
Mr. Gerry terminated his services in the legisla-
ture. He had declined reiterated and importunate
solicitations to be a candidate for reelection, and
retired to his farm and family at Cambridge.
Many reasons produced a disinclination to be
longer concerned in political affairs. The citizens
of the United States were fast forming themselves
into fierce and irreconcilable parties, and it was the
policy of the dominant power, to identify the op-

1 1 2 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

position with hostility to the constitution itself.
That hostility on the part of Mr. Gerry had pass-
ed away, and not only in conformity with his early
declaration, that he would submit to the will of
the majority, but because the recent amendments
had essentially changed its character, he was dis-
posed to give it a fair trial and an honest support.

There was, however, in the early measures of
congress, much to excite the apprehension of so
jealous a republican, always alive to the dangers
of political power, and habitually regardful of pub-
lic liberty ; and without participating in that spirit
of party, which rallied its members on all occa-
sions, under their several banners, he was too fre-
quently found opposing the measures of the ma-
jority, to be classed among their friends. On the
other hand, when the movements of the adminis-
tration met the approbation of his judgment, he
was not deterred from lending them his support,
although the occasion might be one, which the op-
position had selected as favourable for a combined
attack. The integrity and independence, or if
any one so chooses to call it, the singularity of
mind, which would not submit to be bound by the
shackles of party, would not give to either side a
security for his vote, and would obviously in the
end deprive him of the favour of both.

But his most intimate personal friends were
chiefly among those, whose attachments combined
them with the government. Against these he

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 113

could not very frequently take a stand without
dissatisfaction to them, nor be on their side with-
out violence to himself. Nor was the state of
affairs in congress calculated to gratify his ambi-
tion or reward the long labours of experience. He
who had been one of the chief leaders and direc-
tors of the administration, when the whole au-
thority of government was confided to the dele-
gates of the states, could find little pleasure in being
one of the lower branch of a deliberative assem-
bly, where the charge of arranging and directing
the great movements of the political machinery,
was in other hands. A new generation of states-
men had arisen since the declaration of indepen-
dence, whose active spirit, under the peculiar
condition of things, elevated them over those earli-
er patriots, by whom the resistance of the colo-
nies had been first promoted.

Motives equally strong were also derived from
his personal concerns. A young and numerous
family claimed that attention, which their mother's
infirm health could but partially bestow, and threw
on him the responsibility of forming their princi-
ples, superintending their education, and preparing
them for the duties of society.

As a father, he found a field for his labours, upon
which he entered with all the zeal and more than
all the pleasure, which the patriot and statesman
had experienced in different pursuits. Peculiarly
kind and affectionate in his disposition, the culture

vol. ii. 15

114 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

of the infant mind had an irresistible charm for
him, while his benevolent feelings and affable
manners endeared him to the young objects of his
regard.

Perhaps no individual of any profession or em-
ployment, certainly none whose temper had been
so often tried in the angry tempests of political
discussion, was more thoroughly mild, placid and
placable. If experience had not shown how in-
flexible were his purposes, and how perseveringly
he pursued them in the great concerns of public
duty, if the firmness with which he maintained
his sentiments, or the untiring efforts, by which
they were inculcated, had not been repeatedly
displayed in critical situations of political life, it
might have been supposed that the softer elements
of human nature were too intimately mingled in
his character, to enable him to maintain the rank
he obtained among statesmen ; while on the other
hand those, who were acquainted with the mild
and gentle spirit, which displayed itself at home,
and witnessed the conciliatory temperament, which
rendered him the favourite and friend of the youth-
ful circle, might well have been surprised at the
vigorous efforts and the immovable firmness of
his public conduct. This delineation of his pri-
vate character, is very different from the picture
presented by political adversaries, who saw him
only when considerations of public duty imposed
their irresistible weight upon his mind. In the

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 115

angry collisions of a later period, and in the per-
sonal resentments growing out of an unfortunate
state of affairs, there were many, who believed
what the press seemed desirous of establishing,
that the leader of the republican party had the
ascerbity of temper, the ferocity and vindictive-
ness, which belonged to the Brissots and Dan-
tons, to whom they chose to resemble him, and
that the government of Massachusetts was want-
ing at one period in nothing but power to have
resembled itself to the most busy period of the
revolutionary guillotine. Such is the distorting
atmosphere of party, and the credulity, which un-
der its excitement, receives the most monstrous
fictions for truth.

Mr. Gerry passed the succeeding four years in
the superintendence of his farm, and the cultiva-
tion of those young plants of a more endearing de-
scription, which providence had intrusted to his
care. Efforts were made in vain to draw him into
various situations of a public character. The citi-
zens of Middlesex, elected him in May 1793, to
the senate of the commonwealth, but he declined
the honour of a seat in that body, and would not
permit himself to be named as a candidate either
for the council or the house of representatives, as
he was repeatedly solicited to do by his friends.*

* A very flattering effort was made to draw him back to pub-
lic life, which profitable and honourable as it was, he had the
resolution to withstand. The commissioners under the sixth

116 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

Even the correspondence, which he had hitherto
extensively carried on, seems during this interval
to have been in some degree relinquished. All
the energy of mind, which for so many years had
been devoted to his country, were confined to the
little territory under his control, and the young
republic of which he was the natural head.

Of this period of tranquillity and peace he
often afterwards spoke with unmingled satisfac-
tion, and was inclined to consider it as the hap-
piest passage of a long life. His residence was
near the seat of the university at Cambridge.
Few young men resorted to that institution with-
out desiring the privilege of his acquaintance.
The hospitality of his mansion and the urbani-
ty of his manners, domesticated the most respec-
table of them in his family circle. Strangers,
whom curiosity or interest led to that centre of
literary attraction, were received in a manner suit-
ed to the rank he had held in the public councils,

article of the treaty of London, consisting of two Americans and
two Englishmen, assembled in Philadelphia in May 1797, and an
attempt was to be made to choose the fifth, which would com-
plete the board, by mutual consent. The government of the
United States were very desirous he should bean American, and
deeming it probable if some highly respectable and well known
character was nominated, the British would accept him, they
were anxious to propose Mr. Gerry. The business would have
conformed in some degree with his accustomed habits of mind,
and in other respects would have been both agreeable and lu-
crative, but he declined permitting his name to be submitted to
the board.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 117

although the hospitality of a generous disposition,
made an inconvenient inroad on his property.

Like most of those, who had been actively con-
cerned in the direction of the revolution, Mr.
Gerry had retired from the service of the country
with no other emolument than the honours it con-
ferred. The fluctuation of affairs, which had re-
quired a constant watchfulness over private con-
cerns, and incessant public employment, which ob-
structed it, prevented not merely the increase, but
almost the preservation of those means, which the
early patriots had carried into the contest. For-
tunes had been realized indeed in the changes of
the times, but the Deity who presided over the
distribution of wealth, seemed to consider that
the statesmen and soldiers of the country had re-
ward enough in the glory they acquired, and that
opulence was to be conferred as a compensation
for the want of other titles of respect.

" It is necessary for me," said Mr. Gerry in a
letter of this date, " to become a farmer, and to
endeavour to preserve those resources, which po-
litical engagements have allowed me little oppor-
tunity, and I might say, less inclination to im-
prove."

During these four years of domestic seclusion,
those dissensions, the germ of which was starting
when Mr. Gerry retired from congress, had struck
their roots deep and firm, and extended over the
entire continent. It was impossible that he could

118 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

either have been careless of the progress of
events, or indifferent to their consequences. His
temporary removal from the sphere of operations,
made him, unquestionably, a calmer observer,
and probably a less heated partizan, than those
who were more actively engaged in the labours of
the field, so that on his return to public life
he was unwilling to sacrifice private friendship
and the habits and attachments of former years
to the stern Moloch of the day ; yet his prin-
ciples always assimilated, and his conduct soon
identified him with the great democratic party of
the United States.

This party, which for nearly the whole dura-
tion of the existing government, embraced a vast
majoritv of the American people, has in some
parts of the country, and particularly in the native
state of Mr. Gerry, been for nearly an equal
period wholly deprived of political power. While
its members in some sections have enjoyed all the
honours of the people, they have in others been
treated almost as outlaws, with the humiliation,
which attaches to an inferior and degraded caste.

The political class to whom the subject of this
memoir most intimately belonged, have found
among their other misfortunes, that their motives
were misunderstood, their principles misstated,
and their conduct defamed. The leading histo-
rian of the country, whose own great talents suit-
ed so well the subject most interesting to Ameri-

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 119

cans, which he selected for his theme, has by a
series of sarcastic and derogating animadversions,
contributed to propagate the favourite opinion of
their adversaries, that this disturbing power in the
state was a fermenting mass of faction, ignorance
and disappointment. The lion, says the fable,
was not the sculptor of the piece.

Before the formation of the constitution, the
distresses, which had been occasioned by the ope-
rations of the war, had amassed themselves in a
degree, which in many places deranged the whole
economy of life. Debts had accumulated, specie
vanished, and the enforcement of creditor rights
often dissolved the only sources from which re-
muneration could proceed. Time was necessary
for the reaction of public energies. There were
found, as a consequence of this state of things, two
classes of men, one of whom insisted on the strict
execution of the letter of the bond, the other
were willing to delay for a convenient period,
the exertion of judicial power, upon the principle,
that as the war had in many cases wholly destroy-
ed the claims of the creditor, by annihilating his
debtor's property, and sometimes his life, so in all
it had produced a good reason for lenity and delay.
To this incident it has pleased the biographer
before alluded to, to trace the commencement of
political parties, and omitting even the plausible
reasons, by which the one defended its opinions,
to trace the origin of the democracy of the coun-

120 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

try through a systematic hostility to the constitu-
tion, up to a nefarious disregard of personal obli-
gations, and a contemptuous indifference to the
validity of private contracts, the demands of jus-
tice, and the security of law ; and as in this
division of the community, the affluent would
naturally be on one side, andmen of more mo-
derate circumstances on the other, so the for-
mer are, by necessary inference, identified with
the honour, the virtue, and the character, which
are attached to a good government, and the latter
with those demoralizing habits, which spring up
among men, whom revolution could not impo-
verish, nor rebellion destroy.

Neither hostility to the constitution, nor oppo-
sition to the government can fairly be traced to
this source. On these latter points men were di-
vided who acted together on the first. The con-
dition of things before the convention at Philadel-
phia, was not one, which can identify the opposi-
tion to their projected system with any preconcert-
ed design of subverting it ; and dissatisfaction
with the constitution, as it came from the hands
of its framers, is improperly charged to be a
motive for subsequent opposition to the govern-
ment. No individual did more to secure the suc-
cess of the administration than the first secretary
of state, who is well known to have been dis-
pleased with the original principles of the con-
stitution. No one did more to establish the great

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 121

democratic party of the United States than he who
was the projector and defender of the constitution
in the convention, and its leading advocate before
the people. The instances alluded to are not cases
of individual exception ; they are examples fol-
lowed by vast multitudes, and refute the imputa-
tion that the administration commenced under the
auspices of wealth and integrity, and was beaten
down by poverty and fraud.

If the origin of the great democratic party is to
be traced to a period antecedent to that in which
it was formed, it may be sought in those highly
enlightened and honourable sentiments, in which
the revolution was commenced and accomplished.
The chivalrous leaders of those perilous times
persuaded themselves that the happiness of the
people was the only legitimate object of govern-
ment ; that the means of the people were not to
be exacted without their consent, nor was their
consent to be expected for an useless or wasteful
expenditure. The British government, by viola-
ting these principles, raised that storm, which
swept away their authority ; the new government
was objectionable as it failed to secure them, and
the administration reprehensible by its similar
tendencies.

For the correctness of the facts, or the accu-
racy of the deductions, which combined this party
together it is not necessary to contend, but it is

vol. ii. 16

122 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

proper to demand for thern higher motives than
sordid cupidity or profligate injustice.

The class of men who, anterior to the com-
mencement of hostilities, had so freely discussed
the tendencies of political power towards des-
potic exertion, and who had, with pertinacity and
courage, contended for the rights of the people in
all controversies between the colonies and the em-
pire, may have extended their analogies too far in
applying them to a government elected by the
citizens over which it was placed. Be it so. It
is a question of fact, which posterity may settle
against them, and still leave their honour unques-
tioned and their integrity unimpeached.

The intimation that poverty and faction first
opposed the constitution, and then the adminis-
tration of the government erected under it, was
made to receive countenance by the fact, that the
wealth, which the government created, readily en-
listed on its side.

The new constitution went into operation, when
the debt of the revolution had depreciated to an
eighth of its nominal value. This had passed, in
a great degree, from meritorious creditors, who
had expended their property or their blood to
acquire it, into the hands of speculation and
traffic. In many instances the funds, concealed
when patriotism required them to be expended,
were lavished in the acquisition of those certifi-
cates, which the country had issued in evidence,
as well of its justice as its poverty.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 123

A vast proportion of the whole debt of the
nation had changed hands. The duty of pro-
viding for its payment was universally admitted.
The right of discrimination between the original
owners and their assignees, though long and ably
maintained, was of doubtful character, and the
faith of the nation, which finally redeemed all
its promises with interest, raised into existence an
army of pensioners, who were ready, with the com-
mon feelings of household troops, to prove their
devotion by the excesses of their zeal.

The accumulation of fortune, thus suddenly
produced, aided the administration, not only by its
actual strength, but by that appearance of respect-
ability, which opulence never fails to confer.

Causes intrinsic and immovable, for the for-
mation of the great parties of the country, may
also be traced, without disparagement to either,
in an original difference of opinion concerning the
arrangement of political power. The opposite
and counteracting forces of the states and the
nation, it was admitted on all hands, were neces-
sary to preserve the relative proportions of the
whole and the parts, as the centripetal and cen-
trifugal forces maintain the balance of the solar
system. But the principle was more easily admit-
ted than applied. What the proportion should be
was not ascertained. A desire improperly to in-
crease or weaken these forces, was ascribed by each
party, with sincerity no doubt, to its opponent, as
premeditated wrong.

124 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

The plan of col. Hamilton, for the distribution
and continuance of the powers of government, had
more real than ostensible friends. They, who con-
sidered it as the beau ideal of a good constitution,
would endeavour to render the actual condition of
the existing one as conformable to its principles
as its established forms would allow ; while others,
who saw the prerogatives of authority advanced
further than, in their opinion, the safety of public
liberty permitted, would on all questions calculated
to increase them take the side of opposition.

In every written law involving extensive con-
cerns and matters of detail, much is unavoidably
to be settled by construction. To ascertain which
of two meanings is the intention of the enacting
power, forms no small part of the common business
of the judiciary department ; and the most curious
facility of language has never yet presented a series
of propositions, whose exact meaning was univer-
sally admitted. There is certainly no exception
to the common ambiguity of language in the con-
stitution of the United States. Hence a cause of
great difference of opinion. By one class of states-
men it was considered wise to expand its powers by
construction, and in all those cases, which admitted
of two modes of interpretation, to adopt that, which
should strengthen the principles of power. The
opposite course reconciled itself more easilv with
the views of another class. The motives, which
led to results thus deduced were impeached

LIFE OF ELBR1DGE GERRY. 125

instead of being traced, as they ought to have been,
to that formation of mind, education and character,
which might vindicate their integrity. Hence the
favourers of a strong government, who chose to
consider themselves federalists, were designated
as aristocrats and supporters of oligarchy ; the
friends of a more popular system, who claimed the
appellation of republicans, were represented as de-
mocrats, demagogues, and hypocritical courtiers of
the people.

The connexion between the dignity of office
and the intelligence, which deserved it, was inge-
niously claimed by the dominant party, and not
only the daily press, but works of more permanent
authority, have countenanced this suggestion, and
a sneer of contempt at the absurdity of argument
or the frivolity of fear, which disturbed the party
in opposition, is but ill disguised by the affected
impartiality of history.

In a bill proposed at the first congress, organiz-
ing a department of the treasury, a clause was
inserted, making it the duty of the secretary to
digest and report plans for the improvement and
management of the revenue, and the support of
public credit. It was opposed under an appre-
hension of the extension it would give to ministe-
rial influence, its imitation of the British parlia-
ment, and as a precedent, which would be extend-
ed to countenance the personal introduction of
these ministers on the floor of the house. Upon

126 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

the discussion of the bill, says the biographer of
Washington, Mr. Gerry remarked, that " he had
no objection to obtaining information, but he could
not help observing the great degree of importance
gentlemen were giving to this and the other ex-
ecutive officers. If the doctrine of having prime
and great ministers of state were once well estab-
lished, he did not doubt he should soon see them
distinguished by green or red ribbon insignia of
court favour and patronage."

It might be well twenty years after the danger
had passed, to ridicule the means by which it was
defeated, by way of proof that there never was any
cause of alarm. But if members of the cabinet
had been admitted on the floor of congress to
explain, and of course enforce their schemes of
finance and policy ; if the secretary of the treasu-
ry might personally have opened his budget, and
the secretary of state his schemes of foreign or
domestic relations, the executive power would
have acquired an increased momentum, at the ex-
pense of the representative rights of the people.
The effort shows the views of the different mem-
bers of congress, not merely on the details of this
particular subject, but on principles so funda-
mental as naturally to separate them like the dif-
ferent elements of the material world.

In the importance and novelty of the measures
brought into discussion, both in the halls of con-
gress and in the assemblies of the people, dilhcul-

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 127

ties enough presented themselves to vindicate the
judgment of any one from reproach, on whichever
side he was found. Ignorance only would be self-
confident or rash. It is not unlikely indeed, that
a desire of participating in the enjoyment of pow-
er influenced the champions of the day, and that
the spoils of victory might have been among the
inducements to the contest ; but what candour is
there in ascribing more honourable motives to
those who fought to preserve their authority, than
to their competitors, who were striving to obtain
it ? On both sides were men of high principles,
ardent patriotism, great experience and rare in-
tellectual capacity. At the head of the govern-
ment was a tower of strength, which they of the
adverse faction wanted. The federalists claimed
him as their leader. But Washington was above
the atmosphere of party. He belonged to his
country, to the cause of civil liberty, to posterity,
mankind. He alone by the force of that sound
judgment, which on so many occasions had con-
tributed to the safety of the state, could maintain
a dignified neutrality in the midst of the wasting
warfare that was raging around him. If in the
asperity of remark on the administration, an arrow
of obloquy was aimed at the chief magistrate, it
rung harmlessly on the shield of public opinion.
Whatever in the councils of the nation satisfied
the opposing party, was with affectionate regard
ascribed to his personal virtues ; other measures

128 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

were traced to the influence of the counsellors who
surrounded him.

In the first arrangement of his cabinet, the ge-
nerous confidence of the president had collected a
fair representation of the different opinions, which
agitated the country. Circumstances in which he
had no agency, produced a resignation of some
members, and its composition essentially changed.

The weight and influence of the government
became essentially federal, and this advantage of
position they, who possessed it, were naturally
desirous to preserve.

While in the domestic concerns of the country
so many disturbing forces intervened to prevent
the regular gravitation of the system, the French
revolution burst on the astonished world, like a
comet, that from its horrid hair shook pestilence
and war.

For a people who were endeavouring to throw
off the yoke of oppression, there was naturally ex-
cited, in those who had successfully performed
the hazardous experiment, a strong and operative
sympathy. Gratitude for the services of that na-
tion, was a motive of unmeasured force. The
early friends of the American republic were in
hostility with its ancient and still suspected ene-
my. They presented a spectacle, in which free-
dom and the popular will were arrayed against
the authority of long established power. "When
the American administration, with an intelligence

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 129

and caution suited to the circumstances of a grow-
ing but unsettled empire, took the position of
neutrality and repressed the exuberance of feel-
ings honourable indeed but unsafe and unwise, it
produced asullenness of temper and a sentiment of
distrust, as if they too were joining in a conspiracy
of kings, and avowing the common affinity by
which government, no matter what is its form,
places itself by the side of government in any con-
test for popular rights.

But neutrality was too obviously suited to the
interests of the United States to be demolished by
the escalade of opposition ; and that generous en-
thusiasm, which at its first excitement would have
rushed into battle, was succeeded by more sober
judgment and calmer feelings, the best advocates
of peace.

The executive opened a negotiation with the
British government, and the treaty, which re-
sulted from it, unchained the fierce spirit of hos-
tility and separated the community into irrecon-
cilable factions. Passion and those personal and
private motives, by which the elements of party
are blown into a blaze, operated with all their
force, and they, who had other motives for re-
sentment, saw in this measure that fatal error,
which properly managed would unsettle the pow-
er of their rivals. The treaty itself and the man-
ner of its being negotiated, presented points of
extreme difficulty, justifying almost any view of it,

VOL. II. 17

130 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

which the statesmen of the day found themselves
disposed to take.

It is not to the present purpose to detail the ar-
guments, which with a power of intellect as hon-
ourable to the intelligence, as indicative of the
strong feelings of the American people, were urged
on the question of ratifying the treaty negotiated
by Mr. Jay. It is necessary only to allude to the
motives of the party, by whom its rejection was
enforced. In vindication of their judgment, may
be cited the authority of its friends.

" The enlightened negotiator," says Mr. Hamil-
ton, "not unconscious that some parts of the treaty
were less well arranged than was to be desired,
had himself hesitated to sign it. When the treaty
arrived, it was not without full deliberation and
some hesitation that I resolved to support it." In
the senate its ratification was recommended by a
mere constitutional majority. In the house of
representatives, on a question introduced to test
the opinion of that body, there was a vote of thirty-
seven in its favour to sixty-two against it.

The president doubted what to do, and balanc-
ing in his mind the objections and advantages,
with great delay and anxious reflection, finally
assented to a conditional acceptance.

Of the commercial advantages of the treaty of
London, many undoubtedly ventured an opinion
who were incompetent to decide. But its political
character was on a level with every capacity. It

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 131

was supposed to be the first step, and a very con-
clusive one, in taking sides between the two great
belligerents, and with a bold spirit of opposition
to the sentiments and feelings of the people, to
have selected the wrong one.

In the character and objects and governments
of the hostile nations, were traced a resemblance
to the character and sentiments of conflicting par-
ties in the United States, and the aristocratic and
monarchical tendencies of the constitution, gradu-
ally expanding in the progress of administration,
were here it was alleged fully blown out and de-
veloped ; and by a natural association, the govern-
ment that was but in name republican, would be
found on the side of kings in a crusade against
liberty and the rights of man.

These ungenerous imputations on the one side,
were met with corresponding severity on the
other.

To such violence were the angry feelings of the
community excited, that when the brutality and
ignorance of the French democrats were stripping
society of its forms of decency and order, subvert-
ing the institutions of religion, and confounding
all distinctions of education, morality and wealth,
the same appellation, with a view of expressing
a similarity of temper, was ordinarily bestowed
on the opposition party to the federal govern-
ment, until the name of a democrat became as
odious as that of a witch or a tory ; and when

132 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

the jacobins of Paris, the ferocious murderers of
age and infancy and innocence, were dripping with
human blood, and celebrating their infernal orgies
round the guillotine, like cannibals at a feast,
their name was in the common language of the
day affixed to a numerical half of the American
people, with a design to have them considered as
instigated by like horrible perversity. Less causes
than these, have in other ages raised the standard
of civil war, and less moderation and patience than
marked the insulted party of the opposition, might
have repeated in the fair fields of our country the
scenes of Hexam or Bosworth.

The progress of events abroad, and the arts by
which each of the two American parties were iden-
tified with a foreign policy, had a tendency to
strengthen the administration and weaken its as-
sailants. The French revolution was not found
to be that desirable and rational march of liberty,
which had at first claimed the sympathies of the
actors in our own. The anarchy, which it encour-
aged, the subversion of law, order and government
which it threatened, and often times accomplished,
the vast force, which it concentrated, and the little
justice or humanity, which directed it, alienated
the affections, which it took no care to conciliate,
and its frightful excesses made the several adminis-
trators of its power, objects of fear, horror and sur-
prise.

During the storm, which was thus shaking to

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 133

its centre the government and very existence of
the American confederacy, Mr. Gerry was in the
retirement of his farm and his family, watching
its progress with anxiety and solicitude, but not
exposed to any undue share of its evils. The ex-
citement and irritation, which personal conflict
necessarily produces, it was thus his good fortune
to escape, and with more calmness and delibera-
tion to observe the movements of contending par-
ties. On most questions of domestic policy he was
entirely in unison with his former associates.

Of the foreign politics of the country he had
in some respects a different opinion. The dan-
gerous operation of the English government, on the
feelings, manners and principles of the country,
he realized with all the force, which had been
ascribed to them, and was particularly fearful
of increasing a connexion, which should give to
its influence the authority, which was denied to
its power. The resources and the profligacy of
the French nation were in his mind causes of
alarm, that should suggest a course of prudence
and policy calculated to preserve the neutral and
favourable position of the United States. The ad-
miration, which their early efforts had excited, had
yielded to astonishment at their singular success,
and horror at the want of principle by which their
power was directed. Partiality for French politics,
or a sympathy for French principles, then so com-
monly charged on his party, whether true or false

134 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

with regard to them collectively, was wholly un-
founded in its application to him.

While such conflicting interests and jarring opi-
nions agitated the people of the United States,
they were called upon to select a successor to the
only man, whose ascendency over the public mind
could control the licentiousness of faction, by com-
manding universal confidence and esteem. Great
and radical differences on the essential principles
of government gave to this contest all the zeal,
which sincerity and judgment could bring into
the field. With these the fiercest passions were
enlisted, and ambition, pride, the love of power
and desire of retaliation, the lordly feelings, which
delight in maintaining an ascendency, and the
proud spirit that revolts at it, arrayed themselves
under opposing banners, with a parade little short
of military triumph.

Mr. Gerry, without being previously consulted
by his fellow citizens, was called into the electoral
college of Massachusetts, and gave his vote for
Mr. Adams. It occasioned the following corres-
pondence.

MR. GERRY TO MR. JEFFERSON.

Cambridge, 3Iarch 27, 1797.

My Dear Sir,
Permit me, with great sincerity, to congratulate
you on your appointment to the office of vice pre-

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 135

sident of the United States. It was, in my mind,
a very desirable object, and a wish, which I ardent-
ly expressed at the meeting of the electors ; but
as we were unanimously of opinion that Mr.
Adams' pretensions to the chair were best, it was
impossible to give you any votes, without annulling
an equal number for him ; otherwise you would cer-
tainly have had mine, and I have reason to think se-
veral others for vice president. The constitution,
as it respects these elections, makes a lottery of
them, and is I think imperfect. There was proba-
bly a plan laid, by coupling Mr. Pinckney with Mr.
Adams, to secure so many votes in this list for the
former, as with those for him in other lists, would
bring him into the chair ; but this was fortunately
seen through and defeated : and I flatter myself that
the elections will eventually have a happy effect on
the public mind, by the accommodating disposition
of the president and vice president, their mutual
friendship for each other and the pursuit of a gene-
ral system of moderation, exploding foreign influ-
ence of every kind, in every department of govern-
ment. Being unconnected with parties, whose
extremes I confess have been disagreeable to me,
and have detached me from politics, I am a re-
tired spectator, enjoying nevertheless the uncon-
trolled right of judging for myself, and of express-
ing independently to my friends, my ideas of the
measures springing from public and of the artifices
from private views. Thus circumstanced, give me

136 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

leave to express my apprehensions, that the con-
sequence of this election will be repeated strata-
gems to weaken or destroy the confidence of the
president and vice president in each other, from
an assurance, that if it continues to the end of the
president's administration, the vice president will
be his successor ; and perhaps from a dread of
your political influence. Indeed I think such an
operation has already commenced, and that you
will discover it ; but your mutual good sense will
see through the project and defeat it. Wishing
you to possess a full share of the public confidence,
which I am sure you always merited, and with it
much private happiness,
I remain

Your sincere friend,

E. Gerry.

MR. JEFFERSON TO MR. GERRY.

Philadelphia, May 13, 1797.

My Dear Friend,
Your favour of the 27th of March did not reachme
till April 21st, when I was within a few days of set-
ting out for this place, and I put off acknowledging it
till I should come here. I entirely commend your
dispositions towards Mr. Adams, knowing his worth
as intimately, and esteeming it as much as any one,
and acknowledging the preference of his claims, if

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 137

any I could have had, to the high office conferred on
him. But in truth I had neither claims nor wishes
on the subject ; though I know it will be difficult
to obtain belief of this. When I retired from this
place and the office of secretary of state, it was in
the firmest contemplation of never more returning
here. There had indeed been suggestions in the
public papers, that I was looking towards a suc-
cession to the president's chair ; but feeling a con-
sciousness of their falsehood, and observing that
the suggestions came from hostile quarters, I con-
sidered them as intended merely to excite public
odium against me. I never in my life exchanged
a word with any person on the subject, till I found
my name brought forward generally, in competi-
tion with that of Mr. Adams. Those with whom I
then communicated could say, if it were necessary,
whether I met the call with desire, or even with
a ready acquiescence ; and whether, from the mo-
ment of my first acquiescence, I did not devoutly
pray that the very thing might happen that has
happened. The second office of this government
is honourable and easy, the first is but a splendid
misery. You express apprehensions that strata-
gems will be used to produce a misunderstand-
ing between the president and myself. Though
not a word having this tendency has ever been
hazarded to me by any one, yet I consider as a
certainty that nothing will be left untried to
alienate him from me. These machinations will
vol. II. l8

138 LIFE OF ELBKIDGE GERRY.

proceed from the Hamiltonians by whom he is sur-
rounded, and who are only a little less hostile to
him than to me. It cannot but damp the pleasure
of cordiality when we suspect that it is suspected.
I cannot help fearing that it is impossible for Mr.
Adams to believe that the state of my mind is
what it really is ; that he may think I view him
as an obstacle in my way. I have no supernatu-
ral power to impress truth on the mind of another,
nor he any to discover that the estimate, which he
may form on a just view of the human mind as
generally constituted, may not be just in its appli-
cation to a special constitution. This may be
a source of private uneasiness to us ; I honestly
confess that it is so to me at this time ; but neither
of us are capable of letting it have effect on our
public duties. Those who may endeavour to se-
parate us, are probably excited by the fear that I
might have influence on the executive councils.
But when they shall know that I consider my office
as constitutionally confined to legislative functions,
and that I could not take any part whatever in ex-
ecutive consultations, even were it proposed, their
fears may perhaps subside, and their object be
found not worth a machination. I do sincerely
wish with you, that we could take our stand on a
ground perfectly neutral and independent towards
all nations. It has been my constant object
through public life ; and with respect to the Eng-

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 139

lish and French particularly, I have too often
expressed to the former my wishes and made to
them propositions, verbally and in writing, official-
ly and privately, to official and private characters,
for them to doubt of my views, if they could be
content with equality. Of this they are in pos-
session of several written and formal proofs, in my
own hand writing. But they have wished a mo-
nopoly of commerce and influence with us, and they
have in fact obtained it. When we take notice
that theirs is the workshop to which we go for
all we want ; that with them centre, either im-
mediately or ultimately, all the labour of our hands
and lands ; that to them belongs, either openly or
secretly, the great mass of our navigation ; that
even the factorage of their affairs here is kept to
themselves by factitious citizenships ; that these
foreign and false citizens now constitute the great
body of what are called our merchants, fill our sea-
ports, are planted in every little town and district
of the interior country, sway every thing in the
former place by their own votes and those of their
dependents, in the latter by their insinuations and
the influence of their ledgers ; that they are ad-
vancing fast to a monopoly of our banks and pub-
lic funds, and thereby placing our public finances
under their control ; that they have in their alliance
the most influential characters, in and out of office.
When they have shown that by all these bearings
on the different branches of the government, they

140 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

can force it to proceed in any direction they dic-
tate, and bend the interests of this country entire-
ly to the will of another ; when all this, I say is
attended to, it is impossible for us to say we stand
on independent grounds, impossible for a free mind
not to see and to groan under the bondage in which
it is bound. If any thing after this could excite
surprise, it would be, that they have been able
so far to throw dust into the eyes of our own citi-
zens, as to fix on those who wish merely to re-
cover self-government, the charge of subserving
one foreign influence, because they resist submission
to another. But they possess our printing presses,
a powerful engine in their government of us. At
this very moment they would have drawn us into
war on the side of England, had it not been for the
failure of her bank. Such was their open and loud
cry and that of their gazettes till this event. After
plunging us in all the broils of the European na-
tions, there would remain but one act to close our
tragedy, that is, to break up our union : and even
this they have ventured seriously and solemnly
to propose, and maintain by argument, in a Con-
necticut paper. I have been happy however in
believing, from the stifling of this effort, that that
dose was found too strong, and excited as much
repugnance there as it did horror in other parts of
our country, and that whatever follies we may be
led into as to foreign nations, we shall never give
up our union, the last anchor of our hope, and that

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 141

alone, which is to prevent this heavenly country
from becoming an arena of gladiators. Much as I
abhor war, and view it as the greatest scourge
of mankind, and axiously as I wish to keep out
of the broils of Europe, I would yet go w,i.th my
brethren into these rather than separate from them.
But I hope we shall keep clear of them, notwith-
standing our present thraldom, and that time may
be given us to reflect on the awful crisis we have
passed through, and to find some means of shield-
ing ourselves in future from foreign influence, com-
mercial, political, or in whatever other form it may
be attempted. I can scarcely withhold myself
from joining in the wish of Silas Deane, that there
were an ocean of fire between us and the old
world. A perfect confidence that you are as much
attached to peace and union as myself, that you
equally prize independence of all nations and the
blessings of self-government, has induced me free-
ly to unbosom myself to you, and let you see the
light in which I have viewed what has been pass-
ing among us from the beginning of this war.
And I shall be happy at all times in an intercom-
munication of sentiments with you, believing that
the dispositions of the different parts of our coun-
try have been considerably misrepresented and
misunderstood in each part as to the other, and that
nothing but good can result from an exchange of
opinions and information between those whose

142 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

circumstances and morals admit no doubt of the
integrity of their views. I remain with constant
and sincere esteem, dear sir,

Your affectionate friend and servant,
*«, Th. Jefferson.

The design alluded to by Mr. Gerry, has since
been distinctly avowed by the leader of the party,*
and the declaration made by Mr. Jefferson, that the
projectors of the scheme under the pretence of
friendship for Mr. Adams, were only less hostile
to the one than the other, was within a short time
placed wholly beyond dispute. f

In answer to a letter of congratulation, the fol-
lowing was received from a lady, who in the ele-
vated sphere she was called to fill, displayed all
that dignity and elegance, which entitles her to
the admiration and respect of the community, as
her private virtues and amiable character secured
the affection of her domestic circle, and the es-
teem of her friends.

* "It is true that the faithful execution of this plan would
have given Mr. Pinckney a somewhat better chance than Mr.
Adams, nor shall it be concealed that an issue favourable to
the former would not have been disagreeable to me, as indeed I
declared at the time, in the circles of my confidential friends." —
Letter from A. Hamilton on the public conduct, fyc. of J. Adams,
page 17.

t Ibid, page 18.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 143

MRS. ADAMS TO MR. GERRY.

Quxncy, December 31, 179G.

Dear Sir,

Your obliging favour of December 28th, I re-
ceived by the hand of Dr. Welch. I thank you
sir, for your congratulations, which receive their
value from the sincerity with which I believe them
fraught. The elevated station in which the suf-
frages of our country have placed our friend, is
encompassed with so many dangers and difficul-
ties, that it appears to me a slippery precipice,
surrounded on all sides with rocks, shoals and
quicksands. There is not any man, in whom again
can be united, such an assemblage of fortunate
circumstances, to combine all hearts in his favour,
and every voice in unison, as has been the singu-
lar lot of the president of the United States. Yet
even he, with the full tide of favour and affection,
has tasted the bitter cup of calumny and abuse,
an imported cup, a foreign mixture, a poison so
subtle as to have infected even native Americans.
What must a successor expect, who has near half
the country opposed to his election ? as well as all
the friends of the rival candidates mortified at
their defeat.

You sir, have been too long conversant in pub-
lic life, and full well know " the pangs and heart
aches" to which it is subject, not personally to
mix commiseration with your congratulations.

144 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

At my time of life, the desire and wish to shine
in public is wholly extinguished.

Retirement to Peacefield, the name which Mr.
Adams has given to his farm, is much more
eligible to me, particularly as my health has se-
verely suffered by my residence at Philadelphia.
But personally I shall consider myself as the small
dust of the balance, when compared to the inter-
ests of a nation. To preserve peace, to support
order, and continue to the country that system of
government under which it has become prosperous
and happy, the sacrifice of an individual life, im-
portant only to its near connexions, ought not to
be taken into consideration.

I fully agree with you in sentiment as it res-
pects the election of Mr. Jefferson. I have long
known him, and entertain for him a personal
friendship, and though I cannot accord with him
in some of his politics, I do not believe him culpa-
ble to the extent he has been represented. Placed
at the head of the senate, I trust his conduct will
be wise and prudent. I hope it will be a means
of softening the animosity of party, and of cement-
ing and strengthening the bond of union.

There never was any public or private animosi-
ty between Mr. Adams and Mr. Jefferson. Upon
the subject of Paine's Rights of Man, there was a
disagreement in sentiment. Mr. Jefferson " does
not look quite through the deeds of men." Time
has fully disclosed whose opinion was well founded.

The gentleman you alluded to as an active agent

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 145

in the election, has no doubt his views and de-
signs. There are some characters more supple
than others, more easily wrought upon, more ac-
commodating, more complying. Such a person
might be considered as the ostensible engine, which
a master hand could work. To what other mo-
tive can be ascribed the machiavelian policy of
placing at the head of the government, a gentle-
man not particularly distinguished for any impor-
tant services to his country, and scarcely heard of
beyond the state, which gave him birth, until sent
upon a public embassy.

• " Corruption wins not more than honesty." I
feel sir, when addressing you, the confidence of
an old friend, and that an apology is unnecessary
for the freedom of communication.

Be pleased to present my compliments to Mrs.
Gerry. It would give me pleasure to receive a
friendly visit from her and from you.
I am, dear sir,

With sentiments of respect and esteem,
Your friend and humble servant,

Abigail Adams.

vol. ii. 19

146 LIFE OF ELJHUDGE GERRY.

CHAPTER V.

Cabinet of president Adams Mr. Gerry nominated on a mission

to France Hostility of Mr. Pickering Acceptance urged

by Mr. Jefferson Letter from Mr. Otis Arrival in Paris

State of France Retrospective history of the connexion between

France and the United States.

The election of Mr. Adams was a signal tri-
umph to the federal party. It gave them, for at
least four years, the command of the government,
the influence of place and patronage, and the van-
tage ground of their opponents, which they lost no
time to improve.

The executive chief was not it is true, selected
by their voluntary preference. Men of leading
influence among them entertained serious doubts
of his fitness for the station, but " to preserve the
harmony of their party, they thought it better to
indulge their hopes than listen to their fears. "#

Those of them, who were desirous of an undue
share of influence, who from behind the throne
would be greater than the throne itself, anticipat-
ed from the character of Mr. Adams insurmount-
able obstacles to their schemes of personal ambi-
tion. The experience of the president in the ser-
vice of his country at home and abroad, through
all the troubles of the revolution, and since the

* Hamilton's letter, page 16.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 147

organization of its government, and the natural
temperament of his mind justly proud of its re-
sources, and confident in its strength, were not
likely to devolve on the aspiring spirits, who sur-
rounded him, the attributes of office, while he
himself should hold a barren sceptre in his hand.
The attempt to render him a mere automaton
under their control, and the resistance, which his
integrity and pride roused in opposition, soon pro-
duced that disunion in his cabinet, which mainly
contributed to its fall.

The views of the president were however es-

x

sentially those of the federal party, as they related
to measures of domestic policy or foreign inter-
course ; and the spirit of his first communication
to congress, was well calculated to elevate the
confidence of his friends, and to diminish the in-
fluence of his opponents.

It spoke of the disposition of France to alienate
the people of the United States from their govern-
ment ; a charge, the belief of which caused higher
resentment than almost any other on the long ca-
talogue of wrongs, and it gave point to the accu-
sation, by something more than an intimation, that
a conduct so demoralizing had already been en-
couraged by a party at home. The energy, with
which the speech incited the citizens of the Unit-
ed States to convince France they were " not a
degraded people humiliated under a colonial spirit
of fear and sense of inferiority, fitted to be the

148 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

miserable instruments of foreign influence, and
regardless of national honour, character and in-
terest," implied an accusation against all that class
of the community, who by recommending a policy
different from his own, had tended to produce the
disgraceful condition at which he spurned.

The popular language of the day described the
republican party as a French party, and the speech
of the president was calculated to fix upon them the
seal of reproach. It left a sting, which high and
honourable men could not but resent. It was con-
trived, at some expense indeed, to bring to the aid
of the executive those principles of loyalty and at-
tachment to their political institutions of which
the Americans are proud, by describing the oppo-
sers of the administration as miserable instruments
of foreign influence, regardless of national honour,
character and interest.

In the existing state of things, the first effort
of sound policy was to restore the amicable rela-
tions between the United States and France, or
if that was impossible, to bring to the standard of
the administration a strong accession of force
from the opposing ranks, by making the impos-
sibility apparent.

The president therefore avowed his design of
instituting a " fresh attempt at negotiation, and
his intention to promote and accelerate an accom-
modation on terms compatible with the rights, du-
ties, interests and honour of the nation."

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 149

In this declaration of the president subsequent
events proved he was sincere. If the language of
his coadjutors be taken for true, it is not now to
be doubted that the same integrity of intention
influenced their councils. But the great republican
party, while they hailed every effort with accla-
mation, which might tend to preserve the bless-
ings of peace, yet with the jealousy, which be-
longed to such times, doubted whether the parade
of negotiation was any thing more than an artful
effort to reconcile the nation to the alternative
of war.

By this great section of the community it was
believed, that the past intercourse of the countries
was not carried on in good faith by the American
ministers ; and that the show of negotiation was
artfully contrived to demonstrate its inefficiency,
with a view to enlist the public sentiment in mea-
sures, which must necessarily follow the failure of
an amicable settlement. They imputed to their
rivals a desire, as old as the constitution, to con-
vert the government into something stronger than
a mere representative republic, and as the first
step in this drama, to draw a closer connexion
with England, whose government and forms of
administration, and whose principles of civil policy
were more accordant with their own. They im-
puted to them a desire of producing such a state
of public affairs as would place at the command of
the executive an imposing military force, an in-

150 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

creased revenue, a vast official patronage, and
a coercive power over the personal liberty of
its citizens. Public opinion it was certain must
be elevated by the occurring of a crisis, to fa-
cilitate the progress of such operations, and the
failure of a negotiation, which would necessarily
produce a formal war, would be the consummation
of their hopes.

Not only did the republican party hold opinions
diametrically opposite to these grand schemes, but
the great body of the federalists it was known
needed only to discover them, to overwhelm them
with reprobation. The plan belonged to the ele-
vated few, who could expect to succeed in it only
by those master strokes of policy, for which if
their inclination suited, they were not deficient in
ability.

This conspiracy against the public liberty, im-
puted to the leaders of the dominant party and
proclaimed by their opponents like the prophecies
of Cassandra to incredulous ears, has since been
wonderfully countenanced by the disclosures, which
the then president has made ;* and it may be
now taken for true, that it was a combination of
a comparatively small circle of influential men,
against the sense of the nation, and that these
were even less guided by motives of personal am-
bition and desire of authority, than by a zeal for
their country's welfare, which in their opinion

* President Adams' letters, No. 2, p. 06.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 151

could be preserved from dissolution in its weak-
ness, only by the tonics of their philosophy.
The fact that such a plan existed in the cabinet,
explains many of the measures, which form the
history of those interesting times.

In pursuance of the president's declaration, he
instituted a commission to the French republic,
and as a pledge of his own sincerity, he proposed
to place among its members some distinguished
individual of the party, whose course of policy com-
manded the confidence of the opposition. In a
private interview with Mr. Jefferson, the appoint-
ment was offered to him, but declined. The in-
terior of the cabinet is so well drawn by Mr. Ad-
ams, that it may be best described in his own
words.*

" From Mr. Jefferson I went to one of the heads of depart-
ments, whom Mr. Washington had appointed, and I had no
thoughts of removing. Indeed I had then no objection to any
of the secretaries. I asked him what he thought of sending Mr.
Madison to France, with or without others ? Is it determined
to send to France at all ? Determined ? Nothing is determined
till it is executed, smiling. But why not ? — I thought it deserv-
ed consideration. — So it does ; but suppose it determined, what
do you think of sending Mr. Madison ? Is it determined to send
Mr. Madison ? No ; but it deserves consideration. Sending Mr.
Madison will make dire work among the passions of our parties
in congress, and out of doors, through the states ! Are we for-
ever to be overawed and directed by party passions ? All this
conversation on nay part was with the most perfect civility, good
humour, and indeed familiarity ; but I found it excited a pro-
found gloom and solemn countenance in my companion, which

* Correspondence of the late president Adams, p. 63.

152 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

after some time broke out in " Mr. President, we are willing to
resign." Nothing could have been more unexpected to me than
this observation. Nothing was further from my thoughts than
to give any pain or uneasiness. I had said nothing that could
possibly displease, except pronouncing the name of Madison. I
restrained my surprise, however, and only said, I hope nobody
will resign : I am satisfied with all the public officers.

Upon further enquiries of the other heads of departments, and
of other persons, I found that party passions had so deep and
extensive roots, that I seriously doubted whether the senate
would not negative Mr. Madison if I should name him. Rather
than expose him to a negative, or a doubtful contest in the
senate, I concluded to omit him. If I had nominated Madison,
I should have nominated Hamilton with him. The former, I
knew, was much esteemed in France ; the latter was rather an
object of jealousy. But I thought the French would tolerate
one for the sake of the other. And I thought too that the man-
ners of the one would soon wear off the prejudices against him,
and probably make him a greater favourite than the other. But
having given up Madison, I ought to give up Hamilton loo.
Who then should I name ? I mentioned Mr. Dana and Mr. Ger-
ry to the heads of departments and to many leading members in
both houses. They all preferred Mr. Dana. But it was evident
enough to me, that neither Dana nor Gerry was their man.
Dana was appointed, but refused. I then called the heads of
departments together, and proposed Mr. Gerry. All the five
voices unanimously were against him. Such inveterate preju-
dice shocked me. I said nothing, but was determined I would
not be the slave of it. I knew the man infinitely better than all
of them. He was nominated and approved, and finally saved
the peace of the nation; for he alone discovered and fimiished
the evidence that X. Y. and Z. were employed by Talleyrand ;
and he alone brought home the direct, formal and official as-
sux-ances upon which the subsequent commission proceeded, aud
peace was made."

The secretary of state has denied this statement
of the president. He says, " I have before stated,
that when Mr. Adams first proposed Mr. Gerry

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 153

for one of the envoys, the heads of departments
objected, and that Mr. Adams gave way and sub-
stituted chief justice Dana, of Massachusetts, but
on his declining, Mr. Adams recurred to Mr. Ger-
ry, and in a manner to preclude any further oppo-
sition. As to senators, I am perfectly persuaded
I never spoke to any one of them. We had en-
tire confidence in general Pinckney and general
Marshall, and only wished to save them from be-
ing embarrassed with a difficult and troublesome
associate, and such to their extreme vexation and
delay, Mr. Gerry proved to be."*

A difficult and troublesome associate any one
would be, whose views either of the foreign or
domestic relations of his country differed from a
majority of his colleagues. At the moment when
Mr. Gerry's name was proposed to the cabinet, he
held a rank in the councils of the country above
that, which had then been attained by either of
his colleagues, and the apprehension, if it truly
existed on the mind of the secretary, that he
would be a difficult and troublesome associate,
must have arisen from his belief that it would be
difficult to bend the integrity of his mind from the
principles he espoused, and troublesome to carry
negotiation to the point, which the secretary de-
sired, when a party to its progress had different
views of the interest of his country.

But the clamour, which the cabinet made against

* Tick. Review, p. 137.
VOL. II. 20

154 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

the president's nomination, was more than com-
pensated by the confidence, which it gave to the
republican party.

From all quarters letters poured in upon Mr.
Gerry urging his acceptance, and placing the re-
sponsibility of a refusal on such grounds as left
him without the possibility of declining.

From the mass of these solicitous epistles, the
following, from the great leader and champion of
his party, is selected as well for the powerful
reasons, which it enumerates, as for the influence,
which it had in producing the acceptance, which it
urged.

MR. JEFFERSON TO MR. GERRY.

Philadelphia, June 21, 1797.

My Dear Friend,
It was with infinite joy to me that you were
yesterday announced to the senate as envoy ex-
traordinary, jointly with general Pinckney and
Mr. Marshall, to the French republic. It gave
me certain assurance that there would be a pre-
ponderance in the mission sincerely disposed to be
at peace with the French government and nation.
Peace is undoubtedly at present the first object of
our nation. Interest and honour are also national
considerations ; but interest, duly weighed, is in
favour of peace, even at the expense of spoliations
past and future ; and honour cannot now be an

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 155

object. The insults and injuries committed on us
by both the belligerent parties from the beginning
of 1793 to this day, and still continuing by both,
cannot now be wiped off by engaging in war with
one of them. As there is great reason to expect
this is the last campaign in Europe, it would cer-
tainly be better for us to rub through this year
as we have done through the four preceding ones,
and hope that on the restoration of peace we may
be able to establish some plan for our foreign con-
nexions more likely to secure our peace, interest
and honour in future. Our countrymen have di-
vided themselves by such strong affections to the
French and the English, that nothing will secure
us internally, but a divorce from both nations ; and
this must be the object of every real American,
and its attainment is practicable without much
self-denial ; but for this, peace is necessary. Be
assured of this, my dear sir, that if we engage in
a war during our present passions and our present
weakness in some quarters, that our union runs
the greatest risk of not coming out of that war in
the shape in which it enters it. My reliance for
our preservation is in your acceptance of this mis-
sion. I know the tender circumstances, which
will oppose themselves to it ; but its duration will
be short, and its reward long. You have it in your
power by accepting and determining the character
of the mission, to secure the present peace and
eternal union of your country. If you decline, on
motives of private pain, a substitute may be named

156 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

who has enlisted his passions in the present con-
test, and by the preponderance of his vote in the
mission, may entail on us calamities, your share
in which and your feelings will outweigh what-
ever pain or temporary absence from your family
could give you. The sacrifice will be short, the
remorse would be never ending. Let me then
my dear sir, conjure your acceptance, and that
you will by this act seal the mission with the con-
fidence of all parties. Your nomination has given
a spring to hope, which was dead before. I leave
this place in three days, and therefore shall not
here have the pleasure of learning your determin-
ation, but it will reach me in my retirement and
enrich the tranquillity of that scene. It will add
to the proofs, which have convinced me that the
man who loves his country on its own account,
and not merely for its trappings of interest or
power, can never be divorced from it ; can never
refuse to come forward when he finds that she is
engaged in dangers, which he has the means of
warding ofT. Make then an effort, my friend, to
renounce your domestic comforts for a few months,
and reflect that to be a good husband and a good
father, at this moment you must be also a good
citizen.

With sincere wishes for your acceptance and
success, I am with unalterable esteem, dear sir,
Your affectionate friend and servant,

Th. Jefferson.

Mr. Gerry.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 157

To the above may be added one from a gen-
tleman who, well known to be of the federal party,
was not considered of the conclave who formed
the majority of the cabinet.

MR. OTIS TO MR. GERRY.

Philadelphia, June 22, 1797.

Dear Sir,

It was with peculiar pleasure that I this day
certified the advice and consent of the senate to
your appointment, to be envoy extraordinary to
the republic of France, by a large and respectable
majority. I hope, however dear and amiable your
family and the great pleasures of domestic retire-
ment, you will once more step forward to the aid
of your country, whose independence and happi-
ness you have contributed, by great and unremit-
ted exertion, to achieve, against every considera-
tion that may suggest itself to your mind. You
will go under peculiar advantages, in perfect con-
fidence of both the great parties into which our
country is unhappily divided, and from long ex-
perience, acquainted with its general interests.

Selfish considerations do not preponderate in
your mind ; if however, you can serve your health,
which I am persuaded a sea voyage at this season
would do, and your country at the same time, both
pursuits are laudable. In the name of your many
good friends, and in conformity to my own incli-

158 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

nations to see you again in public life, I repeat my
solicitations that you would make an effort and
gratify as well as serve your country.

My best respects to Mrs. Gerry, and tell her I
expect her aid in doing away every objection that
may present itself to your acceptance of an hon-
ourable appointment, in this very critical state of
our public affairs.

With assurances of my best wishes and respects,

I have the honour to be, sir,

Your most humble servant,

Sam'l A. Otis.
The Hon. Elbridge Gerry.

Nothing could have been more unexpected to
Mr. Gerry than the appointment, which thus re-
quired him to enter again into public service. The
condition of his private affairs and the peculiar
situation of his family presented almost insuper-
able obstacles to the task assigned him. Yielding
however to the inducements, which Mr. Jefferson
had powerfully arrayed, at a sacrifice of personal
feeling, which it would be difficult to describe, and
an abandonment of private interest, which never
afterwards was repaired, Mr. Gerry embarked for
Europe on the 9th August, 1797.

The American envoys arrived at Paris at a pe-
riod peculiarly inauspicious to their views.* They

* The state of society was not exactly that, which an Ameri-
can would have preferred. In a familiar letter to one of his fa-

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY- 159

found the republic elated by conquests, and tri-
umphing as well in its policy as its arms. The
military strength of Europe, which originally
threatened the destruction of the new nation, was
scattered and overthrown. " The conspiracy of
kings," to destroy the principles of liberty was
annihilated, and her victorious troops released from
the discouraging duty of defending her own terri-
tories, had engaged in a war of conquest, whose
glory surpassed the proudest periods of her power.

Spain, Portugal, Holland had successively yield-
ed to her arms. Italy was conquered. Rome
submitted its pontifical pride to her dictation.
Germany, by the treaty of Campo Formio, was
under her control. Vienna and Venice had seen
her flag wave in triumph on their walls. A million
bayonets, directed by military genius as original
as astonishing, were ready to extend her conquests
to the limits of the world.

Nor were the interior affairs of the republic cal-
culated to encourage in her government a less
haughty spirit or a less offensive demeanour.

mily, Mr. Gerry says, "The morning after my arrival I was wait-
ed on by the musicians of the executive, and the succeeding
morning by a deputation of Poissards or fishwomen for presents.
Major Rutledge was kind enough to negotiate for me, by which
means T avoided the kind caresses of the ladies, and an interview
with the gentlemen. They expected fifteen or twenty guineas,
which each of us, according to custom was obliged to give them.
"When the ladies get sight of a minisier, as they did of my col-
leagues, they smother them with their delicate kisses ! So much
for the dignity of the corps diplomatique. MS. letter, 9th Octo-
ber 1797.

160 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

The power of the directory had just been con-
firmed by the revolution of 18th Fructidor [4th
Sept. 1797] and an authority, nominally that of the
people, but in truth of the army, had escaped from
the danger of dissolution by the boldness of its
councils, and perpetuated itself by disregarding the
constitution to which it owed its existence.

The executive directory had overcome its ene-
mies, and amid excesses of all kinds contrived to
retain the favour of the people. It now wielded
the military force of the nation, and felt all the
pride and importance, which could be derived from
this vast array of influence and power.

A second negotiation with England, conducted
with lord Malmsbury by the ministers of the direc-
tory, had been broken off, having exhibited the
obstinacy and the haughtiness of the parties rather
than any sincere desire for peace. To the French
nation therefore only one enemy remained, and
upon that enemy the force and the indignation of
the whole population was about to be concentred.

" Although," say the directory, " so much has
been done, so many kings conquered, so many
people set free, and the republic itself established
by the valour of its armies, yet the country ex-
pected one more sacrifice, since that enemy, who
had been the original cause of all the horrors and
miseries they had suffered, both from foreign and
civil war, remained to be crushed. The safety of

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 161

the republic is endangered whilst the English
government exists.*

Bonaparte, after concluding a treaty with the
emperor, so astonishingly favourable to France,
that it has been supposed to have added an entire
fifth to her ample military means, was himself
ready to take command of the force, which the
haughtiness of the republic destined to achieve the
last of its labours. The success of this effort,
which was to complete the conquest of the world,
was not more the subject of national exertion than
popular enthusiasm. The feelings of the commu-
nity were excited by past success to a species of
madness in this great effort of aggrandizement, and
with an ardour characteristic of the country, already
anticipated their complete success.

It was true indeed, that the naval strength of
the mistress of the ocean gave some opposi-
tion to efforts, which must be made within her
reach, and that the resources at her command
were well arranged to protract the period of her
overthrow ; but however these incidents might
affect the rulers of France, they had apparently
little force on the minds of the people, and seem-
ed principally operative in accumulating such mag-
nificence of force as would look down opposition.

The popular belief was that England was on the
point of revolution ; that oppressed by a ruinous

* Proclamation of the Directory, Nov. 1797.
VOL. II. 21

163 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

debt, and borne down by unequalled taxation, the
nation was already more than half conquered, and
that the appearance of a formidable force, under
which the disaffected could rally without fear,
would almost without a blow complete the tri-
umph of the invaders.

If the difficulties of the extravagant enterprise
were better known to the directory and its gene-
rals, somewhat of a similar delusion prevailed over
even the soundness of their judgment. That a
powerful internal opposition existed in Great Bri-
tain was beyond doubt ; how far it would aid an
invading enemy was a matter of speculation. De-
luded by their success on the continent, and cal-
culating on their arts as well as arms, the gov-
ernment of France did not permit themselves to
doubt, that when the flag of the republic should be
fairly planted on the British shore, it would be
hailed as the standard of liberty, a signal for the
demolition of the monarchy and the dissolution of
the government.

With feelings of ancient hostility and rivalship
were mingled something of resentment and indig-
nation at the obstacles, which delayed their anti-
cipated triumph. They looked to the destruction
of this last enemy as an event certainly to happen,
but protracted by circumstances vexatious indeed
but not formidable, which while they delayed the
gratification, served only to sharpen the eager spirit
of revenge.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 163

It could not facilitate the objects of the Ameri-
can embassy, that the principal cause of complaint
against the nation it represented, was an imputed
attachment to the great enemy of the republic,
with whom it had recently by treaty drawn
closer the ties of alliance and friendship, and that
an identity of principles and interest had grown up
between them, which it was the policy of the
republic to discredit and condemn.

In the character of the individuals composing
the French government, the American ambassa-
dors found no cause for greater satisfaction. The
recent revolution had deposed Carnot and Bar-
thelemi. To Barras, Reubel and Lepaux were ad-
ded Neufchateau and Merlin, the latter more than
suspected of having a direct interest in the captures
made by French privateers on the American com-
merce. None of them were distinguished for
talent or respected for public services. They col-
lectively supported their little less than imperial
station, by a courage that nothing could intimi-
date, and a ready disposition to disregard for per-
sonal aggrandizement any restraints, which honour
or justice would ordinarily have power to impose.

As secretary for foreign affairs, Talleyrand, now
known as well for the versatility and greatness of
his genius as for the profligacy of his character
and the successful hypocrisy of his life, contrived
to exercise an almost unlimited authority, without
being able to obtain confidence ; suiting himself

164 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

exactly to the exigencies of the government by the
powers of his intellect and the flexibility of his
principles.

At such a period of triumph, of confidence and
hope, before men who limited their ambition nei-
ther by precedent nor virtue, the envoys of the
American government presented themselves at
Paris. They came, it was well known, to com-
plain, to remonstrate, to demand redress. They
came to unfold the unfriendly disposition of the
French government towards the only people who
had established free institutions upon popular prin-
ciples, and had demonstrated the practicability of
the system, which the French nation professed to
support ; and they came to add to their representa-
tion of wrongs they were suffering, their grief at
the inconsistency of a policy, which alienated from
the only republic in Europe the only other republic
in the world. They came too, with the character
and the feelings of the representatives of a free
people, proud of the independence of their coun-
try, undismayed by the general overthrow of kings
and the revolution of empires, to urge before the
gigantic victors of Europe the rights of justice in
the language of equality.

It might have been foreseen that such an em-
bassy would be received with coldness, and sub-
jected to such inconveniences as the course of
diplomacy can readily present ; but it was hardly
to have been anticipated that an extraordinary and

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 165

important delegation of unusual dignity of charac-
ter, as well in the forms by which it was instituted
as by the number and respectability of the indi-
viduals composing it, would have been obliged to
remain six months in the capital of a nation, nomi-
nally at peace with their country, not merely un-
accredited but exposed to personal and official
mortifications of the most humiliating kind ; and
finally to return, not only without affecting the
object of their mission, but without the common
courtesy of an official discussion of it.

To aggravate the evils incident to so painful a
situation, an unfortunate and serious misunder-
standing, the common accident of joint missions,
arose between the envoys themselves, the blame
of which, although the high and honourable dis-
tinctions subsequently bestowed by their country
on the individuals concerned, may be considered
as exculpating each of them successively, fell at
the time principally upon one.

To place the conduct of the envoys in a proper
light, the history of the mission will be distinctly
stated and such remarks will be added as are due
to the individual, whose share in it gives occasion
to its being mentioned in this place.

A brief retrospect of events, previous to this
extraordinary mission to France, is necessary to a
correct estimate of American policy.

The commencement of the French revolution
found the American people ardently and univer-

166 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

sally interested in its success. Grateful for the
aid accorded to them in their own struggle, they
joyfully beheld the blessings of freedom dawning
upon France. Proud of their own liberty, it was
natural for them to believe that no political society
could admit of more desirable advantages. In
their feelings for the prosperity of republican
France there was an enthusiasm proportioned to
the sublimity of the scene it presented.

A chivalrous and gallant people had for ages
been bound in the fetters of despotism. They
now broke their chains and were free. The first
impulse to this noble act was derived from Ame-
rica. They who had been to the rest of the civil-
ized world a model of intellectual character and
learning and taste, envied for their wealth, power
and renown, whose glory for ten centuries had
thrown its dazzling rays over the history of man-
kind, and whose arts and arms had divided the
empire of the world, condescended to receive from
this young nation the most valuable jewel within
their ancient domain. America had borrowed from
France her power and wealth to establish the foun-
dations of her empire, but she repaid the vast
obligation with more than an equivalent, in giving
to France the principles of civil liberty, and in-
structing her in the knowledge that freedom was
the first requisite for public happiness.

Pride, sympathy, gratitude, principle, all com-
bined to make the French revolution not merely

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 167

popular in the United States, but ardently and
enthusiastically supported by the American people.
For a long period after its commencement there
was probably nothing short of their own indepen-
dence for which they felt a more zealous concern.
The interest, which was excited for the prosperity
of their ancient allies was increased by those still
unsettled feelings of animosity, which survived
towards their former foe. There were resent-
ments not allayed, recollections of past injuries
not effaced, mournful memorials of the calamities
of war every where to be seen through the coun-
try, which enlisted their inclinations as strongly
against one party as more generous sentiments
excited them in favour of the other, and led them
to see in the measures of the English government
against France, only that enmity to freedom, which
had been manifested toward themselves.

The first check to that exaggerated gratitude,
which was rapidly hurrying the United States into
war, was the proclamation of neutrality issued by
president Washington on the 22d day of April
1793.

That cautious and intelligent statesman, and
the profound councillors of his cabinet, well knew
that the primary duty of the American people was
to preserve their own yet unsettled institutions.
They knew the United States were in no condi-
tion for another war. A government yet untried
by experience, and depending for its permanency

168 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

on the success of its first operations, would most
unwisely hazard the chances of a new contest.
The elastic spirit of a young people, it was seen,
was beginning to throw off the evils of their re-
cent condition, to refill their exhausted treasury,
to diminish their public debt, to revive their de-
cayed commerce, and to reanimate their natural
enterprise. For these desirable objects a few
years of peace were indispensable, and the first
measure of that wisdom, which then guided the
affairs of the nation, was to counteract the incli-
nations of the people, until their calmer judgment
applauded the restraint.

Peace with both the belligerents and the ad-
vantage of a neutral attitude, which could profit
by their sacrifices, became the pole star of the
American government, and however difficult the
navigation, however dangerous the adverse winds
and counter currents of the voyage, it was by this
direction that policy commanded them to steer.

The vast objects, which the United States
had to accomplish, the immense, and but that
they have been realized, the incredible advanta-
ges of a neutral character, were not more obvi-
ous to her government than, it was seen by the
belligerents respectively, would be to them an
opposite course. Against the machinations and
violence of both of them, and the prejudice and
passion of their own citizens, this desirable posi-
tion was to be maintained by the American gov-
ernment.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 169

Circumstances of exceeding delicacy and diffi-
culty were constantly occurring, which might lead
immediately to war. The rulers of France early
conceived an opinion that there was a necessa-
ry opposition between the people and their gov-
ernment ; or at least that this was universally
true except only in France. The course of their
policy as well as arms alarmed many of the most
intelligent of the American patriots, and the
predictions and warnings, which Edmund Burke
sounded in Europe, found among the reflecting
statesmen in the western hemisphere many res-
ponsive hearts.

The mission of Mr. Genet, the whole of whose
extravagant diplomacy in this country might be
recounted in proof, alarmed still more the appre-
hensions of impartial men, who saw that a popular
attachment to his country and its cause superseded
the regard that should have been paid to the one
which he visited, and that on questions of national
jurisdiction, about which intelligent men could not
differ, a strong feeling often carried by acclama-
tion his opinions against those of the government.

While the conduct of the minister of France
evidently displayed a determination to appeal from
the government to the people of the United States,
and seduce their affections into a war, which their
judgment would not sanction, a measure of his
country gave some appearance of interest to the
object of his wishes. The ports of the French

vol. ii. 22

170 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

colonies were thrown open to American commerce,
and the " hasty credulity" of mercantile enter-
prise, lost no time to improve the gainful opportu-
nity. Whether the motive for this act was to
secure a commerce to their own subjects in neu-
tral bottoms, which their scanty marine could not
carry on, or more artfully to draw the enemies
cruisers on the rich freights that would be present-
ed to their cupidity, and thus contrast an admira-
tion for their own generosity with indignation at
their enemies rapacity ; or whether it was in truth
the evidence of that friendly spirit, which repub-
lics should feel for each other, was at the time a
subject of discussion, but it was at singular vari-
ance with an order of the national convention,
which allowed French ships to bring in for adju-
dication such neutral vessels as were loaded in
whole or in part, either with provisions destined
for enemy ports, or, merchandise belonging to
enemies.

Threats that were unexecuted, whether from
inability or good will, had much less effect on the
public mind than a liberality, which could be un-
derstood, and in contrast with the colonial system
of other nations the free trade to French colo-
nies was highly appreciated. The denunciations
of their decrees were hardly felt, but the mercan-
tile advantages, in those instances which escaped
the hostility of their enemy, were fully possessed.
While therefore influential and leading men in and

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 171

out of the government of the United States began
to find in the revolution, as it was proceeding in
France, principles destructive of liberty and law,
private property, personal security and moral con-
duct, the general feeling of the public mind
cemented still stronger the original attachment,
and by dividing more distinctly its admirers and
its enemies increased that internal hostility, which
threatened the peace of the nation.

So long as the measures of France tended even
against the exertions of intelligent men, to bring
the two countries into a connexion of a more in-
timate character, her great enemy, regardless of
national law or the obligations of the existing
treaty, was accumulating subjects of complaint,
and indemnifying herself for the loss of popular
favour by extensive devastations on the commerce
of the United States.

An order of council, which when intrusted to
her powerful navy was no dead letter in the sta-
tute book, authorized British cruisers to stop all
vessels loaded wholly or in part with provisions,
bound to any port in France or occupied by the
armies of France. This insane attempt to starve
a whole people, which with as much insult as in-
justice, was justified by cited aphorisms from po-
litical writers, was enforced by the indiscriminate
destruction of neutral property, which it swept as
with a whirlwind from the ocean. Nor did even
the profligacy of the pretence, which was given for

172 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

it, secure credit to the grounds upon which it was
defended. In America it was believed to be part
of a plan for the subversion of free governments,
and to have been started at a time when partial
successes and the strength of the coalition gave
some expectation that France would be over-
thrown. The vexatious practice of impressment
added new fuel to the flame of popular animosity.
The detention of the western posts in direct vio-
lation of the treaty of 1783, though justified as a
retaliation for deficiencies on the part of the
United States in the execution of the same com-
pact, was regarded as a voluntary addition to the
miseries of an Indian war, which it was supposed
to encourage if not excite, while the whole system
of the English navigation laws was complained
of as intentionally severe and ruinous to the com-
merce of the United States.

Other instances of injustice and wrong in the
conduct of the belligerents seemed to demonstrate
that in their efforts for mutual injury, no sentiment
of justice was felt for neutral rights ; and while
each, by every possible art, was endeavouring to
force the United States into a war with the other,
the taunting intimation of one of them was in
train to be realized, that a nation, which would not
fight for honour would be obliged to contend for
existence.

But high and chivalrous principles better suited
the spirit of the people than the condition of the

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 173

country. They were adapted to an athletic and
robust nation rather than one whose strength was
yet in the gristle. If the policy of peace must be
abandoned it would be well in selecting an enemy
to make sure of a friend.

On the selection of that friend the people of
the United States were greatly divided, while the
strength of the popular feeling was not exactly re-
echoed by the public functionaries. The French
government, amid all its acts of injustice and inju-
ry, affected to speak with the United States as
friends. In the glowing language, which marked
their official despatches, they say, " An analogy
of political principles ; the natural relations of com-
merce and industry; the efforts and immense sacri-
fices of both nations in the defence of liberty and
equality ; the blood, which they have spilled to-
gether ; their avowed hatred for despots ; the mo-
deration of their political views ; the disinterest-
edness of their councils ; and especially the suc-
cess of the vows they have made in presence of
the Supreme Being to be free or die, all combine
to render indestructible the connexions, which they
have formed."

" Doubt it not citizens, we shall finally destroy
the combination of tyrants ; you, by the picture of
prosperity, which in your vast countries has suc-
ceeded to a bloody struggle of eight years ; we by
that enthusiasm, which glows in the breast of every
Frenchman. Astonished nations, too long the

174 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

dupes of perfidious kings, nobles and priests, will
eventually recover their rights, and the human
race will owe to the American and French nations
their regeneration and a lasting peace."

It was this very " analogy of political princi-
ples," so captivating to the nation at large, that
alarmed the minds of the administration and in-
duced them to put obstacles in the way of a more
intimate fraternization. The British government,
on the contrary, which " wounds by its pride and
offends by its haughtiness,"* while the objects it
was contending for were more congenial to na-
tional security, so far from affecting in its diplo-
matic intercourse to secure popular favour, allow-
ed eighteen months to expire without deigning to
give an answer to an elaborate and profound argu-
ment made by the American secretary of statet in
complaint of the conduct and principles of the
government of Great Britain towards the United
States.

As a last effort to prevent a war, into which cir-
cumstances were rapidly hurrying the country, a
special mission, on 16th April 1794, was insti-
tuted to the court of St. James, and intrusted to
a citizen eminently distinguished in the annals of
the country, and then holding the high office of
chief justice of the United States. At the request

* Marshall, vol. v. p. 481.

f American state papers, Mr. Jefferson to Mr. Hammond,
29th May 1792. Mr. Hammond to Mr. Randolph, 21st February
1794.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 175

of the French government Mr. Morris was recall-
ed from the republic and the diplomatic inter-
course confided to Mr. Monroe.

The alarm, which the unexpected nomination of
Mr. Jay produced on one half of the population of
the United States, was in some degree quieted by
the appointment that followed to the government
of France. The duties and objects of the first
were not distinctly known, but the selection of the
other was received by the party of the republicans
as evidence of the president's impartiality ; and as
each of those ministers was known to carry to the
court, to which he was sent, sentiments that were
not likely to obstruct an amicable arrangement,
there was a calm over the public mind, a prelude to
the storms that were soon to confound it, when
the results of these missions should be announced.

Mr. Jay, as is well known, concluded the treaty
of London, which on its ratification terminated all
existing causes of controversy with Great Britain,
and arranged a new system of commercial inter-
course. Mr. Monroe was recalled by the presi-
dent, not without some marks of dissatisfaction,
which his candid disclosures easily dispelled.*

The negotiation of any treaty with England,
would no doubt have increased the difficulties of
pacification with France. But in regard to this
she complained that her faith had been abused by

* Monroe's View, &c.

17G LIFE OF ELBR1DGE GERRY.

misrepresentations and concealment, and her rights
violated by sacrifices and concessions.

The instructions under which Mr. Monroe act-
ed were drawn in conformity to his well known
political principles, in which no member of the
senate had given more evidence of sincerity or
zeal. He was instructed to declare " that the pre-
sident had been an early and decided friend of
the French republic ; that whatever reason there
may have been under our ignorance of facts and
policy to suspend an opinion upon some of its im-
portant transactions, yet that he was immutable in
his wishes for its accomplishment, incapable of
assenting to the right of any foreign prince to
meddle with its interior arrangement, and per-
suaded that success would attend its efforts." He
was directed to let it be seen " that in case of war
with any nation on earth, we shall consider France
as our first and natural ally, to dwell upon the
sense we entertain of their past services and their
more recent interposition in our behalf with the
Dey of Algiers," and alluding to Mr. Jay's mis-
sion to England, he was instructed to declare the
motives of that mission to be to obtain immediate
restitution for our plundered property and restitu-
tion of the [western] posts.

The sentiments of the executive thus commu-
nicated to Mr. Monroe, were repeated in stronger
language by the two houses of Congress. The
revolution was emphatically declared to be the

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 177

cause of liberty, " under that standard whenever
it shall be displayed, the affections of the United
States will always rally ; the successes of those
who stand forth as her avengers will be gloried in
by the United States, and will be felt as the suc-
cesses of themselves and the other friends of hu-
manity. Yes — representatives of our ally, your
communication has been addressed to those who
take a deep interest in the prosperity and happi-
ness of the French Republic."

With such instructions from one department of
the government, and a knowledge of such senti-
ments in the other, Mr. Monroe presented himself
to the rulers of France. His reception was bril-
liant and flattering, and the conduct, which he
pursued, and the language, which he used, was too
faithful to his own principles to raise a doubt that
all this profusion of attachment covered any thing
deceptive.

The condition of things in France was not with-
out uneasiness. The treaty between the two re-
publics had been violated. The commerce of the
United States was harassed and plundered. The
minister, whom Mr. Monroe succeeded, was not
only without the confidence of the government,
but an object of particular jealousy and suspicion.
The popular favour towards the United States was
diminishing by means of reports brought by offi-
cers of the fleet of unfriendly treatment in Ameri-
can ports, and a suspicion was entertained that
vol. n. 23

178 LIFE OF ELBRIDCE GERRY.

the mission of Mr. Jay was intended to pave the
way for an abandonment of the one people and an
alliance with the other.

By declarations, the authority for which were
found in his instructions, and with a zeal, which
had been announced to him as the motive for his
selection to the embassy,* the American minister
succeeded in putting affairs in good order, and
began to accommodate arrangements to his satis-
faction, when the treaty negotiated with England
was communicated to the directory, and produced
as was to have been supposed resentment and in-
dignation.

The fact that a commercial treaty had been ne-
gotiated with their rival, that some of its features
were in themselves objectionable and injurious,
that no overtures had been made to France for the
same objects, that not only entire secrecy had been
observed as to the pendency of the negotiation,
but that the objects and powers of the minister
had been misrepresented or concealed, produced
on the haughty victors of a thousand enemies, not
less the feelings of indignation than the less toler-
able expression of disgust and contempt.

While the cause of the United States thus
lost its popularity in the eye of the government

* Mr. Monroe was informed that he was selected " on account
of his known political character and principles." In the Senate
of the United States he had moved to suspend the fourth article
of the treaty of peace with Great Britain, of 1763.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 179

of France, with singular adroitness it saw fit to
discriminate between the administration and its
minister, whom it exonerated from the suspi-
cion even of intentional deception. Falling in
with the declarations of the party in the United
States to which he belonged, and adopting the
language of its public journals, the directory chose
to consider the American minister as much de-
ceived as themselves. Craftily pursuing their de-
sign to separate the people from the government,
they affected to believe that this treaty was an-
other evidence of the combination of rulers against
the defenders of the rights of man.

The sensibility of the French government was
not realized by that of the United States. Be-
lieving as they declared, that an independent na-
tion might conduct its diplomacy without the ad-
vice or permission of other powers, and that in the
treaty with England they had exercised only their
unquestionable rights, they did not admit that
France had any just cause of complaint ; and hav-
ing secured by it so much of their cardinal policy
as preserved peace with one of the belligerents,
an attempt was to be made to complete the desir-
able object by a new effort with the other.

Mr. Monroe was recalled, and Charles C. Pinck-
ney of South Carolina, appointed to succeed him.

If the causes for Mr. Monroe's selection were
complimentary to France or useful to his own
country, the want of similar qualifications in his

180 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

successor, denoted either a diminution of that
civility or an opinion that it did not produce its
expected consequences. In the domestic parties
of the country these gentlemen were under differ-
ent banners.

Mr. Monroe's departure from the French capital
was as brilliant as his reception. An audience of
leave was accorded to him, and in answer to his
address the most flattering testimonials of respect
was bestowed upon him by the president director.
Unfortunately the speech of B arras on that occa-
sion, and the commentary made on it by the ex-
ecutive of the United States, gave new occasion
for umbrage and increased the difficulties in the
way of amicable accommodation.*

* Speech of the president director Barras.

" By presenting to day the letters of recall to the executive di-
rectory, you gave to Europe a very strange spectacle.

France rich in her liberty, surrounded by a train of victories,
strong in the esteem of her allies, will not abase herself by cal-
culating the consequences of the condescension of the American
government to the suggestions of her former tyrants. Moreover
the French republic hopes that the successors of Columbus, Ra-
leigh and Penn, always proud of liberty, will never forget that
they owe it to France. They will weigh in their wisdom the
magnanimous benevolence of the French people with the crafty
caresses of certain perfidious persons who meditate bringing them
back to their former slavery. Assure the good American people
sir, that like them we adore liberty, that they will always have
our esteem, and that they will find in the French people repub-
lican generosity, which knows how to grant peace as it does to
cause its sovereignty to be respected. As for you, Mr. minister
plenipotentiary, you have combatted for principles. You have

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 181

The recall of Mr. Monroe was followed by the
refusal of the directory to receive Mr. Pinckney,
and a declaration " that they would no longer re-
cognise or receive a minister plenipotentiary from
the United States, until after the reparation of the
grievances demanded of the American government,
which the French republic has a right to expect."

In the preceding November, the French minis-
ter in the United States announced the termina-
tion of his functions, and in an address nominally
to the secretary of state, but in reality to the peo-

known the true interests of your country. Depart with our re-
gret. In you we give up a representative to America, and retain
the remembrance of the citizen whose personal qualities did
honour to that title."

Speech of president Adams.

" With this conduct of the French government, it will be pro-
per to take into view the public audience given to the late min-
ister of the United States on his taking leave of the executive
directory. The speech of the president discloses sentiments
more alarming than the refusal of a minister because more dan-
gerous to our independence and union, and at the same time
studiously marked with indignities towards the government of
the United States. It evinces a disposition to separate the people
of the United States from the government ; to persuade them
that they have different affections, principles and interests, from
those of their fellow citizens whom they themselves have chosen
to manage their common concerns, and thus to produce divisions
fatal to our peace. Such attempts ought to be repelled with a
decision that shall convince France and the world that we are
not a degraded people, humiliated under a colonial spirit of fear
and sense of inferiority, fitted to be the miserable instruments of
foreign influence, and regardless of national honour, character
and interest."

182 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

pie, encouraged the idea, which seemed to be the
leading principle of his country's policy, that the
functionaries of the American government and the
party who supported them entertained principles
and feelings hostile to the French cause, and were
desirous, notwithstanding all their pretensions to
the contrary, to involve the two nations in war.

The irritable state of feeling, which existed be-
tween the countries, the belief, which a large party
in the United States honestly professed, that in
the conduct of affairs with the French republic
the government of the United States had been
unwise and insincere, and the use, which that na-
tion made of this division of opinion to embarrass
the American government, were if no other causes
existed, formidable obstacles to a continuance of
peace. But the collisions of interest or force had
accumulated a vast mass of serious complaint.

On the part of France it was alleged that the
treaty of Paris was infringed because prizes made
by French vessels of war were not allowed to be
adjudicated upon in American ports by the consular
agents of the republic.

That English vessels of war, which had made
prizes on the republic or its citizens were not ex-
cluded from the ports of the United States, as by
the 17th article of the same treaty they should
have been.

That the consular convention had become illu-
sory from the obstacles thrown in the way of its
execution by the American government.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 183

That an attack had been made by a British ves-
sel of war on a public vessel of France within the
waters of the United States with intention to seize
the person and papers of the French minister to
the United States, supposed to have been on board,
and that this gross invasion of the sovereignty of
the United States so injurious to France had been
passed over with impunity.

But all other causes of complaint lost their im-
portance in comparison with those, which were
connected with the late treaty of London.

"The United States," said the French minister,
" besides having departed from the principles of
the armed neutrality during the war for their in-
dependence, have given to England to the detri-
ment of their first allies, the most striking marks
of an unbounded condescension by abandoning the
limit given to contraband by the law of nations,
by their treaties with all other nations, and even
by those of England, with a greater part of the
maritime powers. Is it not evidently estraying
from the principles of neutrality to sacrifice exclu-
sively to that power the objects proper for the
equipment and construction of vessels ? They
have gone further. They have consented to ex-
tend the denomination of contraband even to pro-
visions."*

* Such answers as the American government could give to
these complaints were ably stated in the letters of Mr. Monroe
to the French minister. The administration by recalling him
intimated to the American people that the displeasure of France

184 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

On the other side of this account current of in-
justice and wrong, the Americans presented the
frightful system of hostility, which under one or
another decree of the national convention let loose
on their defenceless commerce the whole French
marine, and the profligacy and notorious corrup-
tion of their judicial tribunals, which consumma-
ted by chicanery and fraud what rapacity and pira-
cy even had subdued.

A distressing embargo had been laid on their
property and seamen at Bordeaux.

Bills and other evidence of debt, given by the
colonial government in the West Indies, were un-
paid and merchandise taken for public use was ap-
propriated without compensation.

To all this was added the alleged attempt to sow
distrust and division between the government and
people, and to destroy by their arts what escaped
the power of their arms.

In a review of these discouraging circumstan-
ces, Mr. Adams determined " to institute a fresh
attempt at negotiation ;" certain if it succeeded,
to secure a most favourable position for his country,
and confident if it failed through the obstinacy or

was owing less to the existence of good cause than to his neglect
in not making satisfactory explanations. The publication of his
correspondence restored him to the favour of his country, by
completely disapproving the suggestion, and the secretary of
state did not escape the odium of that intentional duplicity, which
charged on an agent of the government the consequences justly
attributable to the government itself.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 185

wilfulness of France, to draw to his standard that
great body of his fellow citizens, who though
opprobriously stigmatized in his cabinet, he well
knew to be Americans at heart.

It was probably beyond the range of intelligence
or ingenuity to carry on negotiations with each
belligerent in a manner that would subserve the
real interests of the United States, without giving
plausible if not substantial cause of complaint to
one or both. The executive might indeed have
selected its ally and bid its will avouch it, but
policy adopted a different language.

Yet I must not

For certain friends that are both his and mine,
Whose loves I may not drop.

When therefore the determination was settled
to make the first experiment with Great Britain,
the delicacy of the relation to France became
every day more attenuated.

The departure of Mr. Jay for the court of St.
James was a public act, which as it could not be
concealed, it was obviously politic to announce
with the appearance of candour, but the very com-
munication of this fact gave new cause for disa-
greement. The French minister, Mr. Fauchet,
insisted that he was told the mission contemplated
only an adjustment of our (American) complaints,
excluding all commercial arrangements. The sec-
retary denied that he said more than to assure

vol. ii. 24

186 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

him, " Mr. Jay was instructed not to weaken our
engagements with France."

It is not now necessary to discuss the question
whether a commercial treaty with England would
not ipso facto weaken our engagements with
France ; nor whether the stipulations in the treaty
of London could be executed without such conse-
quence ; or however these might be, whether
when a minister had been directed to negotiate
a commercial treaty, the admitted language of the
secretary was any thing else than equivocation, to
conceal the real design.

The intimacy of the connexion between France
and the United States, if weakened by recent
causes of complaint, treaties and popular feeling
still supposed to exist; and it therefore required, in
the opinion of the former, as evidence of the sin-
cerity of the latter, that a frank and full disclo-
sure of its intentions should be made ; and some
countenance is undesignedly given to this expecta-
tion by the fact, that before the conclusion of the
treaty a communication of some kind was made to
the French minister, and before its ratification the
treaty was submitted to him for his commentaries
and opinion.

France thereupon complains, " It was a little
matter only to allow the English to avail them-
selves of the advantages of our treaty, it was ne-
cessary to assure these to them by the means of a
contract, which might serve at once as a reply to

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 187

the claims of France and as peremptory motives
for refusals, the true motive of which it was re-
quisite incessantly to disguise to her under spe-
cious pretexts. Such was the object of Mr. Jay's
mission to London, such was the object of a ne-
gotiation enveloped from its origin in the shadow
of mystery and covered with the veil of dissimu-
lation."*

The American answer maintains that the right
to form these treaties has been so universally
asserted and admitted that it seems to be the in-
separable attribute of sovereignty, to be question-
ed only by those who question the right of a
nation to govern itself, and to be ceded only by
those who are prepared to cede their independence.

The complaint as to what should not be done in
a specific case is thus answered by an allegation
of abstract right. Hence the replication of the
French minister in very strong terms. " When
the agents of the republic complained of this mys-
terious conduct, they were answered by an appeal
to the independence of the United States, solemnly
sanctioned in the treaties of 1778 — a strange
manner of contesting a grievance, the reality of
which was demonstrated by the dissimulation, to
which recourse was had — an insidious subterfuge,
which substitutes for the true point of the ques-
tion a general principle, which the republic can-

* Mons. Adet to secretary of state.

188 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

not be supposed to dispute, and which destroys by
aid of a sophism that intimate confidence, which
ought to exist between two allies, and which
above all ought to exist between the French re-
public and the United States."

Again the French government complained of the
abusive language of certain public journals of the
United States, and were answered with the abstract
propositions that " the genius of the constitution
and the opinion of the people of the United States
cannot be overruled by those who administer the
government," and " that among those deemed
most sacred is the liberty of the press."

Now the real subject of complaint was not that
the administration did not put down these offen-
sive journals by force of law, but that they were
known to encourage them by personal patronage,
and thus under colour of a professed inability to
control the public press, aided and abetted its con-
ductors in disseminating opinions injurious to the
cause of France.

The French minister further commenting on the
insincerity of the American government, alleges
that it was thought proper to send to the French
republic persons whose opinions and connexions
are too well known to hope from them dispositions
sincerely conciliatory, and contrasts that conduct
with the eagerness to send to London ministers
well known for sentiments corresponding with the
object of their mission.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 189

Stripped of the thin veil, which diplomatic
forms throw on this subject, the French minister
asserts, " The people of the United States are
divided into two great parties, differing in their
views of the correct policy of the country. One
of these is desirous of a more intimate union with
England, the other with France. In negotiations
with the former power the compliment of select-
ing negotiators from the party, which deemed its
duty to the United States to consist in friendship
with England, was paid to her, and the conse-
quence was successful negotiation. No such com-
pliment is paid to France and no such consequence
can ensue."

The Americans could only reaffirm their concili-
atory temper without denying the facts, from
which a different conclusion had been drawn.

190 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

CHAPTER VI.

History of the joint mission of Messrs. Pinckney, Marshall and

Gerry, to the French republic Messrs. Marshall and Pinckney

leave Frvtnce.......Mr. Gerry remains His conduet.

The American envoys met in Paris on the 4th
October 1797, and the next day announced their
arrival to the minister of foreign affairs, assuring
him that the United States were desirous of ter-
minating all differences between themselves and
the French republic, and of restoring that harmony
and good understanding, and that commercial and
friendly intercourse, which from the commence-
ment of their political existence until lately had
happily subsisted ; and that the president had ap-
pointed them jointly and severally envoys extraor-
dinary and ministers plenipotentiary to the French
republic, for the purpose of accomplishing these
great objects. They requested an opportunity to
present their letter of credence, and assured him
of their ardent desire for the speedy restoration of
harmony and friendship between the two repub-
lics.

On the 8th the envoys had an interview with
the minister of foreign relations. The letter of
credence was delivered and cards of hospitality
received. They were informed that " the direc-

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 191

tory had directed the minister to make a report
relative to the situation of the United States with
regard to France, which would be finished in a
few days, when he would let them know what
steps were to follow."

In a day or two the private and confidential
secretary of the minister intimated to the private
secretary of one of the envoys, that the directory
were exasperated at some parts of the president's
speech at the opening of the last session of con-
gress, and would require an explanation ; that the
envoys would probably not have a public audience
until their negotiation was finished, that persons
might be appointed to treat with them, who would
report to the minister, and he would have the di-
rection, though not actually the conducting of the
negotiations.

This communication, circuitous and informal
enough, paved the way for subsequent measures
equally singular and extraordinary.

A gentleman of respectability privately inform-
ed general Pinckney, that another person whom
he could introduce, would suggest a plan for ac-
commodation at the instance of Mons. Talleyrand,
which if proposed to him by the American envoys,
would undoubtedly facilitate negotiations.

After much unofficial parade and affectation of
secrecy, the envoys, who found no authorized and
ostensible agent of the republic to discourse with,
were introduced to these anonymous personages.

192 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

The substance of the propositions thereupon sub-
mitted to them was, that the envoys should pro-
pose to give a softening turn to some parts of the
president's speech, should advance under cover of
a masked loan some millions of dollars for the
French treasury, and in addition to this substan-
tial part of the treaty, should " address themselves
to the private gratification of certain high officers
of government, by compliance with diplomatic
usage," which being interpreted was understood
to mean, supply a fund of fifty thousand pounds
sterling for distribution to prominent individuals.
To induce the envoys as of their own accord to
make these propositions, the haughty temper and ir-
ritable feeling of the directory towards the United
States were adverted to, and the friendly exertion
of Mons. Talleyrand under such a stimulus, was
promised in their behalf; an exertion, which his
late successful diplomacy with the emperor, it was
said, enabled him to make with advantage. The
power of France was displayed in all its greatness.
A war in the north against England was prepar-
ing. On the coast an army of one hundred and
fifty thousand men, directed by the genius of Bo-
naparte, would invade England, and overturn its
government ; or if not adequate to this result, the
alarm spread through the nation, and the enormous
expenses consequent upon it would as certainly
effect its ruin, unless prevented by an humiliating
peace.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 193

In such an event, which was more than merely
probable, what, it was asked, would be the dif-
ference in the situation of the United States, if
they were at peace or war with France ?

In the former case the commerce of the world
would flow into their channels, relieved from the
exactions of England ; in the latter the fate of
Venice might forewarn them of their own. It was
urged that in the present condition of France, vast
advantages would result to the United States from
delay, which was in effect to gain their cause, and
that policy required they should make any arrange-
ment not absolutely extravagant.

A more direct attempt was made on the fears
of the envoys. Perhaps you think, they were told,
that in returning and exposing to your countrymen
the unreasonableness of the demands of this gov-
ernment you will unite them in resistance. You
are mistaken. You ought to know that the diplo-
matic skill of France and the means she possesses
in your country, are sufficient to enable her with
the French party in America, to throw the blame,
which will attend the rupture of the negotiations,
on the federalists as you term yourselves ; on the
British faction as that class of your citizens are
termed by France. You may assure yourselves
this will be done.

Such was the language of these unaccredited
and nameless individuals, who either with or with-
out authority found their way to the drawing

vol. ii. 25

194 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

room and the breakfast table of the American en-
voys ; and they having no other individuals with
whom to discuss the relations of the two coun-
tries, condescended to hear them.

The answer of the envoys was delivered with a
frankness suited to the purity of their character.
They unanimously resolved not to purchase the
right of negotiation. If negotiations were opened,
they professed a willingness to discuss any propo-
sition made by the French government ; if it ex-
ceeded their powers, they were ready, they said,
to consult with all practicable expedition the gov-
ernment of the United States. They expressed
their readiness, if the difficulties attending the
proposition for a loan, and the embarrassments in-
cident to a reclamation for illegal depredations on
the commerce of the United States should retard
an immediate completion of a treaty, to postpone
these important subjects for future discussion, and
place the present relations of the two nations on
an amicable basis. They asserted the early and
invariable attachment of the United States to re-
publican France, and proposed to discuss any
measures, which had given her offence, in the con-
fidence of being able to make satisfactory explana-
tions. On the advantages of neutrality, they said
it was unnecessary to dilate. All the efforts of
their government had been exerted to maintain it.
Referring to other suggestions, the envoys remark-
ed, that America had never contemplated a politi-

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 195

cal connexion with Great Britain ; whether the
reputed danger of that government was real or not
they could not decide, but it was evident to them
that both the belligerents had much reason to wish
for peace. They declared their conviction that
France miscalculated on the state of parties in
America; that her extreme injustice would unite
all parties against her, and produce a common sen-
timent of hostility so soon as it should be ascer-
tained that to past injuries, which she would not
redress, were added aew wrongs aggravated by
eontempt.

They complained of the embarassment of their
condition. They were called to pledge their coun-
try to a great amount, for demands as extravagant
as unexpected, without discussing the justice or
the policy, on which they were founded ; without
assurance that they were not preliminaries to much
greater yet concealed; without any promise that
the rights of their country would thereafter be re-
spected, and without a document to prove that
persons to whom they were required to unbosom
themselves, were empowered even by the minis-
ter, much less by the directory, to hold any con-
versation with them.

On the 21st October Mr. Gerry proposed to his
colleagues to adopt the following resolution.

To the question, whether the propositions hir
formally and confidentially communicated to us as
private citizens, at the request, as is stated of Mons,

196 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

Talleyrand in his private capacity, will be adopt-
ed as the basis of a treaty, this answer is given,
that it is highly probable some of the propositions
communicated on 19th and 20th October will be
considered as the basis of a treaty and others as
inadmissible, but that it is impossible to discuss or
come to a decision on them until they are pre-
sented to us in an official character.

The original of this note is endorsed " intended
to be given Saturday, 21st October."* The en-
dorsement is in general Pinckney's handwriting.f
On 3d November the envoys relate that they
told one of these intrusive messengers that they
should at any time be glad to see him as a private
citizen, but " that they had determined to receive
no propositions, unless the persons who bore them
had acknowledged authority to treat." Neverthe-
less, either as private citizens, or in some other
capacity, the anonymous gentlemen were received
by the envoys ; their conversation was noted in the
private journal of Mr. Marshall, and the transcript
of that journal communicated to the American
government as late as the 17th December.

For a long period the American embassy had
contented itself with listening to unaccredited
agents, without seeking such interviews with the
minister himself, as might, under ordinary circum-
stances lead to mutual good understanding.

* Mr. Gerry's MS. papers.

f Mr. Gerry's letter to president Jefferson, MS. 13th January
1801.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 197

On the 22d October it was intimated to Mr.
Gerry that the minister had expected to have seen
the American envoys, and to have conferred with
them individually on the affairs of their mission,
and had authorized this communication to be made
to him. Mr. Gerry sent for his colleagues, and
general Pinckney and general Marshall expressed
their opinion, that not being acquainted with M.
Talleyrand they could not with propriety call on
him, but that according to the custom of France
he might expect this of Mr. Gerry, from a pre-
vious acquaintance in America. With this per-
sonal selection Mr. Gerry "reluctantly complied,"*
and several interviews in the ordinary course of
civility were had between them, in which, as the
most interesting topic of the day, certainly one
most interesting to his visitor, M. Talleyrand oc-
casionally discussed the relations of France and
the United States.

Meanwhile thirty days had elapsed and no com-
munication in writing was received from the direc-
tory or its officers. It was proposed therefore by
one of the envoys to address to the minister of
foreign affairs an official note, calling his attention
to their situation, and demanding that steps should
be taken to open negotiations.

Proper as this measure would be under ordinary
circumstances, it seemed to Mr. Gerry that in the
present irritable state of the French government,

* Envoys' letter of 8th November 1797, American state papers
vol. iii. p. 495, 2d edition.

198 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

no good could be expected by it ; that any urgency
on the part of the Americans would serve rather
to exasperate than to reconcile ; and he proposed
therefore that communications in cypher should be
made to their own government, describing in de-
tail their present situation. The delay this would
occasion did not seem to him a sufficient objection
to it, inasmuch as it was not proposed by the
envoys to quit Paris ; and the American govern-
ment, by a timely knowledge of affairs, would be
better able to select such alternative as was pre-
sented. The personal observation, which even his
limited intercourse with the minister had afforded,
enabled him to speak with more confidence on this
point.*

This first disagreement among the envoys was
not of serious consequence. Mr. Gerry, at their
request, without yielding the opinion he advanced,
that the letter would be useless, joined in one
under date of 11th November, in which the en-
voys remind the minister of the promised com-
munication, they had anxiously but in vain ex-

* Mr. Pickering, in his review p. 117, in stating this fact adds
also that Mr. Gerry proposed to have "jit copies made out and
transmitted to his government." The perils of navigation, which
then obstructed the ocean are in a great degree forgotten, and
the readers of the review would be astonished at the folly of a
pretence, which it is more than insinuated was a contrivance
to waste time. Yet Mr. Pickering's own despatches to the
envoys were transmitted in the samenumber of sets, and "one by
a despatch boat sent on purpose." American state papers, vol.
iv. p. 153.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 199

pected to receive ; they repeat that the preser-
vation of friendship with France was dear to the
American nation, the loss of it a subject of un-
feigned regret, and that the recovery of it by
every means, which consist with the rights of an
independent nation engages their constant atten-
tion ; that the president of the United States had
given it in charge to the envoys to discuss candidly
the complaints of France, to offer frankly those of
the United States, and to review and alter existing
treaties, so as to consist with the mutual interest
and satisfaction of the contracting parties ; that
they were anxious to commence this task and
would be truly happy to restore that harmony,
which it was their wish as well as duty, if possible
to effect between the citizens of the two repub-
lics. To this letter no answer was returned. The
envoys were given to understand that it had been
laid before the executive directory, who would
command their minister what steps to pursue.

Previous to the writing of this letter, the en-
voys addressed to their government a minute ac-
count of all their discourse with informal agents,
" in thirty-six quarto pages of cypher and eight
pages of cyphered exhibits."

At the first interview between Mr. Gerry and
the French minister, at which the other two
envoys, " because they were not acquainted with
Mons. Talleyrand," had refused to be present,
that minister distinctly stated that the directory

200 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

had determined not to treat with the envoys, un-
less they previously made reparation for some
parts of the president's speech at the opening of
congress, that an arrette declaratory of this inten-
tion would be communicated in a few days ; but
if the envoys had any propositions to offer, he
would with alacrity communicate them to the
directory ; that considering the circumstances and
services of the same kind, which France had for-
merly rendered to the United States, the best way
for them would be to offer to make a loan to
France, either by taking Batavian inscriptions for
fifteen or sixteen millions of florins or in some
other way, which might be devised.

The good effect of this waiver of etiquette, if
indeed any of the artificial forms of private society
could exist between important official functionaries
in such a situation, was thus distinctly seen. Two
independent facts were learned with formality,
precision and authority. First, that no treaty
would be made with the envoys without an apo-
logy for the president's speech or an equivalent.
Second, that a voluntary offer of a loan would be
accepted as an equivalent.

Mr. Gerry on his return communicated these
facts to his colleagues. Their consultation upon
them resulted in desiring one of those mysterious
prolocutors, who still attended them, to inform
Mons. Talleyrand in substance that neither would
be accepted.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 201

In consequence of the visit made by Mr. Gerry
to Mons. Talleyrand, the latter invited the former
to one of his customary dinners ; the civility was
returned by the American, and something like an
intercourse that might give opportunity for concil-
iatory arrangements might have been effected, but
the separation of one gentleman from his colleagues
placed them all in so unpleasant a situation, that
it was impossible he could consent to continue it.
The minister's personal attentions, with a single
exception, were afterwards declined, and affairs
were left to the ordinary chance of official and
diplomatic procedure.

The letter of 11th November remained without
answer, and on the 24th December the envoys
reported to their government their opinion, that if
they were to wait six months longer, without they
stipulated the payment of money and a great deal
of it, in some shape or other, they would not be
able to accomplish the objects of their mission,
even if they were officially received, unless the
projected invasion of England was to fail, or a total
change take place in the persons, who directed the
affairs of the government. In this conclusion all
the envoys united, although on very different
grounds.

So anxious were these ministers to supply the
want of regular diplomatic proceedings by all the
information in their power, that the idle prattle of
a lady, who according to Mr. Pinckney, " was well

VOL. II. 26

202 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

acquainted with Mons. Talleyrand," and by him
afterwards described as " known to be connected
with Mr. Pinckney," was transmitted by that gen-
tleman in an official form to his government, as
additional evidence of the disposition of the direc-
tory to make the payment of money the basis of
negotiation.*

* "A lady understood to be Madame de Villette, the celebrat-
ed belle and bonne of Voltaire, was also concerned in this trans-
action." " As to the lady an intimation is given that that part
of the affair was not much to the credit of the Americans." —
Lyman's Diplomacy of the United States, p. 86. The able author
of this useful and generally accurate work, is here we think
under some mistake. The lady referred to was one acquainted
with general Pinckney, and her communication was made to
him and by him alone to the American government. Mr. Gerry
writes to Mons. Talleyrand, " 1 cannot give you the name of
any lady, for no one has made any political communications to
me since my arrival in Paris."

Madame Villette was the widow of a gentleman of fortune, a
colonel in the king's service. Her uncle was a general officer,
and her brother commanded the corps which defended the queen
at Versailles, where he lost his life. Madame was on Robes-
pierre's list of proscription, and was confined ten months in pris-
on, expecting every day to be summoned to the guillotine. Her
daughter, then only seven years of age, was her only companion.
She was not at this period remarkable for personal attractions.
The imprisonment had made great inroad on her health. She
is described by a gentleman in Paris, as " equally distinguished
for the goodness of her heart, her excellent morals, and the rich-
ness of her mind."

The intimations not much to the credit of the Americans,
should have been confined to one individual. Talleyrand ri-
dicules the folly, which saw any thing important in her re-
mark, "lend us says she to him one day, money in our war,
we lent it to you in yours;" "and a conversation thus simple
is taken up by Mr. Pinckney, who finds it necessary to write

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 203

While affairs remained in this doubtful condi-
tion, the envoys faithful to their trust, and anxious
to leave no effort unattempted, which talents, in-
dustry and duty could accomplish, laid before the
French minister under date of 17th January, a
voluminous defence of the American policy, a jus-
tification of the conduct of the United States, and
a powerful appeal against that course of conduct,
which by the sanction of the directory, had sacri-
ficed their mercantile capital, violated the privi-
leges of their flag, and exposed their mariners to
captivity.

The letter begins by declaring that the envoys
of the United States had been hitherto restrained,
by the expectation of entering on their mission in
the forms usual among nations, from addressing
the executive directory through the minister of for-
eign affairs, those explanations and reclamations,
with which they are charged by the government
they represent. If that expectation was to be
relinquished yet the unfeigned wish of the Unit-
ed States to restore that harmony between the
two republics, which they have so unremitting-
ly sought to preserve, rendered it the duty of the
envoys to lay before the government of France,

every thing and to poison it, is mysteriously sent by him to his
government, as if it had any relation to the clandestine proposi-
tion made by the intriguers. Thus minute is distrust. Thus is
prejudice led astray in its reasonings. In this manner are the
politics of some men a pest to social intercourse." — American
state papers, 4th vol. p. 234.

204 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

however informal the communication may be
deemed, some considerations in addition to those
heretofore submitted relative to the subsisting dif-
ferences between the two republics.

This admirable state paper, which may com-
pare advantageously with the ablest diplomatic
correspondence in the American archives, was
draughted by general Marshall, and submitted to
Mr. Gerry for revision and amendment.

During the time it was under his eye it under-
went important alterations in its style and man-
ner, to give it that softening and courteous form
of address, which should neither contain, nor give
reasonable pretence for a complaint that it did
contain, any offensiveness of language, and al-
though it was decidedly his opinion that there
were reasons, which argument could not reach, for
the unpromising condition of things, he agreed
with his colleagues in subscribing the amended
despatch.

While the most careful and successful regard
appears to have been paid to the composition of
this able performance to suit it to the temper of
the haughty tribunal to which it was addressed,
it lost nothing of the character, which belonged to
a free and powerful people complaining of the in-
juries they had suffered, and describing the pa-
tience and the perseverance, with which they had
peaceably sought redress. It displays every where
the most anxious desire for an honourable recon-

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 205

ciliation, and affects not to conceal the grief of vio-
lated friendship in the unfortunate separation of the
only republics m the world. The personal feel-
ings of the writers, and the circumstances to which
they appeal for the proof of their sincerity, were
too forcibly expressed not to be true.

" Bringing with them," says the letter, "the
temper of their government and country, searching
only for the means of effecting the objects of their
mission, they have permitted no personal conside-
rations to influence their conduct, but have waited
under circumstances beyond measure embarrassing
and unpleasant, with that respect, which the Ame-
rican government has so uniformly paid to that of
France, for permission to lay before you, citizen
minister, the important communications with which
they have been charged."

" If, citizen minister, there remains a hope that
these desirable objects can be effected by any
means, which the United States have authorized,
the envoys would still solicit, and still respectfully
attend the developement of those means. If on
the contrary no such hope remains, they have only
to pray that their return to their own country may be
facilitated, and they will leave France with the
most deep felt regret, that neither the real and
sincere friendship, which the government of the
United States has so uniformly and unequivocally
displayed for this great republic, nor its continued
efforts to demonstrate the purity of its conduct and

206 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

intentions, can protect its citizens, or preserve them
from the calamities, which they have sought by a
just and upright conduct to avert."

These communications had no effect. There
were points, which could not be overcome by any
power of language ; obstacles, which the diplo-
macy of the French government, whose most fa-
miliar art was deception, raised in the road, by
their willingness to transfer to the agents of the
American republic imputations, which its own
annals would prove to have been very frequently
attributable to itself.

The directory believed, or affected to believe,
that the American administration was wholly in-
sincere in its pacific and friendly professions, that
it was under English influence, and sought only
a plausible pretence to join the " conspiracy of
kings." They believed, or affected to believe,
that the English cabinet, having by the power of
France been obliged to acknowledge the indepen-
dence of the states, aspired at least to influence
their policy, and introduce monarchical establish-
ments ; that it endeavoured to fortify, by similarity
of constitutional forms, habits common to the
English and American people. That many citi-
zens of the United States could be found, who
were seriously reconciled to the English system of
government ; that men called by public confidence
to the administration of affairs in the United States
had written in favour of the British constitution,

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 207

merely to prepare the way for such a system in
their own country. That to men of these senti-
ments war was indispensable, and a war too with
the French republic ; that by means of a war they
could raise armies and obtain supplies ; that by
means of war against their old friends, against
brothers and republicans, it would be easy to ac-
celerate their wishes, to excite civil commotion,
to shock all former ideas of political morality, to
stigmatize as seditious the honourable defenders
of principles, and to crush, under the pageantry
and force of monarchical institutions, the simple
and unostentatious forms of representative govern-
ment. *

Preposterous as these imputations now seem,
they derived in the minds of the rulers of France,
great confidence from the language and conduct of
parties in the United States. Americans attribut-
ed such opinions to some of their fellow citizens,
and in the war of recrimination, which was carried
on in the gazettes of the day, all public spirit, all
national pride and all sentiments of patriotism
seemed to be lost for ever. The country was
divided into factions, and would be ruined by the
prevalence of either one over the other.

* If the opinion supposed to have been entertained by colonel
Hamilton and before cited, page 62, had reached the ears of
citizen plenipotentiary Genet as it had Mr. Jefferson's, it would
undoubtedly have been communicated with additions and embel-
lishment, and have served to confirm the imputations recorded
in the text.

208 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

But the French directory chose to extend their
erroneous suspicions to the characters of the dis-
tinguished citizens, who with equal purity of at-
tachment to their own country were deputed to
represent its interests with the government of
republican France.

Two of these, it was said, if not believed, two
of them were infected with the same anti-republi-
can principles ; and any attempt at negotiation
with them would prove abortive ; because it was
a part of the political drama, in which they were
actors, to close all avenues of honourable peace,
and to give strength and popularity to their party
at home by so managing affairs as to produce a
rupture and throw the blame of it on the govern-
ment of France.

Their associations and intimates, their oral and
written opinions, known through the machinery of
a vigilant police, justified as was said, all these
suspicions. They did not come to make peace,
but to prove that no peace could be made. Under
the guise of a desire to negotiate with France,
their real design was to show to America that
there was no alternative but war.

These unreasonable and ill founded jealousies,
it was apparent, could neither be written down by
logical arguments on national rights, or eloquent
complaints of public wrongs.

On 4th February, while these opinions were
professed by the directory, Mons. Talleyrand in-

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 209

vited Mr. Gerry to meet him, and having enjoined
upon him profound secrecy, informed him that the
executive directory were dissatisfied and embar-
rassed by the opinions and conversation of his
colleagues ; that it had determined not to treat
with them, but signified their willingness to enter
upon negotiations with him ; and the minister
added that his departure or refusal would produce
an immediate declaration of war against the
United States.

" Astonished," says Mr. Gerry, in a letter to
Mons. Talleyrand, " at this communication, I in-
formed you that I had no powers to treat sepa-
rately, the measure was impossible, and that had
my powers been adequate, a treaty made under
such circumstances could never be ratified by my
government. You differed from me ; we reason-
ed upon it, and each adhered to his opinion. I
urged in vain the unreasonableness of admitting
prejudices against my colleagues without inform-
ing them of the causes thereof, the good effect in
removing them, which might result from such in-
formation, and the necessity of making known to
them all that had now passed between us. You
held me to the promise of secrecy, adding that if
I would negotiate, we could soon finish a treaty,
for the executive directory were not in the habit
of spending much time about such matters. You
desired another interview, in which, after a dis-
cussion of the subject, I confirmed and adhered to

vol. ii. 27

210 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

my determination. In this state affairs remained
some time, and I flattered myself with the hope,
that failing in the proposition for negotiating with
me separately, your next would be to accredit the
three envoys ; in such an event the secrecy men-
tioned would have been proper."

When Mr. Gerry returned from his first visit to
Mons. Talleyrand, he informed general Marshall
that communications and propositions had been
made to him by that minister, which he was not
at liberty to impart to general Pinckney or himself,
that he had also propounded some questions which
had produced changes in the proposition, but that
as soon as he could obtain liberty the whole matter
should be laid before him.

There needed nothing else. Mr. Marshall in
his commentary on this extraordinary occurrence
in his private journal, expresses his conviction,
that the substance of this communication was a
determination to order his and general Pinckney's
departure from France. The last named gentle-
man also in a few days assured Mr. Gerry that
he was apprized of the nature of this private in-
terview, and immediately mentioned the fact.
Whether these gentlemen, by any such associations
or opinions as had been ascribed to them, had any
reason to apprehend such a measure, or whether
to embarass and divide the envoys, it was made
with the forms of privacy to one and covertly con-
veyed to the others, must be matter of conjecture.

LIFE OF ELBR1DGE GERRY. 211

On the 25th February Mr. Talleyrand's secre-
tary called on Mr. Gerry and desired him to con-
sult the other envoys, and inform him whether
they would consent to a loan payable after the
war, adding that this proposal had not before been
made. The proposition with all its circumstan-
ces was submitted by Mr. Gerry to his colleagues
and thoroughly discussed. The manner in which
it was entertained will presently be stated.

Preceding these circuitous and extraordinary
events, that is to say on the 18th January, as a
prelude to the threatened war, which Mons. Tal-
leyrand had assured Mr. Gerry, he alone had pow-
er to avert, the two legislative councils had de-
creed that every vessel found at sea and loaded in
whole or in part with merchandise, the produc-
tions of England, should be declared prize, who-
ever the owner of these goods or merchandise
might be.

The pressure of this decree on the commerce
of their country induced the envoys to rescind their
determination not to make an informal visit to the
minister. On the 27th February they demanded
an audience, and were received on the 2d March.

At this and the interviews which followed, the
French minister reproached the envoys for the dis-
tance and the coldness they had observed in their
intercourse with him, and asserted in answer to
their vindication, that it was neither friendly or
usual, but had increased the displeasure of the

212 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

directory. He adverted again to the effect pro-
duced by the president's speech, and of the neces-
sity of a loan of money, as an evidence of the sin-
cerity of their professions, which must be tested
by something of more value than words.

All the envoys reprobated a loan as a measure,
which would entangle them with other nations, as
a departure from their neutrality, as unjust, impo-
litic, and a violation of instructions, which it would
be useless for them to transcend.

Talleyrand again remarked that his government
insisted on some proposition, which would prove
that it was not about entering into arrangements
with a people or their agents, who were unfriendly
to its interest, but finding that a loan as at first
proposed would not be acceded to, he changed his
ground, and suggested what his secretary had be-
fore communicated to Mr. Gerry, that it should be
contracted to be payable after the war, and in
supplies to St. Domingo. So constructed, he said,
it would effectually prevent any just complaint by
other belligerents. At any event this was the
only condition, on which the directory would open
negotiations, and this acceded to, the adjustment
of complaints would be easy. If wrong had been
done to the United States it would be repaired,
but if this was not admitted, the distance and cold-
ness between the two governments would be in-
creased.

The envoys having had two interviews with

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 213

Mons. Talleyrand on 2d March, although he was
not authorised by the executive directory to hold
them officially, desired another on the sixth, which
was accordingly appointed. At this last interview
they rejected absolutely his new modified proposi-
tion, declining any loan in whatever terms, time
or manner it should be made.

Between the 2d and 6th this matter was dis-
cussed, as after the 27th February it had before
been by the envoys. The separate opinions of
the members are not disclosed in their voluminous
communications ; nor in the statement made to
Mons. Talleyrand does it appear, but that their
resolution was unanimous. Such however was
not the fact. A difference of opinion existed
among the envoys. That of the majority has been
commended to the admiration of the world, while
the dissenting individual, whose error if it was
one, was a mere error of judgment, and wholly
harmless because it was unknown at the time
both in France and America, has been calumniat-
ed, misrepresented and abused, as if he were
ready to sacrifice his country's interest, honour,
character and independence.

In the conferences of the envoys relative to the
condition of things thus presented by the minis-
ter's secretary and confirmed by their direct ap-
plication to the minister himself, it was acceded to
by all of them that the haughty temper of the re-
public demanded as a preliminary, what with more

214 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

propriety should have been the subject of nego-
tiation.

Their instructions were in the following terms,
" that no aid be stipulated in favour of France
during the present war," and it was admitted that
they excluded all power in the envoys to negotiate
a loan during its continuance. Mr. Gerry thought
that as to a loan payable after the war, the in-
structions were ambiguous. Messrs. Marshall and
Pinckney maintained that they were as perempto-
ry in the one case as the other.

" I considered," said Mr. Gerry, " that as our
instructions contained not a word respecting a loan
after the war, it was not manifest from them either
that the government would approve or disapprove
such a loan if made by the envoys, as a necessary
measure of accommodation, and although the pro-
viding that no aid be stipulated during the war,
might imply that aid might be stipulated after the
war, yet it appeared probable to me such a contin-
gency had not been anticipated by our govern-
ment."

To the objection that whatever might be the
terms, yet in effect a loan payable at any time,
would be a loan, on which money could be raised
for present use, Mr. Gerry said that he could con-
sent to the proposed loan under no circumstances
unless in the treaty to be made this possibility
could be prevented ; that if this treaty contained
a stipulation to avoid the loan in case any such use

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 215

was made of it, such provision he thought would
do away the objection.

But it was after all a question of expediency*
France had made a series of vexatious captures of
the ships and merchandise of the United States,
to an amount of many million of dollars. By ac-
tual war, the undoubted right of the United States
for a reclamation of all that vast amount of pro-
perty would be lost forever. A treaty with the dis-
advantage of a loan might give restitution to the
suffering merchants, whose property to this im-
mense amount had either been already paid over
to the captors, or was now in progress of condem-
nation. That war with the French people in ad-
dition to all the misery, which necessarily attend-
ed a resort to arms, in the destruction of human
life, in the interruption of domestic pursuits, and
in the dangers which might be apprehended to the
new government and almost untried constitution
of the United States, would as a mere matter of
pecuniary calculation, be of vastly more damage
to the finances of their country. Its amount would
be incalculable, and its consequences on the credit
and revenues of the union, just now beginning
to recover themselves from the disasters of the
revolution, could hardly be well anticipated. The
power and resources of France prevented all dan-
ger of loss from the loan, which would be re-
paid to us according to the stipulated terms, and
might be negotiated on our credit merely without
any considerable advance.

216 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

Mr. Gerry adverted to the divided condition of
the American people, as an argument that would
prove almost any sacrifice less dangerous than a
war not supported by the public will, and which
might produce the most serious civil dissensions.

A war with France, he said, would throw the
United States almost of necessity into the arms of
England, already struggling for its existence under
circumstances of unparalleled embarrassments. It
was this connexion he feared much more than the
force, great as it was, of the French arms.

On the point of honour Mr. Gerry did not ad-
mit that he felt less sensibly or delicately than
either of his colleagues, but by no means conced-
ed that the modified proposition of a loan under
the existing circumstances of the case, could be
injurious to the honour, or derogatory to the in-
dependence of the United States.

The honour of a country, he contended, could
never be consulted by adopting a measure, which
hazarded its existence. In the valour of his coun-
trymen, in their firmness, resolution and enduring
courage, he had unlimited confidence j he had
been a witness of their wonderful efforts in the
darkest periods of the revolutionary contest, but
there were limits to all human ability. If France
succeeded in her vast efforts for the subjugation
of England, our destruction as the ally of England
was certain ; if she failed, we had contracted an
alliance in no degree less productive of ruin.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 217

There could be no point of national honour in
such a dilemma. A jealous honour, he contended,
would before now have involved us in a quarrel
with both the belligerents. We had suffered
wrongs from both of them, not less insulting in
manner than serious in amount. With one we
had effected a negotiation by yielding a principle
not less vital, and probably not less embarrassing,
than the loan now demanded by the other. Was
it now necessary to our character to become of a
sudden so nicely fastidious, and having without
war borne all kinds of injuries, voluntarily incur
the most awful calamity of nations upon a doubt-
ful question of national honour ? If the Roman
pride, which permits no second injury, had in our
case already been violated, if the true interest and
happiness of a young nation, feeling sensibly its
wrongs, and rapidly acquiring the strength, which
it now wanted to avenge them, was its best and
highest honour, in which all the duty of all its
citizens concentrated, was that not best preserved
by a little longer patience in the path we had
travelled ?

Mr. Gerry added that it was well to speak plain.
He had not found in the opinions of his colleagues
that flexibility, which persons earnest after peace
would have practised. That their demeanour was
cold, reserved and distant at least if not back-
ward. That had they yielded to the conferences
proposed by the minister, it might have been possi-

vol. ii. 28

218 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

ble that some modification of the proposed terms
could have been effected. He did not assign to
them any other than the most honourable and
patriotic motives, but they seemed to him to act on
the conviction that France was insincere in her pro-
posals, and never intended to do more than amuse
us with the appearance of accommodation, without
intending to make a treaty that would reconcile
the two nations on terms compatible with our in-
dependence. He differed from them altogether.

They stood now on the brink of an awful re-
sponsibility. He willingly encountered it. He
would have his own determination known to the
American people. They must pay the expenses
of the war, and their blood must flow in expiation
of its causes. It was true he was outvoted, and
his colleagues had a right to deliver the opinion of
the commission. He would not embarrass them
by informing the French government of this difFer-
ence of opinion, but it must be remembered, and
to this end he desired to record his solemn pro-
testation, that no part or share of this refusal was
attributable to him.*

Notwithstanding this, Mr. Gerry declared, he
would not at present agree to a loan, nor at any
time accede to it without the sanction of his govern -

* The private journal of Mr. Marshall, for the inspection of
which the author is indebted to colonel Pickering, attributes
substantially most of the foregoing arguments to Mr. Gerry,
which are extended and confirmed in his papers.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 219

ment. His only difference with his colleagues
was narrowed down to this. They absolutely re-
fused to consider the proposition, and met it with
an unqualified negative. He was willing to open
negotiations on the basis of a loan, to be made
after the war, and to prepare a treaty ad referendum,
reserving to himself the right of a decision on the
whole matter, when a decision should be eventual-
ly necessary.

It was obvious that the loan was a small matter.
In a pecuniary light to the French nation it was a
trifle. It was solicited as proof of a friendly spirit
on the part of a people, with whom the directory
pretended to be irritated, and as a conciliation to
the French nation, whose attachment to the Ame-
ricans had very greatly diminished.

In the subsequent stages of this negotiation,
Mr. Gerry endeavoured to persuade the French
minister that the loan ought not to be insisted on.
At a conference on the Gth of March, he urged
the impolicy of this demand, and maintained that
a treaty on liberal principles, such as those on
which the treaty of commerce between the two
nations was first established, would be infinitely
more advantageous to France than the compara-
tively trifling benefit she would derive from a
loan ; such a treaty would produce a friendship
and attachment on the part of the United States
to France, which would be solid and permanent,
and produce benefits far superior to those of any
loan which might be made.

220 LIFE OF ELI3RIDGE GERRY.

In this effort he was equally unsuccessful, and
affairs seemed rapidly tending to a crisis.

On the 13th of March, a distinguished citizen
of the republic, supposed with good reason by
general Marshall,* to be deputed for the purpose
by Mons. Talleyrand, called on the general, and
under injunctions of secrecy, except as to his col-
leagues, informed him " that the directory was de-
termined to give passports to general Pinckney
and himself, and to retain Mr. Gerry ; that this
order would be kept up a few days to give time
to make propositions conforming to the views of
this government. That if they were not made
Talleyrand would be compelled to execute the
order. General Marshall told him if the pro-
position in expectation of which the order was
kept up was a loan, it was perfectly unnecessary
to keep it up a single day ; that the subject had
been considered for five months, and the opinion
with respect to the injunctions of positive duty
concerning it were incapable of being shaken ;
that as to himself, if it was impossible to effect
the object of the mission, he did not wish to stay
another day in France, and would as cheerfully
depart the next day as at any future time. The
messenger reasoned, as often before, on the pro-
priety of assuming the powers, which were re-
quired, as being indispensably necessary for the
welfare of the country. He did not pretend to

* General Marshall's Journal, MS.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 221

say that the demands of France were just, nor did
the minister pretend to place the demand on that
ground, or to expect compliance on that account,
hut because a compliance would be useful to our
country ; that France thought herself sufficiently
powerful to give the law to the world, and exact-
ed from all around her money to enable her to
finish successfully her war against England. All
the nations around her, (and he enumerated them)
had been compelled to contribute to this object.
There was no instance in which France had de-
sisted from a demand once made, and it might be
relied on she would not desist from the demand
made on us. After some further conversation, in
which general Marshall persisted in the declaration
that no money proposition could or would be made,
he returned to the subject of retaining Mr. Gerry.
He said it was expected America would consider
this as manifesting an unwillingness on the part of
France to break entirely with us, and that the
government of the United States would annex to
Mr. Gerry two other persons, who might do what
was necessary for our country, or have a stronger
disposition to reconcile the two republics. He
hinted a desire that some propositions of the sort
should come from us. General Marshall told him,
" if two of us should return, our government would
act as its own judgment should dictate. That if
France was desirous that two of us should return
to represent fully to our government the state of

222 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

politics in this country, and meant to leave to our
decision, who should stay or go, we should arrange
that matter as might comport with our own opin-
ion of propriety and the interests of our country ;
that if on the contrary, France chose to decide for
us, and select for the United States the minister
who should represent them, the act must be entire-
ly the act of France, and they would not have the
smallest concern with it."

"You know very well," said the general, " if any
of us returns to the United States, I am resolved to
be one ; but that I would contribute to no arrange-
ment of the sort proposed, because I conceive that
a minister ought to represent the country and the
interests of that country which deputed him, and
not that to which he was deputed, and consequent-
ly he ought to be chosen by those who deputed
him, and not by those to whom he was deputed.
He replied, that my observation was very just in
itself, and would apply if France rejected us all,
and demanded a fourth man from America, but
that we were all three equally trusted and chosen
by the government of the United States, and
France only selected from among us one, whose
dispositions were believed to be friendly to this
government, and who might safely be permitted
to stay among them. That general Pinckney and
myself, and especially myself, were considered as
being sold to the English. He would not conceal
from me that our positive refusal to comply with

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 223

the demands of France, was attributed principally
to me, who was considered entirely English. That
he had assured the minister, he was mistaken.
That I was restrained from agreeing to the loan,
from want of power, and not by want of will, but
the opinion was persisted in. I felt some little
resentment, and answered, that the French gov-
ernment thought no such thing ; that neither the
government nor any man thought me English, but
they knew I was not French ; they knew I would
not sacrifice my duty and the interests of my
country to any nation on earth, and therefore I
was not a proper man to stay, and was branded
with the epithet of being English."*

This indecent and disreputable imputation,
which while it glanced from, without injuring the
honourable character of the upright and virtuous
statesman to whom it was addressed, reflects on
its author the disgrace it was vainly intended to
affix on general Marshall, was soon after followed
by an official letter from the minister to the en-
voys. It bears date the 18th of March, and was
intended as an answer to their letter of 17th
January.

In this letter Talleyrand assumes a style suit-
ed to the haughty temper of his government.
He maintains that the priority of grievances and
complaints belonged to the French republic ; that
all the grievances of which the American envoys

* MS. Journal of general Marshall.

224 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

complained grew out of measures, which the con-
duct of the United States had justified. He com-
plains that the republic was deceived in the ne-
gotiation, and sacrificed by the treaty of London
of 1794 ; that in this treaty the federal govern-
ment had made to Great Britain concessions the
most unheard of, the most incompatible with the
interests of the United States, and the most dero-
gatory to their alliance with France ; that by it
every thing had been calculated to turn the neu-
trality of the United States to the advantage of
England, and that France was thereby left free to
avail itself of the preservative means, with which
the law of nature, the law of nations and prior
treaties furnished her.

He complained that American newspapers under
the direct control of the cabinet had since the ratifi-
cation of that treaty redoubled their calumnies
against the republic, against her principles, her
magistrates, and her envoys. The executive direc-
tory had seen itself denounced in a speech of the
president, as endeavouring to produce anarchy and
division in the United States. He accuses the
government of the United States of a desire to
adhere at every hazard, to the spirit of the treaty
at London, without giving to France an opportu-
nity for equal advantage, as evidence of which he
adverts to the instructions of the envoys, which
he says were not drawn up with the desire of at-
taining pacific results. The intention, which he

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 225

attributes to the government of the United States,
he says, is so little disguised that nothing seems
to have been neglected to manifest them to every
eye. It is probably with this view that it was
thought proper to send to the French republic
persons whose opinions and connexions are too
well known to hope from them dispositions sin-
cerely conciliatory. He adds the following para-
graph.

" It is only in order to smooth the way of dis-
cussions, that the undersigned has entered into
the preceding explanations. It is with the same
view that he declares to the commissioners and
envoys extraordinary, that notwithstanding the
kind of prejudice, which has been entertained
with respect to them, the executive directory is
disposed to treat with that one of the three, whose
opinions, presumed to be more impartial, promise
in the course of the explanations more of that
reciprocal confidence, which is indispensable."

The replication of the American envoys was
presented on the 3d of April. In clear and for-
cible language, with firmness, frankness and plain-
ness suited to the character of the United States,
this reply meets, answers, refutes every topic in
succession, which was contained in the minister's
letter. It denies his accusations, it corrects his
mis-statements, it overturns his arguments, and
presents another splendid instance of the powerful
defence, which integrity and talents and learning

vol. II. 29

226 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

are capable of making for the injured rights of the
country.

To the part relative to themselves the letter
replies, " The opinions and relations of the under-
signed are purely American, unmixed with any
particle of foreign tint. If they possess a quality
on which they pride themselves, it is an attach-
ment to the happiness and welfare of their coun-
try ; if they could at will select the means of
manifesting that attachment, it would be by effect-
ing a sincere and real accommodation between
France and the United States, in promoting the
interests of both, and consistent with the independ-
ence of the latter."

To the offer of the directory to treat with one
of their number, the envoys reply, " The result of
a deliberation on this point is that no one of the
undersigned is authorized to take upon himself a
negotiation, evidently intrusted, by the tenor of
their powers and instructions to the whole, nor
are there any two of them who can propose to
withdraw themselves from the task committed to
them by their government, while there remains a
possibility of performing it.

" It is hoped the prejudices said to have been
conceived against the ministers of the United
States will be dissipated by the truths they have
stated.

" If in this hope they shall be disappointed, and
it should be the will of the directory to order

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 227

passports for any number of them, you will please
accompany such passports with letters of safe con-
duct, which will entirely protect from the cruisers
of France the vessels, in which they may respec-
tively sail, and give to their persons, suit and pro-
perty that perfect security to which the laws and
usages of nations entitle them."

This letter of the envoys to Mons. Talleyrand
was followed by one from him to Mr. Gerry, inti-
mating a belief that his colleagues had withdrawn
from the territories of the republic, and express-
ing a desire to resume with him reciprocal com-
munications upon the interests of the United
States of America and the French republic. To
this Mr. Gerry replied.

MR. GERRY TO MONS. TALLEYRAND.

Paris, April 4, 1748. (Germinal 15th, an C.)

I had the honour, citizen minister, of receiving
your letter of the 14th Germinal (the 3d inst.)
and Mr. Deutrement, who delivered it, informed
me, that it was intended to be shown to general
Pinckney and general Marshall.

Whilst my colleagues and myself, to whom the
government of the United States have intrusted
the affairs of the embassy, had a joint agency
therein, I have carefully imparted to them all the

228 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

propositions which you have requested, and the
relative conferences, and to yourself our decisions
thereon ; regretting at the same time, the unfor-
tunate and embarrassing circumstances which im-
posed on me this disagreeable task. But as by
the tenor of your letter, it is now expected that
they will quit the territory of the French republic,
it will be impossible for me to be the medium of,
or to take any measures which will be painful to
my colleagues, or not to afford them all the assist-
ance in my power ; and it would be moreover in-
consistent with the line of conduct, which you
well know, citizen minister, I have uniformly ob-
served, for removing the unfavourable impressions
which existed on the part of this government
against them. Indeed in our last letter, there is
a conditional application for passports, which as it
appears to me, supersedes the necessity of a hint
to them on this subject ; and general Marshall is
waiting impatiently for an answer to that part of
it, which respects a letter of safe conduct, for the
vessel in which he and his suite may take passage
for the United States, to determine whether he
shall embark from France or from Great Britain,
but the unfortunate situation of general Pinckney
with respect to the critical state of his daughter's
health, renders it utterly impossible for him to de-
part under existing circumstances.

You have proposed, citizen minister, the 5th or
7th of this decade for me to resume (reprendre)

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 229

our reciprocal communications, upon the interests
of the French republic and of the United States.
The reciprocal communications, which we have
had, were such only as I have alluded to in the be-
ginning of this letter ; unless your proposition ac-
companied with an injunction of secrecy, for me
to treat separately, is considered in that light. To
resume this subject will be unavailing, because the
measure, for the reasons which I then urged, is
utterly impracticable. I can only then confer in-
formally and unaccredited, on any subject respect-
ing our mission, and communicate to the govern-
ment of the United States the result of such con-
ferences, being in my individual capacity unau-
thorized to give them an official stamp. Never-
theless every measure in my power, and in con-
formity with the duty I owe to my country, shall
be zealously pursued to restore harmony, and cor-
dial friendship between the two republics. I had
the honour of calling on you last evening, for the
purpose of making this communication verbally ;
but as you were absent, to prevent misconceptions,
I have thought it best to reduce it to writing.

Accept I pray you, citizen minister, the assur-
ances of my perfect esteem and respect.

E. Gerry.

To the minister of foreign affairs
of the French republic.

230 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

The joint agency of the envoys had now ter-
minated. After divers perplexing embarrassments
respecting passports, general Marshall at length
received them about the 12th of April, and imme-
diately embarked for the United States.* Mr.
Pinckney detained in Europe by the sickness of
a member of his family, as speedily as possible
quitted Paris. Mr. Gerry on the positive declar-
ation of the minister, by order of the directory,
that his departure from Paris would be attended
by an immediate declaration of war, which would
be suspended by his remaining till the sense of his
government could be obtained, consented under
these circumstances not to demand his passports.
On the departure of Messrs. Marshall and Pinck-
ney, Mons. Talleyrand proposed, as already men-
tioned, to proceed immediately on a separate ne-
gotiation with Mr. Gerry, which proposition he
rejected without hesitation, declaring, and against
the minister's repeated efforts, maintaining the
position that his whole power terminated with the
departure of his colleagues.

* Some difficulty occurred in general Marshall's obtaining a
letter of safe conduct for the vessel in which he proposed to em-
bark, which induced him to express a design if it was refused, of
returning through England. The same confidential agent of
Mons. Talleyrand, with whom he had formerly conversed, said
to him on learning this, that it would give great offence to the
government of France, and injure him in the opinion of his own
countrymen ; and that it would be immediately published by
this government, that he had gone to England to receive the
wages he had earned by breaking off* the treaty with France .'

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 231

On the 20th April he addressed to Mons. Tal-
leyrand the following letter, which distinctly dis-
closes the peculiar and painful situation in which
he was placed, and the terms which by a perfect
understanding with the minister, were to be the
conditions of his continuance in the French capital.

MR. GERRY TO MONS. TALLEYRAND.

Paris, April 20, 1798. (1 Floreal, an 6.)

Citizen Minister, — My colleagues having been
under the necessity of departing from Paris, have
left me in the most painful situation : as it res-
pects themselves, the government and nation which
I had the honour with them to represent, and my
personal circumstances. The alternatives present-
ed to my choice, were the continuance of my resi-
dence here, or an immediate rupture on my de-
parture ; 1 have chosen the former, prompted by
every consideration of the duty I owed my coun-
try.

The object of this government in my remaining
here, as announced in your official note of the 14th
Germinal, (3d April) was " to resume our recipro-
cal communications on the interests of the French
republic and of the United States." My answer
informed you that " I could only confer informally
and unaccredited, on any subject respecting our
mission, and communicate to the government of

232 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

the United States the result of such conferences ;
being in my individual capacity, unauthorised to
give them an official stamp." This then I consid-
er as the line of conduct well understood to be ob-
served on my part ; and in the present state of
affairs, citizen minister, I flatter myself, that pro-
positions for terminating all differences, for the
restoration of harmony and friendship, and for the
reestablishment of commerce between the United
States and France, will be promptly made on the
part of the latter ; that they will be such, as cor-
responding with the justice and magnanimity of
this great nation, and with sound policy, will en-
sure success ; that I shall have an opportunity of
soon embarking for the United States, and pre-
senting them to my government for their consider-
ation ; and that all further depredations on our
commerce, by French cruisers, will in the interim
be prohibited. If in forming this arrangement I
can render any services, you may be always sure
of my immediate and cheerful cooperation.

Measures like these will at once extinguish those
coals of discord, which kindled into a flame, must
be destructive of the respective interests of the
two republics ; will not only restore, but increase,
if possible, their former confidence ; and terminate
in a competition for excelling each other in mutual
acts of generosity and kindness.

In any event, citizen minister, I flatter myself
it will not be thought necessary for me to remain

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 233

long in France, as the state of my family and af-
fairs requires my immediate return to the United
States ; and as their consul-general will continue
his residence here, which, pending negotiation,
will answer every political purpose. I pray you,
citizen minister, to accept the assurances of my
most perfect esteem and regard.

E. Gerry.

To the minister of foreign affairs
of the French republic.

Things had hardly settled on these new terms,
when the publication of the despatches of the en-
voys to the American government returned to Eu-
rope, and put the people as well as government
of France in a flame.

Talleyrand demanded the names of the in-
triguers, who taking advantage of the insulated
situation in which the envoys had kept themselves,
had endeavoured to deceive them, and of whose
devices he felicitated Mr. Gerry in not having
been the dupe. The avowed object of this de-
mand was to ascertain for the official information
of the directory, by whom had been made the pro-
position of money for corrupt distribution.

In compliance with this request, Mr. Gerry
communicated the real names of the parties, who
in the published communications of the envoys,
had been by the American secretary of state dis-
tinguished by letters of the alphabet.

VOL. II. 30

234 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

On the 26th July, Mr. Gerry quitted Paris.
The interval between the departure of his col-
leagues and his own, was passed in an effort of
the minister to enter upon negotiations with him,
although he had professed his entire want of au-
thority to engage in, and his determination under
existing circumstances, even if he had the authori-
ty, to decline its exercise.

In the letters which passed between them,
Mons. Talleyrand in the name of the directory,
announced the pacific disposition of the French
government. He announced the willingness of
that government to give Mr. Gerry a public recep-
tion, the obtaining of which he declared rested
solely on himself. The demand of a loan, and
explanation for president's speeches, were aban-
doned ; a regret too earnestly urged not to have
been sincere, was expressed by action as well as
language, that Mr. Gerry determined to depart,
and positive assurances were given of the recep-
tion of another minister in his place, with the re-
spect due to the nation he would represent. To
favour the belief of a better disposition, than had
before existed, an arrete was forwarded to Mr.
Gerry at Havre, restraining the irregular and vex-
atious conduct of French privateers in the West
India seas, and assurances given that all other ar-
rangements should conform to the just expecta-
tions of the United States.

The despatches of the American envoys had
produced a wonderful excitement. In England,

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 235

as well as in America, they were supposed to dis-
play the corruption and profligacy of the govern-
ment of France, and unexampled assiduity was
discovered to print and circulate with the ut-
most possible publicity copies of these despatches
through every part of Europe. The indignation
of the directory was excited, but a cooler judg-
ment suspended its effects.

The over zealous anxiety of England to in-
volve the two nations in war, indicated to the
rulers of France the great advantage which was
expected by her ancient enemy from an alliance
with the United States. The causes from which
so great good was anticipated, were examined and
appreciated ; the power, the influence, and the
character of the American people were more care-
fully ascertained. The strength which such an
union would bestow on the last enemy, which re-
mained to her, and a growing respect for the for-
titude and resources of that enemy, changed the
councils of the politic directory and produced that
successful negotiation, which by a change of their
own policy, the United States were subsequently
able to effect, and after a short interval of ambig-
uous hostility confirmed the two nations in the re-
lations of peace.

The excitement occasioned in the United States,
by the publication of the despatches of the envoys,
was almost unexampled.

The demand of money for corrupt distribution,

236 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

was considered not merely as evidence of the
baseness and venality of an unprincipled govern-
ment, but resented as an insult on the integrity of
the United States. The proposed loan, which
certainly was no uncommon thing in national di-
plomacy, was connected without much judgment
in the public mind with the bribe, which was to
precede it ; and those who were not influenced by
questions of pretended honour, were terrified by
danger of national ruin.

A war fever, producing that delirium which is
the usual accompaniment of such an epidemic,
spread rapidly through the country, and was in-
flamed and aggravated by men, who in a subse-
quent period of our history discovered war to be
among the most terrible of all national calamities.

An impression was made on popular opinion
favourable to the administration of the national
government, so that the opposition, which had be-
fore nearly or quite divided the physical strength
of the country, rapidly lost its numerical force.
In the excitement, and under the delusion of the
moment, the residence of Mr. Gerry at Paris, was
severely censured by the administration, and his
immediate recall announced by the secretary of
state, in a letter which hardly preserved the form
of official civility

#

* This letter bearing date 25th June 1798, was communicated
to congress with the president's message covering Mr. Gerry's
despatches, and to most readers not particularly attentive to
dates, it would seem that his remaining in France was in viola-

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 237

Preparation was made for a war, which was in-
tended to demonstrate the greatness and glory of
the United States. Its burthens could hardly be
felt at such a moment of unnatural irritation. The
condition, which the great party who had been in
opposition to the then administration had endeav-
oured to avert, appeared now rapidly approaching,
while they had for a time at least, lost that hold
on the good opinion of the public, which could
alone enable them to prevent it.

Mr. Gerry arrived in the United States on the
1st October 1798, and communicated to the secre-
tary of state the letters which had passed between
him and the French minister since the departure of
his] colleagues from Paris, with other proceedings
already adverted to.

These despatches were laid before congress on
the 15th of January 1799. Unwilling however to
permit them to go alone, and apprehensive of the
effect, which they might produce on the republi-
can party, broken in a good degree and disabled,
but by no means annihilated, the secretary follow-
ed them by a commentary, intended no doubt to
overwhelm Mr. Gerry with irretrievable disgrace,
to support the high and lofty pretensions of the
government, to keep up that fervour without which
armies, navies, taxes, and the appendages of milita-

tion of its order. But this letter was never received by Mr. Ger-
ry. If it was ever sent to Europe, it passed him on his return.
" My first knowledge of its existence," he says in a letter to the
president, " was in the public newspaper."

238 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

ry institutions could not derive support, to gather
round the administration the pride, patriotism and
wealth of the nation, and to expose its opponents
to disgrace, as aliens to the interest and welfare
of their country.

There commenced at this moment a series of
measures which has marked the succeeding period
as the epoch of the reign of terror. The leaders
of the dominant party were carrying their policy to
extremes, which alarmed the eminent citizen who
presided in the councils of the country, and al-
though checked and controlled by his firmness and
the reproof which he bestowed on the most distin-
guished of those concerned, and particularly on
the secretary of state, whom he dismissed from
his station, it produced such reaction in the public
mind, as to destroy forever the ascendency of the
federal party in the United States.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 239

CHAPTER VII.

Commentary on the mission to France, and strictures on colonel
Pickering's publications in relation to it.

The most obvious subject of remark, on a re-
view of this extraordinary mission, is the submis-
sion of the envoys to communications with indi-
viduals producing no evidence of official rank ; the
affected secrecy of these intrusive agents ; and
the great consequence given to the affair, by the
minute recapitulation of every trifling circum-
stance, in official despatches to the American
government.

If the conduct of the envoys in these undignifi-
ed conferences was evidence of their anxiety for
peace, the detailed communication, which they
made of it, was not less calculated for war. It
is a single instance in the history of public mis-
sions that so much should be recounted, where
so little was performed ; although it cannot be
believed that the republican envoys were indeed
the first on whom the arts of European diplomacy
were essayed.

But the censure, if deserved, is divisible among
all the members of the embassy. In the report
of the secretary of state, the dissent of one of
them is no where intimated, although he was

240 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

aware that on the 20th October Mr. Gerry pro-
posed to his colleagues that they should put an
end to all informal negotiation.

It was so determined ; and the only subject of
regret, for which all of them are to account, is
found in their departure from this judicious reso-
lution.

The preference and selection of Mr. Gerry
from his colleagues, by the minister of the direc-
tory, is the next subject of remark, and has been
most adroitly used to the injury of his fame.

To be selected by an enemy implies treachery
to a friend. It has been said with sarcastic impu-
tation, that if the French government could treat
with him and not with his colleagues, he must
have been less attached to America than they
were, or more subservient than they would be to
the interests of France. The insinuation is made
with something of temper in the journal of one of
the envoys, it is brought forward in the report of
the American secretary, and alleged in plainer
terms in his subsequent review.

Could the inference be well drawn the fact
would indeed be disgraceful ; but it is not per-
ceived why, if any dependence is to be placed on
the allegations of the French minister, his whole
statement should not be received with equal credit,
and why therefore his refusal to receive Messrs.
Marshall and Pinckney as envoys of the United
States, on the pretence that they were English-

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 241

men in their principles and policy, does not as well
establish that position, as his readiness to receive
Mr. Gerry proves him to have been French? The
truth is that no fair deduction, except a desire to
sow discord in the embassy and the country, can
justly be made from the conduct of this artful
diplomatist.*

Neither his language nor his conduct should be
received as evidence against the agents of the
United States. It was not what he thought, but
what they did ; not his imputations but their con-
duct, which establishes their character. The two
honourable men, on whom his offensive neglect
and pretended suspicion would fasten the traitor-
ous charge of being Englishmen at heart, refuted
the slander by the patriotism of their lives ; and
the other, whom his insidious flattery chose to in-
dicate as devoted to France, held the same shield
against his disreputable imputation. The rejec-
tion of the two envoys, on the pretence of their

* Mons. Talleyrand's own reasons for his preference of Mr.
Gerry, and rejection of his colleagues, were thus subsequently
stated.

"The advantages that I prized in him, are common to all
Americans who have not manifested a predilection for England.
Can it be believed that a man who should profess a hatred or
contempt of the French republic, or should manifest himself the
advocate for royalty, can inspire the directory with a favourable
opinion of the government of the United States. I should have
disguised the truth if I had left this matter ambiguous. It is not
to wound the independence of that government to point out to a
sincere friend of peace the shoals he ought to avoid." — Talleyrand
to Pichon, 28th August 1798.

VOL. II. 31

242 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

affiliation with English politics, was in accordance
with the language of intemperate passion, with
which a party in their own country charged a
whole class of their fellow citizens ; the selection
of the other, on the suggestion that he was more
attached to the schemes of the directory, was an-
other form of perpetuating those libels, with which
another class of the American public was assailed
at home. They are solemn warnings of the effect
produced abroad by internal dissension. In other
respects they are entitled to no regard. They
are equally unfounded and despicable. The tri-
umvirate had but one heart, and that was Ameri-
can to its core.

The minister of foreign affairs, in the name of
the directory, announced, " that they were dis-
posed to treat with that one of the three, whose
opinions, presumed to be more impartial, promise
in the course of the explanations more of that re-
ciprocal confidence which is indispensable."

What were those opinions ? The secretary of
state infers that they regarded points in connexion
with the embassy, and would imply some willing-
ness to yield in negotiation what the others would
withhold. This imputation is unfair and gratui-
tous. Mr. Gerry, in a commentary on this part of
the secretary's report presented to the president,
remarks :

" Whatever was presumed of my opinions, no
person at that time knew any thing of them in

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 243

regard to the embassy, except the envoys, and
therefore no comparison could possibly be made
between our opinions, if different in this respect.
But Talleyrand was informed of some opinions of
my colleagues, as he said, not relating to the em-
bassy, which had produced embarrassment and
dissatisfaction. I carefully avoided uttering or
writing any thing in regard to France, that might
offend either the government or people. When
I mixed with French citizens, I treated them with
attention and civility. If this conduct of mine
led the French government to think that my
opinions were more impartial than my colleagues
it is not a matter, which Mr. Pickering was au-
thorized to censure. "As to the prince to whom he
is sent, the ambassador should remember that his
ministry is a ministry of peace, and that on this
footing alone he is received ; this reason inter-
dicts every evil practice to him. Speaking ill
of the French government or nation would have
been an evil practice. I was justified in avoiding
it. Civility required a return of courtesies and
attention ; I could not dispense with the claims of
decorum. Some letters of the other envoys were
intercepted ; what they contained I know not, but
we were all alarmed on the occasion, and thought
it best to conceal our papers, lest a general order
for seizing them should be the consequence. It
was generally understood that the opinions, which
rendered the other envoys obnoxious in France,

244 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

were irrelevant to the embassy, fraught, according
to the French representations, with prejudices
against the French government and nation. No-
thing can therefore be more untrue than that the
disposition of the directory to treat with me was
the result of my not having as invincible a deter-
mination not to surrender the honour, the interest,
or the independence of my country, as either of
my colleagues."

It would seem from the foregoing remarks, that
a belief of Mr. Gerry's impartiality, in compari-
son with the other envoys, resulted less from any
knowledge of his opinions, than by the discovery of
theirs ; less from his being supposed to be friendly,
than because they were known or suspected to be
hostile.

Upon the subject of opinion however, which
under the management of the secretary of state,
in his official and subsequent publications, did
much to impair the reputation of Mr. Gerry, it
may be well to enquire how far it enters into the
appropriate character of a minister of peace. Why,
it may be asked, was Mr. Gerry selected by the
president, or opposed by his cabinet, but because
they believed his opinion of the proper American
policy differed in some respects from the party in
power ? Why did Mr. Hamilton propose Jefferson
or Madison as one of a mission to France, to be
joined by two citizens of the federal party, with
whom, on great questions of American policy,

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 245

their opinions essentially differed ? Why was Mr.
Jay selected for a previous negotiation with Eng-
land but for this, among other reasons, that his
opinions presented no such obstacles to a treaty,
as would be found in the opinions of Jefferson,
Madison, or their friends ? Why was not Mr.
Cabot selected, who had been recommended by
Mr. Ames ? " Because," says president Adams,
" I knew his character and connexions were as
well known in France, particularly by Talleyrand,
as Mr. Gerry's were. It would have been inex-
cusable in me to hazard the success of the mission
merely to gratify the passions of a party." Hence
because of a difference of opinion between Mr.
Cabot and Mr. Gerry, the latter was preferred by
the president of the United States. When Mr.
Monroe was sent to France, it was distinctly inti-
mated that he was selected because he had entered
into the measures of her policy, and had repeat-
edly expressed his wishes for her success. When
that gentleman was recalled, " the choice of a
person in all respects qualified for the mission was
not without its difficulty. While a disposition
towards the administration, in which implicit con-
fidence might be placed, was a requisite not to be
dispensed with, it was also desirable that the per-
son employed should have given no umbrage to
the French government. No individual who had
performed a conspicuous part on the political theatre
of America fitted both branches of this descrip-

246 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

tion. All who had advocated in public with zeal
and with talents, the measures of the American
government, had been marked as the enemies of
France, and were on this account to be avoided."*
Personal opinions, not unfavourable to France,
were qualifications essential to a candidate, in the
opinion of Washington ; and the historian, who
mentions the circumstance, does it in a manner,
which admits its obvious propriety.

Notwithstanding the odium, which the well dis-
ciplined enemies of Mr. Gerry were able to cast
upon him, because his supposed opinions recom-
mended him to the favour of the government of
France, they knew that this favour was not per-
sonal to him, any more than his opinions were ;
but that both opinions and favour belonged to the
whole political class, of which he was a member,
and whom the French statesmen ignorantly be-
lieved to be attached to their interest. Thus Mr.
Pinckney wrote to the department of state,
" Those who regard us as being of some conse-
quence, seem to have taken up an idea that our
government acts upon principles opposed to the
real sentiments of a large majority of our people,
and they are willing to temporize, until the event
of the election of president is known ; thinking if
one public character Adams is chosen, he will be
attached to the interests of Great Britain, and that
if another character Jefferson is elected, he will be

* Marshall's Washington, 5 vol. p. G18,

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 247

(to use the expression of Dupont de Nemours in
the council of Ancients,) devoted to the interests
of France."

The opinions, for which Talleyrand chose to
prefer Mr. Gerry, were those for which Mr. Mon-
roe had been selected, those which Washington
supposed his colleague Pinckney entertained ;
for the selecting of whom on that account, his
other colleague Marshall had lauded the first
president of the United States. Why the favour
shown to him by the French ministry, because of
those opinions, should be supposed to imply a
dereliction of duty, is to be accounted for only
by that intemperance of party spirit, which first
excites popular vengeance, and then devotes its
victims on its unappeasable altar.

That the French directory failed in its just re-
spect to the government of the United States, by
pretending to doubt the competency or the honour
of the colleagues of Mr. Gerry, because of their
opinions, is readily granted. The disgrace does
not attach to them. That the haughty ministers
of the republic might be expected to take such
course, seems to have been anticipated, by care in
other instances to prevent it. Its indecorum was
no security against its adoption. Nor was it ap-
plied solely to the United States. When nego-
tiations were proposed by lord Grenville on the
part of England, in June 1797 to conclude peace,
" the directory being informed, that the same

248 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

minister, lord Malmsbury, was deputed, Mons.
De la Croix signified the consent of the directory
that negotiations should be opened with lord
Malmsbury, another choice would however have
appeared to the directory to have argued more fa-
vourably to the speedy conclusion of peace." *

It is no where alleged, in express terms, that
any opinion of Mr. Gerry favoured a compliance
with the demand of money for corrupt distribution,
but the language of Mr. Pickering's publications
authorizes the inference, that in this respect Mr.
Gerry was more practicable than his colleagues.

Upon this subject, Mr. Gerry who saw only the
secretary's report, as *he died before the review
was written, has the following memoranda. The
injustice of Mr. Pickering's language is still more
manifest in regard to the much talked of do-
ceur, inasmuch as the envoys, when it was first
proposed, replied, " if we could see in France, a
temper sincerely friendly to the United States,
we might not regard a little money, such as is
stated to be usual, although we should hazard
ourselves by giving it." I am content to bear my
proportion of blame in this respect, although I did
not make the declaration or propose the answer ;
but I can see no fairness in attempts to load me
with censure, while this, which was the most re-
prehensible measure of the embassy, is passed in
silence, because it came from my colleagues.

* Belsham's Geo. 3. vol. v. p. 370.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 249

From the history of the embassy already nar-
rated, occasion was taken to allege that Mr.
Gerry was improperly engaged in separate inter-
views and secret negotiation with M. Talleyrand.
Such charges make a figure in the report of the
American secretary, are set down in 'the journal
of his colleague, and are enlarged upon and cen-
sured in a commentary on his conduct, subse-
quently published by Mr. Pickering.

There is something disreputable in secrecy and
separation; and the charge is odious enough to
gain attention, for whatever is vituperative excites
curiosity, and there is always malignity enough
to delight in defamation.

With how much exaggeration this matter has
been stated, will be seen by the following extract
from the controversial publication of Mr. Pick-
ering. He says :* " Thus slighted, thus insulted,
and kept at an offensive distance, Pinckney and
Marshall would not make to Talleyrand, what he
desired, inofficial visits to discuss official business.
Mr. Gerry however because he had seen Tal-
leyrand in the United States, in the form of an
emigrant was pleased, contrary to the opinion of
both his colleagues, to make him an early visit."

This statement is in contradiction to the official
despatches of all the envoys, in which they say
that general Pinckney and general Marshall not

* Pickering's Review, p. 116.
VOL. II. 32

250 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

being acquainted with M. Talleyrand, could not
with propriety call on him ; but that according to
the custom of France, he might expect this of Mr.
Gerry, from a previous acquaintance in America.*
A singular reason truly for either going or refusing
to go, but aji absolute negative of the injurious al-
legation before cited. Separated as the envoys
were from any regular intercourse with the agents
of the directory, and suspected as they knew
themselves to be of a disinclination to practicable
terms of peace, a scrupulous regard to etiquette,
and a voluntary seclusion from favourable chances
of breaking down unreasonable prejudice, were not
calculated to accomplish the object of their mis-
sion, f

* American state papers from 1797 to 1801, p. 199.

f Personal intercourse between diplomatic agents and the
government to which they are sent, has ordinarily been consid-
ered so important, that forms of etiquette and ceremony have
rarely prevented its being enjoyed. " Inofficial visits to discuss
official business" have greatly expedited desired results. For
reasons satisfactory to itself, the American government notified
Mr. Jackson the minister plenipotentiary of the king of Great
Britain to the United States, that all future discussion was to be
in the written form. His majesty's envoy chose to treat it as a
great indignity. " Considering that a very few days have
elapsed since I delivered to the president a credential letter from
the king, my master, and that nothing has been even alleged to
deprive me of the facility of access, and of the credit to which, by
immemorial usage, I am entitled, 1 believe there does not ex-
ist in the annals of diplomacy, a precedent for such a determina-
tion between two ministers who have met for the avowed pur-
pose of terminating amicably the existing differences between
their respective countries, but after mature reflection I am in-
ced to acquiesce in it by the recollection of the time that must

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 251

In a note on the separation from his colleagues,
as the charge stands in the secretary's report, Mr.
Gerry remarks, " If my conferences are complain-
ed of because they were separate, the other en-
voys were the cause. On the 30th December,
when Talleyrand expressed a wish to see me on
5th January, in order to make some communica-
tions, I noted the particulars, and soon after im-
parted them to my colleagues, informing them
that the conference proposed by Mons. Talley-
rand was a measure, which I could not accede to,
unless sanctioned by them ; that if they conceived
no injury could result from it, and that it might
give some information to them, which might be
useful, I would meet the minister, otherwise I must
decline, let the consequences be what they might
to myself, since good intentions are not all that is
expected of negotiators, who are often calumniated

necessarily elapse, before I can receive his majesty's commands
upon so unexpected occurrence, and of the detriment that would
ensue to the public service if my functions were in the interval
to be altogether suspended. I shall therefore content myself
with entering my protest against a proceeding, which I can con-
sider in no other light than as a violation in my person, of the
most essential rights of a public minister when adopted as in
the present case, without any alleged misconduct on his part.
As a matter of opinion, I cannot own I assent to the preference
which you give to written, over verbal intercourse for the pur-
pose of mutual explanation and accommodation. American
state papers, vol. 4. p. 11. These " inofficial visits to discuss of-
ficial business," which Mr. Jackson deemed it essential to preserve
by solemn protest, and which two of the envoys to France would
not permit, because they were not acquainted with Mons. Tal-
leyrand, is charged as a great fault on Mr. Gerry ! Pickering's
Review, p. 11G.

252 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

for measures truly meritorious. These were my
words to the other envoys, and they sanctioned
the meeting. Attempts to meet the minister be-
tween the 25th of January and 2d February, hav-
ing failed, I informed general Pinckney that it
was again proposed I should call on M. Talley-
rand on that day, and that I wished to confer with
him and general Marshall on that subject. We all
met, and I desired the other envoys to express their
opinions, because if they thought best, I would
excuse myself directly, if not, I wished to know
how to conduct myself in case of new propositions.
We all agreed that I ought to go, and were decisive
against a loan. On the 1st March, the last of the
days of the conferences, the secretary of Mons.
Talleyrand called on me, and said the minister
wished to see me. I waited on him and he stated
that he had appointed an interview for the en-
voys on the 2d, but he would confer with me on
the subject then. I answered no. I prefer a con-
ference in company with my colleagues, but that
if he would give his ideas of the general principles
of a treaty, such as France desired, I would pro-
pose to my colleagues that we should return him
a counter project, but he declined it, saying it
would give the directory unnecessary trouble, that
if the proposition of a loan was adjusted, every
thing else could be accommodated without difficul-
ty. On this we parted. Every thing that passed
at these interviews, except what related to the

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 253

inadmissible proposition to me to treat separately,
was communicated to my colleagues, and the Oc-
tober and December conferences are published."

Terrible as seemed at first to these ceremoni-
ous envoys, the degradation of making inofficial
visits to discuss official business, they nevertheless
afterwards solicited and accepted an opportunity
of doing the very thing. " Events of magnitude
affecting the United States induced them to de-
part from this determination."*

The difference then between Mr. Gerry's con-
duct and his colleagues was, that he did early
what they did late. He found events of magnitude
affecting the interests of the United States on his
first arrival ; they did not permit them to influence
their conduct until the animosity of the French
government burst into a storm.

There can be no principle involved in this form
of intercourse, for certainly principle could not
yield to events differing only in a few degrees of
magnitude. 4

It is not easy to perceive why the envoys might
not as well see, converse and confer with Talley-
rand, as write to him. The minister was not the
government, nor as far as the Americans were con-
cerned, the authorised agent of the government.
The directory, the supreme power of the state,
it was well known to them, had not authorised
communications usual between ambassadors and

* Pickering's Review, p. 116.

254 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

the nation, to which they are deputed. Yet unac-
credited and unacknowledged, they were willing
to write ; but to two of them, and to the American
secretary, inofficial visits seemed vastly objection-
able, and letters, which could merit no other ap-
pellation, quite admissible.

The reluctance of Mr. Gerry was not to an in-
terview with the minister, which he much preferred
to a conference with his agents, but to a separate
interview, which divided him from his colleagues.
His attempts to prevent a separation were inces-
sant, and as curious as they were unavailing.

Mons. Hauteval, designated in the despatches as
Z, introduced the American and French minister
as stated by him in his printed account.

The civility, thus paid by one member of the
embassy in his private capacity to the individual
holding the portfolio of the foreign department,
was returned by the customary politeness of an
invitation to a dinner. Mr. Gerry accepted it,
chiefly that on returning it he might break down
that wall of partition, which a misjudged ceremo-
ny prevented the envoys from attempting to pass.
This dinner will furnish a subject for remark, but
here it is proper to attend to the one given by the
American in return.

Mons. Talleyrand accepted an invitation to dine
with Mr. Gerry, and both his colleagues, the ladies
of their family, and several Americans and French-
men were collected at the festival.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 255

The culinary art was taxed to make the com-
pany agreeable. " I considered it," Mr. Gerry
remarks in his diary, " a dinner of business, and
hoped if my colleagues could not write, and would
not visit, they might possibly eat and drink them-
selves into notice; but it was a terribly dull affair.
I tried what I could at a compliment, and gave as
a toast, The government and citizens of the
French republic ; in expectation it would be drank
cheerfully, and the sentiment reciprocated, but it
was not till after some delay, and as was suggest-
ed not very great satisfaction, the minister gave
La liberte de mer.

Mons. Darche who is at the head of the bureau
for American affairs was present. It is since said
he is placed there as a check on Talleyrand, but
whether his presence or that of any Americans
who were there, or what else marred the freedom
of this interview, I know not."

The displeasure, if any existed, was not person-
al to Mr. Gerry. After dinner an intimation was
made, to him that Talleyrand was about to give a
grand ball to general and madame Bonaparte, at
which Mr. Gerry would be invited to attend.

" I desired Mr. Bellamy, who communicated
this notice," Mr. Gerry continues, " not to allow
a card to be sent to me, as I should be obliged to
decline if it came to me alone. Afterwards I in-
formed my colleagues candidly that my situation
was painful beyond all conception ; that when I

256 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

left the United States I determined to make every
possible personal sacrifice for the great objects of
the mission, and to accord with my colleagues, or
quit the embassy ; that when it was deemed pro-
per for me, having had with Talleyrand some ac-
quaintance in the United States, to pay him a
visit, I had submitted to it as a sacrifice of my
own feelings ; that the minister's attentions to me
separately, which have been the result of that
visit, have been extremely painful, however oblig-
ing under existing prejudices, they may be thought
here on the part of Talleyrand ; that I have spared
no pains to promote an extension to my colleagues
of the same attentions trifling as they are, under
an impression that personal interviews with the
department of state might cure existing personal
prejudices, that this dinner is the only one I have
been able to accomplish or am likely to ; that as
to the proposed compliment from Talleyrand, I
shall do as the envoys advise."

A card was sent to Mr. Gerry for this ball, and
none to his colleagues, who notwithstanding the
introduction made at the dinner, had neglected
calling on the minister, and according to French
etiquette were not entitled to expect an invitation.
Mr. Gerry's diary proceeds, " I had of course de-
termined to send my apology ; 1 4 NivoSc being
the day appointed, the secretary of Talleyrand
came in while I was at breakfast, and said he was
from the minister, who had charged him to inform

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 257

me that he depended on seeing me in the evening,
that the directory would be there, that they would
know of the invitation, and might consider my ab-
sence as a want of respect ; that Mons. Talleyrand
would probably introduce me to them, and that it
might advance the business of the mission ; at the
same time he presented a card of invitation to my
secretary, which he said was an extraordinary civi-
lity. I was distressed by the information, and
asked general Marshall's opinion on the proper
measure to be pursued. He said he thought I
ought to have been left to accept or not without
being thus urged, and that the decision must rest
on myself.

After weighing the subject, and reflecting that
it was an invitation from Mons. Talleyrand, (not
as minister) to me as a private gentleman, and
that a refusal might be seized as an excuse for
making our situation worse, which was now bad
enough, I determined to go to the ball, and to
avoid all political conversation. * *

In the course of the evening, I had some con-
versation with the Danish minister, He said he
was glad to see me here, as it looked like a pros-
pect of accommodation. On my enquiring what
was the state of Danish affairs, he said, very
bad, that the French continue to take Danish
vessels, and they give a reason curious enough,
that American vessels were not met with in such

vol. ii. 33

258 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

numbers as they used to be, and it was necessary
to take Danes in their room."

Whether an effort to pave the way for recep-
tion and conciliation was judiciously made by such
compliances, and whether the ambassador who con-
formed to the custom of the country, or those who
covered themselves from observation behind the
shield of etiquette and ceremony, best consulted
the obligations, which devolved on the ministers
of peace, must be settled by the judgment of their
fellow citizens.

" In my opinion," Mr. Gerry remarks, " the
American envoys were emphatically the ministers
of peace. Such were our instructions, such was
the avowed object of the administration, such was
the interest of the country, and such was the tem-
per of our people. There was no need of sending
us here to make war. For any belligerent rela-
tion, which our country was willing to assume,
there needed no apology. Wrongs almost innu-
merable justified an offensive attitude. We had
causes enough for war. But policy advised to
peace, and we came to make it, and it was in my
mind right to accomplish that object by all practi-
cable means. A concession of insignificant cere-
monies could not injure the honour, which had
survived the rejection of one minister and the
neglect of three ; or had submitted to be robbed
on the ocean and bearded under the very eye of
the government. The honour of our government

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 259

best consisted in its preservation. Destruction to
the finances, or ruin to the confederation would
not preserve its honour. Some matters were in-
deed of vital consequence. I would not submit
to degradation, nor express satisfaction at imposi-
tion ; but a man in the hands of robbers best con-
sults his honour in taking the surest means of self
preservation."

Of the secrecy imputed to him Mr. Gerry has
remarked, " My separate conferences with Tal-
leyrand were six in number, viz. on 28th October
and 17th December 1797, and 4th, 6th, and 7th of
February, and 1st March 1798. Those which were
secret, were the inevitable consequence of their
being separate. On 4th February, when Talley-
rand informed me he had something of vast impor-
tance to communicate, it was impossible for me to
divine what it was. It seemed probable that it
related to the government or the envoys. If it
should disclose the impediments to our being re-
ceived, the knowledge of them might tend to dis-
sipate them ; if some stratagem lurked in the
cover, it would be best broken by being known.
No minister, I apprehend, would ever lose infor-
mation because it was confidential, nor could any
injury arise to the people, the government or
agents of the United States from any intelligence,
which could be communicated to me."

The suggestion that there were negotiations,
separate and secret, between Mr. Gerry and Mons,

260 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

Talleyrand is the invention of the enemy. He
heard Talleyrand's objections to his colleagues,
and endeavoured to remove them. He listened
unofficially and informally to the propositions made
to him, and refused to give them an official char-
acter. The conversations between these person-
ages were as wholly extra official, as any confer-
ence, which Mr. Marshall entered on his journal
with the nameless gentlemen who spoke with him
on American affairs.

Whatever steps Mr. Gerry took were to pre-
pare the way for a joint negotiation with the
whole embassy, and not to conduct one himself.
Against his public declarations, and the conduct
observed by him after the departure of his col-
leagues, in which he resists all efforts at negotia-
tion, declaring and reiterating the declaration that
a separate negotiation was impossible, it bears as
little the marks of honesty as truth, to charge
upon him the fact of a separate negotiation. His
whole course was marked by a strong disposition
to secure an honourable peace ; a task the more
difficult, because in the sincerity of the other
ministers the French government professed to feel
no confidence, and because their distance and cold-
ness and ceremony, unfortunately gave counte-
nance to the charge ; a task, which the spirit of
his instructions prescribed, his own principles en-
forced, the great party of his countrymen solicit-
ously desired, and the best interests of his country
demanded him if possible to secure.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 261

It was a task personally perplexing, inconve-
nient and laborious, but it was the sacrifice of
private feeling to public duty, and the hazard of
reputation in the service of the state, as a gallant
soldier exposes his life for his country.

Mr. Gerry remained in France after the depar-
ture of his colleagues, and the secretary of state
in his official report says, "unfortunately Mr.
Gerry was induced by the threats of an immedi-
ate war against the United States, to separate
from his colleagues and stay in Paris, threats which
viewed with their motives, merited only detesta-
tion and contempt."

The three envoys, in their joint letter to the
French minister of 3d April 1798, address him
as follows. " It is hoped the prejudices said to
have been conceived against the ministers of the
United States will be dissipated by the truths they
have stated. If in this hope they shall be disap-
pointed, and it should be the will of the directory
to order passports for the whole or any number of
them, you will please to accompany such passports
with letters of safe conduct, &c."*

On this application passports were furnished to

* General Marshall left France 16th April 1798. Mr. Gerry de-
manded his passports on 10th June, but could not obtain means
to leave Paris until 26th July. His departure from France was
so obstructed by the government, that the United States brig
Sophia, in which he took passage, was unable to sail from Havre
until 8th August. Every possible interruption was given, which
might retard his return home.

262 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

Messrs. Marshall and Pinckney, but none were
sent to Mr. Gerry. The joint letter implies a
joint assent to such an act in this regard, as
France, without any agency on the part of the
envoys, might choose to observe. Mr. Gerry
could not leave France without permission. An
attempt to have done so would probably have been
a pretence for a haughty and unprincipled govern-
ment to have violated the law of nations, and to
have seized the persons and papers of the entire
embassy. " It has appeared to me," said presi-
dent Adams, at a subsequent period, " that Mr.
Gerry was as much a prisoner in France as any
individual in the walls of the Bastile."

So far as not peremptorily insisting on his pass-
ports was evidence of a voluntary continuance in
the French capital, he is amenable to the charge.

The reason alleged by him was the positive
threat of an immediate war.

If this threat was serious, and would have been
executed in case of his departure, the propriety of
his conduct depends on the question, whether the
then condition of the two countries was better for
the United States than open and declared hos-
tility.

If the declaration made was believed by him to
have been seriously intended, the propriety of his
conduct depends on the reasonableness of his be-
lief.

The secretary of state declares " suspense was

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 268

ruinous." His remaining did then suspend ac-
tual war. Was it ruinous thus to protract hos-
tility ? Mr. Gerry and his political friends con-
ceived almost any thing was less ruinous than
war. To prevent that calamity, to preserve the
young republic he represented from the waste
of treasure and life, which would be the conse-
quence of a contest with the gigantic victors of
Europe, to protect her from an alliance, which
would transfuse her young blood into the wither-
ing arteries of a decaying and debilitated associate,
and to prevent the collision of those fierce passions
which threatened the American people at home,
were the objects, which right or wrong detained
him at Paris, and brought down upon him the ven-
geance of a political adversary, who found that
the victim, which his party required, was fortu-
nately the individual, whom his own prejudices
would most readily select for the sacrifice.

But the secretary adds, " These threats should
have been despised. Four or five months before,
the threats of immediate orders to quit France and
the terrors of war in its most dreadful forms had
been held up to all the envoys."*

By whom ? Not by the minister, but by indi-
viduals without a document to prove their authori-
ty. The declaration of war to be made, which
induced Mr. Gerry to remain in Paris, was official,
from the minister of foreign affairs in the name of

* American state papers, vol. 4, p. 253, 2d edit.

264 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

the directory. The condition of France gave
credibility to the declaration. Continental Europe
was at her feet. England she was preparing to
invade. It was her habit to ensure the success
of her schemes by the certainty and celerity of
execution. The credulity charged on Mr. Gerry,
did not arise from any respect for the justice, or
any admiration of the character of this formidable
adversary. He had declared to his colleagues
that " France was the proudest as well as most
unjust government on the face of the earth, so
elevated by victory as to hold in perfect contempt
all the rights of others, and that with this disposi-
tion she would make war if we refused to comply
with what her pride would insist on because it had
been proposed."*

To one who might have anticipated the publica-
tion of the envoys' despatches to the government
of the United States, a residence at Paris long
enough to wait their return could not have been
a very desirable position.

Haughty and unaccommodating, the rulers of
France regarded neither the laws of nations nor
the security of public ministers.

Before the arrival of the American plenipoten-
tiaries, they had sent off thirteen foreign ministers,
and in the insolence of their pride were not likely
to regard the Americans as entitled to more respect
than Geneva or Genoa. At that period the Portu-

* Marshall's Journal, MS.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 265

guese minister was in the temple, the Roman en-
voy confined to his house under guard, the Spanish
ambassador was ordered beyond the boundary of
France, and the envoy of republican America, who
had discovered and disclosed the cupidity and pro-
fligacy of the directory and its minister, might
reasonably expect one of those domiciliary visits
against which his public character afforded no pro-
tection, and which led to the conciergerie or the
guillotine. Of such a position of affairs the Ameri-
can secretary was satisfied. A despatch boat had
left the United States with instructions to the
messenger, who sailed in her, containing the fol-
lowing significant notice.

" It is important that the envoys be out of
France, (unless as before mentioned, they have
treated or are in treaty) because it is very proba-
ble their despatches No. 1 to 5, will in a few days
be laid before congress."

An interval of ten days between the reception
of this notice and the arrival of the printed com-
munications in Paris, enabled the American min-
ister to secure his papers from being violated and
to prepare for meeting in his own person whatever
the insolence or rage of the government might de-
nounce.

It came in the moderated form of a demand for
the names of the intrusive intriguers, who taking
advantage of the isolated situation of the Ameri-
can envoys, had played on their credulity and

vol. ii. 34

266 LIFE OF ELI1RIDGE GERRY.

amused them by pretences of influence or agency.
It suited the policy of the French minister to deny
for himself all knowledge of the concern, and to
laugh at that easy credulity which had converted
the babble of a court and the prattle of ladies into
grave matters of public interest and deep schemes
of crafty diplomacy. That there was some shrewd-
ness in this movement of the French Machiavel
cannot be doubted. Whatever of folly was justly
imputed to the Americans, belongs not exclusively
to the subject of this memoir, but to those col-
leagues of his " whose respectable talents"* none
of their fellow citizens ever ventured to deny.

While the situation of Mr. Gerry in France was
thus unpleasant and hazardous, his family, left
under the protection of his country and her laws,
were exposed to every measure of indignity. It
suited the excited passions of the people, or rather
the policy, which was busied in causing this ex-
citement, to invoke maledictions upon him, and as
he was beyond the reach of their personal opera-
tions, to visit his political sins upon an unoffending
lady and her harmless infants, as in the barbarous
periods of English history families were swept off
for the conduct of their chief.

Letters anonymous or feigned, imputing his
continuance in France to causes most distressing:
to a wife and a mother, in such forms as would
give them the appearance of real correspondence,

* Pickering's Review.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 267

were conveyed to her by almost every post. On
several occasions the morning's sun shone upon a
model of a guillotine erected in the field before
her window, smeared with blood, and having the
effigy of a headless man. Savage yells were
uttered in the night time to disturb the sleep of
this family of females, and the glare of blazing
faggots suddenly broke upon its darkness, to ter-
rify them with the apprehensions of immediate
conflagration.

In a land of law and civil liberty these were the
penalties, which were awarded to the helpless
family of a distinguished citizen ; this the protec-
tion of a community to whose independence his
early life was devoted. This that refinement of
manners, which expressed its abhorrence of the
jacobins of Paris, and denounced contemptuously
the democrats of New England ! Truly the age
of chivalry was gone !

Nor is such unmanly and dishonourable conduct
to be charged merely to low and vulgar villains,
who were the immediate perpetrators. More emi-
nent citizens, by a conduct as unfeeling, though
less exposed to legal animadversion, added to
the wounds which the common principles of hu-
manity would have endeavoured to soothe rather
than inflame, and countenanced by silence, indif-
ference or scorn, the wantonness of insult, in which
their pride would not allow them more actively to
engage.

268 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

Mr. Gerry's own view of the benefit to be ob-
tained by residing in France after the departure
of his colleagues, is explained in his correspond-
ence. To the president of the United States he
says, " I expected my passport with my colleagues,
but am informed the directory will not consent to
my leaving France, and to bring on an immediate
war contrary to their wishes would be in my mind
unwarrantable."

To Mr. Murray, minister of the United States
at the Hague, who had expressed a desire for par-
ticular information he replies, " Your information
as respects my consent to stay in Paris for the
present is just. Your inference ' to be accredit-
ed' is wrong. The alternative presented to my
choice having been my residence here or a rupture,
1 have chosen the former. I flatter myself you
know me too well to suppose that an official re-
ception, a mere civility, could have the weight of
a feather in forming in my mind so important a
decision ; if I had an ambition of that kind it has
been and is now in my power to gratify it, but for
this I would not give a sol. All personal consid-
erations are against my remaining here."

To Mr. King, minister of the United States at
London, who adopting the views of his political par-
ty, with the freedom of long friendship pressed him
not to remain, he writes on the 3d May, " Wheth-
er the directory have settled a plan concerning
America, and what it is, I am still to learn, but

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 269

sure I am, our independent rights and just preten-
sions shall not be impaired by my conduct. I am
sorry you are so severe on this government, or be-
ing so disposed, that your letter was not in cypher,
because I have hopes our affairs will be amicably
settled, if not rendered desperate by suspicions
and prejudice. I cannot say what will be the
opinion of the president, or of his constituents re-
specting my conduct in remaining here, but I will
do nothing that I cannot justify to my own mind,
and which I am not clearly convinced ought to
merit their approbation. I have no personal views
in remaining, and the moment I can reconcile this
government to my departure, I shall embark for
the United States ; in the mean time with due
attention to your friendly councils, I must be gov-
erned by my own judgment.

My situation, from a short period after my arrival,
has been extremely painful, and has only present-
ed a prospect of censure from one or other of the
political parties, which divide our country and its
councils. Thus circumstanced I could only de-
termine to pursue as primary objects, the honour,
interest and welfare of the United States ; our
independence I flatter myself is not in the least
danger. These I have invariably pursued, and I
believe this government is so well convinced of it,
that was I to enter into negotiation, no proposition
would be made to me with the hope of success,
which would militate against them."

270 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

To Mr. Murray again he thus writes. " I am
favoured with your's of the 20th May, and have
been prevented from answering it sooner by the
embarrassments, resulting from the arrival of the
newspapers here containing our informal negotia-
tions with persons presenting themselves as agents
of this government. Before this event I was offi-
cially informed that France had no disposition for
hostilities, that an arrangement of our affairs then
under consideration would soon be made, and that
I should find it perfectly agreeable to me. This
information was accompanied with the prospect of
completing the business in the United States by a
person to be sent out for that purpose. What
will be the consequence of these publications time
only will determine."

To a gentleman who had forwarded him by ex-
press the despatches published in America, advis-
ing him to withdraw from France before their con-
tents were made known, and urging upon him the
danger of his situation he writes,

" I have received your letter with the copies of
the despatches enclosed. The prospect of a ten
years' imprisonment would not induce me to quit
this country as a fugitive."

The benefits actually resulting from his resi-
dence in France were, to use his own language,
first, an express renunciation on the part of France
of loans ; second, of reparation for president's
speeches ; third, of a renunciation of a demand

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 271

upon the United States to assume debts due her
citizens ; fourth, a disclaimer of any wish that we
should dissolve the British treaty ; fifth, an admis-
sion of our claims for captures, founded on the
want of a role d? equipage ; sixth, advances towards
a new negotiation ; and seventh, the actual pre-
servation of peace.*

While Mr. Gerry's object, at the expense of
personal comfort and hazard of fame, was to give
his country the option of peace or war, the govern-
ment of the United States was pursuing its course
with decision and energy, and having selected
their alternative, do not seem to have found that
suspense was ruinous. There was no suspense.
The executive acted as if all the envoys had been
ordered from the French territory, and it may well
be doubted whether any personal hazard to Mr.
Gerry would for a moment have obstructed the
measures of the secretary of state.

On 22d May an act of Congress was passed
authorizing the president of the United States to
raise a provisional army,f and soon afterwards

* Minutes of conference with the president. — MS.

f In prospect of a war with France, Mr. Hamilton had re-
commended "an army of fifty thousand men, ten thousand of
them to be horse."

" Such an army without an enemy to combat would have
raised a rebellion in every state in the union. The very idea of
the expense of it would have turned president, senate and house

out of doors. Yet such was the influence of Mr. Hamilton

in congress, that without any recommendation from the presi-
dent, they passed a bill to raise an army, not a large one indeed,

272 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

Washington was commissioned lieutenant-general.
On 28th of the same month, authority was given
to the navy of the United States to seize vessels
under the flag of France, which had committed
any depredation on the American commerce. On
13th June the commercial intercourse between
the United States and France was suspended.
On 7th July the treaties concluded with France
were declared no longer binding on the United
States. On the 9th, under the title of an act to
protect the commerce of the United States, au-
thority was given to issue letters of marque and
reprisal. To this measure followed, as a necessary
consequence, other acts for increasing the naval
force, for direct and indirect taxation, and for ap-
propriating the revenue among the new officers of
government. The alien law was passed on 25th
June, and the sedition law on 14th July. All this
was done during a period when the " suspense,"
created by Mr. Gerry's residence in France was
declared to be " ruinous." The meaning of which,
if any meaning be attached to the phrase, is that
the uncertainty of peace or war, created by his
conduct, retarded or diminished preparation for
hostility. It is difficult to understand how the
most positive assurance and certainty of a bellige-
rent attitude could have expedited or increased
military preparations sooner or more extensively

but enough to overturn the then federal government. — Adams*
letters, p. 68.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 273

or what stronger position could be taken to place
in the power of the administration the force and
wealth of the nation.

Of a measure resulting from so serious an act
as a division between the members of a joint em-
bassy, in which one of them remained in opposi-
tion to the opinion of both his colleagues, it is
feeble praise to say only that it was not wrong;
It involved a great and hazardous responsibility, not
lightly to be assumed, and not to be justified by
trifling advantages. But under the circumstances
in which the government and people of the United
States were situated, it is not possible that a pro--
ceeding, which might change the neutral relations
of the country for a belligerent attitude, could be in-
different to its most vital and permanent interests.

Had Mr. Gerry demanded his passports, or re-
turned in defiance of the threats of the French
government, the war, which they menaced, might
not indeed have been waged by them, but the con-
dition of affairs in the United States must inevi-
tably have produced it. Negotiation would have
ended. The first minister was rejected. A solemn
and dignified embassy was repulsed, and insulted,
and driven from the country. The causes of com-
plaint for past injuries were not diminished ; new
evils were accumulating, and the only alternative
would have been the humbleness of submission or
the activity of resistance. War was inevitable.

To speak lightly of such a condition of the

vol. ii. 35

274 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

country comports as little with the wisdom of a
statesman as it does with the piety of a Christian.
If in itself war be not the greatest misery that
could fall on a community, it certainly has an
alarming tendency to produce it. The courage,
the patriotism, and the self-sacrifice of a generous
people may, by the blessing of heaven, carry them
safely through its storms ; but its clouds then
threatened wider devastation than its ordinary
ravages. There was danger of civil commotion ;
there was apprehension of foreign alliance, as fatal
as the embrace of the disguised statue to her igno-
rant admirers. There was hazard that the young
tree of liberty planted on our shores, whose branch-
es now luxuriantly expanding, were then but be-
ginning to spread themselves, and whose root was
scarcely fixed in the earth, would be blown down
in the whirlwinds that must prematurely assail it.
There was danger that an inconsiderate rashness
would, like another Erostratus, sacrifice the last
temple of rational liberty.

By remaining in France, Mr. Gerry kept open
the door of negotiation. He received and com-
municated assurances that the French directory
were not obstinately determined on hostilities ;
that they would negotiate, whenever the character
and sentiments of the American agents should
satisfy them they could do so with prospect of suc-
cess. In the short period that elapsed between
the departure of his colleagues and his own, Mr.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 275

Gerry acquired a persuasion of this fact, and suc-
ceeded with some difficulty indeed, but neverthe-
less succeeded in making this known to his own
government, and the people of his country.

In brief space after his return a new embassy
was appointed ; the secretary, who had found in
his conduct an obstacle to his views or his policy,
and laid out his official strength to prostrate his
good name, had himself been made to drink of the
waters of bitterness, and to find the poisoned
chalice commended to his own lips. Peace, firm,
honourable, lasting peace was concluded with the
French republic, and the popular sentiment so
thoroughly changed that the whole administration,
chiefly by the impetus given by their war councils,
was overthrown.

The peace, which the American government
preserved, has been claimed as the consequence,
not of negotiation but arms. It has been said the
preparation for war prevented it. But the opera-
tion of the public sentiment refutes this opinion.
Preparation for war unhorsed the riders of the war-
steed, while to the dominant and victorious nation,
against whom it was directed, it was too small an
addition to the vast force they had subjugated, to
create any sensation of alarm.

The executive chief burst the bonds, with which
his cabinet had endeavoured to bind him, too late
for his personal elevation indeed, but soon enough
for his country and his fame. Against their advice

276 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

and approbation he acted on the prospects, which
negotiation held out, and acted with success ; and
might well say, in relation to this and another
incident of his administration, not connected with
this subject, that " they were two measures that
I recollect with infinite satisfaction, and which
will console me in my latest hour."* " He [Mr.
Gerry] was nominated and approved and finally
saved the peace of the nation ; he alone discovered
and furnished the evidence that X, Y, and Z, were
employed by Talleyrand ; and he alone brought
home the direct formal official assurances, upon
which the subsequent commission proceeded and
peace was made."f

Long before this satisfactory declaration was
offered to Mr. Gerry, by the distinguished chief
from whom his appointment had proceeded, and
while yet the public mind was abused by the phi-
lippics, which had been launched against his con-
duct and character, his own conscious rectitude of
intention was gratified, and his wounded spirit
consoled, and cheered and comforted by high tes-
timonials of approbation bestowed upon him by
the great head of the republican party, whose en-
comiums may be placed in contrast, although they
overwhelm by their incomparably superior value

* President Adams' letters, No. 10, p. 47.
t Ibid, letter 13, p. 65.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 277

the vituperations of an angry and mortified politi-
cal rival.*

If it has been the lot of few indivinuals, against
whom neither treachery nor corruption could be
alleged, to be more severely censured than was
Mr. Gerry for his share of this memorable embas-
sy, so probably no man can boast of more ardent
or honourable praise. The testimony of the two
great statesmen, who by different parties were
placed at the head of the nation, and thus together
may be said to have represented each separate
part of the people, is placed in credit against the
charges of that bold account, by which a few in-
temperate partizans would have made him bank-
rupt in character and fame.t

How well he discharged the duty assigned to
him is yet an open question, which neither the au-

* The great length of Mr. Jefferson's letters would of itself
prevent their insertion, but there are remarks in them, which
communicated as they were under the seal of confidence the
author does not feel at liberty to disclose. He represses his
desire to publish them with great reluctance.

f A petty punishment was devised by Mr. secretary Pickering
for the contumacy of Mr. Gerry.

On June 20, 1799, he thus addresses him, "I consider your
stay in France after the 12th of May, when my letter of March
23, 1798 was delivered to you as perfectly gratuitous, and con-
sequently that your salary ceased on May 12, excepting the al-
lowance of one quarter's salary for your return according to
usage."

On an appeal to the president, after Mr. Marshall was secre-
tary of state, this decision of the former secretary was reversed.

278 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

thority of Adams and Jefferson in his favour, nor
of Pickering, such as it is, against him, will con-
clusively determine. There is an appeal to the
people ; not to a people excited by intemperate
political feeling and party zeal, but to a people
calm, intelligent and dispassionate ; to posterity,
who will set in judgment on the great men of the
past age, when the little causes of private hos-
tility shall have been buried in the silence of the
grave ; posterity who will be able to mark the dif-
ficulties, which any measure would have presented,
and the thousand roads of deviation with the one
solitary and obscure path, which the wise political
traveller should have selected and steadily main-
tained.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 21 9

CHAPTER VIII.

Commentary on the missioii continued Further strictures on Mr.

Pickering's publication.

Of the circumstances occurring after the de-
parture of the two envoys, the most important are
those, which ensued when their despatches had
returned from America. These probably changed
the whole complexion of the case. Mr. Gerry
communicated to Talleyrand at his request the
names of those individuals, whose discourse about
loans and doceurs was conveyed to the American
government. This forms another allegation against
the propriety of his conduct.

There is something so ludicrous in finding in
the diplomatic despatches of an important em-
bassy grave discourse with people, who have
neither local habitation nor a name, save at the
end of the alphabet, that it is almost forgotten ;
these diminutive appellations were inserted not
by the envoys but by the secretary of state.*

On the return of these despatches to France
and to Europe, the envoys were exhibited as the
subjects of an intrigue too base to permit even its
agents to be named. But the implication, for in
diplomatic arrangements insinuations often supply

* American state papers, vol. 3. p. 475. 2d ed.

280 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

■

the place of facts, plainly was that the French di-
rectory or its minister had endeavoured for their
own corrupt purposes to impose on the unaccredit-
ed envoys, and taking advantage of the isolated
condition in which they kept themselves, pro-
posed to open a passage to the French govern-
ment by bribery and fraud.

Whatever was the truth of the case, no course
was left but for the French minister to pretend
ignorance of the whole transaction, and demand,
with the show of indignation, who it was that
thus had offended the government, and tampered
with envoys at its court ?

The demand being made of the only individual,
who was in a condition to answer it, Mr. Gerry
might have refused to reply ; and his silence would
have been trumpeted through Europe as evidence
of the fabrication, which in the spirit of a war
party its ministers had circulated to rouse the in-
dignation they were desirous of producing.

Or Mr. Gerry might have said, you Mr. min-
ister know who they were : you employed, au-
thorized, countenanced and directed them. You
saw them with the American envoys, you knew
what they were saying, doing, desiring, soliciting.
You knew we refused to accede to their proposi-
tions, and you would not receive us. They were
your agents, and it is an insult for you to ask me
their residence or their name.

To such an honest expression of the truth

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 281

Talleyrand would reply, Sir, if your allegations
are true, produce me the credentials, which en-
titled them to be received by you as my agents,
or in want of such evidence, be contented that you
and your colleagues shall be deemed dupes to sharp-
ers, who came to you without authority, and that
you sir, in addition, should stand accused before
Europe with aiding their machinations by a de-
claration that you cannot maintain. They were
not my agents. Your assertions are not warrant-
ed by the fact.

In this issue of fact between Mr. Gerry and
M. Talleyrand, to have called individuals within
the reach of the gens d'armorie of Paris to testify
to the truth of their agency, could hardly have
been prudent, and the Frenchman by the advan-
tage of position, which his sagacity originally fore-
saw, was enabled to stand securely on his defence.
There was a third course. It was to answer
the question strictly and literally.

Who are the individuals intended by the letters
X, Y, Z, &c. in your despatches.

They are Mr. Hottinguer, Mr. Bellamy, and
Mr. Hauteval. If you knew them before, as I
believe you did, my answer gives you no addition-
al information ; if you did not, punish them for
an imposition mutually on you and us.

The whole error is to be traced to the informal
conferences with individuals not bearing any cre-
dentials, and whose authority the French minister
vol. ii. 36

282 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

might affirm or deny at his pleasure ; and this er-
ror is to be shared in common by all the envoys.
If their proportion is unequal, Mr. Gerry's is the
least, as he first proposed its termination.*

To these material charges some others of infe-
rior nature, to increase the weight of popular in-
dignation, have at times been added. Thus it was
gravely said that Mr. Gerry was at a private din-
ner with Mons. Talleyrand, where the business of
the money was discussed. f A private dinner seem-
ed to mark a degree of intimacy and unwarrant-
able compliance, which alarmed the minds of our
plain republican citizens, to whom the corruptions
and the manners of a court are equally matters of
mystery. It was true that in the effort to estab-
lish that interchange of civility, which might lead
to a mutual good understanding, Mr. Gerry dined
at the table of the French minister, who in return

* Mr. Pickering intended in his report to have charged the
whole of this informal mismanagement to Mr. Gerry.

As it was draughted it reads thus. Paragraph 34. " While we,
amused and deluded by warm but empty professions of the pa-
cific views and wishes of France, and by Mr. Gerry's informal
conferences might wait in fruitless torpor hoping for a peaceful
result."

This part was amended by Mr. Adams, who caused the words,
" Mr. Gerry's" to be erased, whereby the impropriety, if there
was one, was attributed to the whole embassy, and not to any
individual.

The disingenuousness of an attempt to charge the informal
conferences on Mr. Gerry alone, who was the first of the three
to propose their termination, is only a specimen of the whole of
the secretary's report.— See Pickering's Review, p. 131.

t Pickering's Review, p. 141.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. &§§

for this customary form of politeness, was invited
to the hotel of the American envoy. The dinner
at Talleyrand's was what is called a private din-
ner, in opposition to those dinners called public*
in which the ministers of the directory were ac-
customed to receive the public functionaries. It
was in fact as public as forty or fifty guests of
different classes, countries and sexes would per-
mit. At such a private dinner was the money
concerns of the American embassy supposed to be
brought into discussion, and in such privacy was
it that the American envoy was plotting treason
against the rights of his country !

Mr. Gerry on two or three occasions failed of
finding M. Talleyrand at his bureau, and although
the secretary of the latter made an apology* for
his absence, the fact has been adduced to show
the slight regard he paid to the American envoy. f
In offset to this it has been alleged that he be-
came the dupe of the French minister's threats,
mingled with blandishments flattering to his vani-
ty. He had even the folly to imagine his col-
leagues envious of his good fortune. J

* Mr. Pickering says, " one of Talleyrand's secretaries called
to make a slight apology." This slight mode of speaking shows
the temper of the party who uses it. How was it possible for
Mr. Pickering to ascertain whether the apology was slight or
formal, serious or delusive. It was an apology brought by the
principal secretary of the minister's bureau.

f By the barbarous calendar adopted in the country, it was
difficult always to remember when it was the Frenchman's sab-
bath. Mr. Gerry went once on a decade and the office was closed.

X Pickering's Review, p. 127.

284 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

Thus inconsistent is the hostility, which pursues
an opponent without justice or principle.

The vanity to be flattered by slight apologies,
by neglect and by studied disrespect, or the want
of consequence which is subjected to repeated
disappointments, and yet persuades a man to im-
agine others are jealous of his importance, is in-
deed a singular union of dissimilar materials. The
imputations cannot both be true, although both
may be unfounded. As circumstances occurred
at one or another time they would serve like the
artifices at the hustings to be played off before dif-
ferent auditories against a political rival.

In giving an account of the business of the em-
bassy there are some curious suggestions by Mr.
Pickering in his review, which serve further to
explain with what temper and feeling he draught-
ed his celebrated official report.

Thus he says, " A letter* having been prepared
and submitted to Mr. Gerry, and he having em-
ployed a day in making essential changes to adapt
it to his own taste, to which the other two envoys
yielded for the sake of unanimity, on 11th Novem-
ber it was sent to M. Talleyrand. No answer
however was given to it."

" Three months [meaning two] having elapsed,
general Marshall draughted a long letter consisting
of a justification of the conduct of our government
in relation to France. This was done by 10th

* Review, p. 117.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 285

January 1798. It was submitted to Mr. Gerry,
(whose humour it was necessary to consult to obtain
his signature) to suggest any alterations and amend-
ments he might think proper." " Mr. Gerry's
vexatious delays prevented the completion and
translation of this letter until the 31st January,
when it was signed and sent to the French min-
ister."

The reading of these letters might satisfy any
one that, as they stand, they have spirit and lire
enough to vindicate the policy of their government,
and are tart enough for messages of peace. Mr.
Gerry's taste must have been gratified then by some
modification of their causticity, and his humour,
which it was necessary to consult, was not of that
acrid and angry kind, which deemed irritating ex-
pressions to be means of accomplishing an object
so judicious as less intemperate language.

But the suggestion that a minister's humour and
taste must be consulted before his signature can
be obtained to state papers of immense conse-
quence to himself and his nation, is indeed won-
derful ! As if a man of independence and integ-
rity would place his signature to papers that dis-
pleased him, or which he had not sufficiently ex-
amined. The reviewer, it would seem, calculated
on Mr. Gerry's signature as a matter of course.
Because according to his language in another
place, " men of such respectable talents, untainted
honour and pure patriotism as generals Pinckney

286 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

and Marshall, and in whom their government and
country reposed entire confidence," had prepared
an official paper, the attestation of the remaining
member of the embassy was to be given without
delay.

This was not the mode of reasoning adopted by
that member. Whatever slight was by political
opponents thrown upon his talents, his patriotism,
or his fame, he felt that his country had long and
steadily reposed as great confidence in him as it
had ever done in his colleagues, and that it was
due to himself and his fellow citizens to examine
and deliberate, and then to decide.

While however the reviewer complains of his
vexatious delays, his health was suffering under
the effect of continual exertions, and his secretary,
absolutely unable to accomplish the task imposed
upon him, resigned his office.*

The letter was indeed a " long; letter" covering
fifty-four closely printed pages of letter prcss,f and
which, being drawn without previous concert, re-

* Extract from a letter of resignation of B. Foster, jr., Mr.
Gerry's private secretary, dated March 30, 1798. " It has heen a
source of much uneasiness and regret to me that I have heen
under the necessity of declaring before my inability to get
through so much voluminous writing, as has appeared in the
course of the negotiation."

t American state papers, vol. 4. p. 27 to 80, inclusive, 2d edit.
It may excite some surprise that in a joint mission long letters
should be prepared by one or two of the members apart from
their colleague, and before principles had been settled at a con-
ference.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 287

quired to be examined and compared with sundry
authorities ; and finally, in conforming to the taste
and humour of the colleague to whom it was submit-
ted, to undergo discussion and alteration in some
places, and to be preserved in its original form in
others, after proposed amendments, " for the sake
of unanimity," were withdrawn.

The review proceeds: " On the 18th January,
at the instance of the directory, the two legislative
councils passed a decree," &c. " On 6th Febru-
ary, general Marshall put into Mr. Gerry's hands
the draught of a letter to the French minister, re-
monstrating against that decree and closing with
a request for passports. But Mr. Gerry was too
busily engaged with his secret negotiations with
that minister to attend to the letter, though it
would affect nearly every American vessel on the
ocean. On 14th February Mr. Gerry returned the
draught of the letter with some amendments. It
was then put under copy and translated. On the
l«Jth, being fully prepared it was offered to Mr.
Gerry to sign which he declined."*

As no letter appears in the despatches of the
envoys, without his signature, it is a just con-
clusion, either that the reasons, by which Mr.
Gerry maintained his change of opinion, were
satisfactory to his colleagues, or that they carried
their desire to consult his taste and humour to an
extraordinary length.

* Review, p. 119.

288 LIFE OP ELBRIDGE GERRY.

Something of the mode, by which the business
of the embassy was managed, and how the delays
complained of occurred, may be discovered in the
following notes.

MR. PINCKNEY TO MESSRS. MARSHALL AND

GERRY.

Paris, April 2, 1798.

Gentlemen,
I think it of importance that no longer delay
should take place in transmitting our reply to the
minister of foreign affairs. Duty to our country
and justice to ourselves require that his letter
should not remain unanswered ; and I am very
apprehensive, if we do not make it soon, we shall
be prevented from making it at all. The latter
part of the letter which Mr. Gerry took with him
to consider, he said should be attended to imme-
diately. If he cannot join his colleagues in what is
there expressed, and cannot suggest such alterations
as they can accede to, we ought then to determine
what prudence and duty may dictate. But I am
for avoiding an apparent admission, by our silence,
of the unjust and injurious charges made against
our country, our government, and ourselves. I
see so much danger resulting from delay, that I
am unwilling it should be imputable to me, I there-
fore think it incumbent on me to give you my sen-
timents freely on this subject, and hope by to-mor-

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 289

row morning we shall come to some decision.
Mr. Burling requests to have any despatches we
may wish to transmit by him to America the day
after to-morrow.

I have the honour to be, very respectfully,
Your most obedient servant,

Charles Cotesworth Pinckney.
Messrs. Marshall and Gerry.

MR. GERRY TO MR. PINCKNEY.

Paris, April 2, 5 P. M.

Mr. Gerry presents his compliments to general
Pinckney, and informs him that he is ready at any
moment to finish the letter proposed as an answer
to the minister of foreign affairs. He has made
one attempt to obtain this object, but his proposi-
tions not having been entirely acceptable to gene-
ral Marshall, he thought it best to present in one
point of view the draught as he proposes it, and it
is now ready. He has suggested no alterations but
such as appear to him indispensably necessary to
prevent further irritation on the part of this govern-
ment : the charge on our part of wantonly plung-
ing the United States into a war : and future em-
barrassments to our government and ourselves.
He shall certainly accord in this final measure with
his colleagues, if possible, as he deprecates a dif
ference of opinion with them, on the important

vol. ii. 37

290 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

and embarrassing affairs of the embassy. Mr.
Gerry's health is not good at present, but he has
not from that or any consideration neglected a
moment, the business alluded to.

The letter referred to covers twenty-six pages
of letter press, and its review and examination by
one of the embassy, might reasonably require at
least, as much time as was demanded by the other
two for its original preparation.

So in respect to the others. A joint mission has
the advantage of combined learning and ability,
but it necessarily supposes the delay which is inci-
dent to difference of sentiment, and discussion of
opinion.

The vituperative spirit of the reviewer cannot
but be seen in the manner in which the delay is
stated. Mr. Marshall and Mr. Pinckney prepare a
letter on the 10th January. Mr. Gerry's vexatious
delays prevent the completion and translation until
the 31st. The inference intended but not express-
ed would put the whole of this interval to his ac-
count. But how many of the twenty- one days
were consumed in a revision, how many in acced-
ing to or rejecting the alterations, and how many
in making a translation and in copying the dupli-
cates is not exactly ascertained.

Not satisfied with speaking slightly of Mr. Gerry
in connexion with the Jrench mission, which was

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 291

the only topic that introduced his name into the
review, Mr. Pickering has seemed desirous of
taking all opportunity to underrate the character of
his mind, the value of his services, the estimate in
which he was held by his associates, and the
causes by which his public stations were procured.
His mind is every where represented as diminu-
tive, his services inconsiderable, his reputation
exceedingly limited, and his place in the public
councils accidental and fortuitous.

How much of this picture, made up of dark
lines and gloomy colouring, is drawn from ima-
gination by political animosity, or how truly it re-
flects the individual, whose likeness it pretends to
exhibit, the facts stated in these volumes and the
proof of those facts, under the hand of contempo-
rary patriots, must be permitted to decide.

No claim was ever made by or for Mr. Gerry " to
that gigantic and stupendous intelligence, which
grasps a system by intuition, and bounds forward
from one series of conclusions to another without
regular steps through intermediate propositions,"
but it is not easy to see any thing in his public
performances, at which a dismissed secretary was
authorized to sneer. To sound good sense, and
the improvements of a liberal education, to an
uncompromising integrity, which even the most
angry of his opponents has acknowledged, to long
and arduous attendance in the school of the patri-
ots, and to multiplied opportunities of being con-

292 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

cerned in the responsible direction of great public
affairs is he indebted for that estimation, in which
he stood with his fellow citizens, and the relative
rank, which the judgment of posterity will assign
to him, among the illustrious companions of his life.
In forming an opinion upon the character of his
mind, no better rule can be adopted than one,
which this adversary himself has proposed for an-
other object of his censure.

" On the score of talents and learning the expe-
rience of five and thirty years in the United States
has furnished ample proof that a practical know-
ledge of the interests of the country, a common
sense deliberately exercised in forming a sound
judgment, united with perfect integrity and pure
and disinterested patriotism, are of infinitely great-
er value than genius without stability, profound
learning, ripe scholarship, and philosophy."*

Of the value of Mr. Gerry's services, something
has been shown in the facts already narrated. If
the successive duties assigned to him in the gene-
ral court of Massachusetts and the congress of the
revolution do not prove the ability, with which
they were performed, if " it was his good fortune
to be present at the adoption of the declaration of
independence, "t and was not equally the good for-
tune of his country that he was present when the
project was first debated in congress ; if he had

* Pickering's Review, p. 02.
] Ibid. p. 111.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 293

merely " the honour of signing his name to that cele-
brated state paper,"* and had not the higher and
nobler honour of being among the earliest and firm-
est and steadiest of its adventurous friends, if he
was only " a member of the national convention
and member of the house of representatives in the
first congress, and in one or two succeeding con-
gresses,"! and has left in the journals of those
illustrious assemblies no evidence of having been
there, but the record of his name, he may justly
be exposed to those diminutive and sarcastic re-
flections, by which malevolence seeks to disguise
itself under the affectation of contempt ; and can-
not complain that he comes in for a full portion
of censure in a work, whose spirit of vituperation
includes John Adams, Thomas Jefferson and John
Quincy Adams, and loses no opportunity of send-
ing an arrow of reproach at Madison and Mon-
roe.

The estimate, in which Mr. Gerry was held by
his associates of the revolution, and his companions
in later political life, may be found in the intimacy
of their friendship. The intercourse maintained
by public men no where exhibits more implicit
confidence or warmer expressions of esteem than
the confidential letters, which the great and the
brave were daily addressing to him. The natural
consequence of this connexion was the public

* Pickering's Review, p. 111.
t Ibid.

£94 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

stations, which he was called upon to fill. Popu-
lar sentiment was in unison with the opinions of
the gifted and the faithful. The accident, to
which some people attribute the talents that con-
ducted the revolution, is by a more devout temper
of mind ascribed to the special providence of
God.*

* The writer of the review could not himself helieve that Mr.
Gerry was not one of the master builders in the temple of his
country's freedom.

In 1774, Mr. Pickering compiled some insignificant formulary
of manual exercise, which he would not venture to introduce
without obtaining Mr. Gerry's approbation, although he was not
in the military department. " I have been so extremely hurried
with other business, that my plan of exercise remains incom-
plete. However, by writing in the evening and rising in the
morning by candle light, I have made shift to finish the manual
exercise, except only the planting, grounding and presenting,
(that is, resting) the firelock. The whole plan you have en-
closed, to execute which, I shall proceed with all expedition." —
Pickering's MS. letter, November 23, 1774.

In November 1777, the colonel, apprehensive that some delay
in his official returns would bring upon him the displeasure of
congress, addresses Mr. Gerry as a friend by whose influence its
irritation might be safely conducted from him. "I have given
you this detail because I know not whether congress may not
have judged me negligent; but gentlemen of the family who
have known my real situation, I trust deem me very excus-
able."— MS. letter to Mr. Gerry, JYov. 2, 1777.

In 1784, this gentleman, upon whom so many offices were
conferred, and " all of them unasked for in any form whatever,"
(Review, p. 67) having some little place under government to
solicit, thus writes Mr. Gerry on March 9. "In my last I begged
you to deliver the letter therein enclosed, to general Mifflin, it
respected the office in question. He has ever shown me marks
of friendship, and I trusted to the continuance of them. The
nomination you hint at, coming from the quarter it did, would

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 295

not for that consideration, press on him with any additional
weight. You and the president are on such terms of intimacy,
I suppose he will have shown you my letter. If not, I wish you
may see it and sound him on the subject, if you judge it expe-
dient." In J785, the same gentleman and his partner began a
letter of business in the following strain. " With extreme plea-
sure we'learn your arrival once more at York to take your seat
where your services always have and always will be, valuable to
your country."

While writing the defamatory insinuations in the review,
general Marshall's private journal was lying open before him,
which that eminent citizen commences, by speaking of Mr.
Gerry's not having then arrived in Paris, and by expressing the
highest expectation of the advantage to be derived from the
ability, experience and character of the colleague, with whom
he was to be associated.

296 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

CHAPTER IX.

Returns to Massachusetts Proposed for Governour of the Com-
monwealth Private life Pecuniary and domestic misfortune.

Character Member of the electoral college of Massachusetts.

Presides at a meeting in relation to the Chesapeake.

Mr. Gerry returned to the United States at a
period of increased exasperation and violence.*

* The state of things at this period was so offensive and op-
pressive, that the patience of the party which submitted to them
is a subject of wonder. The temples of devotion and justice
became altars of desecration. In Massachusetts the chief
justice of the supreme judicial court, addressed the grand jury
in terms which are thus characterized by one of the leading
journals of the day.

" The learned judge, in a forcible manner, proved the exist-
ence of a French faction in the bosom of our country, and ex-
posed the French system-mongers from the quintumvirate of
Paris, to the vice-president and minority in congress, as apostles
of atheism and anarchy, bloodshed and plunder." — Centinel,
Nov. 24, 1798. A meeting of free citizens preparatory to the
election of national representatives is thus described. " A con-
vention of Parisian cut throats assembled in solemn divan
for the purpose of selecting some devotee of republicanized
France as a candidate for the democratic suffrages in this dis-
trict, for federal representative at the approaching election." —
Ibid. October 17, 1798.

The system of denunciation was placed in full contrast with
the system of exaggerated praise. The birth days of the first
public characters were celebrated quite as extensively and ex-
pensively, as the birth day of the nation, and toasts of extrava-
gant adulation reciprocated. At one of these festivals in Massa-
chusetts, where was present the dignified officers of the state,

the following singular sentiment was proclaimed.

The

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 297

He came back under a suspicion that he was in-
clined to pacification ; that he thought this object
attainable under proper direction ; that letters ad-
dressed to him by the department of state and the
expected tenor of its future movements would
place him in hostility to the administration, and
that he was to assume the rank of a leader in the
northern section of the United States of that po-
litical party, which it suited the views of the
dominant power to crush and annihilate. On the
other side the most dissatisfied members of the
opposition were aware of his confidence in the
executive chief, and the difficulty there would be
in his pursuing all those measures of aggression,
which a partizan directs, not because they are all
right, but because they are expedient movements
in the tactics of faction. A cautious demeanour
was observed with regard to him by both parties,
each fearful of committing itself by attentions,

The Honourable Francis Dana, chief justice, and the learned
associate judges of our supreme judicial court. While the po-
litical opinions delivered from the bench, are dictated by intel-
ligence, integrity and patriotism, may they be as highly respect-
ed as have ever been its judicial decisions.

Political opinions from the bench of justice, and party politics
too!

The plan of personal exaltation was carried so far, that on
one of these birth days " a parade of artillery did themselves
and the day, the honour to attend at the renaming of the for-
tress of the United States, formerly called Fort Williams, which
now bears that of Fort Pickering."

vol. ii. 38

298 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

which it might not be easy to retract.* The first
public announcement of his course, was by his de-
clining a proposition made on the part of his per-
sonal friends to place him again in the house of
representatives of the United States. It was
contained in the following card.

Mr. Gerry being informed from various quarters
of the wishes of a number of his fellow citizens of
this district, that he would stand as a candidate for
a representative in congress at the approaching
election, has a grateful sense of the honour they
are disposed to confer on him, and regrets the in-
dispensable necessity he is under of declining it.
He nevertheless assures them of the continuance
of his exertions in private life to support the feder-
al government, as the only effectual measure of
union, on which under providence rest the liberty,
independence and welfare of ourselves and pos-
terity.

His recent colleagues took other ground. Mr.
Pinckney in answer to an address made to him at
Trenton declared, " For my own part I believe
the French directory are not sincere in the pacific
declarations made bv the minister of foreign af-
fairs to Mr. Gerry. If we would secure the inde-

* A few days after Mr. Gerry's arrival, a gentleman of influ-
ence in the federal party waited upon him and said, that as soon
as he had announced his opinion of the necessity of war with
France, he would be complimented with a public dinner, of
which this individual was authorized to inform him. The com-
pliment was of course declined.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 299

pendence of America free from the intrigues and
ambition of France, I am convinced we must fight
for its preservation." And again to another com-
plimentary speech, " They [the French] are a
people artful and insidious in policy, bold and
powerful in arms j but having endeavoured to
study their character with attention, I am convinc-
ed their intrigues are more to be dreaded than
their force."

Something of a more discreet course, but suffi-
ciently distinct to settle its identity, was main-
tained by his other late colleague.

In Mr. Gerry's view of affairs war might be
averted. He would not proclaim an opinion that
the French rulers were insincere because he did
not entertain it ; he was as little disposed to urge
those measures of resistance by arms, which the
majority were preparing, because he did not be-
lieve such policy best adapted to the objects it
professed, but he was more unwilling to create
dissension and controversy at home, or retard the
movements of the government in its constitutional
power.

If war was to be declared, it was his opinion
that the duty of a good citizen was to make it
successful. If the government in its wisdom saw
fit to appeal to this last arbitrator of nations, it
was his doctrine that no measure could be justified,
that might weaken its chances of success. It was
not as he believed then proper to quarrel about

300 LIFE OF ELBRIDG'E GERRY.

the manner of navigation, which had brought the
ship among the rocks or exposed her to the storm,
but to eneag;e with one heart and one common
exertion to carry her with safety through the bat-
tle and the breeze.

These sentiments, which patriotism cannot dis-
approve, were too sensible and too moderate to
meet the excited feelings of the community. They
left him for the moment without the honours,
which party and faction bestow on their leaders,
but they were remembered to his credit when pas-
sions, which then confounded the reason of the
community, had become tranquillized and still.

The progress of affairs and the happy termi-
nation of the difficulties with France justify the
correctness of those views, which Mr. Gerry had
entertained of the interests of his country. In the
midst of all the pride, pomp and circumstance of
war, of brilliant preparation on land and triumph
on the ocean, the executive chief saw fit to put
his own hand to the helm, and suddenly to change
the direction of his ship.

Against the advice of all his ministers, Mr. Ad-
ams on 18th February 1799, instituted pa new
mission to France.

On the 12th May 1800, Mr. Pickering was dis-
missed from the office of secretary of state. On
the 14th the provisional army was disbanded. Mr.
Dexter superseded Mr. M'Henry as secretary of
war.

The apparently sudden decision of Mr. Adams'

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 301

mind was the result of care, examination, reflec-
tion and judgment. He had been at Quincy* a
chief part of the summer and autumn of '98.
His personal interviews there and at Cambridge
had been most frequent, free and confidential with
Mr. Gerry, who early succeeded in dispelling
those prejudices at his own conduct, with which
it was first surrounded, and afterwards in impress-
ing on Mr. Adams the views of American policy
in relation to France, which his personal observa-
tion had matured. Mr. Adams departed for Phila-
delphia persuaded of the correctness of those prin-
ciples, which Mr. Gerry had enforced, but alarmed
and unhappy at the strength and combination,
which in and around his cabinet pressed on his
attention others of a different character. The
language of his speech on the opening of con-
gress, incites to military preparation, not so much
for actual warfare, as a weapon of diplomacy. It
is easy to perceive in it the change his mind had
undergone. His expurgation of the secretary's
animadversions on Mr. Gerry is of similar tenden-
cy. The repeal of the French arrette of 20th
October '98, communicated to congress on 15th
February '99, was in further aid of his new views.
Talleyrand's letter to Pichon of 28th Septem-
ber 1798, which was indeed but a repetition of
Talleyrand's constant language to Mr. Gerry,
completed his conviction, and the new mission

* The president's residence in Massachusetts, seven miles from
Boston.

302 LIFE OF ELBR1DGE GERRY.

was instituted, which in his own language saved
the peace of the nation. The success of this mis-
sion, honourable as it was to the political charac-
ter of the president, was yet in strong confirma-
tion of the sentiments and policy of his opponents.
It made their prophecy fact, and largely contribut-
ed to that change in public affairs, which in a few
months placed the power of the government in
their hands. The republican party rallied under
the excitement of these new events.

In Massachusetts they offered their support to
Mr. Gerry for the office of governour, in opposi-
tion to Caleb Strong, who was proposed by the
federalists. Two years before, the republican
party had but a single member in the senate of
the state. On counting the votes it was now found
that " the whole number was 39059, of which
19530 made a choice; that Mr. Strong had 19630
and was chosen."*

Mr. Jefferson was inaugurated president of the
United States on 4th March 1801, and a new ef-
fort was made by the republican party to assimi-
late the political character of the state to that of
the nation. Mr. Gerry very reluctantly consented
again to permit his name to appear as a candidate
for the chair, and a canvass of great animation and
much virulence, terminated in the reelection of
the former governour.f From these several ex-

* Report of Com. of Mass. legis.

f Mr. G. received 20169 out of 45816 votes.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 303

ertions Mr. Gerry could derive no other satisfac-
tion than in finding he still possessed the confi-
dence of that great political party with whom he
had always been associated, and whose physical
weakness was the cause, and not any deficiency
of energy or zeal, that he was not placed at the
head of the state.

Retiring now from the turmoils of political
affairs, Mr. Gerry was once again at liberty to
attend to his favourite pursuits, to cultivate his
farm, to superintend the education of his children
and to enjoy the pleasures of domestic life. Un-
fortunately however, the peace, that would have
followed this cessation of public labours, was in-
terrupted by a circumstance that served to embar-
rass the whole future of his life. A friend, for
whom he had become surety to a large amount,
failed and left him with a weight of pecuniary
obligations, from which he was never able after-
wards to extricate himself.

The cares and anxiety, to which this derange-
ment of his finances subjected him, checked his
political correspondence and his connexion with
the more animating scenes of society, but had no
effect on his domestic intercourse, or the happi-
ness, which was enjoyed in his family circle.
Whatever were his disappointments abroad, and
great as must have been his anxiety for the future
prospects of a numerous and dependent establish-
ment, the same serenity of disposition, the same

304 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

amiable and endearing manners, the same anima-
ting and cheerful temper, which made him so
much the object of affectionate interest, continued
to disguise the agitation of his heart. The circle
of his hospitality was diminished, the expensive
assistance, which he had brought to his own efforts
in education was curtailed, and its cares divided
with his accomplished companion ; a necessary
but still elegant frugality presided over his house-
hold ; his amusements and occupation, which had
before extended over a wider circle, now settled
within the family limits, which seemed to give
them new strength by compression.

But another and severer misfortune awaited
him. She in whose society his peculiarly affec-
tionate feelings found their sweetest consolation,
and who seemed, by the extraordinary attachment
which bound him to her, not only a substitute for
all other pleasures, but in herself almost the sole
satisfaction of life, was visited by a dangerous and
long continued malady, which engrossed all his
solicitude and care.

The intervals of the distressing disease, to which
she was a victim, served but feebly to recruit his
own strength, which watching and anxiety under-
mined, and hardly allowed him any other relaxa-
tion or employment than his farm or his family
demanded.

Notwithstanding these severe trials the occa-
sional visitor at his friendly mansion was delighted

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 305

with the assumed cheerfulness of his manners, the
ease and freedom of his conversation, abounding
with anecdote and the recital of by-gone events,
piquant and full of wit, which under the control
of good feelings never inflicted a voluntary wound.

It was at this period of comparative seclusion,
that the author, then an undergraduate at Harvard
University, first became acquainted with the indi-
vidual of whom he is writing, and acquired those
sentiments of respect and esteem, which matured
in the course of a more intimate connexion may
perhaps be thought to guide a too favourable pen-
cil in giving this account of his public services and
his private character. But the impressions, which
he then received, were not made on him alone. No
one was a greater favourite with the young than
Mr. Gerry. He accommodated his manners to
their feelings, habits and taste. With a dignity
of deportment and an elevation of character that
commanded their respect, there was a freedom of
manners and an indulgent disposition, which won
their affections and secured their confidence.

He has been called reserved and austere, but
only by those to whom he was not personally
known. The little arts, by which popularity is
often secured, were indeed wholly unknown to
him. He rested his claims to public favour on the
merit that deserved it, without descending to
court the applause of the people, by flattering
their vices or ministering to their vanity. He

vol. ii. 39

306 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

was rarely if ever at their primary meetings, con-
sidering as below his rank in political estimation
the management of the materials of a party ; and
they who found themselves courted by other can-
didates for their favour, not unwillingly attributed
his reserve to pride or disdain.

But nothing could be more inappropriately said
of him than that he was austere. His fault was
of an opposite kind. A fond and affectionate hus-
band, a kind and indulgent parent, a friendly
neighbour, most liberal in hospitality, and generous
in his contributions to alleviate distress, he was
entitled to high rank in the calendar of the hu-
mane and beneficent. His exertions to do good
within the circle of his personal influence were
limited only by his means. It was the habit of
his life to consider nothing a sacrifice, which add-
ed to the comfort of his friends, and wholly to
forget all self-interested motives in his endeavours
to ameliorate the condition of the humbler mem-
bers of society.

Two circumstances have contributed to the
erroneous estimate, which in this respect has been
made of his character. The furrows of care were
early traced on his countenance. This appear-
ance, with a singular habit of contracting and ex-
panding very rapidly the muscles of the eye, gave
to his features the appearance of sternness, which
had really no connexion with his mind.

Another cause for this opinion was the severity

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 307

of his administration of the state government.
Numerous removals from office produced much
individual suffering, which was naturally enough
charged to the governour. It is not proper to an-
ticipate occurrences, which remain to be related,
further than to say, that much of that course was
in no degree attributable to him, and that his re-
luctant share in it caused him many of the most
painful moments of his life. With all the clamour
at the time, the objects of his party were not
thoroughly accomplished, because the chief ma-
gistrate shrunk from inflicting personal distress ;
and many individuals were left in the enjoyment
of official station, whom the stern decrees of po-
litical proscription had selected for sacrifice.

It was with more truth he was accused of ob-
stinacy. Forming his opinions with deliberation,
he yielded them with reluctance. Feeling the
conviction produced by thorough investigation it
was not easy to change his results. The tenacity
with which he clung to such sentiments as his
judgment approved, may at times have been too
determined, and probably obstinate.

This tendency was increased by another, which
was the weakest trait of his mind. He was ha-
bitually suspicious. Accustomed in the early pe-
riod of his life to watch with a jealous eye, the
actions and opinions of those who administered
the government, to anticipate evil even for osten-
sible good, and to calculate on coming clanger be-

a

08 LIFE OF ELBKIDGE GERRY.

fore even its shadow could be seen, he acquired
an indisposition to give his confidence easily,
readily or freely. This habit increased as he
advanced in life, for " confidence is a plant of
slow growth in an aged bosom." There was lit-
tle of the art of acquiring popularity in entertain-
ing such a state of mind ; less in letting it be
seen. They who were associated with him were
often oppressed with a conviction that he was
doubtful of their sincerity, and this feeling on their
part generated a state of things which otherwise
would not have existed. It is something anoma-
lous in the history of character, that an individual
punctiliously upright in his own conduct, should
unwillingly admit the sincerity of others.

Mr. Gerry was an exemplary citizen in all the
duties of private life. Adhering to the doctrines
of the Episcopal church, he was serious without
bigotry, and liberal enough to admit that although
that sect was most satisfactory to himself, it was
not entitled to arrogate superiority over others, into
which the christian world was divided.

In his temper, he was naturally ardent and im-
petuous, but in the course of a most intimate ac-
quaintance, and under excitements calculated to
give full play to the passions, the writer never
saw them break their boundary, or get the mas-
tery of his mind.

Mr. Gerry was of middling stature and spare
frame. A large broad head, high and prominent

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 309

forehead, and a quick piercing and expressive eye,
completed the outline of a striking physiognomy.
Extremely temperate in all the indulgences of
pleasure, he preserved a constitution, not originally
robust, in a good degree of strength, so that to his
latest day he never used a cane, and was able to
read the smallest print without the aid of glasses.

The refined pleasures of intellectual life, the
conversation of educated females, and the charms
of polished society, were his most admired re-
laxation from the laborious and patient industry,
which he was accustomed to devote to political
duties ; and in these circles of intelligence and
taste, his own contribution to the general amuse-
ment, was readily bestowed and most highly ap-
preciated. Belonging to that school of manners,
which commenced under the royal government,
and perfected its pupils in the camp and cabinet
of the revolution, regulating the deportment with
courtesy towards others, and a personal dignity
that never lost its self-respect, lofty without ar-
rogance, affable without familiarity, he was at
all time and under all circumstances, entitled to
the reputation of a perfect gentleman.

The retirement he enjoyed during the period
under review, was varied by two incidents of a
political character. In 1804, he was a member
of the electoral college of Massachusetts, by the
unexpected success of the republican party, and
joined in the unanimous vote given by the electors

310 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

of the state to Thomas Jefferson for president, and
George Clinton for vice-president, of the United
States. The venerable James Warren of Ply-
mouth, long the correspondent and always the
friend of Mr. Gerry, was president of this college,
and in this act completed the public services of
his valuable life.

The attack made in 1808 by the British ship
Leopard on the American frigate Chesapeake,
presented another occasion for his influence with
his fellow citizens.

In order to give a full expression to the public
feeling and to strengthen the administration in
such measures of resistance as the exigency might
demand, it was determined to hold a body meeting
in Boston, as was the usage in the earlier periods
of the colonial controversy.* The state-house
was selected for this purpose, but the concourse
of people soon filled the hall and the multitude
collected on an open area at the north.

Upon the uppermost of the steps which led
from the floor of the building, and exactly on the
spot where now stands Chantry's magnificent sta-
tue of Washington, a table was placed for the
moderator.

A gentleman announced that Elbridge Gerry
was in town, and moved that " this patriot dis-
tinguished in the first movements of resistance to
a haughty adversary" be invited to preside over

* Hutchinson, 3d vol. p. 430.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. Sll

the present deliberations. The motion was car-
ried by acclamation, and a committee appointed
to conduct him to the chair.

Mr. Gerry then hardly recovered from a disease
from which even fatal consequences had been ap-
prehended, was at the house of a friend a short
distance from the assembly, without having had
any notice of the meeting, or the most dis-
tant idea of being called to preside. He readily
accepted the invitation, and walked with the com-
mittee by the usual avenue to the gothic hall of
the state-house. Nothing indicative of a conven-
tion was visible. Scarcely a solitary passenger
crossed his path. As ignorant of the location as-
signed him, as the assembly was of his approach,
he was conducted across the hall, when the folding
doors were thrown open, and he found himself not
only in the presence of several thousands of his
fellow citizens, but in the place appointed for
their moderator, and actually presiding in their
councils.

Surprise could not be more complete either to
him or them. Bowing in acknowledgment for
the plaudits, which seemed to shake the very
skies, and allowed him a moment to recover his
self-possession, he addressed the assembly in the
following animated sentence.

I had not anticipated that at my time of life,
there could have been a scene like the present,
but I yield to the call that is made on me, as I

312 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

hold it to be the duty of every citizen, though he
may have but one day to live, to devote that day
to the good of his country.

This sentiment, indicative of the governing
principle of his life, is the epitaph recorded on
his monument, and was then reechoed by an ap-
proving multitude, who felt that the virtue of the
revolution was resuscitated at a crisis, which call-
ed for a similar exercise of its energy and zeal.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 313

CHAPTER X.

Elected govemour of Massachusetts Conciliatory temper of the

administration Degree of doctor of laivs conferred on him by

Harvard College Inauguration of president Kirkland Re-
elected govemour of Massachusetts Policy of the administra-
tion changed Speech to the legislature Measures of the

republican party Their character considered Doctrine of

libel Correspondence ivith judge Parker Message to the

legislature on the same subject Message on the resources of the

state Complies ivith the requisition of the government of the

United States for a detachment of militia Is superseded as

govemour of Massachusetts.

From this long period of repose, Mr. Gerry was
unexpectedly awakened by a call on him again to
become a candidate for the office of govemour of
the commonwealth of Massachusetts.

A nomination had usually been made during the
sitting of the legislature, and the first suggestion
of an intention of again presenting his name to the
public, was communicated to him by a committee
of gentlemen, who reported that he had been,
with great unanimity, selected by the republican
party. At the earnest solicitation of his political
friends, but in his own language, " at the sacrifice
of domestic and family interests, and with great
personal inconvenience," he assented to the request.

A canvass now commenced, which exceeded in
its violence whatever had before occurred of a

vol. ii. 40

314 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

similar character. If in its progress the subject
of this memoir was assailed with every vitupera-
tive epithet, and presented to the public in the
most odious points of view, it does not diminish
the pain of the recollection, that his rival, the
then incumbent of the chair, was treated with
equal asperity.

Governour Gore had been elected the chief ex-
ecutive magistrate of the state, by the strength of
the federal party, and held his claim to their con-
fidence and respect by a cordial cooperation in all
the essential measures of their policy. So far he
was the legitimate object of attack by those, who
differed from him in the principles of government,
and in their views of the political system ; but
there was an honesty of heart, a courtesy of man-
ners, and a generosity of feeling in this distin-
guished civilian, which ought to have protected
him from the arrows of malevolence and slander.

The misty medium of party prejudice magnifies
the errors of public men, while it as often gives
them a factitious importance, which disappears
with the returning light of intelligence and reason.
Mr. Gore lived through the period of storm and
turbulence, and it has been said of him with equal
truth and elegance, that " his was a pure spirit,
high and looking upward. His taste was refined,
his sensibility acute, his feelings manly, generous,
independent. He had the most elevated ideas of

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 315

public and private duty, and his conduct was always
in perfect conformity with his principles. In times
of excitement he was calm and just ; in times of
corruption pure."

The election terminated in favour of Mr. Gerry,
who entered on the duties of his office on the
second day of June 1810.

It has been the misfortune of the United States
that dissensions among their citizens, on the cor-
rect course of their own national policy, had such
relation to their connexion with foreign powers,
as to involve the separate parties in the imputa-
tion of attachments or antipathies wholly indepen-
dent of any motive of patriotism. It was emi-
nently so at this period. The conduct of the bel-
ligerents sacrificed to their own advantage the
rights and interests of the United States when-
ever they presented obstacles to the great objects
of their controversy, while the folly of a war with
both at the same time, and the inconveniences and
evils resulting from the necessary movements of
diplomacy to prevent it, constantly gave fuel to
the flames of that party zeal, which is the insepa-
rable concomitant of liberty. From the period of
Mr. Jefferson's election to the presidency, in March
1801, the government of the United States, in all
its departments had been decidedly in the hands
of the democratic party, and their strength had
so rapidly and steadily increased, that the check,
which opposition exerts on public measures, had

316 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

ceased to enforce its salutary restraint. The nearly
unanimous reelection of Mr. Jefferson in 1U05,
and the triumphant majority, which in 1809 placed
Mr. Madison in the executive chair, had broken
down the federal party, which though still organ-
ized in the national legislature, and represented
by individuals of talent and character, was rather
calculated by its situation to irritate the dominant
party than control it. In Massachusetts however,
the case was directly the reverse. For nearly the
whole period, in which the people had divided
themselves into political parties, the government
had been in federal hands. The restraints upon
commerce, which the national councils had deem-
ed wise to impose, operated severely on a people
essentially commercial in their feelings, habits
and interest, and combined with other measures,
in which it was generally believed their advantage
was but little consulted, to array against the na-
tional government a very decided majority of the
citizens. But the friends of the national adminis-
tration had not been inactive. Twice by the
election of governour Sullivan, they had succeeded
in acquiring power, which was wrested from them
almost as soon as possessed. The time now
presented a favourable opportunity for another
effort, and the whole democratic party in the state
united in support of Mr. Gerry. They were
opposed by the entire force of the federalists, who
clung to the government of this state as the chief

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 317

citadel of their strength ; and overthrown in the
general and other local governments of the con-
federacy found it necessary to preserve here the
last remnants of their power, until times more
favourable to their views, should give them a
wider field of operation. Their whole strength
was accordingly exerted to prevent Mr. Gerry's
election, and each party entered into the conflict
with hearts of controversy. The parties thus en-
gaged were too nearly matched, both in address
and numbers, to have rendered it certain on which
side the balance would incline, but a third party
was found to take the field, and by their over-
powering weight to settle the conflict.

This party consisted of the few but venerable
survivors of the revolution, whose personal ac-
quaintance had impressed on their minds the con-
stant and important services of Mr. Gerry in the
early days of danger and anxiety, together with a
class of educated and ardent youth, who not having
before mixed in political conflicts, brought with them
those feelings and principles in favour of a patriot
of the revolution, which the history of its times
were well calculated to inspire. Mr. Gerry seem-
ed to have been awakened from his long inactivity,
and to come before the electoral population like
the last of the Romans, the only one in the splen-
did assembly of revolutionary worthies whom the
generation now enjoying the fruits of their labour,
would, in the progress of events, be permitted to
honour.

318 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

His rival Mr. Gore, had been too young to en-
gage in the great struggle for independence. His
friends remembered indeed, that when just leav-
ing college, he had marched with a volunteer
corps to the defence of Rhode Island ; but this
solitary instance of duty was almost ludicrous in
comparison with the long and splendid and emi-
nent services of the associate of the patriots in
the congress of independence. Attachment to
the principles and gratitude to the agents of the
revolution triumphed over the violence of politi-
cal feeling, and the democratic party, assisted by
the fortunate selection of a candidate, were victo-
rious at the polls.

It would have been well for them to have re-
membered in the exultation of success, the means
by which it was achieved, and to have moderated
their triumph by a regard to the insecure founda-
tion on which it stood.

But the leaders of the party believed that the
state was revolutionized, and that their triumph
over their antagonists was the final overthrow of
the federal power in the last portion of its terri-
tory. They were the more satisfied of this, be-
cause they had exactly divided the senate, and
had obtained in the house of representatives a
majority, which gave them the control of the
elections in joint ballot of the two houses.

The speech of the governour to the legislature,
the first measure of his administration was tern-

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 319

perate and conciliatory. It inculcated the neces-
sity of union. In a review of the course pursued
by foreign powers, he justified the measures of
the national government, and exhorted the com-
munity to an union of effort in its support. His
references to the revolution for illustration of the
several measures connected with state policy was
calculated to preserve the title, by which he ac-
quired his situation, and to soften the asperity of
opposition. In enumerating the advantages which
the country possessed, he said " When we reflect
that the United States are in possession of nu-
merous blessings, political, civil and religious,
many of which are not enjoyed by any other na-
tion, that we are remote from those scenes of
war and carnage, by which Europe is vested in
sable, that we enjoy the uncontrolled right on prin-
ciples of true liberty, to form, alter and carry into
effect, our federal ands tate constitutions, that
founded on them and on law, there exists a spirit
of toleration, securing to every one the undisturb-
ed rights of conscience and the free exercise of
religion, that the people at fixed periods have the
choice of their rulers, and can remove those who
do wrong, that the means of education in all its
branches are liberal, general and successful, that
the national strength, resources and powers, by
proper arrangements may render these states in-
vincible, that by our husbandry, commerce, manu-
factures, and mechanic arts, the wealth of this

320 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

country almost surpasses credibility, let us not be
prompted by imprudent zealots of any description
to hazard the irretrievable loss of all or of any of
these inestimable blessings, but let us secure them
forever, with the aid of divine providence, by ral-
lying around the standard of our national govern-
ment, and by encouraging and establishing a mar-
tial spirit on the solid foundation of internal peace,
order and concord.

The answers of the two houses were respect-
ful and affectionate, even beyond the common
courtesy of the official style. The house of repre-
sentatives say " to the course of your excellency's
administration we look with pleasing anticipation.
We consider the past conduct of public characters
as the safest pledge of their future course. And
with impressions of this nature we feel assured
that under your guidance a spirit of harmony will
pervade our councils, that the national govern-
ment and sister states will receive the respect
which is their due, and that the great interests
of the commonwealth under the fostering care of
the government will receive every assistance they
may need, and every encouragement in our power
to bestow."

The senate commenced their answer in the fol-
lowing language :

On the first meeting of the several branches of
the government, the senate respectfully recognize
in the person of the chief magistrate of Massa-

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 321

chusetts, the man who so eminently contributed
by his revolutionary services to establish the inde-
pendence, and secure the peace and prosperity of
our country. The zeal and fidelity with which
these services were rendered, afford to us a pledge
that in discharging the duties of the high and hon-
ourable trust committed to you by a majority of
the people, your excellency will be uninfluenced
by the sinister suggestions of party spirit, but will
be guided by a sincere and single regard to the
great interests of the whole commonwealth.

This confidence is strengthened by the reflec-
tion, that during the conflict which for many years
has agitated almost every part of our community,
your excellency has been aloof from the scene of
contention, and we trust therefore has advanced
to the chair of government, unbiassed by those
passions and prejudices, which are in some degree
common to all who have been actively engaged in
the warfare of public opinion.

The suggestions here made were most perfect-
ly true. With the directors of political parties the
long retirement of Mr. Gerry had given him no
opportunity to be intimate. The changes, which
time had made in the members of the different
departments of the government had left him al-
most without personal acquaintance with them,
and the desire, which his party had to place his
name as a candidate at their head, had itself, if
there had been no other reason, rendered his ad-

VOL. II. 41

322 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

vance to the chief magistracy wholly independent
of all conditions, stipulations and expectancies.
In his own political sentiments, matured as they
were by time and experience, he was immovably
confirmed ; but in regard to individuals or parties,
other than as they came recommended by charac-
ter and conduct, he was impartial, unfettered
and independent.

But after all, what is the worth of a victory if
the enemy are allowed to possess the spoils.
Of what consequence is it who are masters of the
field so long as the vanquished retain their pos-
sessions ? The battle between the great political
parties had been fought at the ballot boxes again
and again, and constant defeat had embittered and
exasperated the disappointed competitors. They
beheld for a long series of years the honours and
emoluments of office, the pride of place and dig-
nity of station, held by their political adversaries
until the reproach of being a democrat was con-
sidered as impassable a barrier to public station, as
the want of moral character or intellectual ability.
The moment of their triumph was therefore a fit
time for retaliation, and the victory they at last
had won was to be consummated by its honours and
rewards. This determination, which was in some
respect the language of excited feeling and the
expression of natural passion, derived no little
support from the principles of justice.

The limited legislation of the states gives rise

LIFE OF ELBR1DGE GERRY. 323

to few questions of high character. The general
policy of all parties is in most respects the same
in time of peace. Changes in administration
are marked rather by changing individuals who
manage affairs, than by any great variation in the
affairs that are managed. The party who now
came into power, found all the posts of honour
and profit in possession of their enemies, and this
possession so confirmed by time and arrangement,
as to be apparently the result of premeditated
purpose.

The judicial department, the most stable and
the most efficient in its operation, was from the
chief justiceship to the crier of the court, wholly
in federal hands. As a consequence of this, the
bar, with hardly sufficient exception to be noticed,
added all the force of professional character to the
federal cause. The literature of the state, so far
as it had official form, was under the same con-
trol. Colleges and learned societies seemed to
have settled a sort of common law, that the hon-
ours of science would be as inappropriately be-
stowed upon democracy as the chef d'ouvres of
taste upon the aborigines of the country. In its
connexion with the national government, the state
had always been represented by the same political
class, their members in the United States senate
having been invariably selected from the federal
party. It had been the policy of the federalists to
inspire the opinion, and it was their belief probably,

324 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

for self-love is exceedingly credulous of praise, that
in their ranks were contained all the talents and all
the learning, and all the moral character of the
country, and as the Romans looked upon the rest
of mankind as barbarians, so they were pleased
to consider their fellow citizens on the democratic
side, as little better than the Goths and Vandals,
into whose power had unfortunately fallen the
heritage of the state.

The long period of submission to this contemp-
tuous demeanour, which the democrats had been
forced to endure, had not diminished those indig-
nant feelings, which are excited in the minds of
honourable men by injustice and insult, and it
prepared them to take advantage of their success,
without much regard to those considerations of
prudence, which were calculated to preserve it.

The legislature set the example. Every ap-
pointment in their gift was bestowed on the indi-
viduals of their party, and strong intimations were
given that the governour would be expected to fol-
low the same path.

The equality of votes in the senate would have
prevented the passing, and it consequently re-
strained the proposing of such laws as would change
adversely to the federal interests any of the ex-
isting establishments, and the legislature after a
short session adjourned to meet again in January.

The character of the governour, which was
brought more distinctly into view, rose very much

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 325

in the estimation of the public. There was an ad-
herence to principle, which secured the attach-
ment of his political friends, and an urbanity and
liberality of manners, which disarmed his oppo-
nents.

The charge of pride and reserve, which had
been made against him, was seen to be altogether
fallacious. Accessible and familiar, the citizens
found him ready to listen to their suggestions, and
his house, always the abode of hospitality, was
filled either by strangers whom his liberality at-
tracted, or by constituents who felt gratified in
having opportunity to make known their indi-
vidual opinions to the governour of the common-
wealth.

At the commencement in August, Harvard Uni-
versity conferred upon him the degree of doctor of
laws, the honor of which, if in ordinary cases di-
minished by the prodigality of its bestowment on
a certain political class, lost none of its original
value, whatever that might be, when the leaders
of a sect saw fit to make an unusual exception to
the partiality of their favours.

In the November succeeding, the governour, as
the head of the board of overseers, assisted at the
splendid induction of the reverend John Thornton
Kirkland, to be president of the college, and de-
livered an address in the latin language, in con-
formity to established usage on such occasions.
The reply of the president was couched in flat-

326 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

tering terms of respect ; and the occasion, the
place, and the speaker, would prevent them from
being considered merely complimentary and insin-
cere.*

The winter session of the legislature was mark-
ed by the same conciliatory spirit on the part of
the governour, while the want of a majority in the
senate still controlled the fiery temper of his party.
In the nominations to office, the governour respect-
ed the claims of his political friends whom he found
to have been heretofore almost entirely excluded,
but of the incumbents holding their place at the
will of the executive, no one was disturbed in the
enjoyment of his situation. Strong effort was
made by influential individuals to change the gov-
ernour's policy in this respect, and there were not
wanting those who expressed their dissatisfaction
at the tolerance he was disposed to observe. But
their disapprobation was without effect. He had
proposed as the object of his policy to bring about
a conciliation of temper between the people of the
state and the national administration, and it seemed
to him most likely to be effected by softening that
asperity of feeling, which had separated the con-
tending factions, and at times had threatened vio-
lence and almost civil war. The republican party,
he was accustomed to say, by holding the govern-
ment of the state, are restored to their rank as
free citizens. They are no longer degraded or

* Appendix A.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 327

proscribed. It is best for them not to incur re-
proach for the same conduct which has disgraced
their opponents. As they profess a liberality of
opinion, let them practise a liberality of conduct.

Causes for the change of this course were not
long delayed. Notwithstanding the courtesy and
kindness, which in outward forms of official inter-
course were extended towards him, the mortifica-
tion of a defeated party at the elevation of their
opponents, and the determination they had formed,
be his conduct what it would, to displace him from
the executive chair, was constantly observed, and
had its natural operation on those by whom he
was supported.

If the governour had supposed that conciliation
and liberal policy on the part of the executive
would so far repress the angry feelings of the op-
position, that the republican party could keep the
government in their hands, and thus aid the gen-
eral administration by a conformity to the policy
of the United States, he had not sufficiently cal-
culated the depth and strength of that resistance,
which his opponents could exert. The tendency
of the measures of the United States, to bring
on a war with Great Britain, and the consequence
of such war to draw closer an alliance with the
ruler of France, allowing to each party in the
country, all the honesty of intention they could
claim, was in itself sufficient to have prevented
the success of a scheme desirable indeed, but

328 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

under the then existing circumstances perfectly
hopeless. But when it was considered how small
was the difference in the ballots cast by the two
rival parties, that the annual accession by natural
increase was enough to change the majority, and
especially that the intimate connexion between
the policy of the national and the popularity of
the state administration would give hope of suc-
cess to a party not in mass accustomed to defeat,
the expectation of a decrease of the energies of
an election campaign was hardly to be justified.

Every effort was accordingly made by the op-
posing parties to secure success at the election in
April. The same candidates were presented by
each party, and Mr. Gerry was after a hard strug-
gle again elected governour of the commonwealth.
The democratic party had made very strenuous
efforts to gain the ascendency in the senate, and
securing all they had acquired in the former year,
and prevailing also in the county of Bristol, they
had now the complete possession of all the execu-
tive and legislative departments in the state.*

* Extract of a letter from a distinguished citizen of the United
States, dated at St. Petersburg, 30th June 1811.
" The Massachusetts election appears to agitate the Americans
in Europe almost exclusively; of all the other elections going
on at the same time in many parts of the union, I see paragraphs
in the newspapers, but hear not a syllable from any other quar-
ter. But American federalists in this city have received letters
from their friends in London and in Gottenburg, in high exulta-
tion announcing the election of Mr. Gore by a majority of more
than three thousand votes. Other Americans of different politics
contest the validity of this return, and affirm that Mr. Gerry and

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 329

During the canvass preceding the election, the
federal party in the capital, at one of those meet-
Mr. Gray have been reelected, though by a reduced majority
compared with that of the last year. Why this extreme anxiety
for the Massachusetts election ? Is it Mr. Gore for whose eleva-
tion all this enthusiasm is harboured ? I think it by no means
difficult to account for. There is much foreign hope and fear
involved in these Massachusetts elections ; all the rest, even New
York arc despaired of. But the Massachusetts federal politi-
cians have got to talk so openly and with such seeming indiffer-
ence, not to say readiness for a dissolution of the union; they
are so valiant in their threats of resistance to the laws ; they
seem so resolute for a little experiment upon the energy of the
union and its government, that in the prospects of a war with
America, which most of the British statesmen now at the helm
consider as in the line of wise policy, they and all their parti-
zaus calculate boldly and without disguise or concealment upon
the cooperation of the Massachusetts federalists. The Massa-
chusetts election therefore, is a touchstone of national principle,
and upon its issue may depend the question of peace and war
between the United States and England. However hostile a
British ministry may feel against us, they will never venture
upon it until they can depend upon an active cooperation with
them, within the United States. It is from the New England
federalists alone that they can expect it. From the same view
of the subject, though prompted by very opposite feelings, I too
take a deep interest in the Massachusetts elections. I have
known now more than seven years the projects of the Boston
faction against the union. They have ever since that time at
least, been seeking a pretext and an occasion for avowing the
principle. The people however, have never been ready to go
with them ; and when in the embargo time they did for a mo-
ment get a majority with them, they only verified the old proverb
about setting a beggar on horse-back. Mr. Quincy has been at
the pains now of furnishing them with a new pretext, which will
wear no better than its predecessors. Mr. Quincy should not
have quoted me as an authority for a dissolution of the union.
He may be assured it is a doctrine that never will have my sanc-

vol. II. 42

330 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

ings peculiar to New England, in which the elec-
tors are accustomed to assemble for political
discussion, adopted resolutions of an inflammatory
character, and supported them by the premeditated
speeches of their most able men, among whom
the president of the senate was principally distin-
guished for his zeal.

The preamble to these celebrated resolutions
affected to draw a parallel between the oppres-
sion of the government of the union and that of
Great Britain before the declaration of indepen-
dence ; and it intimated very plainly that the
course, which the fathers of the revolution pur-
sued, though then termed rebellion, was a just
precedent for existing circumstances. The reso-
lutions themselves proceeded to declare that the
first flagrant violation of our neutral rights was
inflicted by the Berlin decree, in November 1806.
That the late offers or pretended proposals of
France to relax her decrees, were illusory and in-

tion. It is my attachment to the union, which makes me spe-
cially anxious for the result of the Massachusetts elections.
They are a contest of life and death for the union. If that
party are not ultimately put down in Massachusetts, as com-
pletely as they already are in New York and Pennsylvania, and
all the southern and western states, the union is gone. Instead
of a nation coextensive with the North American continent,
destined by God and Nature to be the most populous and most
powerful people, ever combined under one social compact, we
shall have an endless multitude of little insignificant clans and
tribes, at eternal war with one another, for a rock or a fish-pond,
the sport and fable of European masters and oppressors.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 331

suiting. That neither reason, justice, policy, or
law could justify either the president or congress
in changing our relative connexion with the bel-
ligerents ; and they lastly resolved, " that such an
unjust, oppressive, and tyrannical act they con-
sider the statute passed by congress on 2d March
inst. tending to the ruin or impoverishment of
some of the most industrious and meritorious citi-
zens of the United States, and that the only means
short of an appeal to force, (which heaven avert)
is the election of such men to the various offices
in the state government as will oppose by peace-
able but firm measures the execution of laws,
which if persisted in must and will be resisted."

A contemporary journal, in the cause of the
party, describing the scene at Faneuil Hall, where
these resolutions were proposed, and giving a
summary of the speeches, by which they were
enforced, remarks, " The inferences from these
discussions are that the men who now rule are
corrupt and impotent ; that they are humbly sub-
missive and obedient to Fiance ; that they are
inveterately hostile to Great Britain ; that they
entertain a fixed contempt and detestation of com-
merce ; that they would sooner plunge this coun-
try into war with England and alliance with
France, and consequently subject it to French
dominion, than let the federal republicans again
come into power, and expose the weak and wick-
ed measures of the Jefferson policy.*

* Boston Centinel, 3d April 1811.

332 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

The declaration of this assembly, which might
fairly be considered as speaking for the whole
party, that a law of congress, if persisted in would
be resisted, and the threat that if opposition by
peaceable measures was unavailing, force — "which
heaven avert" — would be resorted to, must seem
to the calm reflection of more quiet times to ap-
proach too nearly to an act of rebellion. It seem-
ed so to the governour, and he presented this assem-
bly, the resolutions, which they passed, and very
distinctly the individuals who were busy in their
enactment, to the general court, in the address
which he made to both houses at the opening of
the session in the following June. After com-
menting on the preamble and resolutions, and ex-
posing what he considered the erroneous positions
and incorrect reasoning of the assembly, he re-
marked, " If our national rulers are justly charged
as is stated by this assemblage, with having pass-
ed a tyrannical act, and laws that must and will
be resisted, they have rebelled against the sove-
reignty of the people, are subject to punishment,
and have forfeited forever a claim to public confi-
dence ; but if the charge is unfounded, if they
have conducted agreeably to our national charter,
(which is manifestly the general sense of the
nation) have not those who have denounced the
government of the United States as oppressive,
tyrannical and unjust, and who have declared an
intention to resist the execution of their laws, ua-

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 333

warrantably adopted measures tending to excite a
spirit of insurrection and rebellion, and to destroy
our internal peace and tranquillity ?"

•n" tp *K* ^f

" To diminish and exterminate if possible a
party spirit, the executive of this commonwealth,
during the last year confirmed in his place or re-
appointed when requisite every state officer under
its control, who had been correct in his conduct
and faithful to his trust, disregarding his politics
and requiring only his support of the federal and
state constitutions, governments and laws, with a
due regard to the rights of officers and individuals
subject to his official discretion. But it cannot be
expected of any executive so far to disregard the
sacred obligations of duty and honour, as to pre-
serve in official situations such individuals as
would abuse the influence of their public charac-
ters by sanctioning resistance to law, or by such
other conduct as would beguile peaceable and
happy citizens into a state of civil warfare."

This bold and fearless denunciation of the lead-
ers of the federal party ; the imputation which it
threw upon their motives ; the criminality, which
it charged upon their conduct ; and the interdict,
which it placed upon their claims to public office,
broke all connexion between the governour and
that great class of citizens, who were in the politi-
cal minority of the state.

A statesman who had more considered the

334 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

policy of public measures than their propriety, or
regarded either his personal convenience or popu-
larity, would have hesitated before throwing the
gauntlet in defiance, among such numerous and
powerful foes. An individual more conversant
than the governour had been with the measures of
the contending parties, and who had seen how
harmless was the effervescence of that spirit, which
subsided as suddenly as it rose, or how boldly and
with how little meaning men were accustomed
to use big words and formidable expressions : one
more intimate than he had been with the ma-
chinery of elections, where it was necessary to
excite a zeal, which would bring voters to the
polls, might have been sensible that much less was
meant than met the ear, or that at any rate error
might be safely tolerated where truth was free to
combat it, and that the whole of such magnificent
tirade meant no more than to keep the party to-
gether, by persuading the followers of the party
that there was something worth at least the ex-
ertion of an hour at the ballot box.

Intimations of this kind were made to the gov-
ernour by some friends, to whom his speech was
read before it was delivered to the legislature,
and their opinion enforced by the fact that the
two months, which had intervened, disclosed none
of that awful hostility in action which this gas-
conade would imply. But the governour formed
a different opinion of the character of the act.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 335

He considered, however ineffectual at home, that
it would be magnified and misunderstood abroad,
and that in the negotiations with the belligerents,
little effect could be produced if in the very bosom
of the American people, rebellion had commenced,
and revolution been solemnly proposed.

The reproof of the governour was not however
confined to the political assembly in the capital.
The clergy came in for a share, exceedingly well
merited by any of them who perverted the religion
of peace into a vehicle for the gratification of un-
hallowed passion, and disturbed the solemnities of
the sabbath, by irreverent allusions to the political
altercations of the week.

Most of the Congregational clergy in Massa-
chusetts belonged to the federal party, and made
it as much matter of conscience to avow their
political as their theological tenets. Nothing
served more to embitter the condition of society,
and as no ostensible remedy presented, nothing
was more irritating and offensive than a constant
exposure to this unhallowed conduct, which fre-
quently mingled imprecation with prayer, and
converted the temple of religion into a theatre
of politics. The right of a clergyman as a citizen
to hold his own free opinions, and his duty to con-
tinue a patriot as well as christian, never was con-
troverted by the republican party, but the proprie-
ty of his indulging himself in the opportunity,
which his situation gave him, to wound the feel-

336 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

ings by denouncing the motives, and censuring
the conduct of any of his parishioners on matters
of public concern, was denied by them to be
either right in principle or decorous in practice.
As part of a system to degrade the individuals
of the democratic party, it was extensively pur-
sued. To clerical influence thus improperly, and
for the profession dangerously exerted, the federal-
ists had been for a long period greatly indebted,
and individuals in the sacred desk, marked by the
honours of Harvard, were as distinguished for
their zeal in the secular concerns of the state, as
for their labours in the kingdom of their spiritual
master. Seceders in escaping from such unchris-
tian assaults to attend the teaching of more seri-
ous guides, were by the law as it stood, frequently
subjected to a double tax, and the inconvenience
was so seriously felt, as to become a subject of
very general concern. The governour thus noticed
the matter in his speech :

" It is a happy circumstance, and does great
honour to our clergy, that there exists among them
a general spirit of religious liberality and toler-
ance. They advance in the straight road of piety,
which is always strewed with flowers. Should any
wander into the devious path of party politics, the
injury will not extend beyond themselves, and they
will soon retreat from the lacerations of briars and
thorns which will meet them at every step. A
late solemn decision of our supreme judicial court

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 337

has limited the right of protestant teachers of
piety, religion and morality, to demand the taxes
paid by their respective hearers for the support of
public worship to those of incorporated societies,
and has produced a great excitement ; this may
render indispensable an attention to the subject,
and further provisions to encourage by every pos-
sible mean the liberty of conscience in relation
to religious opinion and worship."

The temper of the governour's speech met ex-
actly that of the two branches of the legislature.
Answers were returned from the senate and house
in accordance with its language and measures
taken to secure by legislative means, the policy
and power of the party, which at present con-
trolled the commonwealth.

At the summer and succeeding winter session
of the legislature, various statutes were enacted,
and by the governour appointments were in the
mean time conferred, which as they kept up
through the year the highest excitement of party,
cannot be passed here without notice. If flushed
with victory, the dominant power exceeded the
measures of prudence, or stung by indignities of
long duration, they seized on the first moment of
authority to recover from humiliation and enthral-
ment, and proceeded too fiercely and too rapidly
in their innovations, or imitated too exactly in
their own favour the errors, which they complain-
ed of on the other side, the consequences may be

vol. ii. 43

338 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

a lesson of forbearance, and moderate the zeal of
all future parties, as well in their rage for reform-
ation as by inculcating feelings of respect for the
minority opposed to them.

Of measures of a permanent character, the "act
respecting public worship and religious freedom,"
deserves first to be mentioned, as the greatest al-
teration of the then existing laws, as complying
with the recommendation of the governour to
extend and secure liberty of conscience, as the
overthrow of ecclesiastical domination, and as con-
tinuing to increase in the estimation of the com-
munity until, as at present, it is the most popular
enactment in the statute book.

It provided that all moneys paid by any citizen
of this commonwealth to the support of public
worship or of public teachers of religion, shall if
such citizen require it, be uniformly applied to the
support of the public teacher of his own religious
sect or denomination, provided there be any on
whose instruction he usually attends. A further
section provided for the citizens leaving one socie-
ty and joining another, and thereby being exempt-
ed from taxation for the support of the one he had
left.

That a law of such immense consequence should
have then for the first time found the support of
the government, is evidence of the attachment
with which men cling to ancient abuses if they
conduce to the advancement of political interests.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 339

The extension of the right of suffrage as wide-
ly as the constitution permitted, was secured by a
law for that purpose.

With the avowed purpose of equalising the pe-
cuniary facilities of the community, the entire
banking capital, strange as it may seem, having
hitherto been exclusively under federal control,
a charter was granted for the incorporation of a
state bank with a capital of three millions of dol-
lars, the stock of which, upon a principle of reci-
procity, was secured to the friends of the party in
power.

To restore as far as possible the confidence of
the community in the administration of justice,
and to give some weight to the personal influence
of the republican party, which for many years past
had been systematically excluded from the bench,
the court of common pleas was abolished and a
circuit court established, consisting of five circuits,
with a chief justice and two puisne judges in
each. With the same view the law of 1809,
which had abolished the ancient court of sessions
was repealed, and a new law enacted, reviving the
court and directing a chief justice, and not less
than two nor more than four associate justices, to
be appointed. With the supreme judicial court
the party did not interfere. In respect for the
authority of the constitution, this forbearance was
observed ; it having been conceded, after due de-
liberation, by men having the confidence of the

340 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

dominant party, that neither the court nor the
judges were within the power of the legislature.
The result was very reluctantly acceded to, for
the imposing influence of that court had been felt
in the political agitation of the times, and some of
its judges, like some ministers of the gospel, had
been unwise enough to give to the extension of
their political feelings the aid directly derived from
their official authority.

Harvard college, which had very long been a
powerful opponent to the republican party ; which
by making literary men federalists had made fe-
deralism popular, and with offensive aristocracy of
manners had educated the youth under its care
in the admiration of similar principles, did not es-
cape the reforming hand of men, who considered
that institution as the property of the state, and
were unwilling that the state's pensioners should
undermine the mansion in which they were domi-
ciled.

So long had the federal party been in the habit
of controlling the judicial, literary and religious in-
stitutions in the commonwealth, and so completely
and habitually had all of them by long usage con-
formed to the views and sentiments of the federal
party, that the principles and manner by which
these institutions were conducted, seemed less the
direction of that party than the natural and legiti-
mate mode of their existence, and any alteration
was therefore proclaimed to be not an alteration

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 341

of a party system, but an overthrow of the insti-
tutions themselves. The federal party had been
so long masters in the state, that it seemed to
them quite natural they should be. Their intol-
erance and exclusiveness was so habitual as al-
most to be unknown to themselves, and they
were as much astonished and alarmed at these in-
novations, as the West India planters would be
at an insurrection of their slaves, or a claim by
that class of the population, so to alter the laws
of the land as to entitle them to participate in the
rights of freemen.

These acts were therefore opposed in and out of
the legislature, and an outcry set up that the days
of the Visi-Goths had returned, and that a modern
Alaric was about to scatter desolation and ruin.

Had the dominant party limited their opera-
tions to these measures of public policy and just
retaliation, it is possible they might have been
defended with success, but there were spirits
among them too ardent to be checked by mere
calculations of prudence, and too desirous of the
trophies of victory to be satisfied with less than
the field.

It was therefore further enacted that the clerks
of all the judicial courts who had hitherto been
appointed by the supreme court, should cease to
hold their place, and that successors should be ap-
pointed by the governour with consent of coun-
cil. The offices of sheriffs were declared vacant,

342 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

and an appointment for four years unless sooner
dismissed by the executive, was enjoined on the
governour.

Nothing could be more unfortunate for a party
situated as was the republican, than the condition
in which these appointments placed it. The pa-
tronage of office, even if it be allowed to operate
silently and quietly, is at best but of doubtful ad-
vantage ; for as the number of applicants always
greatly exceed the situations to be filled, there
are produced ten angry opponents for one luke-
warm or ungrateful friend. Under existing cir-
cumstances, policy required the removals and ap-
pointments to be made without delay, that the
effects of the convulsion might be sooner over,
and not, by protracting anxiety and interest, con-
tinually keep alive the passions of the community.
But this decisive and prompt movement was im-
possible. In the first place, the laws in some
respects were not easily to be executed. In the
second place, they would produce scenes of pri-
vate misery, at which the governour relucted, and
finally refused to inflict. Again his personal ac-
quaintance with the influential men out of the
capital, and especially in the eastern part of the
commonwealth, was exceedingly limited, and the
contradictory accounts given by the friends of nu-
merous competitors, perplexing and unsatisfactory.
Time therefore was allowed to those, who expected
to be removed from lucrative situations, to exert

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 343

with redoubled zeal their spirit of natural hostility,
while the counteracting influence of place and
power, which the party intended to wield, was not
yet within their reach. The nonexecution of the
law in some cases gave offence, the manner of
its being executed was in others cause of com-
plaint, so that probably a measure, or rather series
of measures, contrived to establish by official in-
fluence the power of the party, and denounced
and believed by its opponents to be conceived in
a spirit of indiscriminate proscription, failed to
conciliate the approbation of its friends.

Notwithstanding the general overthrow of the
incumbents of office, a liberality was observed in
appointments in the judicial department which
had not before nor since been observed. On every
circuit one federalist and two democrats were put
on the bench. The solicitor general of the state,
the clerks of the judicial courts in Suffolk and
Middlesex, and the sheriff of Suffolk, were per-
mitted to hold their places ; offices whose aggre-
gate value and consequence, was nearly equal to
all that were displaced.*

If it was wise to have put nearly the whole ap-
pointments to office into the hands of the execu-
tive, the measure should have been executed with
an unsparing and steady hand. If either from
the consideration of the executive or the situation
of the incumbents, it was impossible to carry such
laws into immediate operation, it was unwise and

* Appendix B.

344 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

impolitic to have passed them. To seek power
incurs odium. It is a fault therefore to acquire
what it is impracticable to use.

It was hardly possible that a general removal
could be made with satisfaction to the friends of
the party who proposed it. There were attach-
ments, connexions and interests, which made it
not in all cases an agreeable task. Individual
feeling and general interest were not always to be
reconciled. In the arrangement the governour
did not escape censure, but there were intelligent
and candid men willing to bestow praise. A let-
ter from a gentleman then of high consideration
in the ranks of the party, and now eminently be-
fore the nation, contains the following paragraphs.

" I thank you very sincerely for your kind con-
gratulations on my recent appointment, [by the
government of the United States.] As to the
appointment of sheriff, I cannot but express my
thanks for the kind attention you have paid to
the feelings and wishes of Mr. B's friends. His
removal has been made as little painful to them
as it could be, and I have no doubt the measure
was the result of a careful deliberation, and a
wish to promote the public good. * *

" I thought it right to state thus much to your
excellency, that you might perceive that though
my voice was decidedly for Mr. B. yet I was ready
to acknowledge and to feel the strong motives,
which induced a new appointment, and to believe
them the dictates of sound deliberation.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 345

" I beg leave to express my sincere acknow-
ledgments for the personal favours, which your
excellency has been pleased to bestow on me, and
to assure you that I shall carry into my new situa-
tion the deepest sense of my obligations to your
friendship and patronage.

" Wishing you the enjoyment of domestic and
public happiness, a reward justly earned by a long
life, faithfully devoted to the public service, I beg
to subscribe myself, with great consideration," &c.

The dominant party made a much more fatal
mistake in a law for dividing the commonwealth
into districts for the choice of counsellors and
senators.

The constitution provided that " the senate of
the state should consist of forty members, chosen
by the inhabitants of the districts into which the
commonwealth may from time to time be divided
by the general court for that purpose," and in as-
signing numbers to be elected by the respective
districts, " regard should be had to the proportion
of the public taxes paid in said districts."

The right of the legislature to divide the state
into districts, provided the proportion between the
number of senators and the amount of tax was
properly observed, seems not to be doubtful. The
propriety of an alteration of the existing districts
was therefore a question of policy. In the new
arrangement, such contiguous towns were classed

vol. ii. 44

346 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

together as ensured to the democratic party a
small majority in most of the districts, and gave a
large majority to the federalists in the others so
that with an equal number of voters on each side
throughout the state, the former party would, ac-
cording to the votes of the two last previous elec-
tions be sure of a majority of senators. By in-
creasing the number of their districts, it became
obvious that they lessened their majority of voters
in each of them, and although such an arrange-
ment increased the number of their senators, it
did no more than give them a majority, which
even by parting with some they would still have
retained. It was obvious too, that if there was
only a small majority of voters in a district, the
result of an election was exposed to hazard from
the change of opinion even of a few individuals,
and the consequence therefore was unnecessarily
precarious.

But besides this, the new districts were ar-
ranged by breaking up counties, which had formed,
as far as was possible, the ancient limits of sena-
torial districts, or by joining several counties to-
gether. They thus destroyed old associations
and threw the electors into new combinations and
connexions, in which local and territorial interests
were confounded.

In all these respects the law was injudicious,
but there was a stronger objection to it in the obvi-
ous motive to retain power in the hands of a party
even against the will of the people. There was

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 347

an apparent management, too plain not to be per-
ceived, and which being seen, was universally
reprobated.

It is true this was not the first instance of the
kind in state legislation. The districts for the
election of members of congress had always been
arranged by the federal party, as far as could be
done, with the same object and on the same sys-
tem. But while the geographical line of coun-
ties was necessarily passed for those elections,
the intention, if in truth as certain, was less easily
brought home and fastened on its authors. In the
present instance it was too apparent to be denied,
and the design and management were instantly
reprobated by the opposition, as fiercely as if they
had themselves always been innocent of a similar
transgression.

To the governour the project of this law was
exceedingly disagreeable. He urged to his friends
strong arguments against its policy as well as its
effects. After it had passed both houses, he hesi-
tated to give it his signature, and meditated to
return it to the legislature with his objections
to its becoming a law, but being satisfied that it
conformed to the constitution, he doubted whether
against precedents to the contrary, the private
opinion of a governour on a mere question of pro-
priety or policy, would justify the interposition of
his negative, and he accordingly permitted it to
pass. Notwithstanding his hostility to the project

348 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

and his repugnance to its passage, the opposition
had the address to have him in the public mind
considered the author of the plan, and to affix to
it a variation of his name to encourage the belief
that it was his own individual invention.

The public feeling was by all these measures,
by the ardour which on one side supported, and
the violence which on the other assailed them,
excited to a high and almost insupportable tone.
It displayed itself in newspaper publications of a
character the most pungent and severe. The
speech of the governour to the legislature in
June was followed by a series of essays under
the signature of the Boston Rebel, in which all
the usual forms of respect to a chief magistrate
were violated ; and his proclamation for thanks-
giving published in October discussed in a similar
series under the signature of a real christian, and
old fashioned whig, which surpassed in intem-
perance of expression whatever before had been
considered the limits of political severity. These
and others of a like character were written with
great force of talent and ingenuity, and being very
extensively circulated, were calculated to produce
powerful effects. Retorts were not wanting from
the side of the administration, and a threaten-
ing letter having been anonymously sent to the
governour, he thought fit to issue a proclama-
tion for the detection of the author, in which
he says, " such an attempt is an effort to pros-

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 349

trate at the feet of debased and slanderous prin-
ters, and of their more criminal employers, the
indispensable administration of justice ; * * * *
to complete the triumph of calumny, falsehood,
injustice and malignant passions, crimes which by
means of incendiary writers and printers in this
state, have obtained an ascendency unparalleled
in any other ; which have been principally directed
against the legislative and executive public func-
tionaries of the national and state governments,
with a manifest intention to overthrow both, and
which also have been employed to destroy private
character, the inestimable property of both sexes."

The extraordinary latitude assumed by writers
in the public journals, in their commentaries on
the conduct and motives of the public agents, and
the recrimination to which it led, together with
some other circumstances connected with the
licentiousness of the press, naturally drew the
attention of the community to the power of the
law over this delicate subject, and the protection,
which the citizen might enjoy against calumny, as
well as the claim he had to receive intelligence
and information on matters interesting and im-
portant.

At the opening of the supreme court in Boston
in November, the learned judge, who presided,
deemed it useful to place the matter distinctly be-
fore the grand jury. With the principles, which
he stated to be law, no objection can be found.

350 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

The doctrine of libel was perfectly well defined ;
yet nevertheless, by the public generally, the charge
was believed to imply the lawfulness of that kind
of attack, which had been made on the functiona-
ries of the government, and to secure from punish-
ment, by the exceptions and limitations, which it
disclosed, all or nearly all the authors and printers
of the several pieces, which had attracted the par-
ticular observation of the community. The charge
of the judge was published in the newspapers.
If in the execution of his high trust a judicial
officer correctly propounds the provisions of law,
he is not responsible, most certainly, for the erro-
neous construction, which may be given to his
opinions, or the wrong application which may be
made of them. But if the existing law on any
subject be unjust or unwise, it becomes the duty
of the supreme executive magistrate to communi-
cate his view of it to the legislature, to the end
that it may be reformed by their authority. It is
not however to be doubted that the high officers of
government, keeping strictly in the path of their
legitimate authority, may yet countenance opin-
ions or measures, the direct agency of which
they would deem it imprudent to assume ; and
that while the judges of the land were separated
like the ancient Levites to a special service and
a consecrated duty, it was not always possible
for them to forget that politics as well as learning
had been their qualification of admission to the

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 351

temple of justice. The time had been, as already
narrated, when the expression of a partizan tem-
per was indulged with impunity. It was not
now entirely safe, but the indirect influence of
the judicial character was still powerful, and the
individuals who wore the ermine knew they con-
tinued to be citizens, and felt themselves obliged
to be federalists.

The governour was aware of the impression,
which the charge of the judge was calculated to
produce. It caused a correspondence between
them, which is sufficiently original and amusing to
be introduced here. There was a strong reluc-
tance in the republican party to do any thing,
which the constitution would not authorize in re-
gard to the judicial institutions of the state ; but
it is not questionable that they would gladly have
taken advantage of any fair opportunity, to have
placed a representative of their own sentiments
and feelings on the bench of a tribunal, which
deciding in the last resort on life, liberty, property
and character, had for all the period of party pas-
sion been exclusively in the possession of the
opposite political class.

352 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

MR. SECRETARY HOMANS TO JUDGE PARKER.

Council Chameer, January 7, 1812.

Sir,

His excellency governour Gerry directs me to
present his compliments to you, with a request to
be informed, whether the publication in the Boston
newspapers or either of them, is a correct state-
ment or copy of your charge to the grand jury of
Suffolk on the subject of libels, and if so the
governour requests you will be pleased to inform
him.

I have the honour to be, &c. &c.

Benjamin Homans, Secretary.

JUDGE PARKER TO MR. SECRETARY HOMANS.

Wednesday Morning.

Sir,

I received your communication too late last
evening to return an answer, being absent when
it was left at my house.

I now request you to inform his excellency that
not having the manuscript, from which my charge
was read to the grand jury, in my possession, and
not having read it in the newspapers, it is impos-
sible for me to say whether it has been correctly
printed or not. If however his excellency shall
inform me that he deems it necessary in his

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 353

administration of the executive department of
government, to know with precision what has
been done by me on the subject alluded to, in my
administration of the judiciary department, I will
as soon as the great mass of business with which
I am pressed will permit, recover the manuscript,
and transmit his excellency a fair copy of it.
Your obedient servant,

Isaac Parker.
B. HomanSj Esqr.

GOVERNOUR GERRY TO JUDGE PARKER.

Council Chamber, February 8, 1812.

Sir,

Having been pressed by public measures on
the 7th of January last, I desired Mr. Secretary
Homans to request of you information in regard to
the correctness of the publication of your charge
to the grand jury of Suffolk, on the subject of
libels ; and the next day he sent to me your an-
swer, stating that you was also pressed by a great
mass of business, and that, as soon as this will
permit, you will inform me with precision, what
has been done by you on the subject alluded to,
in your administration of the judiciary department,
if I deem it officially necessary. This I do ; but
have waited to the present time, desirous of avoid-
ing every measure that may have embarrassed or

vol. ii. 45

354 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

incommoded you amidst your important public
concerns. Being informed that your session will
probably close this day, I wish in the advanced
state of the present session of the legislature for
the earliest information mentioned in your letter,
except the bills of indictments of which I have
certified copies.

I have the honour to be, sir,
With great respect,

Your obedient servant,

E. Gerry.

The Hon. Isaac Parker,

A Judge of the Supreme Judicial Court.

JUDGE PARKER TO GOVERNOUR GERRY.

Boston, February 10, 1812.
MAY IT PLEASE YOUR EXCELLENCY :

I had the honour to receive your excellency's
letter of the 8th instant, while on the bench in
the discharge of my judicial functions, and per-
plexed with the multitude and variety of concerns
which usually crowd upon a court towards the
close of its session.

Having since the rising of the court, reperused
your excellency's letter, together with those which
by your excellency's order have been sent to me
by the secretary of the commonwealth in the
course of my arduous official engagements, I

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 355

now deem it to be a duty which I owe to the
public, to your excellency and to myself, to ex-
press with frankness the sentiments they have
occasioned, and to state the principles by which
I as a member of an independent branch of the
government, believe that I ought to be governed.

I need not point out to your excellency that
article in the declaration of rights prefixed to our
constitution, which was intended to establish a
complete and entire separation of the executive,
legislative and judicial powers of government,
nor need I advise your excellency of the import-
ance of such a principle to the well being, if not
to the existence of a free government. I do not
apprehend your excellency has intended, in the ex-
ercise of the executive functions, to interfere with
those of the judiciary, nevertheless as it would be
your excellency's duty to resist even an uninten-
tional encroachment by either of the other branches
of government upon the powers committed to you
by the constitution ; so it is my duty to resist any
such encroachment, although the act which con-
stitutes it, may not in the apprehension of your
excellency have the character which seems to me
to belong to it.

When I received from the secretary of the com-
monwealth his letter, written by your excellency's
directions, on the 7th of January last, requesting
to be informed whether a certain publication in
the newspapers was a correct copy of my charge

356 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

to the grand jury on the subject of libels, I
should have supposed it to have had for its object
the satisfaction of your excellency's mind upon
that point in your private capacity, had not the
supposition been forbidden by the formal manner
of the request, and the important public character
of the officer made use of to transmit it.

Being obliged therefore to consider it a public
proceeding, and not having before known an in-
stance in which a judge had been called upon
when in the midst of his official labours, by the
chief executive magistrate, to avow or disavow
any proceeding attributed to him, and being left
to conjecture the motive which suggested the call,
your excellency will readily conceive that I had
reason to apprehend that some important public
measure was intended by your excellency to be
predicated upon the fact when ascertained, of the
genuineness of the publication.

The legislature being then about to commence
its session, the least important view in which I
could personally consider the subject, was that
your excellency intended to make my charge to
the grand jury the basis of some part of your
communication to that body, but on reflecting,
that if there was any thing in the doctrine ad-
vanced by me, which ought to excite the attention
of the legislature, every member of either branch
had the same means of seeing what had been
attributed to me, which your excellency had

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 357

possessed, and also, upon reflecting that what-
ever was stated by me to the grand jury to be the
law upon the subject of libels, which differed from
the generally known and received doctrine of the
common law, was to be found in an opinion of the
whole court, as declared by the chief justice in
the case of the Commonwealth against William
Clapp, since published in the authorized reports
of judicial decisions, I was led to believe that a
supposed amendment of the law was not the ob-
ject for which your excellency required of me an
acknowledgment of the charge, but that some
object of a personal nature towards me was in
your excellency's contemplation. It was for this
reason, that in answer to your request I stated,
that if your excellency would inform me that you
deemed it necessary in your administration of the
executive department of government, to know
with precision what had been done by me on the
subject alluded to in my administration of the ju-
diciary department, 1 would transmit you a cor-
rect copy of the charge.

Having received no such information from your
excellency, and having perceived in your excel-
lency's speech to the legislature, a general refer-
ence to the subject of libels, and having also per-
ceived in the newspaper account of the proceed-
ings of the house, that a committee had been
raised upon this subject, I was advised again to
consider that all your excellency's views were in

358 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

the way of being answered, and that there was
no occasion for any information from me.

" On January 31, however, I was surprised by
another communication from the secretary of state,
authorized by your excellency as he states, ex-
pressing your excellency's desire to see the letter
which was first received by me upon this subject,
and although I was unable to discern any motive
for the request, I forwarded a copy of it to the
secretary, which I presume has been laid before
your excellency.

I am now distinctly informed by a direct com-
munication from your excellency, that the infor-
mation wanted from me is for the purpose of pre-
dicating upon it some further communication to
the legislature, but whether with a view to effect
the general object of an alteration of the law, or
to inculpate me for any supposed error in my
charge to the grand jury, is still left for me to
conjecture.

If the former be the object, it is only necessary
for your excellency to be apprised of what the
law now is, which if not sufficiently explained in
the case decided by the whole court before al-
luded to, I shall be ready, as will my brethren,
(pursuant to a provision of the constitution,^ to
assist your excellency in forming a definite opinion
upon. My charge was intended to explain to the
grand jury, the law upon the subject of libels, as
existing according to the principles of the com-

LIFE OF ELBR1DGE GERRY. 359

mon law, and the decisions of the judiciary under
the constitution. I presume it contains nothing
beyond this intention ; and if it does, it would be
an unsafe basis to predicate a charge upon, be-
cause then it would be no evidence of the law as
it now exists.

The principle adopted by the court, in the case
referred to, naturally and necessarily flows from
the nature of our government, and from our con-
stitution. The same clause in the constitution
which adopts the common law, rejects any part of
it which may contravene the principles of the
constitution, and although the legislature has an
undoubted right to repeal the common law by ex-
press statute, yet until they shall have exercised
that right, the courts of law are bound by their
oaths to refuse operation to any principle of the
common law, whenever such principle shall be
found repugnant to the rights and liberties secured
by the constitution. But it is a most remarkable
fact in the history of a free people, that complaints
should be heard against a doctrine so essential to
liberty in an elective government ; and that a de-
parture from the common law (established princi-
pally under a monarchical government,) which de-
parture is in favour of truth and freedom of en-
quiry, should be questioned in a country where
the people are sovereign and all public officers are
agents of the people.

If however the object of your excellency is to
obtain from me facts whereon to predicate a

360 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

charge against me, for any incorrect opinion de-
livered by me to the public through the grand
jury of this county, your excellency must be
sensible that I might avail myself of the common
right of all persons accused to withhold any in-
formation which may tend to support charges
made against themselves, and would therefore, on
this supposition, readily excuse me for not com-
plying with your request.

If the house of representatives, the grand in-
quest of the commonwealth, shall see fit to in-
stitute an enquiry into any of my judicial acts, I
shall most cheerfully and unreservedly answer any
question and acknowledge any act necessary to
their investigation.

But I deem it to be my solemn duty to the
public, and to such as may hereafter occupy my
place, to protect, as far as in me lies, the inde-
pendence of the department to which I belong, and
never by any act of mine, to acquiesce in a claim
of the executive to arraign the conduct or the
motives of the judiciary, in a manner not author-
ised by the constitution.

In so conducting, I shall maintain the constitu-
tion which we are all sworn to support, shall pro-
mote the interest of the people for whose happi-
ness it was made, and shall render the character
of a judge in some measure, what the constitution
declares it ought to be, " as independent as the
lot of humanity will admit."

Upon these principles I should have been origi-

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 361

nally justified in declining to submit my charge
to your excellency's scrutiny. But on recurring
to the conditional engagement I made to your
excellency, and being now informed that your
excellency deems it officially necessary, I should
were it in my power immediately transmit your
excellency a copy. Upon enquiry I have learned
that the manuscript was delivered over by one of
the grand jury to the editor of the newspaper
called the Patriot, with whom I suppose it still
remains, having never seen it since it was de-
livered to the jury \ and not having any copy of
it, I enclose an order, by which I suppose it may
be obtained, if your excellency thinks it important
to have it. If I should have been mistaken in as-
cribing views and intentions which do not exist,
(which the peculiar state of the times may have
caused me to do,) your excellency I hope will
pardon this interruption to your important labours.
I have the honour to be with respect,
Your excellency's obedient servant,

Isaac Parker.

The Editor or Printer of the Patriot

Will please to deliver to the order of his excel-
lency governour Gerry, the manuscript from which
a charge delivered by me to the grand jury, was
printed. Isaac Parker.

Boston, Mth Feb. 1812.

vol. ii. 46

362 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

Messrs. Munroe 6y* French,

The governour wishes to have the original here-
in alluded to, as soon as convenient. Your's,

Benjamin Homans.

17 th Feb. 1812.

Mr. Farley, who handed to us the charge, ob-
served that it would be called for the next day.
We laid it aside and carefully preserved it for sev-
eral days. It not being called for, we neglected
any further care of it, and an observation of Mr.
Farley some days after, that " it was printed cor-
rectly," inducing a belief that it would never be
wanted, it has been mislaid, and we are sorry to
say, is possibly destroyed.
Respectfully,

Munroe & French.

GOVERNOUR GERRY TO JUDGE PARKER.

Cambridge, March 2, 1812.

Sir, — On the 7th of January last, I presented
through the secretary of the commonwealth, to
yourself as an honourable judge of the supreme
judicial court, a respectful request for information,
" whether the publication was correct, of your
charge to the grand jury of Suffolk, on the subject
of libels," and received the next day your answer

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 363

to him, that " not having the manuscript or read
the charge in the newspapers, you could not say
whether it has been correctly printed or not, but
that if I deemed it necessary in my administration
of the executive department, to know with preci-
sion what has been done by you, on the subject
alluded to, in your judicial capacity, you would as
soon as business would permit, recover the manu-
script, and transmit to me a fair copy of it."

On the 8th of February, I informed you by let-
ter, that I deemed the information requested,
" officially necessary," but had waited till the close
of your session, " having been desirous of avoiding
every measure, that may have embarrassed or in-
commoded you amidst your important public con-
cerns." A day or two after, the secretary deliv-
ered me, when much occupied, a manuscript of
two sheets which were not enveloped, and took
from them a scrip, which perusing, I found to be
your order on the editor of the Patriot for the
manuscript of the charge, and concluding that the
two sheets contained the charge itself, I hastily
put them into a file, and did not until the 17th of
February, discover that they contained your an-
swer of the 10th to my letter of the 8th of Feb-
ruary. Immediately after this discovery, the se-
cretary by my desire, sent your order to the printer
of the Patriot, who stated, that the manuscript
containing the charge, was mislaid or destroyed.

The subsequent circumstances, immaterial in

364 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

my mind, are mentioned to relieve your's from the
uneasiness you expressed, at your having received
on the bench, my letter of the 10th of February.
This was an unavoidable accident and contrary to
my order, which directed the delivery of the letter
at your house, on the presumption that you would
receive it after the rising of the supreme judicial
court. The frequency of such errors on the part
of messengers usually renders unnecessary ex-
planations of this kind. But this complaint, sir,
is enforced by your solemn notice, that two letters
were by my " order" sent to you by the secretary,
in the course of your arduous official engagements.
One of these letters, that of the 7th of January,
already referred to, you had mentioned as having
received at your house ; where the other was de-
livered, I know not, but had supposed at the same
place ; indeed it did not appear to me material, as
both letters consisted of but few lines, and the
object of the last was to obtain a copy of the first,
to ascertain whether it contained any thing offen-
sive to yourself. On perusing it, I was happy to
find it free from such a charge. Having taken so
much of your time, sir, in explaining accidents and
matters which unexpectedly had disturbed your
mind, I now deem it to be a duty, which I owe to
the public, to you and to myself, to enclose a
printed copy, which I presume is correct, of my
message on the 27th of February last to the legis-
lature, and to state, that it was for the purpose of

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 365

making this communication to the legislature, at
an early period of its session that the information
in regard to your charge was requested. I do not
apprehend the supreme judicial court has intended
in the exercise of its judicial functions, to inter-
fere with those of the legislature or executive.
But I perfectly agree with you, sir, " that it is my
duty to resist an unintentional encroachment, al-
though the act which constitutes it, may not in.
the apprehension of that court, have the character
which seems to me to belong to it."

It was surprising to me to learn by your letter,
" that you was led to believe some object of a per-
sonal nature, toward yourself was in my contem-
plation," conscious as I was of never having ex-
pressed a sentiment or opinion in regard to your-
self which could have authorised that belief, or
that had not made a very favourable impression.
It was impossible then for me to conceive what
other reasons could exist in your mind for such a
belief, or for supposing me capable of attempting
to draw from you information, to criminate your-
self. No part of my conduct, I trust, could war-
rant such a suspicion.

What has been stated, sir, I presume is sufficient
to show, that altercation on my request in regard
to your charge was unnecessary ; that you was at
liberty to comply or not with that request ; and
that it resulted from a sense of official duty.

I regret, sir, that " the peculiar state of the

366 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

times may have caused you to ascribe to me views
and intentions," which did not, and could not exist,
and the more so, as in the case of your refusal to
admit John Shirley Williams, Esq. commissioned
by me (and duly qualified) as a clerk of the judi-
cial courts of the county of Norfolk, your con-
duct was not considered as an opposition to law,
or to the executive authority ; but was viewed and
treated by me as an inadvertence on the part of
the supreme judicial court, too minute to make any
serious impression.

My desire and intention are to support the dig-
nity and authority of the judicial, as well as of
the other departments of government.

I have the honour to be, sir, respectfully
Your obedient servant,

E. Gerry.

Hon. Isaac Parker,

An associate Justice of the Supreme Judicial Court.

Before the close of the legislature the gover-
nour made a communication on the subject of
libels and the charge of the justice of the supreme
court in connexion therewith. In this message
he remarks :

" The honourable judge Parker in his charge,
states that a more important variance (than had
been by him mentioned) from the strict common
law principles relating to libels, has lately been

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 367

adopted here as resulting from the nature of our
government and the express provisions of our con-
stitution ; this is that in trials of indictment for
libels upon persons holding offices, which depend
upon an election by the people or permitting
themselves to be candidates for such offices, the
accused is permitted to give the truth in evidence.
The judges have not confined themselves in their
variance from the common law, as it is conceived
they ought to have done, to the express provisions
of our constitution, but have taken an indefinite
rule for their conduct, namely, " the nature of our
government." They have also implied if not ex-
pressed that in the support of libels upon judges
and executive officers not elected by the people,
the truth is not to be given in evidence ; but their
reasons for these positions are not stated. " If
a bad man is at any time held up for the office of
governour, senator or representative," it may be de-
sirable, as judge Parker states, " to let the people
know, through the medium of the press, that they
cannot elect such a man without disgracing or ruin-
ing themselves." And is it not equally true that
if there are in office bad judges, they ought to be
placed precisely on the same ground, that their
mal-practices being publicly exposed, may meet
prompt investigation and produce their removal
and punishment ? Can it be denied that as great
a proportion of judges as of other public function-
aries, in all countries and ages, have been bad

368 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

men, although by their professional address they
may have been more successful in escaping punish-
ment ; and if the conduct of a judge is to be ex-
empt from the press, may not the judicial de-
partment by the power, which they are now ex-
ercising, and by the doctrines, which are and may
be promulgated by them, establish an unconstitu-
tional and dangerous influence in the state."

" If the judicial department of the state should
at any time consist of bad men, who are desirous
to oppose and overthrow the national and state
governments, or either of them ; to favour or
frown on individuals according to their political
opinions ; to punish one individual severely and an-
other lightly for the same offence ; to protect the
guilty and punish the innocent, or to commit under
the garb of justice any other atrocities, ought not
such mal-practices to be exposed by the press in
order to procure the removal of every such offender
from office, as well as the misconduct of indi-
viduals who are in, or may be candidates for
offices, to prevent their election by the people."

These pregnant intimations were communicated
to the legislature at too late a period of the session
to be very thoroughly and extensively understood,
and the change of administration prevented any
further proceedings.

There were men in the confidence of the gov-
emour, who would have been willing and able to
have prevented any very serious attack on the

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 869

judicial functionaries, though they might have
been contented to alarm the possessors of that
delicate power with the apprehension that it was
not in future to be used, if ever in past time it
had been, with partiality or favour.

The matter, however, already disclosed had too
distinctive a character not to intimidate those,
whose esprit du corps attached them to the judi-
ciary establishment, and added another phalanx to
the party, who would be desirous of changing the
administration of the state.

The war between Great Britain and the United
States, which was not declared by congress until
17th June 1812, was already seen to be in progress.
Indications of the approaching storm had been
clearly discernible from the proceedings of the
national councils. To all the local concerns,
which have been enumerated, and to numerous
others of high excitement at the moment, which
swell the history of party contest in Massachusetts,
was added the connexion between the government
of the nation and the interest of the common-
wealth. Federalists were a peace party. War
with England was, by their code of national honour,
unjust and unnatural. Those lofty sentiments of
pride, those chivalrous feelings which at a former
period sounded boldly and gallantly at the pros-
pect of hostility, if they had not subsided, were
silenced, and gave place to grave questions of
prudence and close calculations of economy. The

vol. ii. 47

570 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

governour belonged to the war council. To the
measures of the national administration he gave
his most cordial approbation, and disregarding his
own personal popularity or interest, made the
whole object of his efforts to consist in giving to
the general government all the aid that could in
any way be derived from the wealth, the power
and concurrence of the state. In his address to
the legislature, on their assembling in January, he
had discussed the various subjects of controversy
existing between the United States and foreign
governments, insisting on the correctness of our
own conduct, the impossibility of any other, con-
sistently with self-respect or public interest, and
on the duty of our citizens of every party to gather
round the standard, which the government had
raised. With a boldness suited rather to his own
character than to the policy of the times, he impu-
ted in plain terms a deficiency of patriotism and a
defect of public spirit to whomsoever, in the ap-
proaching contest, should hesitate to strengthen
the arm of his country. Coming directly to the
point at which all the arrangements of the govern-
ment tended, though they had not then been
announced, he says : " If Great Britain had been
wise and just, a war with her would be contrary to
the mutual interests of both nations. Under exist-
ing circumstances it will be a wonderful event to
be explained only by her political blindness or
obstinate injustice. Will it not accelerate her

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 371

own destruction ? This, which is in her power to
prevent, is not the object of the United States.
They would deeply regret it. But their existence
as an independent nation depends on their main-
taining their rights or repelling a further inva-
sion of them and obtaining justice for past injuries.
In support of the dignified and energetic conduct
of our national government, will not the citizens
of this state be ardent, to pledge their property,
their lives, and their sacred honour ? The present
state of our country, the spirit of the nation, the
union of her citizens, her ability (in her zenith)
to enforce her rights, the hazard on the part of
Great Britain of refusing justice ; all conspire to
confirm the policy of decision and vigour, by the
United States, and the individual states. — If at
this momentous crisis the nation should cease to
respect herself, and shrink from the indispensable
duty of self-preservation, shall we not be urged
soon by the advocates of vassalage to supplicate
his Britannic majesty to admit us again into his
royal favour as penitent subjects, to grant us his
kind protection, and to cheer us with his paternal
smiles, and above all, to recommend us to the
patronage of his faithful royalists in these his duti-
ful provinces ?"

In the contest, which the governour's personal
and official influence was incessantly exerted to
accelerate, the power of the enemy, which it
suited the policy of the opposition to enlarge, did

372 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

not alarm him. He felt a confidence in the re-
sources of the country and spirit of the citizens,
which on every occasion he earnestly endeavoured
extensively to inspire and diffuse. The evidence
amon<r other measures is in the communication of
the following message to the general court, on
21st January 1012.

Gentlemen of the Senate, and

Gentlemen of the House of Representatives.

It being officially announced that the Indians
complain " they cannot receive the usual supplies
of goods, by reason of the nonimportation act,
and that they are not to be purchased within the
United States," I submit to your consideration
whether it is not incumbent on this state to use
the means in its power for enabling the national
government to rise superior to such an humiliating
circumstance.

In the year 1775, when our war with Great
Britain commenced, and when immediately pre-
ceding it a nonimportation act had been strictly
carried into effect, the state of Massachusetts ap-
portioned on their towns respectively to be manu-
factured by them, the articles of clothing wanted
for their proportion of the army, which besieged
Boston, and fixed the prices and qualities of those
articles, and they were duly supplied within a
short period. Thus before we had arrived at the
threshold of independence, and when we were in

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 373

an exhausted state by the antecedent voluntary
and patriotic sacrifice of our commerce, between
thirteen and fourteen thousand cloth coats were
manufactured, made and delivered into our maga-
zine within a few months from the date of the
resolve, which first communicated the requisition.
Thirty-six years have since elapsed, during
twenty-nine of which we have enjoyed peace and
prosperity, and have increased in numbers, manu-
factures, wealth, and resources beyond the most
sanguine expectations.

All branches of this government have declared
their opinion, and I conceive on the most solid
principles, that as a nation we are independent of
every other for the necessaries, conveniences, and
for many of the luxuries of life. Let us not then
at this critical period admit any obstruction, which
we have power to remove, to discourage or retard
the national exertions for asserting and maintain-
ing our rights ; and above all let us convince Great
Britain that we can and will be independent of
her for every article of commerce, whilst she con-
tinues to be the ostensible friend but implacable
foe of our prosperity, government, union and inde-
pendence.

By calling on the inhabitants of this state and
offering them reasonable prices, there exists no
doubt in my mind of our ability to supply every
article of clothing, which may be wanted for our
proportion of troops, that may be wanted to carry

374 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

on a defensive or most vigorous offensive war, and
at the same time every article that may be want-
ed by the Indians.

But if this should appear in any degree a doubt-
ful point, cannot the wealthy and manufacturing
states of Massachusetts, New-York and Pennsyl-
vania, and those north of the latter, effect the
object ?

The question requires not a moment to give a
prompt affirmative answer.

The legislature then having a thorough know-
ledge of the resources of this commonwealth, of
her ability and her disposition to draw them forth
on such an important occasion, leave nothing ne-
cessary to be added on this subject.

E. Gerry.

Council Chamber, Jan. 21, 1812.

It was not by words merely that the governour
proved the strength of his attachment to the policy
of the national cabinet. On 10th of April con-
gress passed an act " authorizing the president of
the United States to require the executives of the
several states and territories to take effectual
measures to organize, arm and equip according to
law, and hold in readiness to march at a moment's
warning, their proportion of one hundred thousand
militia, officers included." The requisition was
made by the president on Massachusetts, for ten
thousand men, as the quota of that state, and the

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 3?5

general orders of the governour and commander in
chief were issued on the 25th of the same month,
containing the entire details of the service ; so
promptly did he deem it necessary to meet the
exigency of the case. Nice questions of political
casuistry, as to the relative rights of the state or
the nation over the citizen soldier of the country,
had not been invented to disturb the harmony of
the people, and surely if they had arisen they
would have been treated like the fancies of an un-
sound mind. Under his administration the force
of the state would have been willingly and even
earnestly displayed, in whatever position it could
render the most effectual service. " We have
been," said he, in a private letter of this date,
" long enough at peace ; we are losing our spirit,
our character, and our independence. We are
degenerating into a mere nation of traders, and
are forgetting the honour of our ancestors and the
interest of posterity. We must be roused by
some great event that may stir up the ancient
patriotism of the people. Policy has kept us
quiet until it ceases to be policy. Weakness and
exhaustion prevented us from noble daring, and it
was wise in us to temporize until we gained
strength and vigour. We have now grown to
manhood, and it will be shameful in the man to
bear what the child might submit to without dis-
honour."

But there is some difficulty in raising the tern-

376 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

per of a people long lapsed in indolence and ease to
the energy or the spirit of belligerents. Prepara-
tions for war alarm them. Taxes and loans, and the
personal services, and the cessation of commerce,
which precede it, will always hang a dead weight
on their gallantry. The task is rendered more
difficult when the causes of war may be impugned,
and the evils which it threatens may plausibly be
charged, not on enemies abroad, but on mis-
management at home. To a war with England,
and to that course of administration which now
rendered it inevitable, the whole policy and feel-
ing, and all the zeal and passion of the federal
party had been steadily opposed, and now that
the crisis had arrived, and before the splendours
of conquest and the shouts of victory had inspired
animation and roused the spirit of the community,
they found it easy to enlarge the circle of their
forces, and to become popular as a peace party by
whatever considerations peace might be preserved.
The annual election of state officers presented
a favourable opportunity to regain the power they
had lost. Identifying themselves with the oppo-
sition, as the governour had identified himself
with the administration of the national govern-
ment, they declared that by electing federal rulers
in Massachusetts, a change would be made in the
national executive, that a settlement would be
then made with England that would give new
energies to commerce, that an unrestrained com-

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 377

uierce would give activity to the pursuits of agricul-
ture to all the mechanic arts, to the fisheries and
to all departments of industry, and that the elec-
tion of federalists would deal a death blow to the
standing army, direct taxes, immense loans, dis-
gusting excises, stamp acts and other evils, which
hang like a black cloud on their devoted heads.

.." If the democratic candidates are elected,
nothing on earth can prevent the continuance
for years to come of all the deprivations, distresses,
decay of business and other evils, which now
spread calamity in every quarter of the country,
and which have been hourly increasing ever since
the country has been governed by democratic
rulers."

As preparation for the coming war, an embargo
was decided upon by the committee of foreign re-
lations in the house of representatives of the Unit-
ed States, and notice of the yet immature purpose
communicated by some of the Massachusetts
members of congress by express, which arrived in
Boston on the eve of the annual election. The
news was immediately sent through the state.

In an embargo there was something dishearten-
ing and discouraging. It had the misery of war
without its benefits ; the sacrifice incident to bat-
tle with no chance for the exhilaration of victory.
To the local matters herein before enumerated
and to the connexion between the executive of the
state and the nation, was now added the paralysis of

vol. if. 48

378 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

another embargo upon all enterprise and exertion.
These circumstances of the election called out a
larger vote than had ever before been given in the
commonwealth, and resulted in the success of the
federal candidate by a majority of 1370, out of
104156 votes.

The immense difference between the policy of
him who had been removed, and of him who had
been placed in the chair, had not been overstated
by the friends of the successful chief magistrate.
The former had scarcely been settled again as a
private citizen on his farm, before the war, which
had so long been apprehended, was declared in
form by the constitutional act of the lawful au-
thority. Had he continued in office, he would
have reechoed the declaration in the enlivening
tones of patriotism and pride, inciting the people
of his state by bold and vigorous exertions to
crown the conflict with honour, and animating
their courage by reciting the example of their an-
cestors, displaying the responsibility they held to
the country, and urging them to make their own
names as famous in future annals as were those
who fell at Bunker Hill or conquered on the plains
of Monmouth.

His successor was pleased to announce it in a
manner characteristic of the new party in power.
He ordained a day of public fasting, humiliation
and prayer, because of the great calamity of being
engaged in war against " a nation from which we

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 379

are descended, and which for many generations
has been the bulwark of the religion we profess ;"
He exhorted the people " to ascribe righteousness
to our Maker when he threatens us with the most
severe of all temporal calamities, and to beseech
him to avert the tokens of his anger and to remem-
ber us with his former loving kindness and tender
mercy ;" and " that the inhabitants of this state
may be the objects of his peculiar favour, that he
would take them under his holy protection, and
hide them in his •pavilion until these dangers be
past ; that the chastisements with which he may
think proper to afflict us may serve to humble us
and do us good, and that we may not be like those
who are hardened by his corrections, and who in
the time of their trouble multiply their transgres-
sions against him."

The policy of the ex-governour of Massachu-
setts would have elevated the spirits and animated
the confidence and cherished the hopes and nerv-
ed the courage of his countrymen. If he had
called them round their domestic altars, it would
have been for thanksgiving and not to fast ; he
would have called them there not in humiliation
that calamity had fallen upon them, but in grati-
tude that they possessed the pride of freemen and
the resolution to maintain their liberties ; he would
not have begged to hide them from danger, but
advancing at the first signal of an enemy, asked
of the God of armies " to teach their hands to war
and their fingers to fight."

380 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

Little effort is necessary to create terror and
alarm. Dangers that are unseen may be made to
terrify the imagination with illimitable horror.
The cry of sauve qui pent once raised, confusion
and dismay will overwhelm those who raise it.

The desponding and affrighted tone of this first
proclamation of the Massachusetts executive, the
deplorable and abasing sentiment with which in
an act of religious service, purified from all politi-
cal design, the whole people of the commonwealth
were directed to unite as if they were expecting
the dissolution of the globe, and the day of final
retribution, had its effect in restraining the gener-
ous and gallant and lofty spirit of a high minded
and patriotic people, so that aided by other meas-
ures of the peace party their majority, which in
the contest with governour Gerry scarcely exceed-
ed thirteen hundred voters, amounted at the elec-
tion of electors in November to 24023.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 381

CHAPTER XI.

Elected vice-president of the United States Address of congratu~

lation from his friends in Massachusetts.. ....National and state

policy Presides in the senate of the United States The

cabinet His opinion'of the opposition in Massachusetts

Sudden death Funeral Proposed bill to continue his salary

to his widow Itost in the house of representatives His

monument Inscription.

The loss of the chief magistracy of Massachu-
setts was amply compensated to the ex-governour
by the vice-presidency of the United States. The
republican party through the country had beheld
with the highest satisfaction the steadiness of his
attachment to their principles, the fearlessness
with which he had advanced them where they
were least popular, and the aid, which his charac-
ter as a distinguished actor in the war that acquir-
ed independence, would give to the contest which
in their opinion would secure it.

At a meeting held by the members of congress
of that party, on the 8th June 18 12, at Washing-
ton, he was proposed by nearly an unanimous
vote* for the suffrages of the electoral colleges,
and on the first Wednesday of December of that
year, was elected vice-president of the United
States.f It was not possible to have imagined a

* More exactly 74 to 3.

f This election was entirely on party grounds throughout the
United States, excepting only that Mr. Gerry received one vote

382 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

more splendid reward for the aid he had given to
the political principles of his party.

To his friends in Massachusetts the nomination
was particularly pleasing, and the result of the
election was received with great exultation and
delight.

They felt the compliment tbus paid to their ex-
ertions under circumstances calculated greatly to
depress them ; and the honour reflected on them-
selves added new zeal to their efforts in support
of the national administration. " The republican
members of the senate and house of representa-
tives of Massachusetts and other citizens," as-
sembled in Boston, presented to the vice-president
elect an address of congratulation, in the most res-
pectful and affectionate terms, in which they thank
him for the open avowal of his attachment to the
national and state constitutions, while he exercis-
ed the office of chief magistracy of the common-
wealth, and felicitate themselves on the evidence
of the cordiality of their southern fellow citizens,
" in selecting a character so fully comprising the
essential qualities of a republican, and so ade-
quate to maintaining the great principles of the
revolution in their original purity."

The answer of the vice-president acknowledges
the kindness of his friends in Massachusetts, and

in New-Hampshire and two votes in Massachusetts, which were
withheld from Mr. Madison. One of these was given by his old
friend in the revolution, general Heath.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 383

his sensibility to this high proof of the confidence
of the country.

Indeed this election seemed to him as an appeal
from the decree of the state to the tribunal of the
nation, a reversal by their authority of an unjust
decision, and the consequent restoration of his
character to its former elevation.

Since the peace of 1783, he had reluctantly en-
gaged in public life. Every situation he had oc-
cupied was a sacrifice of his own inclinations to
the calls of his country ; but in the present hon-
ourable distinction he felt the highest sensations
of gratified ambition ; and cheerfully assumed the
duties of a station, which in addition to its inhe-
rent dignity, had the cheering appearance of a re-
ward for past labours of patriotism, and a compen-
sation for the consequences of political fidelity.

A statesman, if there be one, who always sails
with the breeze of popularity, knows not the
keenest delights of his eminent profession. The
most exquisite enjoyment of a servant of the peo-
ple is at the moment when they make their ac-
knowledgement for sacrifices submitted to in their
service, and recall him to new and greater honours,
more generous confidence and more conspicuous
station. It is then that the pursuits of civil life
have the animation and excitement of military
glory. In the cabinet and the field, men are
equally exposed to misfortune, but a gallant spirit
lightly feels a wound, which is repaid by the con-
solation and applause of his country.

384 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

On the 4th of March 1813, the oaths of office
were administered to the vice-president at his re-
sidence in Cambridge, Massachusetts, by the judge
of the district court of the United States, and on
24th May succeeding, at a special session of con-
gress, he took his seat as president of the senate.*

On this occasion he addressed that body in a
speech, unusual indeed, if regard be had to pre-
cedent, but consistent enough with the natural
frankness of his character and the earnestness
with which he was ever ready to bring all the re-
sources of his mind and all the influence of his
station to the aid of his political principles.

Instead of the few complimentary phrases which
usually serve the ceremony of introduction, the
vice-president entered into somewhat of a formal
review of the state of the country, bestowing a
panegyric on the exalted personage who filled the
supreme executive, not disguising a reproof of
any who would distract the unity of the public
councils ; and exciting a spirit that should " meet
with ardour an indispensable war."

* On his journey to Washington an incident occurred, which
serves to show the natural amenity of Mr. Gerry's disposition.
He and colonel Pickering were in the same stage coach. Ar-
riving late at Hartford, Connecticut, the house afforded but one
unoccupied bed, which was of course assigned to the vice-presi-
dent, while his fellow passengers were destined to pass the night
on a table or chair. He could not permit a person of the colo-
nel's age to be thus incommoded, but offered 1 1 i in the half the
accommodation appropriated to himself, which was gladly ac-
cepted ; and the old gentlemen passed the night in the same
bed as quietly as if they had always been personal friends.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 385

"The United States," he says, "are now the
enemy of Great Britain. And is it not easy to
foresee that if the war should continue, the Canadas
will be rendered independent of her, and as friends
or allies of the United States, will no longer be
instrumental in exciting an unrelenting and savage
warfare against our extensive and defenceless
borders ? To such inhuman acts in former times
were the Canadians urged by France in her Albion
wars ; and by our colonial aid Great Britain ob-
tained jurisdiction over them. She in turn has
abused this power and has justified the United
States in their efforts to divest her of it. And is
not their energy adequate to the object?

"Will not this be evident by a view of their
effective national and state governments ; of their
great and increasing resources ; of the unconquer-
ed minds and formidable numbers of their citizens;
of their martial spirit ; of their innate attachment
to their rights and liberties, and of their inflexible
determination to preserve them ?

"But if any one still doubts, will he not recollect
that at the commencement of our revolutionary
war the united colonies had not a third of their
present population, nor arms, nor military stores
for a single campaign ; nor specie in their treasu-
ry, nor funds for emitting a paper currency, nor a
national government, nor (excepting in two in-
stances) state governments, nor the knowledge of
naval or military tactics. Will he not also remem-

vol. ii. 49

386 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

bcr that Great Britain was then in the zenith of
her power, that neighbouring nations trembled at
her nod, that the colonies were under her control ;
that her crown officers opposed every mean of re-
sisting her, excited among the colonial govern-
ments over which they presided unfounded jeal-
ousies of each other, and embarrassed every mea-
sure of their union ; that she was loaded with less
than a fifth of her present national debt, that she
was at peace with all the world, and that she is
now at war with a great part of Europe as well as
with the United States. If Great Britain herself
reflects on these things may we not hope she will
relinquish a vain attempt to awe the citizens of the
United States by exaggerated statements of her
military and naval power, by delusive views of our
unprepared state for war, of the great expense of
it, and of the difficulties we are to encounter in
defence of all that is valuable to men ? If instead
of fruitless artifices she will make rational and
equitable arrangements, which the government of
the United States have always been ready to
meet, the two nations will be speedily restored to
their wonted friendship and commerce."

The station of the v ice-president is that which
may enable an ambitious man most adroitly to
conciliate the public favour. Called to express no
opinion unless by a concurrence of circumstances,
which places him in the majority, the odium of
unpopular measures may always be avoided, and

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 3S7

the credit of those, which are successful, easily
secured. But no such cautious and calculating
prudence marked the conduct of Mr. Gerry. There
was no desire on his part to play the double game,
which might win the favour of his adversaries by
sometimes leaving the cause of his friends. He-
deemed the duty imposed upon him by the favour
of his fellow citizens to consist in using; all the
influence of his office, not in advancing his own
personal comfort, but in boldly, strenuously and
invariably aiding the policy of the administration,
and in making all his efforts subsidiary to the ad-
vancement of the great cause, in which they were
engaged.

The situation of the United States, when the
vice-president took the chair of the senate, was
indeed critical. War had been declared with
Great Britain, and time enough had elapsed to
bring home to the knowledge of the people the
condition and consequences of their novel situa-
tion. During that period an election of national
and state officers had been made, and the popu-
larity of the administration policy been put to se-
vere test. The result was a strong support of the
party in power. In the electoral colleges the
president had received 128 out 217 votes. There
was a majority in the house of representatives and
in the senate on the same side.

In the national government therefore the domi-
nant party might look down opposition.

388 LIFE OF ELBR1DGE GERRY.

In most of the southern and western states the
same sentiment prevailed. In New England how-
ever the opposition had an overwhelming force,
the direction of which was assumed by Massachu-
setts. This division of parties by geographical
lines, augured ill for the stability of a government,
whose principal of vitality was yet the subject of
experiment.

The course of the opposite opinions of the two
parties is well illustrated in the message of the
president of the United States, and the remon-
strance of the Massachusetts legislature.

The president says, " The contest in which the
United States are engaged, appeals for its support
to every motive that can animate an uncorrupted
and enlightened people, to the pride of liberty, to
an emulation of the glorious founders of their
independence by a successful vindication of its
violated attributes, to the gratitude and sympathy
which demand security from the most degrading
wrongs of a class of citizens, who have proved
themselves so worthy of the protection of their
country by their heroic zeal in its defence, and
finally to the sacred obligations of transmitting
entire to future generations that precious patri-
mony of national rights and independence, which
is held in trust by the present from the goodness
of divine providence."

The remonstrants, after declaring and urging
their reasons in proof that the " contest" was im-

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 389

proper, impolitic and unjust, add, " To the consti-
tuted authorities of our country we have now
stated our opinions and made known our com-
plaints ; opinions, the result of deliberate reflec-
tion, and complaints wrung from us by the tor-
tures of that cruel policy, which has brought the
good people of this commonwealth to the verge
of ruin. A policy, which has annihilated that
commerce so essential to their prosperity, increas-
ed their burthens while it has diminished their
means of support, provided for the establishment
of an immense standing army, dangerous to their
liberties and irreconcilable with the genius of their
constitution ; destroyed their just and constitu-
tional weight in the general government, and by
involving them in a disastrous war, placed in the
power of the enemy the control of the fisheries,
a treasure of more value to the country than all
the territories for which we are contending, and
which furnish the only means of subsistence to
thousands of our citizens ; the great nursery of
our seamen, and the right to which can never be
abandoned by New England."

The contending parties in the country had gone
too far in mutual crimination to veil even under
the forms of courtesy their conviction, real or pre-
tended, of the motives and objects by which they
were severally actuated. Each claimed for its
self the purest patriotism and the highest intel-

390 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

ligence ; and each accused the other of premedi-
tated treason, and private aggrandizement.

The causes of the war, say the legislature of
Massachusetts, and more particularly the pretences
for its continuance, " fill the minds of the good
people of this commonwealth with infinite anxiety
and alarm," and the government of the United
States is charged in regard to the information by
them given " with a suppression too serious to be
overlooked or forgiven," — " ambition and not jus-
tice, a lust of conquest and not a defence of en-
dangered rights are among the real causes of per-
severance in our present hostilities," and with the
qualification made by an hypothetical form of ex-
pression, they charge that the war in which they
have been rashly plunged, was undertaken to ap-
pease the resentment, or secure the favour of
France.

By the administration these denunciations were
declared to be the wiles of a faction, eager to re-
gain the power it had lost, feigning a fear that it
did not feel, and ready to spring into the arms of
England, if her friendship would restore them to
their past authority. They asserted further, that
the repeated declarations that the eastern states
had lost their just weight in the confederacy ; that
the provisions of the constitution had failed to se-
cure the objects for which it was adopted ; and
that a power, adverse to their interest had arisen
in the formation of new states, were not merely

LIFE OP ELBRIDGE GERRY. 391

calculated, but intended to prepare for a division,
and the establishment of a more favourable con-
dition of things, a separate peace and alliance
with the public enemy.

These offensive imputations mutually cast with
reckless prodigality, by opposing parties, were ea-
gerly caught by the enemy, equally ready and inter-
ested to have all of them prove true ; though nothing
but the exasperation of political feeling could have
induced any one to suppose they were merited by
those to whom they were applied, or believed by
those who applied them.

But the course of an opposition, which flagrante
bello, could thus weaken the only means that might
bring the war to a favourable termination, is cer-
tainly a matter of surprise. The vice-president
was of the party who believed his country to be
right, and who wished it to be successful wrong
or right, and with this view he lent the whole in-
fluence of his character and station to support the
executive department in the senate and before the
people.

If the advantage of a strenuous cooperation by
the second officer of the nation, is m proportion
to the embarrassment resulting from an adverse
movement, the administration had great reason to
be satisfied with the selection they had made.

During every day of the first special session of
the thirteenth congress, which continued until the
2d of August, the vice-president presided in the

392 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

senate ; and he kept the chair until its actual ad-
journment.

In this there was a departure from the usage
of that body.

In case of the decease or other inability of the
president and vice-president of the United States,
the constitution has provided that congress may
by law designate what officer shall act as presi-
dent, until the disability be removed, or a presi-
dent be elected. And in pursuance of that power,
congress has devolved that contingent but possi-
ble rank on the acting president of the senate, and
if there be none, on the speaker of the house
of representatives.

To place this reversionary right in some mem-
ber of the senate, it had been and yet is usual
for the vice-president of the United States to re-
tire before the close of a session, that a president
pro tempore may be selected by that branch of
the legislature, who, in the course of events,
might in preference to the speaker of the house
of representatives be called to the executive office.

But notwithstanding the administration was
strong in the senate, the choice of a president
pro tempore might, as the vice-president appre-
hended, devolve on an individual not invariably
found among their friends, and he therefore pre-
ferred keeping his seat until the end of the ses-
sion.

The vice-president of the United States is not

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 393

a member of the executive cabinet. The consti-
tution indeed in its theory knows no such organi-
zation ; but convenience, necessity, and at last
custom established one, which is consulted on
great questions by the executive chief; who while
he listens to its advice is yet governed by his
own judgment, and responsible for the measures
of his administration. This cabinet consists of
the secretaries of departments, and the attorney
general of the United States.

The first vice-president considered his exclusion
as a want of proper respect ; the second regarded
it as a necessary incident of his legislative charac-
ter, which could neither require nor permit him to
mingle in executive deliberations.

Mr. Gerry was not called to the regular meet-
ings of the cabinet, but his advice and council
were solicited, and most confidentially and freely
given to the distinguished statesman on whom
then devolved a weight of responsibility, and an
anxiety of mind greater than at any other period
crowded the chief magistrate of the nation.

The opposition in the eastern states to all
the measures of the national administration, the
strength with which this opposition bore upon
every effort for a vigorous prosecution of the war ;
the obstacles it presented to the raising of supplies,
either of money or men ; and more than all, doubts
and apprehensions as to the extent of an under-
standing, which its leaders were suspected of main-

VOL. II. 50

394 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

taining with the public enemy, were calculated to
disturb the government, and render most unhappy
the public functionaries, whom the majority of
their fellow citizens expected fearlessly to meet
the responsibility of the times.

The long embargo, which preceded the war of
1812, had been changed into a system of nonin-
tercourse, partly on the persuasion confidentially
inculcated by a distinguished citizen of Massachu-
setts, that the former measure would be resisted
by force.

The intercourse of a British political mission-
ary with the leaders of the federal party in New
England had been watched with the same jealous
but futile expectation that it would present a
developement of unlawful designs, and the sub-
sequent more alarming because more practicable
evils put in the way of a claim for the military
aid of New England was naturally enough as-
signed to the same anti-patriotic propensities.

Ardent as were the feelings, and strong as have
been seen to be the political and party attach-
ments of the vice-president, he had learned better
and judged more truly the sentiments of his coun-
trymen. Accused as he has been of strong an-
tipathies, and prejudice and animosity to the partyr
which had opposed his own administration of the
state government by every measure of personal
and public hostility, he yet was able to examine
more candidly, and was willing to express more
favourably his construction of their conduct.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 395

In the many and anxious deliberations of the
eabinet as to the measures of New England
policy, and the extent of the opposition of the
federal leaders to the government of the United
States, it was known that the vice-president had
entirely acquitted them of all traitorous design.
He believed, and he did not hesitate to express
his conviction, that all their efforts, unwise and
ill timed, and dangerous and unfortunate as he
considered them to be, were the efforts of a party
to regain political power, and not indications of
hostility to the government, or a desire either to
calculate the value of the union or to place any
part of it within the domination of Great Britain.
The effect of this persuasion, and the willingness
with which the vice-president announced it, had
its proper weight in softening some of the mea-
sures, which to a party believed to be in hos-
tility to the government and constitution of the
country, the administrators of that government
under the constitution might have been bound to

displa}r.

Condescension might however, as he thought,
be carried too far, and he felt obliged on one oc-
casion at least to restrain it.

The exceeding embarrassment which the na-
tional administration experienced by the construc-
tion which the governour of Massachusetts, en-
couraged by the official opinion of the judiciary of
his state, put on the relative power of the state

396 LIFE OF ELB RIDGE GERRY.

and the nation over the militia of a state, induced
the executive of the United States to try every
possible measure to change it.

As a plan that might reconcile conflicting opin-
ions, it was proposed that the governour of Massa-
chusetts should be commissioned a major-general
in the army of the United States ; and it was
supposed therefore, that while in the former capa-
city he could call out the militia of his state, he
would be bound in the other to obey the national
executive. The good effect of such a plan had
been experienced, particularly in New- York. The
decided opposition it met with from the vice-pre-
sident induced the government to give up the
scheme in Massachusetts.

Among the most fatiguing labours that devolved
on the vice-president of the United States, was
the necessity of attending to a vast mass of cor-
respondence, which overwhelmed him from all
parts of the country.

The right of a private citizen to address the
public functionaries may not be disputed ; but
when that right is exercised in its extreme, the
inability of the public agents to encounter it ad-
mits not of doubt. In those offices where clerks
are employed, a great part of this labour may de-
volve on them, but the vice-president has neither
clerk nor secretary, and the reading even without
answering the numberless epistles of his fellow
citizens, was enough to break down a constitution
of iron.

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 397

Probably at that period there was more impo-
sition in this respect than at other times. The
war gave rise to numerous classes of office, and to
local interests of great extent and variety. It
seemed to be taken for granted, by each indivi-
dual applicant for notice, that if he could get the
vice-president's recommendation he was sure of
success, and to be forgotten that every other citi-
zen had the same right with himself.

Until the extent of this evil became so great
that it was physically impossible to meet it, the
courtesy of the vice-president extended to the an-
swering of his numerous correspondents ; and
when this labour became impossible, it was often
his misfortune to find that the omission was cause
of offence.

The vice-president continued to give his strenu-
ous support to the administration, and his aid to a
vigorous conducting of the war during the second
session of the thirteenth congress. In the new
situation in which he was placed his former ac-
quaintance with the financial affairs of the country,
and the experience he had in the congress of the
revolution and that of the early period of the exist-
ing government was of advantage to himself and
his associates. As ex officio a commissioner of the
sinking fund, and presiding at that board, the
duties of the vice-president, though secluded in a
great measure from the public eye, are not of the
less importance or value. Amid all the pressure

398 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

of the war, with all the embarrassments, which
attended the procuring of the means for its ener-
getic prosecution, and the raising by successive
loans the ample funds, which it required, the
policy of the administration never lost sight of the
grand object of repayment, or failed to see through
the dark clouds, which hung around them, that
bright star of promise, which foretold the future
greatness of their country. The debt, which it
was necessary to incur, they did not hesitate fear-
lessly to contract ; but at the same time the funds,
which were afterwards to discharge it, they were
equally solicitous to preserve. Hence in all their
laws for a loan, provision is made for a sinking
fund, and the administration of this fund under
commissioners was carefully secured by the vice-
president's concurrence.

He had taken his seat in the senate, at the third
session, and presided during the whole of a long
debate on the 22d of November 1814, with his usual
spirit, and in the enjoyment of accustomed health.
On returning to his lodgings he complained of
slight indisposition, but amused himself through
the evening in arranging the letters of the day,
and in a cheerful conversation with the inmates of
the house.

There has been thought to be sometimes a pre-
monition of approaching dissolution, even when
the corporeal frame discloses no appearance of the
crisis. Mr. Gerry's discourse was of his family in

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 390

Massachusetts ; and taking from his bosom a
miniature, which was always suspended round his
neck when the original was absent, and had hither-
to, with a peculiar delicacy of feeling, been his
own personal secret, he spoke of it with an in-
terest which show that although the surpassing
beauty delineated in the picture might have first
charmed the imagination, more enduring qualities
had left the impress of affection on his heart.*

He rested well through the night, and break-
fasted as usual with the family on the morning of
the 23d, and although he spoke of some vague in-
dications of disease, he did not consider them
sufficient to prevent his taking his seat in the
senate, at the hour to which that body was
adjourned. The carriage coming to carry him to
the capital rather earlier than usual, he directed
the coachman to stop on his way there at the
office of the registry of the treasury, at which he
had some business that required his attention.
This being arranged he returned to his carriage,
and had proceeded but a short distance, when a
sudden extravasation of blood took place upon the
lungs and terminated his life within twenty min-

* On the decease of the vice-president this miniature could
not be found. Several mouths afterwards it was accidentally
discovered by one of his family, stripped of its plain gold setting,
and exposed for sale in one of the shops of the district, as a
fancy piece of exquisite design. How it came there was never
ascertained.

400 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

utes, almost without a struggle and apparently
without pain.

On the news of his death congress appointed a
committee " to report measures proper to manifest
the public respect for the memory of the deceased,
and expressive of the deep regret of the congress
of the United States for the loss of a citizen so
highly respected and revered."

Under the charge of this committee his remains,
attended the next day by the members of the ex-
ecutive government and both branches of the le-
gislature, were deposited in the burying ground of
the city of Washington, by the side of those
illustrious men, who had died there in the service
of their country.

A widow, three sons and six daughters sur-
vived him.

Like most of his eminent compatriots, Mr.
Gerry left to his family his example only and his
fame.

A political opponent and former rival for the
chair of Massachusetts, then member of the senate
from that state, with a nobleness of soul, which
buries with the ashes of its enemy all feelings of
animosity or revenge, recognising as a patriot the
services of the departed statesman, and sympathiz-
ing as a man in the distress of an agonized family,
introduced a bill " for paying to the widow of the
late vice-president the salary, which would have

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 401

become due, had he lived to complete his term of
office."

This bill passed the senate, but was lost in the
house. An objection was there taken, in which
many friends of the late vice-president felt them-
selves reluctantly bound to concur, that it would
become a precedent for the granting of pensions
in the civil departments of the country.

One individual, however, was found to take
other ground. Neither the services of patriotism,
nor the claims of widowhood and orphanage could
disarm his ancient animosity, or prevent him, over
the green grave of his opponent, from assailing his
memory in the same terms of vituperation, which
had marked the past period of political warfare.*

But what was then wanting in kindness to the
family of the vice-president was aftewards made
up to them in consolation, by the respect which
congress paid to his memory.

* Although the government of the United States could not
directly aid the destitute family of the vice-president, they were
disposed to consider their claims with great attention ; and the
eminent citizen, who was then the chief executive magistrate,
appointed the eldest son of the deceased to a place in the
collection of the revenue, that it should enable him to support
the family thus unexpectedly thrown upon his charge ; a duty
which it is proper to say is still performed with filial assiduity,
while the office bestowed for so worthy a purpose has been filled
to general acceptation, and with unimpeached fidelity. The
two other sons were soon after appointed to the navy of the
United States, in which they continue honoured and esteemed as
ornaments of their profession.

VOL. II. 51

402 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

On the 3d March 1823, a law was passed to
erect a monument over his tomb ; an appropriation
was at the same time made to defray the expense,
and in the course of the summer this honourable
testimonial to his character was placed over his
remains.

The monument thus erected by order of con-
gress is of pure white marble, from the native
state of the eminent citizen whose ashes it pro-
tects. The pedestal is pyramidal. On the cor-
ners is a fillet, which lies in a scotia cut out of
the angle. A rich and massy leaf covers each
extremity of the fillet, a second leaf falls off at
the bottom, spreading itself over the angle of the
base mouldings. The ornaments of the frieze
under the cornice, are made up of foliage modelled
from nature, consisting of parsley, tulips, and
amaranthus. Upon the parapet stand eight ballus-
ters enriched with foliage supporting the soffit and
blocks. The urn resembles in form a Grecian
vase with a bold and elegant outline, and is en-
riched with various leaves, among which the oak
and acanthus are most prominent. A towering
flame crowns the whole.

The monument bears the following inscription :

LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY. 403

2Tne SFomfe

OF

ELBRIDGE GERRY,

VICE-PRESIDENT

OF THE
UNITED STATES,

WHO DIED SUDDENLY IN THIS CITY,

NOVEMBER 23, 1814,

ON HIS WAY TO THE CAPITOL

AS

President of the Senate.

AGED 70 YEARS.

THUS FULFILLING

HIS OWN MEMORABLE INJUNCTION,

IT IS THE DUTY OF EVERY MAN

THOUGH HE MAY HAVE BUT ONE DAY TO LIVE

TO DEVOTE THAT DAY

TO THE GOOD OF HIS COUNTRY.

404 LIFE OF ELBRIDGE GERRY.

On the reverse is inscribed :

ERECTED BY ORDER

OF THE

CONGRESS

OF THE

UNITED STATES.

It has thus happened that the first, and as jet
the only monument, which by virtue of a law of
the United States, has been erected for a native
citizen at the national expense, is placed over
the earthly remains of the patriot statesman and
christian, whose life is now traced to its close.

APPENDIX A.

(Page 326.)

SPEECH OF GOVERNOUR GERRY.

Reipublice literariaa, per totam orbem, artium et scientia-
rum luminari magno, vos-ipsos amicos et fautores manifesti ;
amicissime vice-gubernatoi', vir honoratissime et clarissime,
consiliarii, spectatissimi fidissimique, curatores et senatores
aeademici, celeberrimi et generosissimi. Vir illustrissime,
iiuper prseses reipublicce Americana?, Elogio omni dignissime,
professores, tutores, et alii, functionibus academicis eruditis-
simi, pastores religiosi, semper venerandi, juventutes academiaa
carissimi, nunc spes, mox patrias laureati, cuj usque ordinis audi-
tores, literati et honorandi. Vos omnes, pariter amicus, saluto.

Hujusce diei munus est, hanc sedem consecratam supplere.
Nos monet viri praestantissimi et pii cujus mors vacuum fecit.
Amicula sua feralia lachrymis abundanter roravimus, et exe-
quias reverentia celebravimus. Valedecimus. Sua fama elogi-
um alte volat, et pectoribus nostris semper recordabitur.

Te, domine reverende, universitatis summi gubernatores liber-
issime supplere hanc sedem elegerunt. Virum qusesiverunt
religione, probitate, Uteris et honore ornatum; atque benevo-
lentia, humanitate, affectionibusque generosissimis abundantem ;
confidenter credunt, quod hujus electionis sapientiam evinces.
Tu quasi sol corruscans, hacce systemate literata, radiis geniali-
bus suas plantas florentes fovebis, et illis novas vires praebebis,
donee fructus cojjiosos edent, civitates Dei Adorabilis, alere, de-
lectare et ornare.

Et nunc auctoritate tnunitus, trado tibi domine, et munus
est mihi jucundissimum, has vestes officiales, coronis victorum
potentium, honorabiliores, chartam, tabulas publicas, sigillum
et claves ; symbola asque ac oflicii testimonia. Omnibus juri-
bus, auctoritatibus, potestatibus et previligiis Prassidis Uni-
versitatis te munio. Hac sede consecrata te stabilio, et Collegii
Harvardiani Preesidem te annuncio ; quo nomine primo te ex
animo saluto. In te omnium oculi conjiciuntur. Tu eris, quasi
civitas in monte sita, conspicuus: et sic luceat vestra lux
apud hoscse juvenes, ut vestra facta videntes nostrum patrem qui
est in ccelo adorent.

406 APPENDIX.

RESPONSUM PRjESIDIS.

Illustrissimt Domine, Gubernator.

Quanta solicitudine meipsum hujus sellse Academical digni-
tate ornatum sentio, verbis exsequi non possum, neque dicere
oportet. Tu, domine, qui onus muneris jam suscepti recte per-
pendisti, bene intelligis, atque omnes qui secum cogitant quo loco
sum, intellecturi, quse curse animum raeura exercent.

Inter omnes constat quo affectu, quanto studio, quibus preci-
bus et lachrymis hujusce societatis fundamenta posuerunt nostri
majores ; et quam multi, olim et nuper, opes, consilia, labores
ei libere impenderunt.

Mihi imperito, imparatoque curationem institution^ tarn curae,
tarn antiquse mandatam esse video. Ita numini divino placuet.

Recte mihi indicasti domine, quod homines a me juste expec-
tent, et verbis benignis mihi profecto animum addidisti. Dubi-
tare non possum quin tu, Harvardise alumnus et semper ami-
cus ; tu, publicis, privatisque virtutibus prsestans, et viros inter
claros, qui libertatem Americanam ancipitem feliciter asserere
coeperunt, semper nominandus; quin tu, vir excellentissime, in
rebus agendis diu versatus, et nunc in summo dignitatis gradu
constitutus, mihi pro merito lubenter sublevare praesto fueris ;
etiamque confido, caeteros in collegii rebus occupatos, quod ad
illos attinet, adjumento mihi semper adfuturos.

Quod superest, deum optimum maximum domini nostri Jesu
Christi Deum et Patrem veneremur, et precemur ut nobis cur-
sum rectum ostendat, atque huncdiem tarn serium quam festum,
nostra? Academicae totique reipublica3 et ecclesiae pro benevo-
lentiae sua faustum atque felicem evadere sinat.

REPLICATIO GUBERNATORIS.

Restat Domine, hac solemnitate summa, nomine Gubernato-
rum Universitatis summorum tibi gratulari, benedictionem et
gratiam divinam tibi obsecrare. In vestraaemulatione, sedulitate,
et fidelitate officiali suam confidentiam exprimere ; te juvare
et sustinere in hoc munere honorabili, suam mentem et decisio-
nem declarare ; denique, quod juventutes harvardiani, obedien-
tiam, affectioncm, et reverentiam tibi semper manifcstabunt, fide
confirmare.

APPENDIX B.

(Page 343.)

Boston, Council Chamber, December 17, 1811.

The governour having on the 14th of August last, requested
the opinion of the council on the following points, viz. " who of
the sheriffs and clerks of the judicial courts ought to be super-
seded as a measure requisite to promote the public welfare ;" and
the council on the 16th of the same month, having expressed their
opinion, that the sheriffs of twelve, and the clerks of fifteen coun-
ties, named by the council should be superseded, have been si-
lent, in regard to the sheriff and clerk of the county of Suffolk,
excepting some remarks, relative to the postponement of the
nomination of the latter. The sheriff of Suffolk, being a gentle-
man of amiable manners, correct morals, and in what relates to
himself of good conduct in his office, and being approved in other
respects by many persons in that county friendly to the national
and state governments, but being at the same time very obnox-
ious to a number of others, equally friendly to government, is
under circumstances very embarrassing to the governour. The
unpopularity of this sheriff, it is conceived arises from the same
cause as that of the sheriff of Essex ; a cause, which rendered
indispensable the preference to him of another candidate. The
governour alludes to the misconduct of some deputies of both
sheriffs ; and in particular to a deputy of Suffolk, against whom
Henry Warren, Esq. of Plymouth has exhibited the complaint,
contained in the document No. 1. In the nomination of officers,
the candidate who has appeared to unite in the greatest degree,
the approbation of the people, and who in every other respect,
has had equal pretensions, has had the preference. If in this
instance, the incumbent should be nominated, it is manifest, that
the measure would produce great uneasiness on the part of many
firm friends of government. The proceedings of these are con-
tained in the document No. 2. Thus circumstanced the gover-
nour requests the opinion of the council, whether the nomination
and appointment of Col. Samuel Bradford, to the office of sheriff
for Suffolk, will promote the public welfare, in an equal degree
with one of the other candidates for this office ? Major Gibbs,

403 APPENDIX.

whose pretensions are contained in two papers, numbered 3, and
Capt. Amos Binney, mentioned in the document No. 2, are can-
didates. The opinions on this subject of the members of the
council respectively, are requested in writing.

E. Gerry.

Council Chamber, January 15, 1812.
His excellency the governour in a communication of the 17th
of December last having requested the opinion of the council
respecting the sheriff of the county of Suffolk, and in that com-
munication having referred to a former one made the 14th of
August last, in which he requested the opinion of the council,
" who of the sheriffs and clerks of the judicial courts, ought to be
superseded as a measure requisite to promote the public wel-
fare :" The council in a communication made to his excellency
the lfith of the same month of August, expressed their opinion that
the sheriffs of twelve counties therein named ought to be supersed-
ed, and as the council understood the governour to request their
opinion respecting all the sheriffs, and as it had become the duty
of the executive to appoint sheriffs in all the counties, the coun-
cil did intend to express their opinion respecting all of them, and
to be understood to be in favour of a reappointment of all those
whom they had not designated as proper to be superseded as a
measure requisite to promote the public welfare. On a revision
of the subject as it respects the several sheriffs the council see no
sufficient cause to reverse their opinion, and agreeing with his
excellency that "the sheriff of Suffolk" is "a gentleman of
amiable manners, correct morals, and in what relates to himself
of good conduct in his office, and being approved in other
respects by many persons in that county friendly to government"
are (as on the former occasion) unanimously of opinion that the
public welfare does not require that he should be superseded.
Wm. Gray, Samuel Fowler,

Marshall Spring, Aa. Hill,

M. Kinsley, Thomas B. Adams.

THE END,

Ill

ffi:

in

m

nr"1

-A '1

i vJ4.*ikv\

%9