iriKAKY

OF CALIFORNIA
DAVIS

THE CONNOISSEUR'S FEDERAL EDI
TION OF THE WORKS OF ALEXANDER
HAMILTON IS LIMITED TO FOUR HUN
DRED SIGNED AND NUMBERED SETS OF
WHICH THIS IS

Ttt

Benjamin Franklin

From the painting by
Reproduced

Dupl

Boston

xrf

Ttt

The Works of

Alexander Hamilton

Edited by

Henry Cabot Lodge

41 The sacred rights of mankind are not to be rummaged for among old parchments or
musty records. They are written, as with a sunbeam, in the whole volume of human nature,
by the hand of the Divinity itself, and can never be erased or obscured by mortal power."

[HAMILTON— The Farmer Refuted, 1775, ^t. i8.J

" We are laboring hard to establish in this country principles more and more national,
and free from all foreign ingredients, so that we may be neither l Greeks nor Trojans,' but
truly Americans." — [HAMILTON TO KING, 1796, /£t. 39.]

Volume VI

G. P. Putnam's Sons

New York and London

Cbe Knickerbocker press
LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF
DAVIS

fmfcfterbocfter prew, Hew

CONTENTS

PAGE

FOREIGN RELATIONS — Continued:

CAMILLUS — Continued ..... 3

FOREIGN POLICY:

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON .... 201

FRANCE 206

THE ANSWER 215

THE WARNING ....... 229

THE STAND 259

DETECTOR 318

A FRENCH FACTION 328

THE WAR IN EUROPE 330

ALLEGORICAL DEVICE . * . . .332

PERICLES 333

THE WHISKEY REBELLION:

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON .... 339
WASHINGTON TO GOVERNORS OP PENNSYLVANIA

AND NORTH AND SOUTH CAROLINA . . 349

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON .... 349

CABINET OPINION 388

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON .... 388

PROCLAMATION 389

SECRETARY OF STATE TO MIFFLIN . . . 394

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON .... 408

HAMILTON TO CRAIG 409

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON .... 409

TULLY . 410

HAMILTON TO CRAIG 426

iv Contents

PAGB

THE WHISKEY REBELLION— Continued:

SECRETARY OP STATE TO MIFPLIN . . .427
HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON . . . .441

PROCLAMATION ....... 442

HAMILTON TO LEE . . . . . . 445

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON . . . .451

MILITARY PAPERS :

MILITARY PEACE ESTABLISHMENT . . . 463

HAMILTON TO MCHENRY 483

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON .... 486
HAMILTON TO JAY . .... 486

FOREIGN RELATIONS— CAMILLUS (Continued)

FOREIGN RELATIONS— CAMILLUS

( Continued )

NO. XXIV

1795-

TTOWEVER uniform may have been the law of
* * Europe in relation to the colonial establish
ments, no pains have been spared to create an opinion
that France has been guided by a more liberal policy
than the other colonizing powers, and that the regu
lations of her colony trade were essentially dissimilar
from theirs; moreover, that her disinterestedness
was so great, that she not long since proposed to our
Government to establish, by treaty, a trade between
us and her West India colonies equally free with that
which prevails in her own intercourse with them.
The object of these attempts is readily perceived.

As there was no probability that Great Britain
would consent to our trading with her West India
colonies on the same terms as she herself does ; as it
was foreseen that limitations and conditions would
accompany any agreement that should be made on
this subject; to extol the liberty of France, and ex
claim against the monopolizing views of Great Brit
ain, were deemed suitable means to excite a prejudice
against the expected adjustment of the commercial

4 Alexander Hamilton

intercourse between us and the British West India
colonies.

A comparison of the footing by which our trade
stood with the French and British West India
colonies, after the completion of our Revolution, and
before the present war in Europe, with a concise
exposition of the real views of France on the subject
of a new commercial treaty, will best demonstrate
the want of candor and patriotism in those Americans
who have submitted to become agents in propagating
these errors.

France, like England, has endeavored to secure the
greatest possible portion of advantage to herself, by
her colonial laws, and the concessions yielded to
foreigners have been only such deviations from an
entire monopoly as her own interest has rendered
indispensable. France, in imitation of the English
navigation law, as early as 1727, established an
ordinance, confirming to the mother country the
monopoly of the trade to her colonies, and excluding
thereby all foreigners. Experience proved the ne
cessity of moderating the rigor of their ordinance,
and relaxations in favor of a limited foreign inter
course existed at the time when our commercial
treaty with France was concluded, by the thirtieth
article of which it is agreed that France will continue
to the citizens of the United States the free ports,
which have been and are open in her West India
islands, to be enjoyed agreeable to the regulations
which relate to them. A system of regulations rela
tive to the trade of foreigners with the French
islands was promulgated in 1784. This ordinance

Camillas 5

established one free port at St. Lucie, another at
Martinique, another at Guadaloupe, another at To
bago, and three others at St. Domingo, to which
foreign vessels of the burthen of sixty tons and up
ward might carry for sale woods of all sorts, pit coal,
live animals, fatted beef, salted fish, rice, Indian corn,
vegetables, green hides, peltry, turpentine, and tar.
This was followed by the arre'ts of September, 1785,
which by imposing heavy duties on foreign salted
fish, and establishing large bounties on those of the
national or French fishery, materially affected the
foreign commerce with the French islands in this
important article of supply and consumption.

Such were the duties on the foreign and the premi
ums on the national fish, that together they would
have been equivalent to a prohibition of the former,
had the national fishery been able to supply the
comsumption.

In return for these articles, which alone were per
mitted to be imported by foreigners into the French
islands, and which it will be observed excluded some
of our principal staples, especially -flour, they were
allowed to purchase and bring away of the produc
tions of the islands only molasses and rum.

All cotton, coffee, sugar, and other productions
(rum and molasses excepted) were prohibited; and
we could, except occasionally by local relaxations of
the general law, rightfully obtain none of them from
the French West India islands. This was the footing
of our trade under our treaty and the standing edict
which preceded the French Revolution, and even this
was liable to still further limitations, whenever France

6 Alexander Hamilton

should think proper to impose them; the treaty
securing only a right to as free a commerce as France
should grant to other foreign nations.

Great Britain has permitted the importation into
her West India colonies of all the foreign articles
allowed by France to be imported into her islands
(salted fish and salted beef excepted), and she more
over permitted the importation of foreign tobacco,
flour, meal, biscuit, wheat, and various other grains
which France prohibited. In return for these com
modities, Great Britain permitted the exportation
from her islands to our country, of rum and molasses,
and moreover of sugar, coffee, cocoa, ginger, and
pimento, together with such other articles as are
allowed to be carried from their islands to any other
foreign country.

Great Britain prohibited the importation and ex
portation of most of these articles to and from all
foreign nations, except the United States; France
permitted the intercourse with her colonies, under
the same limitations to us in common with all other
foreign nations.

The articles received from us by Great Britain, for
the supply of her West India islands, exceeded in
variety those received from us by France for the
supply of her islands; the British West Indies were,
therefore, in the ordinary and established course,
more extensive customers to us than the French
West Indies. Again, the articles which we received
from the British West Indies, and which we were
prohibited from receiving from the French West
Indies, were among the most valuable of their pro-

Camillas 7

ductions, and, from the force of habit, some of them
are included in the catalogue of articles of the first
necessity in our consumption. In point of supply,
therefore, the British were better furnishers, their
colonial laws being much less restrictive than those
of France.

Though the regulations of the British West India
trade were more favorable to agriculture than those
of France, and though the articles with which we
were supplied from the British islands were more
numerous and valuable than those obtained from the
islands of France, the colony system of the latter was
preferable to that of the former in relation to our
navigation. France permitted our vessels of and
above sixty tons burthen to carry and bring away
the articles not prohibited in the foreign trade with
her islands, while Great Britain confined the trade to
her own vessels and excluded those of all foreign
nations.

Difference of situation, and not of principle, pro
duced this variety or distinction in the colony system
of the two nations. France being able from her
resources to supply most of the articles requisite for
the consumption of her West Indies, and from her
great population, having a proportionate demand for
the productions of her islands, she has been carefully
restrictive in the trade between her colonies and
foreign countries as to the articles of import and
export.

All the productions of her islands must go to the
mother country, except rum and molasses; these
articles were not confined to France, because they

8 Alexander Hamilton

would have directly interfered with the valuable
manufacture of her brandies. On the other hand,
Great Britain, being less able from her internal
resources to supply the articles necessary for the
consumption of her West Indies, and her population
or home demand not requiring the whole productions
of her islands, she has been more liberal in the trade
allowed to be carried on between her colonies and
foreign countries as to the articles of import and
export. But her navigation being adequate to the
whole trade of all her dominions, while that of France
required the addition of foreign bottoms, Great
Britain has excluded entirely from her colony trade
the foreign vessels of all nations, while France has
admitted them to share in the foreign trade permitted
to her West India islands.

Both France and Great Britain relax their colonial
laws in times of occasional scarcity, and when they
are engaged in war; during which, the intercourse
with their West India possessions is laid more open to
foreigners. The catalogue of supplies is sometimes
enlarged, and Great Britain, as well as France, during
these relaxations, permits American vessels to resort
to, and engage in the commerce of, their islands.

It is, notwithstanding, from the permanent laws
alone of these nations, that we are able to infer their
views in relation to their colony trade; the excep
tions and deviations that become necessary, by rea
son of accidental scarcity or the embarrassments
of war, serve only to explain more clearly the princi
ples of the permanent system.

The result of this comparison affords no support

Camillus 9

for the assertion that France has been less exclusive
or more liberal in her colony system, than Great
Britain. Both these nations have in the establish
ment of their colonial laws alike disregarded the in
terests of foreign nations, and have been equally
under the control of the principles of self-interest,
which ever have and ever will govern the affairs of
nations.1

Nothing can be more erroneous, than the opinion
that any nation is likely to yield up its own interest,
in order, gratuitously, to advance that of another.
Yet we frequently hear declarations of this kind, and
too many honest citizens have surrendered them
selves to this delusion ; time and experience will cure
us of this folly.

Equal artifice has been practised, and no less
credulity displayed, on the subject of a new treaty
of commerce, which, it is boldly asserted, France
from the most disinterested motives has offered to us.
It should be recollected that France already has a
treaty of commerce with us, a treaty that is not
limited to two years, nor twelve years, but one that
is to endure forever. This treaty is as favorable to
France as she can desire, or we in our utmost fondness
be disposed to make. It secures to her our acqui
escence in an exclusion from her Asiatic dominions,
and in fresh regulations as her interest shall dictate
relative to our intercourse with her West India pos
sessions ; it excludes us from her fisheries on the Banks

1 The opinion heretofore cited of Montesquieu, a Frenchman, agreeing
with facts, is a positive testimony that the principle of the French
system, like the English, is monopoly.

io Alexander Hamilton

of Newfoundland, which she was unwilling to share
with us, and it gives to her every commercial favor
or privilege which by treaty we may yield to any
other nation, freely when freely granted, and when
otherwise on yielding the same equivalent ; her pro
ductions, her manufactures, her merchandises, and her
ships may come into all our ports to which any other
foreign productions, manufactures, merchandises, or
ships may come ; they are severally to pay only the
lowest duties paid by any other nation, and no other
nation in its intercourse and trade with us is, in any
instance, to have a preference over her. A variety
of other regulations are inserted in this treaty useful
to France and not particularly disserviceable to us.

This treaty has been religiously observed and
executed on our part; France has repeatedly vio
lated it in the article which makes enemy's goods
free in neutral bottoms, while it is understood she
has faithfully observed it in the article that makes
neutral goods lawful prize when found in enemy
bottoms.

If it be true that nations, in justice to themselves,
are bound to decline the abandonment of their own
interest, for the purpose of promoting, at their own
expense and detriment, the interest of others, ought
we too readily to credit an opposite opinion ? Ought
we not to expect full proof of the sincerity of those
declarations that are intended to produce a belief
of this disinterested and self-denying course ? Ought
not the very proposal of such a measure, from its
extraordinary nature, inspire circumspection, and
put a prudent nation on its guard? If, moreover,

Camillus 1 1

the overture should occur at a moment when we have
ascertained that those who make it desire, and are,
in fact, pursuing objects incompatible with the dis
interestedness which it avows; if while it is said we
wish that you should remain in peace with those who
hold this language, neglect no means to engage our
citizens to violate their neutral duties and thereby
expose their country to war; if when we are told
"we rejoice in the freedom of a sister republic/' all
the arts of intrigue, so much more dangerous by
our unsuspicious temper, and unlimited affection for
those who practise them, were employed to alienate
our attachment from our own Government, and to
throw us into a state of anarchy ; if when the fascinat
ing proposal of opening new channels of commerce,
which were to give unbounded riches to our mer
chants, was received with more caution than was
desired, we are told that in case of refusal, or evasion
(mark the generosity), France would repeal her
existing laws which had been dictated by an attach
ment to the Americans, what must have been our in
fatuation, what the measure of our folly, had we
given implicit credit to words so much at variance
with cotemporary actions? But it is asked, do not
the letters of Mr. Genet to Mr. Jefferson, which have
been published, prove that France desired and of
fered to enter into a new, disinterested, and liberal
treaty of commerce with us? The question shall be
fairly examined.

There are two letters from Mr. Genet on this sub
ject. Immediately after his arrival at Philadelphia,
in a letter to Mr. Jefferson of the 23d May, 1793, he

12 Alexander Hamilton

says: " The French republic has given it in charge to
me to propose to your Government to consecrate by
a true family compact, by a national covenant, the
liberal and fraternal basis on which it wishes to
establish the commercial and political system of two
people whose interests are inseparably connected."

If the object of this proposal was a revision of our
commercial treaty, in order to render the intercourse
between us more free and advantageous, this minister
was singularly unfortunate in his expressions. He
might have employed the fine phrase of consecrating
by a true family compact, by a national covenant,
the liberal and fraternal basis on which it was wished
to establish the commercial system of the two coun
tries, and have been intelligible; but when he tells
us, that he is instructed to open a negotiation with
our Government, for the purpose of establishing the
commercial and political system of the two countries,
what are we to understand? That trade and its
regulations are alone in view ? Or that a family com
pact establishing the political as well as the commer
cial system of the two nations, must include likewise
the league, or treaty of alliance, whereby the strength
and wealth of the two nations should be closely
united in the prosecution of a common object?

This ambiguous overture, if its meaning is not
too plain to allow the epithet, was received in the
most friendly manner by our Government, and on the
suggestion that the Senate are united with the Presi
dent in making treaties, it was understood between
Mr. Jefferson and Mr. Genet, that the subject should
be deferred till the meeting of Congress.

Camillus 13

Before that period, however, Mr. Genet, in a letter
of the 3oth of September, 1793, renews the proposal
to open the negotiation relative to the proposed
family compact between us and France ; and proves
to us that our benefit was its principal exclusive
object, by affectionately intimating in the conclusion
of his letter, that he is further instructed to tell us,
in case of refusal or evasion on our part to enter into
this family agreement, that France will repeal the
laws dictated by the attachment of the French for
the Americans.

Had it before been doubted whether political en
gagements relative to war were intended to be con
nected with the proposed treaty, these doubts must
have disappeared on the receipt of this second letter
from Mr. Genet; the intimation that the laws of
France which operated favorably to our trade with
their dominions would be repealed, in case we re
fused or evaded the conclusion of a new treaty, can
not be reconciled with the belief, that this treaty
was sought for from motives purely commercial, or
solely to enlarge and add prosperity to our trade.

Mr. Genet at this time had so outraged our Gov
ernment as to have compelled them to request his
recall; he must, therefore, have been convinced,
that no conference would be held with him except
on points of urgent importance, and such as would
not admit of delay. He was therefore answered by
Mr. Jefferson on the 5th of November, that his letter
had been laid before the President, and would be
considered with all the respect and interest that its
objects necessarily required; and in Mr. Jefferson's

14 Alexander Hamilton

letter to Mr. Morris of the 23d of August, we are in
formed that our Government were desirous to go
into a commercial negotiation with France, and,
therefore, requested that the powers given to Mr.
Genet on that subject should be renewed to his suc
cessor. It has not appeared that this was ever done.
His immediate successor, Mr. Fauchet, it is believed,
gave no evidence of his having any powers relative
to a commercial treaty; and if reports, which ar
rived with the present minister, having great marks
of authenticity, may be credited, he has power only to
digest the articles of such a treaty, not to conclude one.

Notwithstanding the internal evidence contained
in the two letters of Mr. Genet was sufficient to have
satisfied a sensible people, that something beyond a
commercial treaty was connected with the proffered
negotiation, and though this conjecture acquired
strength from the cautious procedure of our Govern
ment on the occasion, yet these letters, and that
procedure, have been pressed upon the public as
conclusive evidence that France had offered, and
our Government refused, to enter into a new treaty
of commerce, that would have been highly beneficial
to our trade and navigation.

The refutation of this opinion, so injurious to a
reasonable and salutary confidence in the integrity
and patriotism of our own executive Government,
and which the agents of its propagation had spread
far and wide, might have been more difficult, had
not the minister of France, for the purpose of justi
fying his own conduct, published his hitherto secret
instructions.

Camillus 15

By these instructions it appears, that the essential
object of this proffered negotiation, was to engage the
United States to make common cause with France
in the war then foreseen, and which soon broke out
with Spain and England; that the advantages to be
yielded by a new commercial treaty were to be pur
chased by our uniting with France in extending the
empire of liberty, in breaking up the colonial and
monopolizing systems of all nations, and finally in the
emancipation of the New World.1 This was laying
out a large and difficult work, in the accomplishment
whereof arduous and numerous perils must be met, to
encounter which we were called by no obligation to
others, to avoid which we were admonished by all the
duties which require us to cherish and preserve our
own unparalleled freedom, prosperity, and happiness.

However contradictory this extraordinary project
may appear to the friendly communications that
had been made by the French Government to ours;
however repugnant to the soothing declarations pro
nounced by Mr. Genet, of the fraternal and generous
sentiments of his country toward ours, and of the
republican frankness and sincerity that should char
acterize his deportment, let the following extracts
from his instructions published by himself in Decem
ber, 1793, be consulted in confirmation of this state
ment, and as an authentic exposition of the genuine
views of the French executive council in the mission
of Mr. Genet — viz.:

1 This mad scheme, the joining in which was to be the price of the
proffered advantages, has since been renounced by France herself as
a political chimera

1 6 Alexander Hamilton

" The executive council have examined the instruc
tions given to the predecessors of the Citizen Genet
in America, and they have seen with indignation,
that while the good people of America have expressed
to us their gratitude in the most lively manner, and
given us every testimony of their friendship, both Ver-
gennes and Montmorin have thought that the interests
of France required, that the United States should not
obtain that political order and consistency of which
they were capable, because they would thereby
quickly attain a strength which they might probably
be inclined to abuse. These ministers, therefore, en
joined it upon the representatives of Louis XVI. in
America, to hold a passive conduct, and speak only
of the personal vows of the king for the prosperity of
the United States. The same machiavelism directed
the operations of the War of Independence; the
same duplicity presided in the negotiations of peace.
The deputies of Congress had expressed a desire
that the cabinet of Versailles should favor the con
quests of the Floridas, of Canada, of Nova Scotia;
but Louis and his ministers constantly refused their
countenance, regarding the possession of those
countries by Spain and England, as useful sources of
disquietude and anxiety to the Americans."

After declaring that the executive council proposes
to itself a different course, and that it approves of
the overtures, which had been made as well by Gen
eral Washington, as by Mr. Jefferson, to Mr. Ternant,
relative to the means of renewing and consolidating
the commercial regulations between the two coun
tries, they proceed to declare further, " that they are

Camillas 1 7

inclined to extend the latitude of the proposed commer
cial treaty (observe, the first proposal of a new com
mercial treaty came from us, and not from France)
by converting it into a national compact, whereby
the two people should combine their commercial with
their political interests, and should establish an inti
mate concert to befriend, under all circumstances,
the extension of the empire of liberty, to guarantee
the sovereignty of the people, and to punish the na
tions who shall continue to adhere to a colonial sys
tem, and an exclusive commerce, by declaring that
the vessels of such nations should not be received
into the ports of the two contracting parties. This
agreement, which the French people will support
with all the energy that distinguishes them, and of
which they have given so many proofs, will quickly
contribute to the emancipation of the New World.
However vast this project may appear, it will be
easily accomplished, if the Americans will concur in
it, and in order to convince them of this, no pains
must be spared by the Citizen Genet. For, indepen
dent of the benefits that humanity will draw from
the success of this negotiation, France, at this mo
ment, has a particular interest that requires us to be
prepared to act with efficacy against England and
Spain, if, as every circumstance announces, these,
in hatred of our principles, shall make war upon us."
In this state of things, we ought "to employ every
means to reanimate the zeal of the Americans, who
are also interested that we should disappoint the
liberticide designs of George the Third, of which
they likewise may possibly be an object." "The

VOL. VI.— 2.

1 8 Alexander Hamilton

executive council has reason to believe that these re
flections, joined to the great commercial advantages
which we are disposed to grant to the United States,
will decide their Government to agree to all that the
Citizen Genet shall propose to them on our part ; but
as from the rumors respecting our interior, our
finances, and our marine, the American administra
tion may observe a wavering timid conduct! The
executive council, in expectation that the American
Government will finally decide to make common
cause with us, charges the Citizen Genet to take such
steps as shall be most likely to serve the cause of
liberty and the freedom of the people/'

In a supplemental instruction, the executive coun
cil say: "As soon as the negotiation concerning a
new treaty of commerce shall be practicable, Citizen
Genet must not omit to stipulate a positive reci
procity of the exemption from the American tonnage
duty." The mutual naturalization of French and
American citizens, so far as respects commerce, that
has been proposed by Mr. Jefferson and approved by
the executive council (this, it is presumed, in the eyes
of certain characters, would be free from objection,
though the naturalization by treaty, of the subjects
of any nation but France, would be treason against
the Constitution and against liberty), "will render
this exemption from the tonnage duties less offensive
to the powers who have a right by their treaties to
claim the same exemption, for the casus foederis by
this mutual naturalization will be entirely changed
in respect to them. The reciprocal guaranty of the
possessions of the two nations, stipulated in the Xlth

Camillus 19

article of the treaty of 1778, must form an essen
tial clause in the new treaty to be concluded! The
executive council, therefore, instructs Citizen Genet
early to sound the American Government on this
point, and to make it an indispensable condition of
a free trade to the French West Indies, so interesting
for the United States to obtain. It concerns the
peace and prosperity of the French nation, that a
people whose resources and strength increase in a
ratio incalculable, and who are placed so near to our
rich colonies, should be held by explicit engagements
to the preservation of these islands. There will be
the less difficulty in making these propositions
relished by the United States, as the great com
merce which will be their price, will indemnify them
beforehand for the sacrifices they must make in the
sequel. Besides, the Americans cannot be ignorant
of the great disproportion between their means and
those of the French Republic; that for a long time
the guaranty will be merely nominal for them, while
it will be real on the side of France. And moreover,
that we shall, without delay, take measures to fulfil
it on our part, by sending to the American ports, a
force sufficient to shelter them from all insults and
dangers, and to facilitate their intercourse with our
islands and with France"; — "and to the end that
nothing may retard the conclusion of the negotia
tions of Citizen Genet with the Americans, and that
he may have in his hands all the means which may
be employed in forwarding the success of his exer
tions to serve the cause of liberty, the council, in
addition to the full powers hereunto annexed, have

2O Alexander Hamilton

authorized the Minister of Marine to supply him
with a number of blank letters of marque, to be de
livered to such Frenchmen or Americans as should
equip privateers in America; the Minister of War
will likewise supply him with commissions in blank
for the different grades of the army." x

These were extraordinary means to enable the
French minister to conclude with our Government
a pacific treaty of commerce. The above extracts,
though not an entire translation of the whole of Mr.
Genet's instructions, many parts of which are foreign
to the point in discussion, are a faithful abstract of
such parts of them as relate to the principles and
conduct of the French monarchy toward us, and are
explanatory of the views of the executive council
on the subject of a new treaty of commerce. It will,
I think, prove, if the assertions of that council are to
be credited, that the gratitude, of which we have
heard so much, ought not to be demanded on ac
count of the principles that influenced the monarchy
of France during our war, or subsequent to the peace ;
and furthermore, it will prove that the real view of
the French executive council in the mission of Mr.
Genet, was to engage us, by advantages to be con
ceded in a new commercial treaty, to make common
cause with France, in the expected war with Great
Britain and the coalesced powers. If, then, the
established footing of our trade with the British

1 This measure countenances a conclusion, that it was the intent of
the instructions he should take the measures he did with regard to
privateering and military expeditions from our territories, to force us
into the war in spite of the "wavering and timid conduct of our ad
ministration."

Camillas 2 1

islands has been dictated by that colonial system of
monopoly which forms a fundamental law in Europe ;
and if, moreover, the opinion that we could have
procured a new and more liberal treaty of commerce
with France, without plunging our country in the
present war, is an error, that has been artfully im
posed on the public, by exposing these truths, the
examination of the treaty with Great Britain is at
once freed from the objections and aspersions that
have proceeded from these errors.

CAMILLUS.

NO. xxv

1795-

It will be useful, as it will simplify the examination
of the commercial articles of the treaty, to bear in
mind and preserve the division that we find estab
lished by the i2th, i3th, and the i4th and i5th
articles ; each respects a particular branch or portion
of the trade between the two countries, the regula
tions whereof differ from, and are severally inde
pendent of, each other. Thus one is relative to the
West Indies, another to the East Indies, and a third,
distinct from both the former, respects our trade
with the British dominions in Europe.

That Great Britain will consent to place our trade
with her West India colonies upon an equally advan
tageous footing with her own, is improbable; this
would be doing what none of the great colonizing
nations has done, or is likely to do; it would be to
relinquish the principal ends of the establishment and
defence of her colonies; it would be equivalent to

22 Alexander Hamilton

making her islands in the West Indies the common
property of Great Britain and America, for all com
mercial and profitable purposes ; and exclusively her
own in the burden of support and defence.

The Senate have, however, and, I think, wisely,
considered the terms and conditions, on which it is
agreed by the i2th article that we should participate
in the trade of the British West Indies, as less liberal
than we may, with reason, expect. The exclusion of
all vessels above the burthen of seventy tons, would
diminish the benefits and value of this trade; and
though we cannot calculate upon obtaining by future
negotiation a total removal of a limitation on this
subject, it is not altogether improbable that a ton
nage something larger may be procured.

Those who are conversant with our present inter
course with the West Indies can best determine
whether many vessels under seventy tons burthen
are not, at this time, profitably employed in that
trade. It is believed to be true, that, previous to
our independence, vessels of this burthen were much
engaged in that employ, as well in the Southern as
in the Eastern States.

This limitation, though disadvantageous, is not
the strongest objection to the i2th article: the re
straining or regulating of a portion of our trade,
which does not proceed from, and is independent of,
the treaty, forms a more decisive reason against the
article than any thing else that it contains.

The cause of this restraint is found in the com
mercial jealousy and spirit of monopoly which have
so long reigned over the trade of the colonies. Under

Camillas 23

our treaty with France and the French colonial laws,
it has been shown that we could not procure from
the French islands sugar, coffee, cocoa, cotton, or any
of the other productions, molasses and rum excepted.
Great Britain has seen it to be compatible with her
interest to admit us to share more extensively in the
productions of her islands; but she has desired to
place limitations on this intercourse. To have left
it entirely open and free, would have been to have
enabled us not only to supply ourselves by means of
our own navigation, but to have made it an instru
ment of the supply of other nations with her West
India productions.

When we reflect upon the established maxims of
the colony system, and, moreover, when we consider
that an entire freedom of trade with the British West
Indies might, at times, materially raise the price of
West India productions on the British consumers,
the supply of whom is essentially a monopoly in the
hands of the British planters, we shall be the less
inclined to believe that Great Britain will yield an
unrestrained commerce with her West India posses
sions to any nation whatever.

But if this was the object of the restraint, it may
be asked why it was not confined to such enumerated
articles as were of the growth or production of her
own islands, instead of being so extended as to com
prehend all molasses, sugar, coffee, cocoa, and cotton,
including even the cotton of the growth of our own
country. It is very possible that the circumstances
of our native cotton's becoming an article of export
to foreign markets might not have occurred to our

24 Alexander Hamilton

negotiator. This would be the less extraordinary, as
heretofore it has not been cultivated, except in a very
limited degree, and as an article of export rather in
the manner of experiment than otherwise; and as,
moreover, from the expense and difficulty of sepa
rating the seeds from the cotton, we have been
hardly able hitherto to class cotton among our ex
ports. Its cultivation is said latterly to have be
come an object of attention in Georgia and South
Carolina, — still, however, it cannot yet be considered
as a staple commodity. But from the recent ingen
ious and simple machine for spinning cotton, it is
hoped that the cultivation may be extended, so that
not only our own domestic manufactures may be
relieved from a dependence on foreign supply, but
the catalogue of our valuable exports enriched by
the addition of this inestimable production.

In answer to the question that has been stated, it
may be further observed that these enumerated arti
cles, though the productions of different territories,
being so much alike as not easily to be distinguished,
it is probable that the difficulty in discriminating the
productions of the British islands from those of a
different growth was supposed to be so great, that an
apprehension was entertained that the prohibition
to re-export the former would be easily evaded and
illusory, while the latter remained free.

This apprehension, however, it is believed, was
carried too far; as, on a minute examination of the
subject, it will be found that our laws relative to
drawback, with a few analogous provisions in addi
tion, can be made sufficiently to discriminate and

Camillas 25

identify, on re-exportation, all such articles of the
growth of the British islands as may be within our
country, and that they will afford the same security
for a faithful and exact execution of the prohibition
to re-export such articles as that on which our own
Government relies against frauds upon the revenue.
[The application of these laws, with the requisite
additions and sanctions, may be secured by a precise
stipulation for that purpose in the treaty, in such
manner as would afford an adequate guard against
material evasions.

But though the conduct of the Senate in with
holding their assent of this article is conceived, upon
the whole, to be well judged and wise, yet there were
not wanting reasons of real weight to induce our
negotiator to agree to it as it stands.

The inviolability of the principles of the naviga
tion act had become a kind of axiom, incorporated
in the habits of thinking of the British Government
and nation. Precedent, it is known, has great in
fluence, as well upon the councils as upon the pop
ular opinions of nations! — and there is, perhaps, no
country in which it has greater force than that of
Great Britain. The precedent of a serious and un
equivocal innovation upon the system of the navi
gation act dissolved, as it were, the spell by which
the public prejudices had been chained to it. It
took away a mighty argument derived from the past
inflexibility of the system, and laid the foundation
for greater inroads upon opinion, for further and
greater innovations in practice. It served to strip
the question of every thing that was artificial and to

26 Alexander Hamilton

bring it to the simple test of real national interest,
to be decided by that best of all arbiters, experience.

It may, upon this ground, be strongly argued that
the precedent of the privilege gained was of more
importance than its immediate extent — an argu
ment certainly of real weight, and which is sufficient
to incline candid men to view the motives that gov
erned our negotiator in this particular with favor,
and the opinion to which he yielded with respect.
It is perhaps not unimportant by way of precedent,
that the article, though not established, is found in
the treaty.]

Though the i2th article, so far as respects the
terms and conditions of the trade to the British
islands, forms no part of the treaty, having been
excepted, and made the subject of further negotia
tion, it may nevertheless be useful to take notice of
some of the many ill-founded objections that have
been made against it; of this character is that which
asserts that the catalogue of articles permitted to be
carried by us to the British islands, may be abridged
at the pleasure of Great Britain, and so the trade may
be annihilated.

The article stipulates that we may carry to any of
his Majesty's islands and ports in the West Indies,
from the United States, in American vessels, not
exceeding seventy tons, any goods or merchandises
" being of the growth, manufacture, or production of
the said States, which it is or may be lawful to carry
to the said islands, from the said States, in British
vessels"; not all such articles as it is and may be
lawful to carry, but in the disjunctive, all such as

Camillas 27

it is or may be lawful to carry; mother words, all
such articles as it is now lawful to carry, together
with such others as hereafter it may be lawful to
carry. The catalogue may be enlarged, but cannot
be diminished. [It may also be remarked incidentally
that this objection sounds ill in the mouths of those
who maintain the essentiality of the supplies of this
country, under all possible circumstances, to the
British West Indies; for if this position be true,
there never can be reasonable ground of apprehen
sion of too little latitude in the exportation in British
vessels, which is to be the standard for the exporta
tion in ours.]

This article has been further criticised on account
of the adjustment of the import and tonnage duties
payable in this trade, and it has been attempted to
be shown that the footing on which we were to share
in the same would, on this account, be disadvan
tageous, and the competition unequal. What is the
adjustment? The article proposes that British ves
sels employed in this trade shall pay, on entering
our ports, the alien tonnage duty payable by all
foreign vessels, which is now fifty cents per ton;
further, the cargoes imported in British bottoms
from British West Indies shall pay in our ports the
same impost or duties that shall be payable on the
like articles imported in American bottoms; and on
the other side, that cargoes imported into the British
islands, in American bottoms, shall pay the same
impost or duties that shall be payable on the like
articles imported in British bottoms — that is to say,
the cargoes of each shall pay in the ports of the

28 Alexander Hamilton

other only native duties, it being understood that
those imposed in the British West Indies, on our
productions, are small and unimportant, while those
imposed in our ports, on the productions of the West
Indies, are high, and important to our revenue. The
vessels of each shall pay in the ports of the other an
equal alien tonnage duty, and our standard is adopted
as the common rule.

Is not this equal? Can we expect or ask that
British vessels should pay an alien tonnage duty in
our ports, and that American vessels should enter
their ports freely, or on payment only of native ton
nage duties ? Can we in equity require them to pay,
on the importation of their cargoes in British vessels,
an addition of ten per cent, on the duties payable on
the importation of the like articles in American ves
sels, and at the same time demand to pay no higher
or other duties on the cargoes carried in our vessels to
the British islands, than those payable by them on
the like articles imported in British vessels? The
very stating of the question suggests to a candid
mind an answer, that demonstrates the injustice of
the objection. [To expect more, were to expect
that in a trade in which the opinions and practice of
Europe contemplate every privilege granted for a
foreign nation as a favor, we were by treaty to secure
a greater advantage to ourselves than would be
enjoyed by the nation which granted the privilege.]

But it is added that our laws impose a tonnage
duty of six cents per ton on the entry of American
vessels engaged in foreign trade, and it is not known
that British vessels pay any tonnage duty on their

Camillus 29

entry in their ports in the West Indies; and so
uniting the two entries, that is, the entry in the
West Indies and the entry on a return to our ports,
an American vessel will pay fifty-six cents per ton,
when the British vessels will pay only fifty cents per
ton. If the British Government impose no tonnage
duty on their own vessels, and we do impose a ton
nage duty on ours, this certainly cannot form an
objection against them. They are as free to refrain
from the imposition of a tonnage duty on their own
ships as we are to impose one on ours. If their
policy is wiser than ours in this respect, we are at
liberty to adopt it, by repealing the tonnage duty
levied on American navigation, which, if we please,
may be confined to the particular case ; the effect of
such a measure, as far as it should extend, though
the duty is small, would be to add a proportionable
advantage to our shipping in foreign competition.
But the object of the articles in this particular is to
equalize, not the duties that each may choose to
impose on their own vessels, but those that they
shall impose on the vessels of each other ; and in this
respect the article is perfectly equal. [It is perhaps
the first time that the objection of inequality was
founded on a circumstance depending on the laws of
the party affected by it, and removable at his own
option.]

This view of the subject authorizes a belief, that,
in the revision of the article, a modification of it may
be agreed to that will prove satisfactory. Indeed,
from the short duration of the article, taken in con
nection with the expressions made use of towards

30 Alexander Hamilton

the close of it, relative to the renewal of the negotia
tion, for the purpose of such further arrangements as
shall conduce to the mutual advantage and extension
of this branch of commerce, we may infer that Great
Britain contemplates a more enlarged and equal
adjustment on this point.

The relaxations which now exist in the colonial
systems, in consequence of the necessities of war,
and which will change to our disadvantage with the
return of peace, have been considered by some as the
permanent state of things. And this error has had
its influence in misleading the public in respect to
the terms and conditions on which we may reasonably
expect to participate in trade to the West Indies.
But let it be remembered, that the restoration of
peace will bring with it a restoration of the laws
of limitation and exclusion, which constitute the
colonial system. Our efforts therefore should be
directed to such adjustment with Great Britain on
this point, as will secure to us a right after the return
of peace, to the greatest attainable portion of the
trade to her islands in the West Indies.

It has been alleged, should the expected modifica
tion of this article retain its present stipulation on
the subject of import and tonnage duty, that as
France by treaty may claim to enjoy the rights and
privileges of the most favored nation, she would de
mand an exemption from the ten per cent, on the
duties upon the productions of the West Indies im
ported in foreign bottoms, and would moreover be
free to impose an alien tonnage on our vessels enter
ing her ports in the West Indies, equal to that im-

Camillas 31

posed on her vessels in our ports. This is true.
But in order to make this demand, France must
agree, by treaty, to open all her ports in the West In
dies, to give us a right to import into them flour,
bread, tobacco, and such other articles as Great
Britain should permit, and which France by her
permanent system prohibits; she must also concede
to us a right to purchase in her islands, and bring
away sugar, coffee, and pimento, which by the same
system she also prohibits; she must do all this, be
cause, by our treaty with her, she can only entitle
herself to a special privilege granted to another na
tion, by granting on her part to us the equivalent of
what was the consideration of our grant. Should
France be inclined to arrange the trade between us
and her islands, we certainly shall not object; be
cause, besides the right to such an arrangement, it
would be more advantageous to us than that which
now regulates our intercourse with her West Indies.
So much of the 1 2th article as respects its duration
and the renewal of the negotiation previous to the
expiration of two years after the conclusion of the
war, in order to agree in a new arrangement on the
subject of the West India trade, as well as for the
purpose of endeavoring to agree whether in any,
and in what cases, neutral vessels shall protect
enemy's property, and in what cases provisions, and
other articles not generally contraband, may be
come such, form a part of the treaty as ratified
by the President. These clauses sufficiently explain
themselves, and require no comment in this place.
They, however, prove one point, which is, that after

32 Alexander Hamilton

every effort on the part of our negotiator, the parties
were not able to agree in the doctrine that free bot
toms should make free goods, nor in the cases in
which alone provisions and other articles not gener
ally contraband, should be deemed such. Leaving,
therefore, both these points precisely as they found
them (except in respect to provisions, the payment
for which, when by the law of nations liable to cap
ture as contraband, is secured), to be regulated by
the existing law of nations, it is stipulated to renew
the negotiation on these points at the epoch assigned
for the future adjustment of the West India trade, in
order then to endeavor to agree in a conventional
rule, which, instead of the law of nations, should
thereafter regulate the conduct of the parties in
these respects.

[The i ith article has been passed over in silence as
being merely introductory and formal.]

CAMILLUS.

NO. XXVI

(From the Minerva.)1

1795.

The British trade to their possessions in the East
Indies, as well as to China, is a monopoly vested by
the Legislature in a company of merchants. No
other persons in Great Britain, nor in any of her
dominions or colonies, can send a vessel to, or prose
cute trade independent of the company, with any part
of Asia. The right to trade with their possessions

1 The first twenty-five numbers of Camillas appeared in the Argus.
The remainder came out in the N. Y. Minerva. All were reprinted
by Fenno in the Gazette of the United States.

Camillus 33

in India is not only refused to all British subjects,
the India Company excepted, but is one that Great
Britain has never before yielded by treaty to any
foreign nation. By the terms of the charter to the
India Company, among a variety of limitations,
they are restrained and confined to a direct trade
between Asia and the port of London ; they are pro
hibited from bringing any of the productions of India
or China directly to any part of America, as well to
the British colonies as to our territories; and more
over, they are restrained from carrying any of the
productions of Asia directly to any part of Europe,
or to any port in Great Britain, Scotland, or Ireland,
except the single port of London.

The 1 3th article stipulates, that our vessels shall
be admitted in all the seaports and harbors of the
British territories in the East Indies, and that our
citizens may freely carry on a trade between said
territories and the United States in all such articles,
of which the importation or exportation shall not be
entirely prohibited; provided only that when Great
Britain is at war we may not export from their terri
tories in India, without the permission of their local
government there, military stores, naval stores, or
rice. Our vessels shall pay in this trade the same
tonnage duty as is paid by British vessels in our
ports ; and our cargoes on their importation and ex
portation shall pay no other or higher charges or
duties than shall be payable on the same articles
when imported or exported in British bottoms; but
it is agreed that this trade shall be direct between
the United States and the said territories; that the

VOL. VI.— 3.

34 Alexander Hamilton

article shall not be deemed to allow the vessels of
the United States to carry on any part of the coast
ing trade of the British territories in India, nor to
allow our citizens to settle or reside within the said
territories, or to go into the interior parts thereof,
without the permission of the British local govern
ment there.

The British trade to their territories in the East
Indies is carried on by a corporation, who have a
monopoly against the great body of British mer
chants. Our trade to the same territories will be
open to the skill and enterprise of every American
citizen. The British trade to these territories is
direct, but confined to the port of London ; our trade
to the same must likewise be direct, but may be
carried on from and to all our principal ports.

The article gives us a right in common with the
India Company to carry to these territories, and to
purchase and bring from thence, all articles which
may be carried to or purchased and brought from
the same, in British vessels: our cargoes paying
native duties, and our ships the same alien tonnage
as British ships pay in our ports. This trade is
equally open to both nations; except when Great
Britain is engaged in war, when the consent of the
British local government is required in order to
enable us to export naval stores, military stores, and
rice; a limitation of small consequence, none of the
articles except nitre being likely to form any part of
our return cargoes. Though this article is one
against which the objection of a want of reciprocity
(so often and so uncandidly urged against other

Camillus 35

parts of the treaty) has not been preferred, it has
not, however, escaped censure.

It is said that we are already in the enjoyment of
a less restrained commerce with the British terri
tories in India, and that the treaty will alter it for
the worse ; inasmuch as we thereby incapacitate our
selves to carry on any part of the coasting trade of
the British territories in India, and as we relinquish
the profitable freights to be made between Bombay
and Canton, and likewise those sometimes obtained
from the English territories in Bengal to Ostend.

It would seem a sufficient answer to say, that this
trade has heretofore existed by the mere indulgence
of those who permitted it ; that it was liable to varia
tions; that a total exclusion, especially had it been
of us in common with other foreign nations, could
have afforded no just ground of complaint; that the
relaxation which has hitherto given us admission to
the British Indian territories, was not a permanent,
but a mere temporary and occasional regulation,
liable to alteration, and by no means to be demanded
as the basis of an intercourse to be adjusted by com
pact with a foreign nation, which would no longer
leave the power of alteration in either of the parties.

But in respect to the first objection the article
amounts to this, that the rights which it does grant
shall not by implication be construed to give a right to
carry on any part of the British coasting trade in India.

If we have before shared in this trade by permis
sion, nothing in the article will preclude us from
enjoying the same in future. If we did not partici
pate in it, nothing in the article impairs either the

36 Alexander Hamilton

authority of the British local government to permit
our participation or our capacity to profit by such
permission. This objection, therefore, falls to the
ground, since the coasting trade remains as it was
before the treaty was formed.1

[Further, according to my information.] — It is not
the trade between the East Indies and China, as has
been erroneously supposed by some persons, but the
exportation of rice and other articles, which are ex
changed between the British territories in the hither
and further Indies, that is denominated the coasting
trade of the British territories in India. The im
portance of this trade is not well understood; nor
am I able to say whether we have heretofore been
allowed to carry it on. If we have, the little that we
have heard of it leads to an opinion that it is not an
object of much consequence. Let it, however, be
granted that hereafter we shall not be allowed to
engage in it. Shall we have more reason to com
plain of this exclusion, than we have that we are re
fused a share in the coasting trade of the European
dominions of Great Britain ? or that we are excluded
from the coasting trade between their islands in the
West Indies? or than the British themselves have,
that by our prohibiting tonnage duty (being fifty
cents per ton on entry of a foreign vessel, when our
own coasting vessels pay only six cents per ton, for

1 [The terms used clearly denote this and nothing more. They are :
"It is also understood that the permission granted by this article is not
to extend to allow." This does not negative any preexisting indul
gence, but merely provides that the main grant shall not convert the
revocable indulgence, if any there was in this particular, into an irre
vocable right by treaty.]

Camillus 37

a year's license) they are excluded from sharing in
our coasting trade — a branch of business that already
employs a large proportion of our whole navigation,
and is daily increasing?

In respect to the second and third objections, it
may be remarked, that so far as the trade has been
heretofore enjoyed, it has been in consequence of an
exception from, and relaxation in, the system by
which the European commerce has been regulated;
that having depended on the mere occasional per
mission of the local government, we may safely infer
(though it may have been supposed incompatible
with the discretionary powers vested in that govern
ment, to confer by treaty a positive right to carry on
the trade in question) that so long and as often as
the interest that has heretofore induced the grant of
this permission shall continue or exist, the permis
sion will be continued or renewed. The stipulation,
restraining the trade, may, if the parties see fit, be
dispensed with, and the trade may be enlarged, or
made free. It being a contract only between them
and us, the parties are free to remodify it ; and with
out a formal alteration, if those in whose favor the
restraint is made consent to remove it, the other
party is released from the obligation to observe it.1

Again — Surat, which is in the neighborhood of

1 [This has been affected to be questioned on account of what is
called the peremptoriness of the expressions (to wit) : " It is expressly
agreed that the vessels of the United States shall not carry," etc. But
there is no real room for the question. In a contract between two
parties, whether individuals or nations, where a restraint is imposed
upon one for the benefit of another, it is always an implied condition
of the restraint that it shall continue, unless dispensed with by the
party for whose benefit it is imposed. Thus the British Government

38 Alexander Hamilton

Bombay, is the emporium of Guzerat, and of the
northern portion of the Malabar coast; the cottons
shipped from Bombay to Canton are frequently first
sent from Surat to Bombay. Surat belongs to the
native powers to which we have free access. If the
transportation of cotton and some few other com
modities from the coast of Malabar to Canton is an
important branch of our commerce, what will pre
vent our prosecuting it from Surat or any other free
port in the hither Indies?

That it may be undertaken from the ports of the
native powers is rendered probable by the circum
stance, that these freights are supplied principally or
alone by the native or black merchants, whose resi
dence would naturally be in the ports under native
jurisdiction more frequently than in those under the
jurisdiction of any of the foreign powers.

But is it not true (and will not candor admit it?)
that the trade to the Asiatic dominions of the Euro
pean powers has usually been confined to the na
tion to whom such territories belong ? In our treaty
with Holland, have we not even stipulated to respect
their monopoly of this trade? And by our treaty
with France, a nation whose liberal policy is said to
have laid us under eternal obligations of gratitude,
have we acquired the slightest pretensions, much less
a right, to resort to, or trade with, any part of their
Asiatic territories?

in India may remove the restraint, by continuing the indulgence in
this respect heretofore granted. And it seems to me clear that the
law which the United States are to pass, for enforcing the prohibition,
may, with good faith, be qualified with this provision, " unless by per
mission of the British Government in India."]

Camillus 39

A late decree of the convention which opened to us
the ports in their West Indies, likewise laid open
their remaining territories in Asia. But this meas
ure, proceeding from the necessities of the war and
their inability to carry on their foreign commerce,
will change hereafter, as heretofore it has done, with
the establishment of peace. Did this opinion re
quire to be strengthened, it is abundantly confirmed
by the navigation act, decreed by the convention;
the operation whereof is suspended for the same
reason that induced the opening to foreigners that
trade to their colonies and territories in the West
and East Indies.

The British for more than a hundred years ex
cluded foreigners from a share in their East India
trade ; for a few years past they relaxed in the rigor
of this system. We have availed ourselves of this
circumstance, and shared with them in their India
commerce. But this permission can be viewed only
as an occasional departure from a general law, which
may be affected by a change of circumstances; the
duration of which, therefore, is uncertain. The loss
and inconvenience to which our merchants may be
exposed from the prosecution of a trade depending
on regulations arising from inconstant circumstances,
and which frequently vary, may, in some measure, be
guarded against, where the scene is not remote,
and the alterations in the laws can be known soon
after they are made. But in the Asiatic and in our
other distant commerce, it is of importance that the
laws under which an adventure is begun should be
permanent. Losses to a considerable amount have

40 Alexander Hamilton

been experienced by some of our merchants, who
have undertaken distant voyages in the expectation
of the continuation of these temporary regulations.
The trade, for example, with the Cape of Good Hope
(which the Dutch Government ordinarily mono
polize to their own people) was some time since
opened to foreigners, and some of our citizens
profited by it ; but others, who had engaged in large
adventures to that market, suffered no small disap
pointment and loss in finding themselves excluded,
upon their arrival, by a repeal of the permission to
foreigners to trade there. It must then be con
sidered as an important object secured, in respect
to the principal proportion of our India trade, that
alone which is capable of being pursued as a branch
of our commerce, that the treaty turns a favor into a
right, and that our direct intercourse with the British
territories in the East Indies, in all respects as broad
as that of Great Britain herself (except in the articles
of rice, naval and military stores, when Great Britain
is engaged in war), instead of being an uncertain and
hazardous trade, as heretofore, from its precarious
nature, it has been, will, hereafter, be as certain as
any in which our merchants shall engage.

It is further alleged, by way of objection to this
article, that it does not secure to our citizens a right
to reside and settle in the British territories in India,
without the consent of the British local government.
The observation that has been made on a similar
objection, in respect to the coasting trade in India, is
equally applicable to this. The article leaves sub
jects precisely in the situation in which it found them.

Camillas 41

But let it be remembered that the disproportion be
tween the numbers of the native Indians and the
foreigners inhabiting their country, is more than one
thousand of the former to one of the latter ; that the
most exact discipline and subordination among the
foreigners are therefore essential to the preservation
of the British authority over that country ; that no
foreigner, or even a British subject, is allowed to re
side there, except in the character of a servant of the
company, or of a licensed inhabitant ; that it has long
been held as a sound opinion, that unrestrained
liberty to the Europeans to emigrate to and settle
among the Indians, would, in a short time, overturn
and destroy the British empire in India. This
danger would by no means be diminished by con
ferring a right upon the Americans, freely to reside
and settle in India; that we shall be allowed to re
side and settle there by permission of the local British
government, is fairly to be inferred from the article.
But an [absolute right] to an entire liberty on these
points might evidently be dangerous to the British
government over India — [and in prudence could not
have been stipulated].

The advantageous footing on which the trade is
placed is so evident, that those who had no reliance
on the objections urged against it, but who, never
theless, have been unwilling to allow the treaty any
merit on the score of this article, have endeavored to
show that our India trade is of little importance, and
of small value.

Whatever article can be supplied by the India
Company may likewise be supplied by us, and some

42 Alexander Hamilton

of them on better terms by us than by them. The
reports of the committee of the directors of the East
India Company, published in 1793, when their char
ter was renewed, afford useful information on
this subject, and disclose facts which show the ad
vantages that we shall possess in this trade over the
company. They admit, that in the articles of iron,
wines, canvas, cordage, arms, and naval and military
stores, foreigners can enter into a beneficial com
petition with them; and that canvas and cordage
and, we may add, all naval stores and several other
articles can always be furnished in India by foreigners
cheaper than by the Company.

If we appreciate the advantage we have over them,
in such articles of supply as are of our own growth or
production, as well as in the wines not unusually
procured by touching at Madeira on the outward
voyage to India, and compare it with the advantage
that they have over us in the few articles of choice
which they purchase at the first hands, and which we
must import in order to re-export to India, it is prob
able that our cargoes to India will, on the whole, be
laid in as advantageously, if not more so than those
of the India Company. If we consider the vast ex
tent of territory, the numerous population, and the
established manufactures of India, so far from sup
posing that a free trade to that country will be of
little value to a young and enterprising nation, whose
manufactures are still in their infancy, we ought
rather to conclude that it is a country with which we
should be solicitous to establish a free trade and
intercourse.

Camillas 43

Every one who has bestowed the slightest atten
tion upon the foreign manufactures consumed in our
country, must have observed the general and in
creasing use of those of India, owing to the better
terms on which they can be procured from Asia than
from Europe. Though no document is at hand that
will show the value of the annual importations from
India, it is stated by Mr. Coxe, in his View of the
United States, that the amount in value of our im
portations from Asia is more than one fifth of the
value of our whole annual consumption of foreign
commodities. It is true that the porcelain, silks,
nankeens, and teas of China form a large portion of
this annual importation. But, after a full deduction
on this account, a great and profitable branch of our
commerce will be found in our trade to the East
Indies. It should be remembered, [also,] that it is
not the consumption of our own country that regu
lates the quantity of India goods that we import;
other countries have been supplied through us with
the fabrics and productions of both India and China.
The treaty will enlarge this demand.1

Several circumstances calculated to give our
trade with Asia an advantage against foreign com
petition, and a preference to our trade with Europe,
are deserving of attention.

First. — The direct trade between us and Asia,
including the East Indies, as well as China, cannot
be prosecuted by the British East India Company,

1 Perhaps from the certainty of the rights which it confers, it may
invite a foreign capital to extensive enterprises, in which the United
States will be an entrepot between India and a great part of Europe.

44 Alexander Hamilton

their ships being obliged to return to the port of
London, and there to discharge.

Second. — The difference between the duties on
Asiatic goods imported in American bottoms direct
from Asia, and the duties imposed on the same goods
in foreign bottoms from Asia or from Europe ; being
on all articles a favorable discrimination, and in the
articles of teas, the duties on those imported in
foreign bottoms being fifty per cent, higher than on
those imported in American bottoms.

The particular difference of duties on Asiatic
goods imported in American and in foreign bottoms,
so favorable to our own navigation, will not be af
fected by the right reserved by Great Britain to im
pose countervailing duties in certain cases, that right
being relative to the intercourse between the United
States and the British territories in Europe.

Third. — The European intercourse with Asia is, in
most cases, conducted by corporations or exclusive
companies, and all experience has proved that in
every species of business (that of banking and a few
analogous employments excepted), in conducting of
which a competition shall exist between individuals
and corporations, the superior economy, enterprise,
zeal, and perseverance of the former will make them
an overmatch for the latter; and that while indi
viduals acquire riches, corporations engaged in the
same business often sink their capital and become
bankrupt. The British East India Company are,
moreover, burdened with various terms and condi
tions, which they are required to observe in their
Asiatic trade, and which operate as so many ad-

Camillus 45

vantages in favor of their rivals in the supply of
foreign markets. The company, for example, are
obliged annually to invest a large capital in the pur
chase of British manufactures, to be exported and
sold by them in India ; the loss on these investments
is considerable every year, as few of the manufac
tures which they are obliged to purchase will sell in
India for their cost and charges; besides, from the
policy of protecting the home manufactures, the
Company are, in a great measure, shut out from sup
plying India goods for the home consumption of
Great Britain. Most of the goods which they im
port from India are re-exported with additional
charges, incurred by the regulations of the Company,
to foreign markets, in supplying of which we shall be
their rivals, as, from the information of intelligent
merchants, it is a fact that Asiatic goods, including
the teas of China, are [on an average] cheaper within
the United States than in Great Britain.

Fourth. — The manufactures of Asia are not only
cheaper here than in Europe, but in general they are
cheaper than goods of equal quality of European
manufacture. So long as from the cheapness of
subsistence and the immense population of India
(the inhabitants of the British territories alone being
estimated at forty millions) the labor of a manu
facturer can be procured from two to three pence
sterling per day, the similar manufactures of Europe,
aided with all their ingenious machinery, are likely,
on a fair competition, in almost every instance, to be
excluded by those of India. So apprehensive have the
British Government been of endangering their home

46 Alexander Hamilton

manufactures by the permission of Asiatic goods to
be consumed in Great Britain, that they have im
posed eighteen per cent, duties on the gross sales of
all India muslins, which is equal to twenty-two per
cent, on their prime cost. The duties on coarser India
goods are still higher, and a long catalogue of Asiatic
articles, including all stained and printed goods, is
prohibited from being consumed in Great Britain.

The British manufacturers were not satisfied even
with this prohibitory system; and on the late re
newal of the Company's charter, they urged the
total exclusion from British consumption of all India
goods, and, moreover, proposed that the Company
should be held to import annually from India a
large amount of raw materials, and particularly
cotton, for the supply of the British manufacturers.

Those facts are noticed to show the advantages to
be derived from a free access to the India market,
from whence we may obtain those goods which
would be extensively consumed even in the first
manufacturing nations of Europe, did not the se
curity of their manufactories require their exclusion.1

CAMILLUS.

NO. XXVII

1795-

The third article contains the terms and condi
tions of the trade and intercourse that it authorizes

1 [Great Britain has made it a serious point, in which she has in more
than one instance succeeded, to engage foreign powers (the emperor
was one) to renounce establishments for carrying on the trade with
India, from their own territories; yet this treaty opens all the terri
tories to us. And yet it is not only denied merit, but criminated, in
this very particular.]

Camillus 47

between us and the British colonies on the American
continent. The twelfth article was intended to ad
just the trade between us and the British islands in
the West Indies. The thirteenth article secures to
us a direct trade with the British territories in the
East Indies ; and it is the office of the fourteenth and
the fifteenth articles to ascertain and establish the
terms of the intercourse and trade between the terri
tories of the United States and the British dominions
in Europe.

The fourteenth article establishes a perfect and
reciprocal liberty of commerce and navigation be
tween the territories of the United States and of
the British dominions in Europe; stipulates that the
people and inhabitants of the two countries respect
ively, namely, of the United States and of the British
dominions in Europe, shall have liberty to come with
their ships and cargoes to the ports, cities, and places
of each other, within the territories and dominions
aforesaid, to resort and reside there, without limita
tion of time, to hire houses and stores for the purpose
of commerce; and that the merchants and traders
on each side shall enjoy, for their commerce, the
fullest protection and security, subject, notwithstand
ing, in respect to the stipulations of this article, to
the laws of the two nations respectively.

As this article, in the customary language em
ployed in the introductory articles of commercial
treaties, speaks of a perfect liberty of commerce and
navigation, without excepting any commodity, or
specifying any impost or duty, it was possible that a
latitude or freedom of trade, inconsistent with the

48 Alexander Hamilton

revenue laws and policy of the two nations, might
have been claimed under it; hence the propriety of
the provision with which the article concludes, and
which reserves to the parties respectively the power
of avoiding this inconvenience, by continuing and
enacting such laws as may be proper for the purpose.

But as under this power again, partial duties,
and even partial exclusions, might have been estab
lished, whereby ships and merchandises, as well as
the articles of the growth, produce, or manufacture
of one of the parties, might have been made liable to
higher duties and imposts in the territories of the
other, than the ships and similar merchandises, and
articles of the growth, produce, or manufacture of
other nations ; or whereby one of the parties might
prohibit the importation or exportation, by the
other, of any article to and from his territories, the
importation or exportation whereof was at the same
time free to some other nation: in order to prevent
such inequalities, and to secure effectually to the
parties a right to carry on their trade with each other,
on terms equally advantageous and extensive with
those established by either with any other nation,
the fifteenth article stipulates:

i. That no other or higher duty shall be exacted
or paid on the ships and merchandises, nor on the
articles of the growth, produce, or manufacture of
one of the parties, on their entry or importation into
the territories of the other, than shall be payable on
the like ships and merchandises, and on similar
articles of the growth, produce, or manufacture of
any other nation.

Camillus 49

2. That no article, the importation or exportation
of which by either party, to or from the territories
of the other, is prohibited, shall be imported or ex
ported to or from the same by any other foreign na
tion ; and that every article allowed to be imported or
exported to or from the territories of either party, by
any foreign nation, may be imported or exported to
or from the same, by the parties respectively.

By these stipulations it is agreed, that the people
and inhabitants of the United States and of the
British dominions in Europe shall have the right to
carry on trade between the said territories in all
articles and commodities in which any other foreign
nation may trade with either of the parties ; that the
imposts or duties on any article in the course of such
trade shall be no other or higher than the lowest im
posts or duties paid by any other foreign nation on
the like article; that both parties shall remain free,
totally to prohibit the importation or exportation,
to or from their respective territories, of any species
of goods or merchandise, or to increase the existing
duties, or to impose new ones, on the importation
of any species of goods or merchandises into their
respective territories; such prohibitions and duties
operating equally against all foreign nations. So far
as respects the interchange of commodities between
the parties, these stipulations breathe the spirit
of reciprocity. The residue of the fifteenth article
principally relates to the navigation which the parties
shall employ in this trade.

The first clause of the fifteenth article, in the spirit
of those treaties which mutually confer the right of

50 Alexander Hamilton

the most favored nations, stipulates that no other or
higher duties shall be paid by the ships of the one
party in the ports of the other, than such as are paid
by the like vessels of all other nations.

By our laws, a difference exists between the ton
nage duty paid by an American vessel, and that paid
by a foreign vessel in our ports : the American vessel
pays only six cents per ton on her entry; the foreign
vessel, on her entry, pays fifty cents per ton, and
about twenty per cent, more duties on all teas im
ported from Europe, and ten per cent, more duties on
the importation of other goods, than are payable on
the importation of the same goods in an American
vessel.

By the British laws, the difference between the du
ties paid by British and foreign vessels in the British
ports in Europe is less than that which exists in our
ports. The consequence is, that a British vessel, of
a given burthen, pays considerably more tonnage
duties in the trade between our territories and the
British ports in Europe, than is paid by an American
vessel of the same burthen, engaged in the same trade.

The trade being laid open to both parties, the
principle of equalization of duties was very naturally
deemed an equitable basis of treaty. This could be
effected by lowering the American alien duties to the
British standard, or by raising those of Great Britain
to the American standard. The former might have
been inconvenient to our revenue [especially since,
if it was not general, it would have formed, in respect
to foreign nations, an unpleasant discrimination in
our laws].

Camillas 5 1

The American tonnage duty, therefore, was left to
operate; and by the fifteenth article, it is agreed,
that the British Government shall reserve a right to
raise the tonnage duty on our vessels entering their
ports in Europe, so as to make it equal to the tonnage
duty payable by their vessels entering our ports;
and in order to balance the difference of duties on
goods imported into our ports by American or by
British vessels, the effect whereof is the same as that
which proceeds from an alien tonnage duty, the article
further agrees, that the British Government shall re
serve a right to impose such duty as may be adequate
to effect this end. The preceding clause of this article
stipulates, that the vessels and cargoes of each shall
pay no higher or other duties than those imposed on
the like vessels and cargoes of all other nations. It
was therefore necessary to reserve a right to increase
against us their alien tonnage duty, and to impose
the countervailing duty in question ; as, without such
reservation the same could not have been done, un
less by laws equally operating against all other nations
[which would have been unjust in reference to such of
them as might not, like us, have discriminated in their
duties between their own and foreign vessels].

Two methods have been suggested by which this
countervailing power might be executed.

One by imposing a pro rata duty on the importa
tion of goods into the British ports in Europe by
American vessels, equal to the difference between the
duties payable in our ports on the importation of
goods by American or British vessels.

[The other] by imposing the identical duty on the

52 Alexander Hamilton

exportation of goods from the British ports in Eu
rope by American vessels, which forms the difference
between the duties payable on the importation of
the same goods into our ports by American or British
vessels.

As the articles imported by our vessels into the
British ports in Europe are dissimilar from those
imported from the same into our ports, one rule of
difference would not effect the equalization sought
for ; and as our difference of duties is not the same on
all articles, being higher on some than on others,
[and as, moreover, the quantities and amount of
different articles differ widely, and are liable to con
tinual proportional variations,] no uniform [average]
rule of countervailing these differences can be de
vised. The [correct] execution, therefore, of this
power, in the method first suggested, is impractic
able, and [it is presumed] must be discarded.

The power, then, [it would seem,] can only be
[equitably] exercised by imposing on the articles
which we shall export in American vessels from the
British ports in Europe, a duty identically the same
as that which constitutes, in any case, the difference
of duty, payable in our ports, on the same articles
imported from the British ports in Europe by a
British or an American vessel. Thus they may im
pose on tea and other Asiatic goods, as well as on the
European goods which we shall export from the Brit
ish ports in Europe, the identical duty or the same
sum which constitutes the difference of duties pay
able in our ports on the importation from thence of
the same articles by an American or a British vessel.

Camillas 53

The right to countervail our alien tonnage duty
by imposing an alien tonnage duty on our vessels
entering the British ports in Europe, equal to that
which shall be payable on their vessels entering our
ports, will continue so long as the commercial treaty
shall endure, and will apply to any future increase
of the tonnage duty on foreign vessels that we may
establish. It is, however, stipulated in the conclu
sion of the fifteenth article, that we shall abstain
from increasing the tonnage duty on British vessels,
and also from increasing the difference that now
exists between the duties payable on the importation
of any articles into our ports in British or in Amer
ican vessels, until the expiration of two years after
the termination of the war between France and
Great Britain. But we are free to increase the one
or the other, after the expiration of that period.
And though the British Government will have a
right to countervail, by additional tonnage duties on
our vessels, any increase of that duty on their ves
sels, yet they will have no right to countervail any
increase of the difference between the duties payable
on the importation of any articles into our ports, in
British or in American vessels, unless by a duty
common to all foreign nations; the right reserved
on this subject, being confined to the difference that
now exists, will not reach such future increase.1

1 How ridiculous, then, the argument, if the basis of it were other
wise true, that the treaty, by tying up the Government from future
discrimination, has prostrated our navigation before Great Britain!
Can a restraint which is only to operate the short term of two years
after the termination of the present war, have the mighty effect of
sacrificing our navigation?

54 Alexander Hamilton

From this analysis of the fourteenth and fifteenth
articles we are the better enabled to perceive the
truth of the following propositions :

1 . As, for the purpose of encouraging or protecting
the agriculture and manufactures of Great Britain,
several of our productions, in common with similar
productions of the other nations, are prohibited from
being imported into the British ports in Europe, we
are free, whenever our interest shall require it, also
to exclude any of the productions of the British
dominions from being imported into our ports, ex
tending such exclusions, as they do, to the like
manufactures and productions of foreign nations.

Should that part of the twelfth article, which has
not been ratified, in its modification retain the stipu
lation relative to the importation of coffee, sugar,
and the other productions of the West Indies, it
would constitute an exception to this proposition.
But as the West India productions are dissimilar to
those of our own country, they would not fall within
the reason of these prohibitions, and, therefore, the
exception would be of no consequence

2. As, for the like reasons, some of our productions
are subject, in common with the like productions of
other nations, to high or prohibitory duties in the
British ports in Europe, we are free, likewise, to
impose similar duties on any of the productions
or manufactures of the British dominions, extending
such duties, as they do, to the like productions and
manufactures of other foreign nations.

3. As the navigation act of Great Britain, in order
to extend their own shipping, has heretofore con-

Camillas 55

fined the importation of foreign productions into the
British ports to British ships, and to the ships of the
country producing the same; the fifteenth article
[appears] to contain an important innovation on this
celebrated act, inasmuch as [by the most obvious
construction of the terms] it gives us a right to im
port from our own territories into the British ports
in Europe every article and description of goods and
merchandises which any nation in their own ships is
allowed to import. In consequence whereof, while
all other foreign nations are prohibited and restrained
from importing in their own vessels into Great Brit
ain any goods or merchandises, except those of their
own particular growth, produce, or manufacture, we,
by the treaty, have a right to carry from our ports to
the British ports in Europe, not only goods and mer
chandises of our own growth, produce, or manu
facture, but also such goods and merchandises, the
growth, produce, or manufacture of any foreign na
tion, as a nation producing or manufacturing the
same would import in their vessels into Great
Britain.

4. Should it ever be politic to exclude all foreign
vessels from importing or exporting any species of
goods, wares, or merchandises, by confining their
importation or exportation to our own vessels, we
are perfectly free to do so ; with the exception, rela
tive to the West India productions, referred to under
the first proposition. Thus, for example, we may
prohibit the importation of all Asiatic goods, except
in American bottoms.

That these articles of the treaty leave our naviga-

56 Alexander Hamilton

tion and commerce as free, and secure to us as exten
sive advantages as have before been procured by our
commercial treaties with foreign nations, will be seen
by the following comparison:

i. By the articles before us, the parties restrain
themselves from imposing any other or higher duties
on the vessels and cargoes of each other, than they
impose on the vessels and cargoes of all other nations ;
and also from imposing a prohibition of the importa
tion or exportation of any article to or from the ter
ritories of each other, which shall not extend to all
other nations. By the third and fourth articles of
our treaty with France, and by the second and third
articles of our treaty with Prussia, it is stipulated,
that the subjects and citizens of the respective par
ties shall pay, in the ports, havens, and places of each
other, no other or greater duties or imposts, of what
soever nature they may be, than those which the
nations most favored shall be obliged to pay; and,
moreover, that they shall enjoy all the rights, liber
ties, privileges, and exemptions in trade, navigation,
and commerce, which the said nations do or shall
enjoy. And by the second article of the former and
the twenty-sixth article of the latter treaty, the
parties agree mutually, not to grant any particular
favor, in respect to navigation or commerce, which
shall not immediately become common to the other
party, who shall enjoy the same favor, if freely
granted, or on allowing the same compensation, if the
concession was conditional.

The stipulations in the three treaties are, on these
points, equivalent.

Camillas 57

The second and third articles of our treaty with
Holland, and the third and fourth of our treaty with
Sweden, likewise contain mutual stipulations, that
the subjects and citizens of the several parties shall
pay in the ports, havens, and places of their respect
ive countries, no other or higher duties or imposts
than those which the nations most favored shall pay ;
and that they shall enjoy all the rights, liberties,
privileges, and exemptions in trade and navigation
which the said nations shall enjoy.

2. The articles before us, after stipulating that
there shall be, between our territories and the British
dominions in Europe, a reciprocal and perfect liberty
of commerce, declare that the same shall be subject
always to the laws of the respective countries. The
introductory articles of our treaties with France,
Holland, and Sweden, after asserting the intentions
of the parties to take equality and reciprocity as their
basis, likewise leave each party at liberty to form
such regulations respecting commerce and navigation
as it shall find convenient to itself; and the second
and third articles of our treaty with Prussia, after
stipulating the rights of the parties, respecting the
duties and imposts, and the freedom of their navi
gation and trade, likewise require their submission
to the laws and usages established in the two coun
tries.

3. The articles before us, in their provisions rela
tive to navigation, stipulate, as has been already
observed, in common with our other treaties, that the
ships of the parties shall not be subject to higher or
other duties than those paid by all other nations.

58 Alexander Hamilton

They go further, and agree to vary this rule, so far
as shall be necessary to equalize the tonnage duty
imposed by the parties on the ships of each other.
Our treaty with France is the only one in which we
discover a similar stipulation. France had a high
alien tonnage duty on all foreign vessels transporting
the merchandise of France from one port to another
port in her dominions. We had a less alien tonnage
duty on foreign ships employed in a similar trade.
Though not equally extensive, the case is parallel to
that which exists between us and Great Britain. We
have a high alien tonnage duty on all foreign vessels
entering our ports ; Great Britain has a less alien ton
nage duty on foreign vessels entering her ports. In
our treaty with France we reserve a right to counter
vail the alien tonnage duty imposed by France ; and
in like manner, in our treaty with Great Britain, she
reserves a right to countervail the alien tonnage duty
imposed by us. The object, in both instances, has
been to place the navigation of the parties on the
footing of exact equality.

The preceding exposition of these articles, illus
trated by the comparison of their provisions with the
analogous articles of our other treaties, would be
sufficient to vindicate them against the objections
to which they have been exposed. It is, however,
thought advisable to take notice of such of these ob
jections as are likely to have any influence on the
public opinion. — [This will be done in a subsequent
number.]

CAMILLUS.

Camillas 59

NO. XXVIII

1795-

An extraordinary construction of the last clause of
the fourteenth article has been assumed by the
writer of Cato ; his mistake in this instance has been
the foundation of many of the errors with which that
performance abounds. The article stipulates that
there shall be a perfect and reciprocal liberty of navi
gation and commerce between our territories and
those of Great Britain in Europe, subject always to
the laws and statutes of the two countries, respect
ively. This navigation and commerce, says Cato,
must be subject to, and defined and regulated by,
the laws and statutes of the two countries which ex
isted at the time of making the treaty; all future
laws, that either party might be disposed to make,
relative to the same, being excluded.

The reason assigned in support of this interpreta
tion is, that the article would be nugatory, did not
the laws and statutes alluded to mean only those in
existence at the making of the treaty, since future
laws might impair or destroy what the article confers.

Nothing in the expressions themselves requires
this interpretation.

The customary and established meaning of them
in other treaties would lead to a rejection of it. The
object of the clause is not the limitation of the legis
lative power of the parties, but the subjection of
their mutual navigation and commerce to their re
spective laws. This end is most fully attained by
understanding the parties to mean their future as
well as their existing laws. Besides, the interpreta-

60 Alexander Hamilton

tion must be such as will not destroy the use and
meaning of other parts of the treaty. If this con
struction is just, some of the most important stipula
tions of the fifteenth article would really become
useless. For instance, if the laws, existing at the
time of making the treaty are alone to prevail, the
articles of commerce, admitted or excluded by those
laws, must remain entitled to admission or liable to
exclusion. Why then say in the fifteenth article
" that no prohibition shall be imposed on the exporta
tion or importation of any articles to or from the
territories of the parties respectively, which shall not
extend to all other nations?" If a prohibition, ap
plying to all foreign nations, may be imposed (as the
clause allows), this would be a new or subsequent
law, varying the law existing at the time of making
the treaty, and consequently defeating the construc
tion in question.

The reason adduced by Cato to support his con
struction is equally defective with his interpretation
itself. The fourteenth article is in general terms,
and similar, as has been shown, to the introductory
articles of other treaties; so far from the last clause
thereof being capable of destroying the preceding
stipulations, it is the peculiar province of the next
article to ascertain the points which the parties
mutually agree to except from their legislative
power. In all cases not thus excepted, the naviga
tion and commerce of the parties is subject to their
existing or future laws.

It is not necessary to remark on the several ob
jections which have proceeded from the opinion

Camillus 61

that the treaty restrains us from imposing pro
hibitory duties and exclusions; they are but sub
divisions of the error that has been just combated.

Another objection which has been stated by sev
eral writers, and much labored by Cato, is that, under
the right reserved to the British Government to
countervail an alien tonnage duty, by the imposition
of an equivalent one on our vessels entering their
ports, they would gain and we should lose.

Several methods are adopted to prove this opinion.
The observation that we have a tonnage duty on our
own vessels, and that Great Britain has none, is re
peated by way of objection against this as well as
against the proposed adjustment contained in the
twelfth article. The same reply already given might
be sufficient in this place.

But [is it true] that British ships entering their
own ports in Europe are wholly free from a tonnage
duty? The contrary is the fact; since it is under
stood that they pay a tonnage duty for the support
of light-houses, and some other institutions, con
nected with their navigation, which [in all their
ports '] exceeds the tonnage duty of six cents per
ton, that we levy on the entry of our own vessels
employed in foreign trade. But Great Britain (it is
alleged) will not only impose, in virtue of this re
served right, fifty cents per ton on our vessels enter
ing her ports, but in every port except that of
London she will furthermore exact one shilling and
ninepence sterling, or thirty-nine cents per ton, for
light-money and Trinity-dues, more than is paid by

1 Unless London be an exception.

62 Alexander Hamilton

her own vessels; this, added to the difference before
stated, would have, it is said, a very discouraging
effect upon our navigation. Our tonnage duty is a
tax not divided and appropriated, like the light-
money or Trinity-dues in Great Britain, to specific
and particular objects, but when levied, goes into
the treasury with the duty of impost, and stands ap
propriated to the various objects to which that duty
is appropriated. Among those objects is the support
of light-houses. It is not the object to which the
tax is applied that gives a denomination ; whether it
goes to support the civil list, or to pay annuities, or
to maintain light-houses, or to support hospitals, it
is equally a tonnage duty. A tonnage duty, then,
of a certain amount, is now paid by American ves
sels entering the ports of Great Britain. This duty
is not uniform, being less in London than in the
other ports, and, in some instances, less than the
tonnage duty paid by British ships entering our
ports. The object of this clause (8th of the i$th
article) is to equalize the alien tonnage duties of the
parties. Hence the reservation of a right to the
British Government to impose on our vessels enter
ing their ports in Europe, a tonnage duty equal to
that which shall be payable by British vessels in our
ports. It would be against the manifest views of
the parties, as well as against the explicit terms of
the articles, to impose a tonnage duty (whether for
light-money, Trinity-dues, or any other purpose)
which should exceed that which shall be payable by
British vessels in our ports.

The right reserved is expressly to impose on our

Camillus 63

vessels an equal, not a greater tonnage duty than we
shall impose on their vessels. This objection, there
fore, must be abandoned.

But again, it is urged that our navigation, should
it weather Scylla, must perish on Charybdis ; for we
are gravely told by Cato that, under the right re
served to the British Government to impose such
duty as may be sufficient to countervail, or, which
is equivalent, to balance the difference of duty pay
able on the importation into our ports of Asiatic or
European goods by American or by British vessels,
our ships will be thrown out of the trade with the
British European dominions; because, under this
right, the British Government will impose a duty on
our productions carried to their ports in our own
ships equal to the whole duty payable on the goods
and merchandises imported into our ports by British
ships ; and as the goods and merchandises which we
receive from them exceed in value those that they
receive from us by one third, and as the duty to be
countervailed is at least ten per cent, ad valorem on
the goods received from them, the consequence will
be, that the countervailing duty must amount to
fifteen per cent, on the value of all our productions
carried in our own ships to the British ports in Eu
rope, while the same will be free in British ships. A
more extravagant construction,1 or an argument
more inaccurately formed, can scarcely be imagined.

The countervailing right is not applicable to the

1 [If I mistake not, the assertion of Cato, as to the whole duty, has
been retracted; but the residue of his error on this point remains
unrecalled.]

64 Alexander Hamilton

whole duty payable on goods and merchandises im
ported into our ports in British ships, but expressly
confined to the difference of duty now payable on
the same when imported by American or by British
vessels. This difference is one tenth part of the duty
upon all European goods — that is to say, these goods
pay one tenth part more duty when imported in
British vessels than is paid on the same when im
ported in an American vessel. In all cases, there
fore, where our impost is ten per cent, ad valorem,
the difference of duty to be countervailed amounts
to only one per cent, on the value of the goods, in
stead of ten per cent., as is alleged by Cato; in the
instance of teas imported from Europe the difference
is greater. Again, it is not an aggregate sum that is
to be apportioned under this countervailing right,
for this sum would be liable to constant variation,
according to the quantity and species of goods im
ported into our ports from time to time by British
vessels; and besides, the British Government pos
sess no means whereby the amount thereof could
be ascertained.

Cato feels and admits the force of these remarks as
decisive against an average duty, without perceiving
that they possess equal strength against his project
of countervailing the whole duty paid on the im
portation of goods and merchandises into our ports
by British vessels; for the same variation in the
amount, and the same want or the means to ascer
tain it, will operate in both cases. The reasons
which he himself employs to prove that an average
duty cannot be ascertained, equally show the im-

Camillas 65

practicability of the method which he considers as
the one that will be employed in the execution of the
countervailing right reserved to the British Govern
ment. It has before been stated that the natural,
as well as the equitable, mode of executing this power
will be to impose a duty on the goods imported by
us from their European ports exactly the same as
makes the difference of duty on the importation
thereof into our ports by American or by British
vessels.

Admitting that the execution of the countervailing
right reserved to Great Britain will do no more than
place the navigation of the parties on an equal foot
ing in their mutual intercourse, still we are told that
for this, likewise, the treaty is blamable, because
even equality will be such an advantage to our rival,
that we shall be unable to maintain the competition.

This objection brings with it a quality rarely to be
discovered in the opinions of the cavillers against the
treaty. Their usual error is a false and magnified
estimate of the comparative resources, strength, and
importance of our country; in this instance, shifting
their ground, they fall into the opposite extreme, and
contend for our inferiority in a branch of business in
the prosecution of which we are unquestionably able
to meet a fair competition with any nation.

With what propriety could we have proposed or
expected an adjustment of our intercourse by which
our vessels should have been placed on a better foot
ing than those of the other party ? As the trade was
mutually beneficial, why could we, more than Great
Britain, ask for an arrangement that should subject

VOL. VI.— 5.

66 Alexander Hamilton

our rival to comparatively heavier burdens? Does
any considerate man believe, that it would have been
proper for us to ask, or that there is the least proba
bility that Great Britain would have acceded to, an
arrangement on the subject of our mutual naviga
tion, that should have secured to us advantages
denied to them? To place the navigation of the
parties on an equal footing, was all that could be
rationally expected by either; and so far from such
a settlement being injurious to us, the contrary has
long been the opinion both here and in Great Britain.
If it is true that we are unable to maintain a com
petition with the British navigation, how are we to
account for the jealousy [that is understood] to have
shown itself on their part on this subject.

But the fact is otherwise — British ships cannot be
built and equipped as cheap as American ships, nor
are they victualled and manned x on as good terms.
Our country abounds with excellent materials for
ship-building. Great Britain is in a great measure
dependent upon other countries for a supply of them.
The materials for the construction of ships are much
cheaper in America than in Great Britain; and in
telligent characters in Great Britain as well as in
America have affirmed, that an American merchant-
ship of any given burthen can be built and equipped
for sea one third cheaper than a British, Dutch, or
French ship of equal goodness. Mr. Coxe informs
us, that the cost of an American ship, built of our

1 [In the comparison in this particular, we must combine the number
of hands with the terms of compensation according to which the vessels
of the two countries are navigated.]

Camillas 67

live oak and cedar, is from 36 to 38 dollars per ton,
completely finished; while an oak ship in the cheap
est part of England, France, or Holland, fitted in
the same manner, will cost from 55 to 60 dollars per
ton. The capital employed on the American mer
chantmen is therefore one third less on any given
amount of tonnage than that employed in the same
amount of British tonnage; or the money requisite
to build and equip for sea two British merchant-
ships, will be sufficient to build and equip for sea
three American merchant-ships of the same burthen
and of equal goodness. It is not only the difference
in the first cost, but to this should be added the
difference of interest and insurance, the annual
amount whereof is ascertained by the value of the
ships.

If we add to this the comparative advantages that
we possess in victualling and manning our vessels,
independent of the acknowledged and distinguished
skill and enterprise of our seamen, it may be safely
affirmed, that no American who knows the character
of his countrymen, and who is not ignorant of our
peculiar resources for ship-building, will doubt our
superiority in an equal and fair competition with
any other nation.

It is further alleged, that the treaty wants re
ciprocity, inasmuch as the whole territory of the
United States is laid open to the British navigation
and commerce, while in return, the British terri
tories, in Europe only, are open to us. The short
answer to this allegation is, that it is not true. All
the British territories in Europe are laid open to us;

68 Alexander Hamilton

all their territories in Asia are also opened to us;
the treaty likewise opened all their territories in the
West Indies. The article relative to this branch of
trade, as has already been observed, is excepted from
the ratification of the treaty, and made the subject
of future negotiation. The British territories on our
continent, that of the Hudson's Bay Company ex
cepted, are also opened to us in like manner as ours
are opened to them. The intercourse is confined on
both sides to the interior communications, the in
habitants of those colonies being equally destitute
of a right to resort, by sea, with their ships to our
ports and harbors, as we are of the right to resort,
by sea, with our ships to their ports and harbors.

The territory of the Hudson's Bay Company, the
island of Newfoundland, and the establishments on
the coast of Africa, are the only British dominions
to which the treaty, in its original form, does not give
a right of intercourse and trade.

The settlement in the Bay of Honduras is on
Spanish lands, and the right of precedence is con
ceded for specified objects, beyond which the Span
ish Government are vigilant to restrain the settlers.

Spain may possibly be induced to allow us a right
in common with Great Britain to cut mahogany and
dye-woods in this region ; but Great Britain cannot,
consistently with her convention with Spain, share
with us the privilege that she enjoys.

Newfoundland is a mere establishment for the
British fisheries. The African trade has been, and
might hereafter be, pursued, if our humanity and the
force of public opinion did not impede it, without

Camillus 69

procuring a right to resort to the British ports in that
quarter; and in respect to the unsettled territory of
the Hudson's Bay Company, about which so much
has been noticed and written, it is of no sort of im
portance, except in a small Indian trade that em
ploys two or three annual ships, which arrive there in
August and escape in September; besides that, this
trade belongs to a company who possess a right to
the exclusive enjoyment of it even against their
fellow-citizens. It is finally alleged that the treaty
will bind up and restrain our Government from
making more specific and beneficial treaties of com
merce with other nations.

Those who urge this objection have generally
placed great reliance on another objection, which
asserts that the treaty with Great Britain violates
the Constitution, because it amounts to a regulation
of commerce, the power to regulate which is vested
in Congress and not in the Executive. Yet these
very characters, in the next breath, maintain that
the treaty is bad, because it precludes our Executive
government (for no other power can make treaties)
from making more minute and beneficial commercial
treaties with other nations. If these observations
can be reconciled, it must be thus : the Constitution
does not authorize the Executive, with the aid of
the Senate, to make a commercial treaty with Great
Britain, having vested in Congress the power to
regulate the trade between us and that nation ; but it
allows the Executive to make commercial treaties
with any other nation, which may establish the most
material and minute commercial and revenue laws,

70 Alexander Hamilton

without affecting the power vested in Congress
to regulate trade. That we may have characters
among us sufficiently intemperate to wish that such
was the Constitution, I am not prepared to deny;
but that such a construction can be made out, yet
remains to be proved.

The objection, as usual, is made in a loose and
inaccurate manner; literally interpreted, we should
infer that the treaty contained an article, whereby
we had agreed with Great Britain that we would not
form any future treaties of commerce with any na
tion; but no such stipulation exists.

Is it meant by the objection to be alleged that we
can form no commercial treaty, whereby, for an ad
vantage yielded on our part, we may acquire a privi
lege in return, unless we yield the same advantage
to Great Britain gratuitously and without receiving
from her the equivalent?

Admitting the truth of this objection, it might be
replied: So, on the other hand, Great Britain can
form no commercial treaty, whereby, for an advan
tage yielded on her part, she may acquire some
privilege in return, unless she yields the same advan
tage to us gratuitously and without receiving from
us the equivalent; and as Great Britain, whose com
mercial relations are equally extensive with ours,
and whose capital far exceeds ours, is equally re
strained on this point, our chance of gain would be
fully equal to our chance of loss.

But the allegation is not generally true, and the
objection, when examined, will be found to be of
little weight, even with those who may imagine that

Camillus 71

nations do sometimes make good bargains by the
purchase of privileges and exemptions in their
foreign trade. The case that has been chosen to
enforce the objection, shall be employed to invali
date it.

Admit that the treaty with Great Britain is in
operation; that the oil and provision merchants of
the United States, and the wine and brandy mer
chants of France are desirous of a treaty between the
two countries, whereby those commodities shall be
received from each other on low duties or freely;
admit further, that the governments of the two na
tions are disposed to make such a treaty (this is the
case again put by the opposers of the treaty as im
practicable) , what will restrain the conclusion of this
treaty? The disadvantage that will arise from our
treaty with Great Britain? No; for Britain pro
duces neither wines, nor brandy made from wines,
with which she could supply us ; she therefore could
gain nothing, nor should we lose any thing, by the
conclusion of such a treaty. All that will be requi
site, therefore, in the formation of such treaties, will
be to choose for the purpose such articles of the
growth, manufacture, or produce of any country
with whom we desire to treat, as are not common to
it and the British dominions, and any skilful mer
chant will quickly make the selection. Hence it ap
pears that the objection is not well founded in point
of fact.

But though it may be practicable, will it be politic
in us to conclude no commercial treaties of this char
acter with any nation? If we resort to precedents

72 Alexander Hamilton

as guides, we shall discover few, the history of which
would encourage us. Indeed, they are a description
of conventions not often formed between nations.

They are of difficult adjustment, and necessarily
increase the provisions of the commercial code, suf
ficiently intricate, when only one rule prevails in re
spect to all nations. Besides, however perfect may
be the right of nations in this respect, yet, when the
productions of one nation are received at lower duties
than the like productions of another, the discrimina
tion will scarcely fail to awaken desires and to pro
duce dissatisfaction from their disappointment.

Again, unless we are prepared, at the expense of
the whole, to procure advantages or privileges for a
part of the community, we shall doubt the policy of
such stipulations. Between two manufacturing na
tions, in each of which the manufactures have at
tained to great perfection, a tariff of duties may be
established by treaties, in the payment of which the
manufactures of the two countries might be freely
exchanged and mutually confirmed; such was the
commercial treaty between France and Great Britain
in the year 1786. But the subject was so intricate
and involved such a variety of apparently indepen
dent circumstances, such as the price of provisions,
the amount and the manner of levying of the taxes,
and the price of the raw materials employed in their
respective manufactures, that neither party felt en
tire confidence in the equity and reciprocity of the
treaty; and with all the skill in negotiation, that
France in a superior degree has been supposed to
have possessed, the opinion of that nation has finally

Camillas 73

been, that the treaty was burdensome and disadvan
tageous to them.

We have another specimen of this species of treaty
in a short convention between England and Por
tugal, concluded in 1 703. The object was to procure
a favorable market for dissimilar commodities, and
such as were not the common production of the two
countries. But this treaty, which has been so much
applauded, is essentially defective in point of reci
procity. England agrees to admit the wine of Por
tugal on payment of two thirds of the duty that shall
be payable on French wines; and in return, Portugal
agrees not to prohibit the English woollens. She
does not agree to receive them exclusively of the
woollens of other countries, nor to admit them on
payment of lower duties. The advantage, there
fore, is manifestly on the side of Portugal. By the
treaty of commerce between France and Great Brit
ain, concluded in 1786, it was agreed, that the wines
of France imported into Great Britain should pay
no higher duties than those which the wines of
Portugal then paid. The consequence must have
been a reduction, without compensation or equi
valent from Portugal, of the existing duties on the
wines of that country brought into Great Britain,
equal to one third of the amount of such duties.
This is an instance of inconvenience and loss, result
ing from the species of treaties, which it is alleged as
an objection to the treaty concluded between us and
Great Britain, that we are prevented by it from
making with other nations.

A small compact nation, likewise, who excel in

74 Alexander Hamilton

some one species of manufacture that is established
throughout their territory, and in the conducting
and success whereof there is a common interest, may
find it useful to procure the exclusive supply of some
foreign market; provided, in this as in all other
bargains, the compensation shall not be too high.
But in a nation like ours, composed of different
States, varying in climate, productions, manufac
tures, and commercial pursuits, it will be more
difficult to enter into treaties of this kind. Should
Great Britain, for example, be inclined to admit our
fish-oils freely, or on payment of low duties, on con
dition that we would receive their woollens or hard
ware freely, or on payment of low duties, would the
Middle and Southern States be satisfied with such a
treaty? — would they agree to a tax on their estates
sufficient to supply the deficiency in the revenue
arising from the relinquishment of the impost on
British woollens or hardware? Would it not be
said that such a tax was a bounty out of the common
treasury, on a particular branch of business pursued
alone by a portion of the citizens of a single State in
the Union? Instances might be multiplied in the
illustration of this subject; but they will readily
occur to every man who will pursue a little detail in
his reflections. We have once made an experiment
of this kind; its fate should serve as a caution to
us in future. By the eleventh and twelfth articles
of our treaty with France, it was agreed that
France should never impose any duty on the mo
lasses that we should import from the French West
Indies; and in compensation of this exemption,

Camillas 75

that we should never impose any duty on the ex
portation of any kind of merchandise by French
men, from our territories, for the use of the French
West Indies. These articles produced much dis
satisfaction in Congress : it was said to be a benefit
that would enure to the use and advantage of only
a part, but which must be compensated by the whole.
Those arguments which will show themselves in
future, should similar conventions be formed, were
displayed on this occasion. The treaty was ratified;
Congress applied to the king of France to consent
to annul these articles; this request was granted;
and the articles were, by the several acts of the
parties, annulled.

Not only the few instances of the existence of
these treaties among the nations, added to the pe
culiar difficulties which we must meet in their forma
tion, should lead us to doubt their utility, but also
the opinion of our own country, which, if explicit on
any point, has been repeatedly so in the condemna
tion of this species of national compact.

The introductory article of our commercial treaty
with France asserts, that the parties willing to fix in
an equitable and permanent manner the rules which
ought to be followed relative to their correspondence
and commerce " have judged that the said end could
not be better obtained than by taking for the basis
of their agreement the most perfect equality and
reciprocity, and by carefully avoiding all those burd
ensome preferences which are usually sources of de
bate, embarrassment, and discontent."

The same language is employed in our subsequent

76 Alexander Hamilton

treaties with Holland and with Sweden; the public
voice is unequivocal on this subject.

On the whole, the more closely this question is
examined the more doubtful will the policy appear
of our entering into treaties of this description. We
shall have to encounter not only the intrinsic diffi
culties that always attend a fair and precise adjust
ment of the equivalents, together with the national
discontents that proceed from errors on this point;
but, moreover, a still greater embarrassment from
the circumstance that our great staple exports are
not the common productions of the whole Union,
but different articles are peculiar to different parts
thereof. If, notwithstanding, our Government shall
discover an instance in which, consistent with the
common interest and sound policy, such a treaty
might be desirable, we have scope sufficient to form
it without incurring loss or disadvantage by the
operation of our treaty with Great Britain.

CAMILLUS.

NO. XXIX

The sixteenth article is entirely conformable to the
usage and custom of nations. The exchange of con
suls had already taken place between us and Great
Britain ; and their functions and privileges being left
to the definition of the law of nations, we shall be
exempt from those unpleasant controversies that too
often arise from special conventions, which enlarge
the consular privileges, power, and jurisdiction.

The agreement that either party may punish, dis-

Camillas 77

miss, or send back a consul for illegal or improper
conduct, is calculated to prevent national misunder
standings, and to secure a respectful deportment in
the consular corps. I have not observed that this
article has been disapproved of from any quarter.

The seventeenth article, which respects the capture
and detention of the vessels of the parties on just
suspicion of having on board enemy's property, or
contraband of war, has been the object of intem
perate censure — with how much justice it shall be
the business of this paper to examine.

The principal complaint is, not that the article ex
posed our own property to loss by capture, for this
is not the case, but that it does not protect enemy's
property on board our vessels. The defence of the
article will rest upon the proofs which shall be ex
hibited, that it is in conformity with, and supported
by, the clear and acknowledged law of nations — that
law which pronounces that enemy's goods on the
high seas are liable to capture, and as a necessary
means to this end, that neutral ships are there liable
to examination or search.

The law of nature (as heretofore observed), appli
cable to individuals in their independent or unsocial
state, is what, when applied to collections of indi
viduals in society, constitutes the natural or necessary
law of nations. An individual in a state of nature,
for reparation of injuries, or in defence of his person
and property, has a right to seize the property of his
enemy, and to destroy his person.

Nations always succeed to the rights that the in
dividuals who composed them enjoy in a state of

78 Alexander Hamilton

nature; and hence it is that by the law of nations,
from the earliest annals of society, the goods or prop
erty of one enemy have been considered as liable to
be seized and applied to the use of another. This
right must be so used as not to injure the rights of
others; subject to this limitation, it is perfect, and
an interruption of it by another is an injury. As in
a contest between two individuals in a state of na
ture, no third has a right, without becoming a party
in the controversy, to protect the property or defend
the person of either of the parties; so in a war be
tween two nations, no third nation can act out of its
own jurisdiction, consistent with the duties of neu
trality; or, without becoming a party in the war,
protect the property of, or defend, either of the par
ties. Though nations are, in respect to each other,
like individuals in a state of nature, the resemblance
is not in every particular perfect. Individuals in a
state of nature have not only the inferior dominion
or private ownership of property, but the entire and
perfect dominion over it. In society the latter right
belongs exclusively to the nation, while the former
belongs to the several members that compose it.
Immovable things, such as lands, which are denomi
nated the territory of a nation, are the immediate
and special objects of this perfect dominion or para
mount property. Movable things are the proper
objects of inferior dominion or private ownership,
and are not otherwise the objects of the national or
paramount property than as they happen to be
within its territorial limits. The perfect dominion
or jurisdiction of a nation, in respect to property,

Camillas 79

extends over, and is bounded by, the lands thereof
and the waters appurtenant to the same.

As soon, therefore, as movable things pass out of
these limits, they cease to be under the dominion or
jurisdiction of the nation, the private property of
whose members they may be.

This private property, in movable things, may be
enjoyed within the territory of a nation, by those
who are not members thereof. Hence in a war be
tween two nations, a member of one of which owns
movables within the territory of a third or neutral
nation, such movables or property are not liable to
seizure by reason of the war; because, being within
and under the exclusive jurisdiction of a third na
tion, it would be an injury to the right of such nation
to go there and seize the same. So long as such
movables remain within a foreign territory, they are
objects of its dominion and protection; but as soon
as they are carried out of the same, they cease to be
any longer under its jurisdiction or protection.

In a war between two nations, all the members of
each are enemies to the other, and all the property
of the several members, as well as the strictly na
tional property, is liable to seizure. In general the
character of the owner, whether enemy or friend,
decides whether property is liable to capture by
reason of war; but the validity of the capture de
pends not only on the goods being enemy's property,
but likewise on the fact that the place of capture is
one in which the right may be exercised without in
jury to the rights of a neutral nation. Hence the
property of an enemy is liable to capture only within

8o Alexander Hamilton

the respective territories or jurisdiction of the belli
gerent nations, or in a place not within the territory
or jurisdiction of any nation. In either of these
places the right may be exercised without injury to
the rights of neutral nations. The limitation of this
right, so far as respects enemy's property found
within the territory of one of the parties on the
breaking out of war, has before been discussed, and
placed, I flatter myself, on solid principles.

The main ocean not being within the territory or
subject to the exclusive dominion of any nation, is a
place where enemy goods may lawfully be captured.
An impediment by any third nation to the exercise
of the right of capture on the ocean by either of the
belligerent parties, would be an injury.

As the goods of an enemy, within the territory of a
neutral state, are under the protection thereof, the
law of nations, for the reasons that have been stated,
will not permit us to take them; in like manner, we
have no right to take them if they are on board a
ship, whilst the ship is in a neutral port, whether the
ship itself is a neutral one, or belongs to an enemy,
because the port is a part of the territory. When
the goods of an enemy are on board the ship of an
enemy, and the ship is in the main ocean, there is no
doubt of our right to capture both the goods and the
ship, because they are then in a place which is not the
territory of any nation. But when the goods of an
enemy are on board a neutral ship, and the ship is in
the main ocean, though we have a right to take the
goods, we have no right to take the ship, or to detain
her any longer than is necessary to obtain possession

Camillas 81

of the goods; for the ocean itself is no territory, and
neutral ships, as they are movable goods, can not be
parts of the neutral territory, and consequently are
no more under the protection of the neutral state
than the same goods would be if they were passing
through an unoccupied country in neutral carriages
or on neutral horses.

A neutral ship (says Rutherforth in his Institutes,
whose reasoning on this question I adopt) may in
deed be called a neutral place; but when we call it
so, the word place does not mean territory, it only
means the thing in which the goods are contained.
Though the goods of the enemy had been on board a
ship belonging to the enemy, we might have said, in
the same sense, that they were in a neutral place, if
they had been locked up there in a neutral chest.
But no one would imagine that such a neutral place,
as a chest, can be considered as a part of the territory
of the neutral state, or that it would protect the
goods. Notwithstanding, a neutral chest is as much
a neutral place as a neutral ship.

A ship, though a movable thing, is under the juris
diction of a nation whilst it continues in one of its
ports ; but as soon as it is out at sea, only the private
ownership, or inferior dominion, of the ship remains,
and it ceases to be under the dominion or jurisdiction
of the nation. The case will be the same if, instead
of supposing the ship to be the property of a mer
chant, we suppose it to be the property of the nation.

For though we cannot well call the property which
the nation has in such a ship by the name of private
ownership, yet, when the ship comes into the main

VOL. VI. — 6.

82 Alexander Hamilton

ocean, the jurisdiction or paramount property ceases,
and the right that remains is an inferior kind of
property, which has the nature of private ownership.
If the jurisdiction which a neutral state has over the
ships of its members, or even over its own ships,
ceases when the ships are out at sea, the goods of an
enemy, that are on board such ships, cannot be under
the protection of the nation in the same manner as if
the ships had been in one of its ports, or as if the
goods had been on its land.1

Notwithstanding a neutral nation, when its ship
is in the main ocean, has no jurisdiction over the ship
itself, as if it was a part of its territory, yet the na
tion, or some of its members, which is the same thing,
will continue to have the inferior sort of property or
ownership in it. This species of property will pro
tect the ship from capture, though the enemy's goods
on board her may lawfully be taken.

But here a difficulty occurs. This inferior kind
of property, called private ownership, to distinguish
it from the jurisdiction over things, is an exclusive
right; those who have such ownership in things,
whether private or public persons, have a right to
exclude all others from making use of such things;
and by this means, the rights of others are often
hindered from taking effect.

Wild beasts, birds, and fishes are, till they are
catched, in common to all mankind; and I, in com-

1 [The jurisdiction here spoken of is relative to property, and alto
gether distinct from what is termed personal jurisdiction, which re
spects the relations between the society and its members. This latter
species of jurisdiction is not confined to the territorial limits of a
nation.]

Camillus 83

mon with others, have a right to take them, and
thereby to make them my own. But I cannot hunt,
or shoot, or fish, without perhaps sometimes using
the soil or water of another man; and as I have no
right to use these without his consent, he may justly
hinder me from doing any of these acts, as far as his
right of property extends. Thus by private owner
ship I am prevented from taking such things as I
should otherwise have a right to take, if they did
not happen to be in such places as he had an exclu
sive right to. In like manner, though I have a right
to take the goods of my enemy, when they are out at
sea, yet may not the effect of this right be prevented
by the inferior property or ownership which a neutral
nation, or its members, have in the ship in which the
goods are ? If the law of nations is nothing but the
law of nature applied to the collective persons of
civil societies, instead of saying that the law of na
tions has decided otherwise, we should disclose a
natural reason why it should determine otherwise.
When I have merely a right to acquire property in a
thing that is common to all mankind, but cannot do
it without the use of what is already the property of
some other man, this man neither does me an injury,
nor encourages or protects others who have injured
me, by excluding me from the use of what belongs to
him. But when we have a right in war, upon ac
count of the damage which the enemy has done us,
to take goods of the enemy, and these are in a neu
tral ship, if the neutral state, though it has property
in the ship, should make use of its right of property
to protect the goods against us, this protection makes

84 Alexander Hamilton

it an accessory to the injury, which is the foundation
of the claim upon the enemy to obtain reparation of
damages, and consequently is inconsistent with the
notion of neutrality.

But whilst this answer removes one difficulty, it
brings another. If a neutral nation makes itself ac
cessory to the damages done by the enemy, by pro
tecting such enemy's goods as she has a right to take
for reparation of damages, when these goods are out
at sea in one of its ships, why might not the same
nation, without becoming in like manner an acces
sory, protect the same goods when the ship is in one
of its ports, or when the goods are on land within its
territory? A law of nations, which is natural as to
the matter of it, and positive only as to the objects
of it, will furnish an answer to this question.

Every State has, by universal acknowledgment
and consent, by the law of nations, an exclusive
jurisdiction over its own territory. As long, there
fore, as a State keeps within its own territory, and
exercises its jurisdiction there, the protection in
question is not a violation of our rights; but when
its ships are in the main ocean, as they are then in a
place out of its territory, where, by the law of nations,
it has no jurisdiction, this law will allow us to take
notice of the protection which it gives to the goods
of an enemy, and to consider it as an accessory to
the damages done by the enemy, if it gives them
protection.

In respect to the right of examination or search, if
the end is lawful, and the examination or search a
necessary mean to attain this end, the inference is

Camillus 85

inevitable, that the examination or search is like
wise lawful.

If the question, whether enemy goods are seizable
on board a neutral ship, were really doubtful, yet the
right to search neutral ships must be admitted for
another reason. All agree that arms, ammunition,
and other contraband articles may not be carried to
an enemy by a neutral power; without searching
vessels at sea, such supply could not be prevented.
The right to search, therefore, results, likewise, from
the right to seize contraband goods. Again, the
state of war authorizes the capture of enemy's ships
and goods ; but on the main ocean, which is the great
highway where the ships and goods of all nations
pass, how are the ships and goods of an enemy to be
distinguished from those of a friend ? No other way
than by examination and search. Hence, then, the
right of search is deducible from the general right to
capture the ships and goods of an enemy.

It would undoubtedly disembarrass the commerce
of neutral nations were passports and ships' papers
received, in all cases, as conclusive evidence of the
quality and property of the cargo. And did treaties,
in fact, effectually secure an exemption from rude
and detrimental inquisitions upon the ocean, they
would become objects of inestimable worth to the
neutral powers. But, notwithstanding the existence
of stipulations in our other treaties [which aim at
giving some force to similar credentials], can it be
said that our ships have been visited with less cere
mony by one party than by the other? And may
not the experience of other nations, as well as that of

86 Alexander Hamilton

our own, be appealed to, in proof of the opinion,
that these stipulations, however exact and positive,
are too little regarded by that class of men, to re
strain and govern whose conduct they are instituted?

The right of search ought to be used with modera
tion, and with as little inconvenience as possible to
the rights of nations not engaged in the war. And
the law of nations, on the other hand, requires the
utmost good faith on the part of the neutral powers.
They are bound not to conceal the property of the
enemy, but, on the contrary, to disclose it when
examination shall be made; in confidence of this
impartiality, the law of nations obliges the powers at
war to give credit to the certificates, bills of lading,
and other instruments of ownership produced by the
masters of neutral ships, unless any fraud appear in
them, or there be good reason for suspecting their
validity. The right of search is [always] at the peril
of those who exercise it; the right, notwithstanding
[must be acknowledged] to be indubitable.

The reasoning employed to prove that all neutral
ships on the main ocean are liable to search, and
enemy goods on board them to capture, is supported
by the ablest writers on public law, and their deci
sion is believed to be unanimously in its favor.

The Italian states were the first among modern
nations who cultivated the interests of commerce,
and before the passage of the Cape of Good Hope,
Venice and Genoa distributed the manufactures of
Asia throughout Europe. They, therefore, first de
fined the rights of navigation. Their maritime regu
lations are collected in a work called Consolato del

Camillas 87

Mare; I do not possess the collection, but find the
following quotation from it in Grotius.1

" If both the ship and freight belong to the enemy,
then, without dispute, they become lawful prize to
the captor ; but if the ship belong to those that be at
peace with us, and the cargo be the enemy's, they
may be forced by the powers at war, to put into any
of their ports, and unlade ; but yet the master must
be satisfied for the freight of them."

Grotius, that learned and persecuted friend of
liberty, whose life and great talents were dedicated
to the service of mankind, and who displayed so
much ability and learning in defending the freedom
of the seas and of commerce, is clearly of opinion that
enemy goods are not protected by neutral bottoms;
he even goes further, and allows that such property
occasions great presumption that the vessel is, like
wise, enemy property.3 Bynkershoek is of the same
opinion.3 Puffendorf and Heinecius 4 agree in this
law; and Vatel, who is the latest writer, is explicit
in his opinion. " Without searching neutral ships at
sea," says he, " the commerce of contraband goods
cannot be prevented — there is then a right of search
ing. Some powerful nations have, at different
times, refused to submit to this. At present a neu
tral ship refusing to be searched would, from that
proceeding alone, be condemned as lawful prize."
" Effects belonging to an enemy, found on board a
neutral ship, are seizable by the rights of war; but

1 Grotius, Book III., chap, i., sec. 5, Note.

2 Grotius, Book III., chap, i., sec. 8; Book III., chap, vi., sec. 6.

3 Bynkershoek, Quest. Jur. Pub., lib. i., cap. 13 and 14.

4 Heinecius, De Navibus, cap. 2, sect. 114, 115, 116.

i-

88 Alexander Hamilton

by the law of nature, the master is to be paid his
freight, and not to suffer by the seizure. The effects
of neutrals, found on board an enemy ship, are to be
restored to the owners, against whom there is no
right of confiscation."

Other authors of respectability might be quoted;
but those already named will be acknowledged as
the ablest, and their authority the most decisive of
any that can be cited. So strong, clear, and unin
terrupted, are the authorities of the writers on public
law in relation to these points, that the advocates
of an opposite rule may be challenged to produce a
single authority of approved respectability in sup
port of their opinion.1

CAMILLUS.

NO. XXX

1795.

Admitting that it was the law of nations that
enemy's goods might be seized in neutral ships, it is
alleged by Cato and other writers, who have ap
peared on the same side, that the treaties which have
been formed between nations have annulled this law,
and established another in its stead, equally exten
sive and binding on the whole civilized world.

In discussing this allegation, we should remember
that all nations are in a state of equality, and inde
pendent of each other. No law, other than the
necessary or natural law of nations, is binding on
any nation without its consent, expressly or tacitly

1 This subject will be resumed and pursued under different aspects in
another number.

Camillus 89

given. A law among nations cannot, like a civil or
municipal law, be annulled, or enacted by a majority,
or any portion short of the whole. By agreement
between two or more nations, the operation of a law
already in existence may be suspended so far as
respects themselves; but such agreement works no
change of such law, in relation to the rights or duties
of other nations. The same is true of any rule of
action established by convention between two na
tions; such rule is obligatory on the parties that
form the contract, but is wholly without effect and
nugatory in respect to all other nations. Unless,
then, all nations have concurred in the design to
annul this law, it must still exist; and treaties con
taining opposite stipulations can be considered in no
other light than as exceptions to the same, in which
certain nations have seen it their interest to agree.

Though one nation may have agreed with an
other to suspend the operation of this law, and to
substitute the rule that free ships make free goods,
and enemy ships enemy goods, there may have been
some peculiar reason that induced the parties to
form this convention with each other, that would
not apply in respect to any other nation.

A nation may advance its interest perhaps by
forming such a treaty with one nation, and injure it
by forming it with another. Because a nation has,
in some instances, or for a limited time, formed stipu
lations of this sort, it cannot from thence be inferred
that it has thereby, in any sense, expressed its con
sent to a total repeal of a law, the operation of which
it has agreed to suspend only for a limited time,

90 Alexander Hamilton

and in respect to a particular nation. Commercial
treaties, in which we discover these stipulations,
though not always, are commonly limited in their
duration. This limitation is a strong argument
against the doctrine which these treaties are cited to
establish. For so many years, say the parties, we will
suspend the operation of the law. When the treaty
expires by its proper limitation, or is dissolved by
war, the rule of the treaty ceases, and the law is
again in force between the parties, and prescribes to
them, in common with other nations, their rights
and duties in this respect.

The law of nations, that authorizes the capture of
enemy goods in neutral ships, requires the restora
tion of neutral goods captured in enemy ships; the
treaties, which stipulate that free ships make free
goods, stipulate also that enemy ships make enemy
goods. I have discovered no instance of the former
stipulation that has not been accompanied by the
latter; though I have found instances of the latter
stipulation unaccompanied by the former. This is
the case in the treaty of peace, commerce, and alli
ance between Spain and England, concluded at
Madrid, in 1667. Those, therefore, who contend
that the law of nations has been repealed in one in
stance, must also insist that it has been repealed in
the other. If the number of stipulations is to be
received as evidence, the proof is stronger of a repeal
in the latter than in the former case. But will any
one seriously maintain, that a nation would have a
right to confiscate the goods of a neutral power
found on board an enemy ship, without an express

Camillas 91

stipulation on the part of such neutral state con
senting to the same? Would England or Spain, for
example, have a right to confiscate American prop
erty captured in a French ship? Would America,
if at war, have a right to confiscate the neutral prop
erty of Spain, Portugal, Denmark, or Russia, found
on board an enemy ship ? Has any nation ever con
fiscated property under this circumstance? If not,
the inference is clear, that these stipulations are ex
clusively relative to the parties who form them, and
that the rights of other states remain under the
protection of the law of nations.

But, according to Cato, this reasoning may be just,
yet inapplicable; for he maintains that all nations
have consented to the establishment of this conven
tional law. "As far back as 150 years," says this
writer, "and ever since, I find that the commercial
nations have stipulated in their treaties, that free
ships shall make free goods, that full credit shall be
given to ships' papers, and that armed vessels shall
not come within cannon shot of a neutral ship, but
send their boats on board with only two or three
men at most, to examine papers, but not to search,
and that the treaties (by which is understood all the
treaties) for 150 years back, relative to this object,
are drawn in the words of the treaty between the
United States and France."

Struck with the fulness of this assertion, I have
carefully examined such collections of treaties as I
have been able to procure, and going back to the
year 1645, I have given a patient search to all
the public conventions between Great Britain and

92 Alexander Hamilton

the several powers of Europe since that period. I
find that, since that epoch, Great Britain has con
cluded commercial treaties with Spain, Portugal,
France, Holland, Dantzic, Denmark, Sweden, and
Russia.

In the treaties with Holland and with France, she
has agreed to the stipulation, that free ships shall
make free goods, and enemy ships enemy goods. In
Chalmers' collection of treaties, a similar stipulation
is contained in the 23d article of the treaty of alli
ance, concluded in 1564, between Oliver Cromwell
and the king of Portugal ; but in other collections in
which that treaty is found, it does not contain a
stipulation that free ships shall make free goods ; and
it has been denied, from a reputable quarter, on the
part of Great Britain, that she has ever acceded to
this principle, except in the instances of her treaties
with Holland and France ; neither of which exist any
longer, the former having expired long since, and the
latter being dissolved by the present war. Her
treaties with Spain, Dantzic, Denmark, Sweden, and
Russia, do neither of them contain this stipulation.
On the contrary, the 1 2th article of the treaty with
Sweden, and the 2oth of the treaty with Denmark,
each of which is now in force, and has been so for
more than a century, as likewise the i4th article of
the treaty with Dantzic, declares, that "lest the
enemy's goods and merchandise should be concealed
under the disguise of the goods of friends, it is stipu
lated, that all ships shall be furnished with passports
and certificates, by which it shall be manifest to
whom the articles, composing the cargoes, belong";

Camillas 93

and the two first of these treaties, moreover, declare
it " to be injurious to protect the property of enemies, "
and establish special guards to prevent the same.

In relation to the full credit to be given to ships'
papers, and the manner of boarding neutral vessels,
—in the treaties with Spain, France, and Holland, it
is stipulated, that full faith shall be given to the pass
ports, and that the boarding shall be by two or three
men only. But the treaties with Portugal and Rus
sia are destitute of any stipulation on this subject,
except that in the latter it is agreed,1 that "the
searching of merchant ships shall be as favorable as
the reason of the war can possibly admit, toward the
most favored neutral nation, observing, as near as
may be, the principles of the law of nations that
are generally acknowledged." In the treaties with
Dantzic,2 Denmark, and Sweden, passports are re
quired for the purpose of distinguishing, according
to the solemnities of those treaties, the enemy prop
erty on board the ships of the parties ; and it is stipu
lated, that credit shall be given to such passports,
except in cases of just and urgent cause of suspicion,
when, say these treaties, the ship ought to be searched.
An exception, that fully recognizes the right to
search, essentially does away with the security in
tended by the passports. But neither of these
treaties contains any regulation relative to the man
ner of boarding neutral vessels.

This research, though made with care, may have
been imperfect; the result thereof is, that there are

1 Treaty of 1776, article 10.

2 Treaty with Dantzic of 1706, article 20.

94 Alexander Hamilton

only two, possibly three, of these eight nations, with
whom Great Britain has ever agreed to the stipula
tion, that free ships shall make free goods; only
three of them with whom she has stipulated, that
full credit shall be given to passports or ships' papers,
or with whom the manner of boarding is settled. In
stead, therefore, of that uniformity and universality
in the stipulations in the commercial treaties, con
cluded within the last 150 years, so confidently as
serted by Cato, we see that in five instances out of
eight, of treaties concluded between Great Britain
and the principal powers of Europe, within that
term, they have on each of these points, given their
sanction to a law directly in opposition to the asser
tion of this adventurous writer.

Yet, says Cato, "the principles of the armed neu
trality, by the general consent of the great com
munity of the civilized world, changed the law of
nations/' It is a singular logic that proves the agree
ment of nations by their disagreement, and their
consent to a principle, by their drawing forth their
fleet to dispute it. The armed neutrality, with those
who understand its history, will not be relied on by
way of proving a change in the law of nations,
brought about by universal consent.

It will not be denied that this league, which was
aimed principally against Great Britain, failed to
accomplish its purpose, and that it expired with the
American war. Nothing has been heard of it during
the present war; and it is notorious, that Russia, and
Holland before its conquest, were under agreements
incompatible with the views of that association.

Camillus 95

The northern powers of Europe under the counte
nance of France, united to support the principles of
the armed neutrality ; but the league did not include
all the neutral powers ; and of the powers engaged in
the war, at that period, Spain consented to observe
the principles contended for by the confederacy, on
condition that Great Britain would agree to them,
who, so far from agreeing, openly resisted them.

On the same principle, by which it is contended
that this association introduced a new law of nations,
might the armed leagues between certain nations to
prohibit all commerce whatever with an enemy, be
appealed to in proof of an alteration of the law of
nations in this respect. England and Holland en
tered into such a league against France, in the year
1689 ; and other instances are mentioned by Grotius ;
yet no one has ever imagined that thereby any
change was wrought in the law of nations.

The objection that has arisen from the dissimilar
ity between this article and those relative to the
same subject in our other treaties, is equally defective
with those already considered. The objection pro
ceeds from an opinion that the law of nations has
been changed, and that the stipulations in our other
treaties are evidence thereof. The observations that
have been offered on this subject are equally ap
plicable to this objection, and it is therefore unneces
sary to repeat them.

Not only reason, and the authority of jurists, but
likewise the practice of nations, where they have
been unrestrained by particular conventions, may be
appealed to in support of this doctrine.

96 Alexander Hamilton

The practice of France, of Holland, even subse
quent to particular stipulations, regulating this sub
ject between themselves, has, in respect to other
powers, been conformable to the law of nations.
The ordinances and maritime decisions of France
may be consulted to show what her practice has been,
and that of Holland is evident by the convention of
1689, between her and England. The practice of
Spain is understood to be the same; and in an in
stance that occurred during the American war, she
carried the law to its utmost rigor, in assigning as a
cause of condemnation of a neutral Tuscan ship, her
forcible resistance of the right of search. Her cap
ture of American ships, during the present war, on
suspicion of their cargoes being enemy property,
affords additional evidence of her practice and opin
ions on this subject. In respect to Great Britain,
from the general notoriety of the fact, it seems, in
some sort, unnecessary to add, that she has imme-
morially adhered, in her general practice, to the law
of nations in its widest interpretation on this subject.
In a few instances, and perhaps for special reasons,
as was the case in respect to the treaty with Holland,
concluded in 1667, she has entered into opposite
stipulations ; but at this time, unless it may be with
Portugal, Great Britain has no such treaty with any
nation.

So undisputed was the law on this subject, and
so uniform the practice of nations in cases not gov
erned by a conventional rule, that Congress in the
commencement and through the greater part of our
revolution war, authorized our ships of war and pri-

Camillus 97

vateers to capture enemy property on board neutral
ships, and our admiralty courts uniformly restored
neutral property found on board enemy ships. This
practice continued years after the conclusion of our
treaty with France, which contains a stipulation,
that free ships shall make free goods, and enemy
ships enemy goods; no person, during that period,
having supposed that thereby the law was altered in
respect to other nations.

Towards the close of the war, to favor the views of
the armed neutrality, in which league the United
States were not a party, but whose opposition to
Great Britain they naturally approved, Congress, in
an ordinance on the subject of captures, ordained
that neutral bottoms should protect enemy goods—
but here they stopped. Thus far the authority was
indubitable, because it was exercised only in abridg
ment of their own rights. Being engaged in war,
they could not by their own act enlarge their rights,
or abridge those of neutral ships ; the extent of both
being defined and settled by the public law of nations.
They, therefore, never authorized the capture and
condemnation of neutral goods found in enemy ships,
nor could they have authorized the same, without a
manifest violation of the rights of the neutral powers.

It is finally alleged that the article, if sound in its
principles, is defective in those provisions which are
requisite to protect and secure the neutral rights of
the parties ; inasmuch as it does not contain an ex
plicit stipulation for the payment of freight on enemy
goods, nor for the payment of damages for the de
tention or loss of neutral ships taken without just

VOL. VI. — 7.

98 Alexander Hamilton

cause. I do not recollect to have met with any
precise stipulations on these points, in the commer
cial treaties between other nations. None such, if
my recollection be right, are found in any of our
other treaties; and I think it would be somewhat
difficult to form such as would afford to the parties
a more satisfactory security than that which arises
from the law of nations — a neutral ship is entitled to
freight for enemy goods captured on board her ; but
this right, if so admitted, may be forfeited by the
irregular conduct of the neutral, by the possession
of false or double papers, by the destruction of
papers, or by those fraudulent concealments and
evasions, which are inconsistent with fair and im
partial neutrality. A ship taken and detained with
out just cause, is, together with her cargo, at the risk
of the captors from the moment of capture ; and in
cases of partial or total loss, or of damages by de
tention, the owner is entitled to full and complete
indemnification. But in case the neutral ship is
tinder such equivocal and doubtful circumstances as
afford probable cause to believe that either the ship,
or cargo, is enemy property, a situation not to be
reconciled with an open and fair neutrality, in such
case, though on trial both ship and cargo should turn
out to have been bona-fide neutral property, yet the
captors may avail themselves of her equivocal situa
tion and character, in mitigation, if not, under very
peculiar circumstances, in total discharge, of dam
ages. No stipulation, therefore, without these ex
ceptions, would have afforded to the parties adequate
security against such irregularities; and with them,

Camillus 99

its want of precision would have left the subject as
it now stands, to be regulated by the known and
approved provisions of the law of nations.

These provisions being well understood, the ar
ticle concludes with a stipulation against delays in
the admiralty, and in the payment and recovery of
the damages it shall decree.

This examination, I flatter myself, has fulfilled its
object, which was to prove, that the article relin
quishes no right that we possessed as a nation ; that
it is agreeable to, and supported by, the law of na
tions. A law in relation to this subject, coeval
with the origin of maritime commerce, and the prin
ciples whereof have immemorially operated among
nations.

It was desirable that a stipulation, similar to that
contained in our other treaties, should have been
obtained. But the time was unfavorable to the at
tainment of this object ; and, as with great propriety
has been observed by Mr. Jefferson, in behalf of our
Government, " since it depends on the will of other
nations as well as our own, we can only obtain it
when they shall be ready to consent." By the i2th
article, the parties agree to renew the negotiation on
this point, within the compass of two years after the
conclusion of the present war; when perhaps the
restoration of peace, and other circumstances, may
prove more propitious to our views. CAMILLUS.

NO. XXXI

1795-

I resume the subjects of the two last papers for the
sake of a few supplementary observations.

TOO

Alexander Hamilton

The objections to the treaty, for not containing
the principle, "that free ships make free goods," as
being the relinquishment of an advantage which the
modern law of nations gives to neutrals, have been
fully examined, and, I flatter myself, completely
refuted.

I shall, however, add one or two reflections by way
of further illustration. A pre-established rule of the
law of nations can only be changed by their common
consent. This consent may either be express, by
treaties, declarations, etc., adopting and promising
the observance of a different rule, or it may be im
plied by a course of practice or usage. The consent,
in either case, must embrace the great community
of civilized nations. If to be inferred from treaties,
it must be shown that they are uniform and uni
versal. It can, at least, never be inferred, while the
treaties of different nations follow different rules,
or the treaties between the same nation and others
vary from each other. So also as to usage. It must
be uniform and universal, and, let it be added, it
must be continued. A usage adopted by some na
tions, and resisted by others, or adopted by all tem
porarily and then discontinued, is insufficient to
abolish an old, or substitute a new rule of the law of
nations. It has been demonstrated that no con
sent of either description has been given to the rule,
which is contended for in opposition to the treaty.

The armed neutrality, so much quoted, is en
tirely deficient in the requisite characters. Its
name imports that it was an armed combination
of particular powers. It grew up in the midst of a

Camillus 101

war, and is understood to have been particularly
levelled against one of the belligerent parties. It
was resisted by that power. There were other
powers which did not accede to it. It is a recent
transaction, and has never acquired the confirma
tion of continued usage. What is more, it has been
virtually abandoned by some of the parties to it —
and among these, by the principal promoter of it,
the politic and enterprising Catharine. It is, there
fore, a perversion of all just ideas to ascribe to such
a combination the effect of altering a rule of the law
of nations.

In most important questions, it is remarkable that
the opposers of the truth are as much at variance
with each other as they are with the truth they
oppose. This was strikingly exemplified when the
present Constitution of the United States was under
deliberation. The opposition to it was composed of
the most incongruous materials — the same thing is
observable in relation to the treaty. And one in
stance of the contrariety applies to the rule cited
above.

While some of the adversaries of the treaty com
plain of the admission of a contrary principle by that
instrument, as the abandonment of a rule of the
present law of nations ; others, conceding that there
is no such rule yet established, censure that admis
sion as a check to its complete and formal establish
ment, and as a retrograde step from this desirable
point.

The objection in this form is more plausible than
in the other, but it is not less destitute of substance.

102 Alexander Hamilton

If there has been any retrograde step, it was taken
by the Government prior to the treaty. Authentic
documents, which have been communicated by the
Executive to Congress, contain the evidence of this
fact.

Early in the year 1793, some British cruisers hav
ing stopped vessels of the United States, and taken
out of them articles which were the property of
French citizens, Mr. Genet, the then minister of
France, in a letter of the gth of July of that year,
made a lively representation upon the subject to our
Government, insisting, in a subsequent letter of the
25th of that month, in which he recurs to the same
point, that the principles of neutrality established,
that friendly vessels make friendly goods; and in
effect, that the violation of this rule by Great Britain
was a violation of our neutral rights, which we were
bound to resent.

The reply of our Government is seen in a letter
from our Secretary of State to that minister, of the
24th of July. It is in these terms : "I believe, " says
Mr. Jefferson, "it cannot be doubted, but that by
the general law of nations the goods of a friend,
found in the vessel of an enemy, are free, and the
goods of an enemy, found in the vessel of a friend,
are lawful prize. Upon this principle, I presume,
the British armed vessels have taken the property
of French citizens found in our vessels in the cases
above mentioned; and, I confess, I should be at a
loss on what principle to reclaim them. It is true
that sundry nations, desirous of avoiding the incon
veniences of having their vessels stopped at sea,

Camillus 103

ransacked, carried into port, and detained tinder
pretence of having enemy goods on board, have, in
many instances, introduced, by their special treaties,
another principle between them, that enemy bot
toms shall make enemy goods, and friendly bottoms
friendly goods; a principle much less embarrassing
to commerce, and equal to all parties in point of gain
and loss; but this is altogether the effect of par
ticular treaty, controlling, in special cases, the gen
eral principles of the law of nations, and, therefore,
taking effect between such nations only as have so
agreed to control it."

Nothing can be a more explicit or unequivocal
abandonment of the rule, that free ships make free
goods, and vice versa, than is contained in this com
munication. But this is not all. In the letter from
Mr. Jefferson to our minister in France, of the 26th
of August, 1793, instructing him to urge the recall
of Mr. Genet, the subject is resumed; the position
asserted in answer to Mr. Genet insisted upon anew,
and enforced by additional considerations. Among
other suggestions, we find these: " We suppose it to
have been long an established principle of the law
of nations, that the goods of a friend are free in an
enemy's vessel, and an enemy's goods lawful prize
in the vessel of a friend. The inconvenience of this
principle has induced several nations latterly to
stipulate against it by treaty, and to substitute an
other in its stead, that free bottoms shall make free
goods, and enemy bottoms enemy goods. We have
introduced it into our treaties with France, Holland,
and Russia; and French goods found by the two

104 Alexander Hamilton

last nations in American bottoms, are not made
prize of. It is our wish to establish it with other
nations; but this requires their consent also, is a
work of time, and in the meanwhile they have a
right to act on the general principle, without giving
to us or to France, cause of complaint. Nor do I see
that France can lose by it on the whole. For
though she loses her goods when found in our vessels,
by the nations with whom we have no treaties, yet
she gains our goods when found in the vessels of the
same and all other nations ; and we believe the latter
mass to be greater than the former."

Thus, then, stood the business antecedent to the
treaty. Great Britain, adhering to the principle of
the general and long established law of nations, cap
tures French property in our vessels, and leaves free
our property in French vessels. We acquiesce in
this practice, without even a remonstrance or mur
mur. The French minister complains of it, as con
trary to the principles of neutrality. We reply that,
in our opinion, it is not contrary to those principles
— that it is fully warranted by the general law of
nations; that treaties, which establish a different
rule, are merely exceptions to that law, binding only
on the contracting parties ; that having no treaty of
the sort with Great Britain, we should be at a loss on
what ground to dispute the legitimacy of her prac
tice. We do not simply forbear to oppose ; we do
not offer to France as an excuse for our forbearance,
that it is inconvenient to us, at the moment, to as
sert a questionable right at the hazard of war, but
we tell her peremptorily that, in our opinion, no such

Camillas 105

right exists, and that the conduct of Great Britain
in the particular case is justified by the law of nations ;
neither do we wrap the motive of our forbearance in
silence, nor content ourselves with revealing it con
fidentially to France alone, but we publish it without
reserve to the world, and thus, in the presence of
Great Britain, and every other nation, make a formal
renunciation of the pretension, that "free ships
shall make free goods, and enemy ships enemy
goods " ; no counter declaration is heard from either
house of Congress.

It was impossible to give a more full sanction to
the opposite principle than was given by this con
duct, and these public and positive declarations
of our Government. It was impossible more com
pletely to abandon the favorite ground. It is puerile
to attempt to discriminate between the force of this
species of renunciation and that of an admission of
its propriety by treaty. The conduct of a govern
ment avowed and explained, as to motives, by au
thentic public declarations, may assert or renounce
a pretension as effectually as its compacts. Every
nation, with whom we had no contrary stipulation,
could say to us as well before as since the treaty with
Great Britain: "Your Government has explicitly
admitted that free ships do not make free goods, and
you have no right to complain of our not observing
that rule towards you/' Candor, therefore, would
oblige us to say that the treaty has left this point
where it found it — that it has only not obtained from
Great Britain a concession in favor of an inno
vation upon the law of nations, which it is desirable

106 Alexander Hamilton

to establish, but which cannot be claimed as matter
of right. Though, therefore, it may not have the
merit of strengthening, it has not the demerit of
weakening, the ground.

The difference in our position, in this respect, be
fore and since the treaty amounts to this, that be
fore the treaty the Government had abandoned the
ground through one organ, Mr. Jefferson; by the
treaty, it continued the abandonment through an
other organ, Mr. Jay. If we consider the organ as
the voluntary cause in each case (the presumption
of which is equally fair in both cases), and if there be
any blame, it falls more heavily on Mr. Jefferson
than on Mr. Jay; for the former founded and made
the retreat, and the latter only did not advance
from the disadvantageous post to which he had re
treated. In other words, Mr. Jay did only not re
cover the ground which Mr. Jefferson had lost. And
we know that, in general, it is a far more difficult task
to regain than to keep an advantageous position.

But, in truth, no blame can justly be imputed in
either case. The law of nations was against the rule
which it is desired to introduce. The United States
could not have insisted upon it as matter of right;
and in point of policy it would have been madness in
them to go to war, to support an innovation upon
the pre-established law. It was not honorable to
claim a right, and suffer it to be infracted without
resistance. It is not for young and weak nations to
attempt to enforce novelties or pretensions of equi
vocal validity. It is still less proper for them to con
tend, at the hazard of their peace, against the clear

Camillas 107

right of others. The object was truly not of mo
ment enough to risk much upon it. To use the
French proverb, " The game was not worth the candle."
In every view, therefore, it was wise to desert the
pretension.

So, also, in the midst of a war, like that in which
Great Britain was engaged, it were preposterous to
have expected that she would have acceded to a new
rule, which, under the circumstances of her great
maritime superiority, would have operated so much
more conveniently to her enemy than to herself.
And it would have been no less absurd to have made
her accession to that rule the sine qua non of an
arrangement otherwise expedient. Here again the
game would not have been worth the candle.

The importance of the rule has artfully been very
much magnified, to depreciate proportionably the
treaty, for not establishing it. It is to be remem
bered, that if something is gained by it, something
is also given up. It depends on incalculable cir
cumstances, whether, in a particular war, most will
be lost or gained. Yet the rule is, upon the whole,
a convenient one to neutral powers. But it cannot
be pretended that it is of so great a value, as that
the United States ought to adopt it as a maxim,
never to make a treaty of commerce, in which it was
not recognized. They might by this maxim forego
the advantages of regulating their commercial inter
course in time of peace with several foreign powers,
with whom they have extensive relations of trade,
by fixed and useful conventional rules, and still re
main subject in time of war to the inconveniences

io8 Alexander Hamilton

of not having established, with those powers, the
principle to which they make that sacrifice.

Though, therefore, it be a merit to a certain ex
tent in a treaty to contain this principle, it is not a
positive fault or blemish that it does not contain it.
The want of it is not a good cause of objection to a
treaty otherwise eligible.

Let me add, too, in the spirit of Mr. Jefferson's
letter, that however it may be our wish to establish
the rule with other nations besides those with whom
we have already done it, this requires their consent
also, of course their conviction, that it is their in
terest to consent; and that, considering the ob
stacles which lie in the way, the attainment of the
object must be "a work of time." It presupposes,
in some of the principal maritime powers, a great
change of ideas, which is not to be looked for very
suddenly. It was not, therefore, to have been ex
pected of our envoy, that he was to have accom
plished the point at so premature and so unfavorable
a juncture.

The assertion, that he has abandoned it, is made in
too unqualified a manner. For while he admits the
operation for the present, of the general rule of the
law of nations, he has, by the i2th article, engaged
Great Britain in a stipulation, that the parties will,
at the expiration of two years after the existing war,
renew their discussion, and endeavor to agree whether
in any and what cases neutral vessels shall protect
enemy's property. It is true, it will be in the option
of Great Britain then to agree or not; but it is not
less true that the principle is retained with consent

Camillas 109

of Great Britain in a negotiable state. So far perhaps
some ground has been retrieved.

I confess, however, that I entertain much doubt
as to the probability of a speedy general establish
ment of the rule, that friendly ships shall make
friendly goods, and enemy ships enemy goods. It is
a rule against which, it is to be feared, the prepon
derant maritime power, to whatever nation this
character may belong, will be apt to struggle with
perseverance and effect, since it would tend to con
tract materially the means of that power to annoy
and distress her enemies, whose inferiority on the sea
would naturally cause their commerce, during war,
to be carried on in neutral bottoms. This considera
tion will account for the resistance of Great Britain
to the principle, and for the endeavors of some other
powers to promote it; and it deserves notice, that
her last treaty with France was severely assailed by
some of the chiefs of opposition, for containing a
stipulation in favor of that principle. The motive
for consenting to it, in this instance, probably was,
that the stipulation was likely to be rendered, in a
great degree, nugatory by the relative situation of
the two nations, which, in almost any war in which
one of the two was engaged on one side, would prob
ably render the other a party on the opposite
side.

If these conjectures be right, there is a reflection
which lessens much the value of stipulations in favor
of the rule ; that so long as one or more of the mar
itime powers disavow it, there will be a strong
temptation to depart from a scrupulous observance

no Alexander Hamilton

of such stipulations as we, in relation to France,
have experienced in the present war.

In the course of the arguments against the iyth
article, for virtually admitting the right of search in
time of war, the objectors have had the temerity to
cite the opinion of Vatel, as being opposed to that
right; and a mutilated quotation has given an ap
pearance of truth to the assertion. It has been here
tofore shown, by passages extracted from his work,
that his opinion, so far from denying explicitly, sup
ports the right to search. But it may be useful to
examine the part of it which has been tortured into
a contrary inference.

After affirming the right of search (B. 3, chap.
7, 8, 14) he proceeds thus: "but to avoid incon
veniences, violence, and every other irregularity, the
manner of the search is settled in the treaties of
navigation and commerce. According to the present
custom, credit is to be given to certificates and bills of
lading produced by the master of the ship/' Hence
it is alleged the right to search is turned into the
right of inspecting the ship's papers, which, being
entitled to credit, are to preclude further scrutiny.

But what immediately follows destroys this con
clusion; the words "unless any ground appear in
them, or there be very good reasons for suspecting
their validity," are subjoined to the clause just
quoted. This admits clearly, that the ship's papers
are not to be conclusive, but that, upon just cause of
suspicion, the papers may be disregarded, and the
right of search may be exercised.

Who is to be the judge of the credit due to the

Camillas 1 1 1

papers and of the just cause of suspicion? Mani
festly the officer of the belligerent party who visits
the neutral vessel. Then what does the whole
amount to? Merely this — that ship's papers are
entitled to a certain degree of respect and credit;
how much, is left to the discretion of the officer of
the belligerent party! who, if he be not satisfied of
the fairness and validity of the papers, may proceed
to their verification, by a more strict and particular
search, and then if he still sees, or supposes he sees,
just cause of suspicion, he may carry the vessel into
a port of his own country, for judicial investigation.
In doing this he acts at his peril, and for an abuse of
his discretion, exposes himself to damages and other
punishment.

This is the true and evident sense of Vatel, and it
agrees with the doctrine advocated in these papers,
and, I will add, with the treaty under examination.

The i yth article admits, that the vessels of each
party, for just cause of suspicion of having on board
enemy's property, or of carrying to the enemy con
traband articles, may be captured or detained, and
carried to the nearest and most convenient port of
the belligerent party, to the end that enemy's prop
erty and contraband articles aboard may become
lawful prize. But so far from countenancing any
proceeding without just cause of suspicion, or from
exonerating the officer of the belligerent party from
a responsibility for such proceeding, it leaves the
law of nations, in this particular, in full force; and
contemplating that such officer shall be liable for
damages, when he proceeds without just cause of

ii2 Alexander Hamilton

suspicion, provides that all proper measures shall be
taken to prevent delay in deciding the cases of ships
or cargoes brought in for adjudication, or in the
payment or recovery of any indemnification adjudged
or agreed to be paid to the masters or owners of such
ships. Besides which, the igth article stipulates,
in order that more abundant care may be taken for
the security of the respective subjects and citizens
of the contracting parties, and to prevent their suf
fering injuries by the men-of-war and privateers of
either party, that the commanders of ships of war
and privateers shall forbear doing any damage to
those of the other party, committing any outrage
against them; and that if they act to the contrary,
they shall be punished, and shall also be bound in
their persons and estates to make satisfaction and
reparation for all damages, and the interest thereof, of
whatever nature the said damages may be. And fur
ther, after establishing that the commanders of
privateers shall, before they are commissioned, give
security to satisfy all damages and injuries, it adds,
that in all cases of aggressions their commissions
shall be revoked and annulled.

These provisions not only conform to, and corrobo
rate the injunctions of the laws of nations, but they
refute the assertion, that the treaty is altogether de
ficient in precautions for guarding neutral rights;
since those above-mentioned are among the most
efficacious. It is not presumable that any stipula
tions have been or can be made which will take away
all discretion from the marine officers of the belli
gerent parties; for this would be a total surrender

Camillus 1 1 3

of the rights of belligerent to neutral nations, and so
long as any discretion is left, its right or wrong exer
cise will depend on the personal character of each
officer; and abuses can only be restrained by the
penalties that await them. Those stipulations of
treaties, then, which reinforce the laws of nations as
to the infliction of penalties, are the most effectual
of the precautions which treaties can adopt for the
security of neutral rights ; and in this particular the
treaty with Great Britain is to the full as provident
as our other treaties. In one point I believe it is
more so; for it expressly stipulates a revocation of
the commissions of the commanders of privateers
for the aggressions they may commit.

Is not the passage last cited from Vatel a true
commentary on those stipulations, for regulating and
mitigating the right of search, which are found in
our own and other treaties? Do they not all intend
to reserve to the belligerent party a right of judging
of the validity and fidelity of the papers to be ex
hibited, and of extending the search or not, according
to the circumstances of just suspicion which do or do
not appear? and if this be their true construction,
as it certainly is their construction in practice, which
our own experience testifies, to what, after all, do
they amount, more than without them the laws
of nations, as universally recognized, of themselves
pronounce ? What real security do they afford more
than the treaty with Great Britain affords?

It is much to be suspected, that there will always
be found advantages essentially nominal, operating
or not according to the strength or weakness of the

VOL. VI. — 8.

1 14 Alexander Hamilton

neutral party; which, if strong, will find abundant
foundation in the acknowledged laws of nations on
which to rest the protection of its rights.

It has been said to be just matter of surprise, that
these precautions should have no place in a treaty
with Great Britain, whose conduct on the seas so
particularly suggested and enforced every guard to
our rights that could be reasonably insisted on.
Observations of this kind assume constantly the
supposition that we had it in our power to fashion
every provision of the treaty exactly to our own
taste, and that the ideas of the other contracting
party were to have no influence even upon the minor
features of the contract. But this supposition is
absurd; and a treaty may still be entitled to our
approbation, which adjusts acceptably the great
points of interest, though in some of its details it
falls short of our desires. Nor can any well-in
formed man sincerely deny that it was to have been
expected, that an adjustment of the particulars in
question would fall short of our ideas. It may be
answered, that we were then at liberty not to make
the treaty; so we were, but does it follow that it
would have been wise to split on such points ? — upon
a just estimate, their intrinsic value is very moderate.

CAMILLUS.

NO. XXXII

1795-

The eighteenth article of the treaty, which regu
lates the subject of contraband, has been grievously
misrepresented; the objections used against it with

Camillus 1 1 5

most acrimony, are disingenuous and unfounded!
Yet while I make this assertion, which, I flatter my
self, I shall be able to prove, I shall not pretend to
maintain that it is an article completely satisfactory.
I even admit that it has one unpleasant ingredient
in it, and I am convinced that our envoy must have
consented to it with reluctance.

But while candor demands this concession, it
equally admonishes us, that, under the circum
stances of the moment, the points in this respect to
be adjusted were peculiarly unmanageable ; that the
position of the other party rendered an arrangement
entirely agreeable to us, impracticable ; that without
compromise nothing could have been regulated;
that the article made no change for the worse in our
prior situation, but in some particulars made our
ground better; and that estimating truly the rela
tive circumstances of the parties, there is no proba
bility that any thing more acceptable could have
been established.

I will add, that a degree of imperfection, which
may fairly be attributed to this article, is far from
being of such importance as, on solid calculations,
ought to defeat the treaty. No clear right is aban
doned, no material interest of the nation injured.

It is one thing, whether every part of the treaty
be satisfactory; another, and a very different thing,
whether in the aggregate it be eligible or not, and
ought to be accepted or rejected. Nations could
never make contracts with one another if each were
to require that every part of it should be adjusted by
its own standard of right and expediency. The true

n6 Alexander Hamilton

question always is upon the collective merits of the
instrument; whether, upon the whole, it reasonably
accommodates the opinions and interests of the
parties. Tried by this test, the treaty negotiated
with Great Britain fully justifies the acceptance of it
by the constituted authorities of our country, and
claims the acquiescence of every good citizen.

The most labored, and, at the same time, the most
false of the charges against the eighteenth article is,
that it allows provisions to be contraband in cases
not heretofore warranted by the laws of nations, and
refers to the belligerent party the decision of what
those cases are. This is the general form of the
charge. The draft of a petition to the Legislature
of Virginia, reduces it to this shape. The treaty
" expressly admits that provisions are to be held con
traband in cases other than when bound to an in
vested place, and impliedly admits that such cases
exist at present."

The first is a palpable untruth, which may be de
tected by a bare perusal of the article. The last is
an untrue inference, impregnated with the malig
nant insinuation that there was a design to sanction
the unwarrantable pretension of a right to inflict
famine on a whole nation.

Before we proceed to an analysis of the article, let
us review the prior situation of the parties. Great
Britain, it is known, had taken and acted upon the
ground that she had a right to stop and detain, on
payment for them, provisions belonging to neutrals,
going to the dominions of France. For this violent
and impolitic measure, which the final opinion of

Camillas 1 1 7

mankind will certainly condemn, she found color in
the sayings of some writers of reputation on public
laws.

A passage of this kind, from Vatel, has been more
than once quoted, in these terms: " Commodities,
particularly used in war, and the importation of
which, to an enemy, is prohibited, are called contra
band goods. Such are military and naval stores,
timber, horses, and even provisions in certain junc
tures, when there are hopes of reducing the enemy by
famine" Heinecius * countenances the same opin
ion, and even Grotius seems to lean towards it.2

The United States, with reason, disputed this con
struction of the law of nations ; restraining the gen
eral propositions which appear to favor it, to those
cases in which the chance of reducing by famine was
manifest and palpable, such as the cases of particular
places, bona fide besieged, blockaded, or invested.
The Government accordingly remonstrated against
the proceeding of Great Britain, and made every
effort against it which prudence, in the then posture
of affairs would permit. The order for seizing pro
visions was, after a time, revoked.

In this state our envoy found the business. Pend
ing the very war in which Great Britain had exer
cised the pretension, with the same administration
which had done it, was it to have been expected
that she would, in a treaty with us, even virtually
or impliedly have acknowledged the injustice or

1 Law of Nature and Nations, Book II., chap, ix., sec. 201. Navi-
bus ob vect.

2 Book III., chaps, i. and v., 3; chaps, i. and x.

n8 Alexander Hamilton

impropriety of the conduct? Here was no escape, as
in the instance of the order of the 6th of November,
1793, in the misconceptions of her officers. The
question was to condemn a deliberate and unam
biguous act of the Administration itself. The pride,
the reputation, and the interest of that Administra
tion forbade it.

On our side, to admit the pretensions of Great
Britain was still more impossible. We had every in
ducement of character, right, and interest against it.
What was the natural and only issue out of this em
barrassment? Plainly, to leave the point unsettled;
to get rid of it ; to let it remain substantially where
it was before the treaty. This, I have good ground
to believe, was the real understanding of the two
negotiators; and the article has fulfilled that view.

After enumerating specifically what articles shall
be deemed contraband, it proceeds thus, "And
whereas the difficulty of agreeing on the precise cases,
in which alone provisions and other articles, not gener
ally contraband, may be regarded as such, renders
it expedient to provide against the inconveniences
and misunderstandings which might thence arise:
It is further agreed, that whenever any such articles,
so becoming contraband according to the laws of na
tions, shall, for that reason, be seized, the same shall
not be confiscated, but the owners thereof shall be
speedily and completely indemnified; and the captors,
or, in their default, the government under whose
authority they act, shall pay to the masters or own
ers of such vessels, the full value of all articles with a
reasonable mercantile profit thereon, together with

Camillas 119

the freight and also the demurrage, incident to such
detention."

The difficulty of agreeing on the precise cases in
which articles, not generally contraband, become so,
from particular circumstances, is expressly assigned
as the motive to the stipulation which follows. This
excludes the supposition that any cases whatever
were intended to be admitted or agreed. But this
difficulty rendered it expedient to provide against
the inconveniences and misunderstandings which
might thence arise; a provision, with this view is,
therefore, made, which is that of liberal compensation
for the articles taken. The evident intent of this
provision is, that in doubtful cases, the inconveniences
to the neutral party being obviated or lessened by
compensation, there may be the less cause or tempta
tion to controversy and rupture, the affair may be
more susceptible of negotiation and accommodation.
More than this cannot be pretended; because it is
further agreed, "that whenever any such articles so
become contraband, according to the existing laws of
nations, shall, for that reason, be seized, the same
shall not be confiscated, but the owners thereof shall
be speedily and completely indemnified," etc., etc.

Thus the criterion of the cases, in which articles,
not generally contraband, may, from particular cir
cumstances, become so, is expressly the existing law
of nations; in other words, the law of nations at
the time the transaction happens. When these laws
pronounce them contraband, they may, for that
reason, be seized; when otherwise, they may not be
seized. Each party is as free as the other to decide

120 Alexander Hamilton

whether the laws of nations do, in the given case,
pronounce them contraband or not, and neither is
obliged to be governed by the opinion of the other.
If one party, on a false pretext of being authorized by
the laws of nations, makes a seizure, the other is at
full liberty to contest it, to appeal to those laws, and,
if it thinks fit, to oppose, even to reprisals and war.
This is the express tenor of the provision — there is
nothing to the contrary; nothing that narrows the
ground ; nothing that warrants either party in mak
ing a seizure, which the law of nations, independent
of the treaty, permits ; nothing which obliges either
party to submit to one, when it is of opinion the law
of nations has been violated by it.

But as liberal compensation is to be made in every
case of seizure, whereof difference of opinion happens,
it will become a question of prudence and expedi
ency, whether to be satisfied with the compensation,
or to seek further redress. The provision will, in
doubtful cases, render an accommodation of opinion
the more easy, and, as a circumstance conducing
to the preservation of peace, is a valuable ingredient
in the treaty. A very different phraseology was to
have been expected, if the intention had been, to
leave each party at liberty to seize, agreeably to its
own opinion of the law of nations, upon the condition
of making compensation. The stipulation would
thus have been: " It is agreed, that whenever either
of the contracting parties shall seize any such ar
ticles so becoming contraband, and which shall, for
that reason, be seized"; this makes, not the opinion
of either party, but the fact of the articles having

Camillas 121

become contraband by the laws of nations, the condi
tion of the seizure.

A cavil has arisen on the term "existing" as if it
had the effect of enabling one of the parties to make
a law of nations for the occasion. But this is a mere
cavil.

No one nation can make a law of nations ; no posi
tive regulation of one state, or of a partial nomina
tion of states, can pretend to this character. A law
of nations is a law which nature, agreement, or usage,
has established between nations; as this may vary
from one period to another by agreement or usage,
the article very properly uses the term "existing,"
to denote that law which, at the time the transaction
may happen, shall be then the law of nations. This
is a plain and obvious use of the term, which nothing
but a spirit of misrepresentation could have per
verted to a different meaning.

The argument against the foregoing construction
is in substance this (viz.): it is now a settled doc
trine of the law of nations that provisions and other
articles, not generally contraband, can only become
so when going to a place besieged, blockaded, or in
vested; cases of this kind are fully provided for in
a subsequent part of the article; the implication,
therefore, is that something more was intended to be
embraced in the antecedent part.

Let us first examine the fact, whether all the cases
of that kind are comprehended in the subsequent
part of the article. I say they are not. The remain
ing clause of the article divides itself into two parts.
The first describes the case of a vessel sailing for a

122 Alexander Hamilton

port or place belonging to an enemy, without know
ing that the same is either besieged, blockaded, or
invested; and provides that, in such case, the vessel
may be turned away, but not detained, nor her
cargo, if not contraband, confiscated, unless after
notice she shall again attempt to enter. The second
describes the case of a vessel, or goods, which had
entered into such port or place before it was be
sieged, blockaded, or invested, and declares that the
one or the other shall not be liable to confiscation,
but shall be restored to the owners thereof. These
are the only cases described or provided for. A
third, which occurs on the slightest reflection, is not
mentioned: the case of a vessel going to a port or
place which is besieged, blockaded, or invested, with
notice of its being in that state when she commences
her voyage, or previous to her receiving notice from
the besieging, blockading, or investing party. This
is left to the operation of the general law of nations,
except so far as it may be affected in respect to com
pensation by the antecedent clause. Thus the fact,
which is the foundation of the argument, fails, and
with it, of course, the argument itself.

But had this been otherwise, the conclusion would
still have been erroneous; the two clauses are en
tirely independent of each other, and though they
might both contemplate the same cases in whole,
or in part, they do it with an eye to very different
purposes.

The object of the first is to lessen the danger of
misunderstanding, by establishing this general rule,
that whenever articles, not commonly contraband,

Camillas 123

become so from particular circumstances, according
to the law of nations, they shall still not be confis
cated, but, when seized, the owners of them shall be
indemnified.

§The object of the last is to regulate some special
consequences with regard to vessels and goods going
to, or which had previously gone to places besieged,
blockaded, or invested; and in respect to which the
dispositions of the laws of nations may have been
deemed doubtful or too rigorous. Thus it is held
that the laws of nations permit the confiscation of
ships and goods going to places besieged, blockaded,
or invested; but this clause decides that if going
without notice, so far from being confiscated, they
shall not even be detained, but shall be permitted to
go whithersoever they please. If they persist after
notice, then the contumacy shall be punished with
confiscation. In both instances the consequence is
entirely different from every thing in the antecedent
clause.

There, there is seizure, with compensation. Here,
in one instance, seizure is forbidden, and permission
to go elsewhere is enjoined. In the other instances,
the offending things are confiscated, which excludes
the idea of compensation. Again, the last part
of the last clause stipulates, in the case which it sup
poses, the restoration of the property to its owners,
and so excludes both seizure and compensation.
Hence it is apparent the objects of the two clauses
are entirely foreign to each other, and that no argu
ment nor inference whatever can be drawn from the
one to the other.

124 Alexander Hamilton

If it be asked, what other cases there can be,
except those of places besieged, blockaded, or in
vested? and if none other, what difficulty in defining
them? why leave the point so vague and indeter
minate ? One answer, which indeed has already been
given in substance, is, that the situation of one of the
parties prevented an agreement at the time; that
not being able to agree, they could not define; and
the alternative was to avoid definition. The want
of definition only argues want of agreement. It is
strange logic to assert, that this or that is admitted,
because nothing is defined.

Another answer is, that even if the parties had
been agreed that there were no other cases than
those of besieged, blockaded, or invested places, still
there would have remained much room for dispute
about the precise cases, owing to the impracticability
of defining what is a besieged, blockaded, or invested
place. About this there has been frequent contro
versy; and the fact is so complicated, puts on such
a variety of shapes, that no definition can well be
devised, which will suit all. Thence nations, in their
compacts with each other, frequently do not at
tempt one; and where the attempt has been made,
it has left almost as much room for dispute about
the definition as there was about the thing.

Moreover, is it impossible to conceive other cases
than those mentioned above, in which provisions and
other articles not generally contraband might, on
rational grounds, be deemed so ? What if they were
going expressly, and with notice, to a besieging army,
whereby it might obtain a supply essential to the

Camillus 125

success of its operations? Is there no doubt that it
would be justifiable in such case to seize them? Can
the liberty of trade be said to apply to any instance
of direct and immediate aid to a military expedition?
It would be at least a singular effect of the rule, if
provisions could be carried without interruption for
the supply of a Spanish army besieging Gibraltar,
when, if destined for the supply of the garrison in
that place, they might, of right, be seized by a Span
ish fleet.

The calumniators of the article have not had the
candor to notice that it is not confined to provisions,
but speaks of provisions and other articles. Even
this is an ingredient which combats the supposition
that countenance was intended to be given to the
pretension of Great Britain with regard to provisions
which, depending on a reason peculiar to itself, can
not be deemed to be supported by a clause includ
ing other articles, to which that reason is entirely
inapplicable.

There is one more observation which has been
made against this part of the article which may de
serve a moment's attention. It is this, that though
the true meaning of the clause be such as I contend
for, still the existence of it affords to Great Britain a
pretext for abuse which she may improve to our dis
advantage. I answer, it is difficult to guard against
all the perversions of a contract which ill faith may
suggest. But we have the same security against
abuses of this sort, which we have against those of
other kinds, namely, the right of judging for our
selves, and the power of causing our rights to be

126 Alexander Hamilton

respected. We have this plain and decisive reply
to make, to any uncandid construction which Great
Britain may, at any time, endeavor to raise: "The
article pointedly and explicitly makes the existing
law of nations the standard of the cases in which you
may rightfully seize provisions and other articles not
generally contraband. This law does not authorize
the seizure in the instance in question; you have
consequently no warrant under the treaty for what
you do."

The same disingenuous spirit which tinctures all
the conduct of the adversaries of the treaty, has been
hardy enough to impute to it the last order of Great
Britain, to seize provisions going to the dominions
of France.

Strange, that an order issued before the treaty had
ever been considered in this country, and embracing
the other neutral powers besides the United States,
should be represented as the fruit of that instru
ment! x The appearances are, that a motive no less
imperious than that of impending scarcity has great
share in dictating the measure, and time, I am per
suaded, will prove that it will not ever be pretended
to justify it by any thing in the treaty.

CAMILLUS.

NO. XXXIII

1796.

The course thus far pursued in the discussion of the
1 8th article has inverted the order of it, as it stands

1 As reasonable would it be to place to its account the similar order
which was issued before the mission of an envoy was thought of.

Camillus 127

in the treaty. It is composed of three clauses, the two
last of which have been first examined ; I thought it
advisable, in the outset, to dispose of an objection
which has been the principal source of clamor.

The first clause of that which remains to be ex
amined enumerates the articles which, it is agreed,
shall be deemed contraband of war. These are, " all
arms, and implements serving for the purpose of
war, such as cannon, muskets, mortars, petards,
bombs, grenadoes, carcases, saucisses, carriages for
cannon, musket-rests, bandoliers, gunpowder, match,
saltpetre, balls, pikes, swords, head-pieces, cuirasses,
halberts, lances, javelins, horse-furniture, holsters,
belts, and generally all other implements of war; as
also timber for ship-building, tar or rosin, copper in
sheets, sails, hemp, and cordage, and generally what
ever may serve directly to the equipment of vessels,
un wrought iron and fir planks only excepted."

All which articles are declared to be just objects
of confiscation, when attempted to be carried to any
enemy of either party.

It is well understood, that war abridges the liberty
of trade of neutral nations ; and that it is not lawful
for them to supply either of two belligerent parties
with any article deemed contraband of war; nor
may they supply any article whatever to a place be
sieged, blockaded, or invested. The former case in
cludes a special catalogue of articles which have an
immediate reference to war; the latter extends to
all kinds of goods and merchandise. The penalty in
both cases is confiscation.

These positions have not been disputed. The

Alexander Hamilton

only question which has been or can be raised, must
respect the enumeration of the articles which are to
be considered as contraband.

In comparing the enumeration in the present
treaty, with that of our former treaties, we find the
differences to be these. Our former treaties include
"horses," and one of them " soldiers," which our
present does not; but our present includes "timber
for ship-building, tar or rosin, copper in sheets, sails,
hemp, and cordage, and generally whatever may
serve directly to the equipment of vessels, unwrought
iron and fir planks only excepted," which are not to
be found in our former treaties.

It is alleged that the including of these articles is
an extension of the list of contraband beyond the
limit of the modern law of nations; in support of
which allegation, it is affirmed, that they have been
excluded by the uniform tenor of the treaties which
have been formed for more than a century past.

Though this position will not, upon careful exam
ination, appear correct; yet it is so far founded, as
to claim an acknowledgment, that the article under
consideration has, in this instance, pursued the rigor
of the law of nations. It was to this I alluded, when
I observed that it contained one unpleasant ingre
dient.

It is a fact, that far the greater proportion of
modern treaties exclude naval stores or articles for
ship-building; yet this is not universally the case.

By the third article of the treaty of alliance and
commerce between Great Britain and Denmark, in
1670, the parties agree, "not to furnish the enemies

Camillas 129

of each other with any provisions of war, as soldiers,
arms, engines, guns, ships, or other necessaries for
the use of war, nor to suffer the same to be furnished
by their subjects.'* An explanation of this article
was made by a convention, dated the 4th of July,
1780, which after enumerating as contraband the
usual catalogue of military implements, adds, in the
precise terms of our article, " as also timber for ship
building, tar, rosin, copper in sheets, sails, hemp,
and cordage, and generally whatever may serve
directly to the equipment of vessels, unwrought iron
and fir planks only excepted."

In a series of treaties between Great Britain and
Portugal, down to the year 1703, I do not discover
that there has ever been a regulation of the articles
which are to be treated as contraband, between
these powers.

And between Sweden and Great Britain, the nth
article of a treaty, entered into in 1661 (and still
in force unaltered, though a subsequent commercial
treaty was made between those powers as late as
1776), subjects to confiscation equally all articles
called contraband, and especially money, provisions,
etc. This specification not being complete, naval
stores are left upon the open ground of the law of
nations; but money and provisions are superadded.
This latitude would bear little doubt as to the inten
tion to include naval stores.1

1 An opinion has been propagated that Sweden armed in concert
with Denmark, in order to maintain the neutral right of carrying corn
and flour to France, in opposition to the convention of March, 1793,

between Great Britain and Russia; and that in consequence of this
VOL. vi.— 9.

130 Alexander Hamilton

It appears from these specimens, that there is not
a perfect uniformity in the conventions between
nations ; and that no purely positive law of nations
can be deduced from that source.

If we call to our aid the principles of reason and
natural justice, which are the great foundations of
the law of nations, we shall not discover, in this
instance, data as certain as could be wished, for
a satisfactory conclusion; and the soundest deter
mination which we can adopt will be, that beyond a
certain point, the question is in a great degree arbi
trary, and must depend materially upon conven
tional regulation between nation and nation. Hence

proceeding, the remonstrances of these powers have proved more suc
cessful than we have been in obtaining satisfaction from Great Britain.

This opinion is, throughout, an error, made use of by those whose
persevering aim has been, by silencing truth, reason, and moderation,
and inflaming the angry passions of the community, to involve the
country in anarchy and war. The authors of this imposture, as well
as the exalted patriots who have seen in the memorial of our envoy
the humiliation of our country, are referred to a "collection of state
papers relative to the war against France," published by Debret, in
1794. The perusal of the Swedish state papers, as well as the memo
rials of the able and prudent Bernstorff, may teach these gentlemen
a little of what is deemed good manners on these occasions.

So far from even remonstrating, much less arming on account of the
British instruction of June, 1793, when that order was notified at
Stockholm, by the British Resident there, the Government of Sweden,
by their Resident at London, acknowledged, in terms too respectful
to be repeated in the hearing of our exclusive patriots, that Sweden
was perfectly satisfied with the instruction; since, instead of payment,
which the order insured, all provisions, in virtue of an existing treaty
between the two nations, were liable to confiscation when seized, on .
their way to an enemy.

This note is added for the purpose of refuting a popular error, and
not to vindicate the instruction alluded to, which I consider as an injury
to the rights of neutral nations, that has not been justified by the
answers that have been given by Great Britain to the American and
Danish memorials.

Camillas 131

it is there is so great a diversity in the stipulations
of different parties on this point, indicating that there
is no absolute rule. Hence also it is, that several
nations at different times, being at war, have thought
themselves authorized to regulate and announce, by
public declarations, the articles which they would
consider and treat as contraband.

The opinion of writers will be found to support
the article as it stands, in the particular, which is
now the subject of discussion.

Vatel, we have before seen (B. B. C. 3, 6, 7, S.
112), expressly ranks naval stores and timber under
the denomination of contraband goods.

Heine cius (De Navibus, etc., chap. I., S. 10, n,
and 14) accords in the same position to the extent
of whatsoever appertains to the equipment of vessels.1

Bynkershoek is less explicit. After laying it down
as the general rule that naval stores, or the materials
of ships, are not contraband, he proceeds thus : " Yet
it sometimes happens that the materials of ships
may be prohibited, if an enemy is in great want of
them, and without them cannot conveniently carry on
the war " 2 ; and he afterwards cites, with approba
tion, several edicts or proclamations which the
states-general, in different wars with different na
tions, have published, declaring those articles con
traband — thus referring it to the belligerent party
to judge of and pronounce the cases when they may

1 Vela, Restes et si quae alia ad apparatum nauticum pertinent.

2 Quandoque tamen accidit ut et navium materia prohibeatur, si
hostis ea quam maxime indigeat at absque ea commode bellum gerere
baud possit. — Quastionum Juris Publici, L. I., chap, x., page 80-

132 Alexander Hamilton

rightfully be deemed so. And the same idea seems
to have been adopted by Grotius J and some other
writers on public law. I have not met with one
whose opinion excludes naval stores from the list of
contraband.

Grotius, in discussing this question, divides goods
into three classes : i . Those which are of use only in
war, as arms, etc. 2. Those which serve only for
pleasure. 3. Those useful for peaceable as well as
for warlike purposes, "as money, provisions, ships,
and naval stores" Concerning which he argues in
substance, that the first class are clearly contraband,
that the second class are clearly not contraband, and
that the third class may or may not be so, according
to the state and circumstances of the war; alleging
that, if necessary to our defence, they may be inter
cepted, but upon condition of restitution, unless there
be just cause to the contrary; which just cause is
explained by the examples of sending them to a
besieged or blockaded place.

The reasoning about the third class has a very
inconvenient latitude. It subjects the trade of
neutral nations too extensively to the discretion of
belligerent powers ; and yet there is a serious em
barrassment about drawing the true line, one which
will duly conciliate the safety of the belligerent with
that of the neutral party.

What .definition of contraband, consulting reason
alone, shall we adopt? Shall we say, that none but
articles peculiar to war ought to receive this de
nomination? But is even powder exclusively ap-

1 Book III., chaps, i., v.

Camillus 133

plicable to war? Are nitre and sulphur, its chief
ingredients, peculiar to war? Are they not all use
ful for other purposes ; some of them in medicine, and
other important arts? Shall we say, that none but
articles prepared and organized for war, as their
primary object, ought to have that character? But
what substantial difference can reason know, be
tween the supply to our enemy of powder, and that
of sulphur and saltpetre, the easily convertible ma
terials of this mischievous compound?

How would either of these definitions, or any
other, comport with what those of our treaties which
are thought unexceptionable, in this particular, have
regulated, or with what is common in the treaties
between other nations? Under which of them shall
we bring horses and their furniture?

If we say that, in wars by land, these are instru
ments little less important than men, and for that
reason ought to be comprehended, it may be asked
in return, what can be more necessary in wars by
sea than the materials of ships, and why should they
not, for the like reasons, be equally comprehended?

In wars between maritime nations, who transfer its
calamities from the land to the ocean, and wage
their most furious conflicts on that element, whose
dominions cannot be attacked or defended without
a superiority in naval strength, who moreover pos
sess distant territories, the protection and commer
cial advantages of which depend upon the existence
and support of navies, it is difficult to maintain, that
it is against reason, or against those principles which
regulate the description of contraband, to consider

134 Alexander Hamilton

as such the materials which appertain to the con
struction and equipment of ships.

It is not a sufficient objection that these articles
are useful for other purposes, and especially for those
of maritime commerce. Horses are of primary
utility in agriculture ; and it has been seen that there
are other articles indisputably on the list of contra
band, which are entirely within the principle of
that objection.

Rutherforth, a sensible modern writer,1 after truly
observing, "that the notion of contraband goods is
of some latitude, so that it is not easy precisely to
determine what are and what are not of this sort;
that all warlike stores are certainly contraband, but
that still the question returns, what are to be reck
oned warlike stores ? ' ' —after noticing the division of
articles by Grotius and the difficulties with regard
to the third class — draws this conclusion, that
" where a war is carried on by sea as well as by land,
not only ships of war which are already built, but
the materials for building or repairing of ships, will
come under the notion of warlike stores." This is a
precise idea, and, it must be confessed, on principle,
not an irrational one.

If we resort to the opinions which have been enter
tained and evidenced in our own country, they will
be found to have given great extent to the idea of
contraband. Congress, by an act of May the 8th,
1777, establishing the form of commissions for pri
vateers, authorize them "to attack, subdue, and
take all ships and other vessels whatever, carrying

1 Institutes of Natural Law, Book II., chaps, x., xix.

Camillas 135

soldiers, arms, gunpowder, ammunition, provisions,
or any other contraband goods, to any of the British
armies or ships of war employed against the United
States." And in their act of the 27th of November,
1780, acceding, in part, to the rule of the armed neu
trality, they declare, that contraband shall be there
after confined to the articles contained under this
character, in our treaty with France; indicating, by
this, their opinion that the list of those articles is
abridged by that treaty. If the first-mentioned act
was well founded (and there are strong reasons for it),
it establishes that even provisions may be contraband
if going directly to invading fleets and armies ; which
affords an instance of their being so (analogous to
the case heretofore put of a besieging army) in addi
tion to the cases of places besieged, blockaded, or
invested. And as to naval stores, I assert a belief,
that the common opinion of those persons in this
country whose contemplation had embraced the sub
ject, included them in the catalogue of contraband.
Nevertheless, from the number of modern treaties
which exclude from that list naval stores, and more
over from the manifest interest of nations, truly
considered, to narrow the rights of war in favor of
those of peace ; this clause of the treaty, which takes
a different route, is to be regretted as pursuing the
rigor of the law of nations. Still, however, it can
not be objected to, as a departure from the law; and
agreeing with the course observed by Great Britain
antecedent to the treaty, it does not place our trade
in those articles upon a worse footing than it was,
independent of the treaty.

136 Alexander Hamilton

The period of the negotiation was most unpro-
pitious to a change for the better; in the midst of
any maritime war, a belligerent nation, enjoying a
naval superiority, was like to have been tenacious
of a right which she supposed herself to possess to
intercept naval supplies to her enemy. But in a
war, in which it was more than ordinarily possible
that the independent existence of a nation might
depend on the retaining a naval superiority, it was
to have been foreseen that she would not consent to
relinquish such a right. The alternative was, to in
sert the article as it stands, or to omit it wholly.

Had it been omitted, the condition of naval stores
would have been the same as with it. But our mer
chants would then have continued to be exposed
to uncertain risks, which is always a great incon
venience. It is desirable, in similar cases, to have a
fixed rule. Merchants can then accommodate their
speculations to the rule ; and causes of national con
tention are avoided.

It is in this view to be regretted, that the cases
when provisions may be treated as contraband could
not have been agreed upon; but as this was im
practicable, the next best thing has been done, by
establishing the certainty of compensation in all
such cases. This gives one important species of
security, obviates one source of contention. And if
really there may be other cases than the universally
admitted ones, in which provisions can fairly be
deemed contraband (as that designated by the act
of Congress of May, 1777), the securing of compensa
tion was truly a point gained by the article.

Camillas 137

But while I confess, that the including of naval
stores among contraband articles is an ineligible
feature of the treaty, I ought to declare, that its
consequences to the interests of the United States,
as it regards the trade in those articles in time of
war, do not appear to me important. War between
other nations, when we are at peace, will always in
crease the demand for our bottoms, so as to require
much additional building of vessels, and probably
in that way to produce a more beneficial species of
employment of the naval stores our country affords,
than that of their exportation for sale.

The adversaries of the treaty are eagle-eyed to
spy out instances in which it omits any favorable
minutes which are found in our other treaties; but
they forget to balance the account by particulars
which distinguish it favorably from those treaties.
Of this nature is the omission of horses from the list
of contraband, and still more the salutary regula
tions, with regard to vessels and their cargoes going
to places besieged, blockaded, or invested. I do
not discover that these useful provisions, or their
equivalents, are in either of our treaties with France,
Holland, or Sweden.

It has been said, in reference to this article, " when
ever the law of nations has been a topic for con
sideration, the result of the treaty accommodates
Great Britain, in relation to one or both of the re
publics at war with her, as well as in the abandon
ment of the rights and interests of the United
States," — and the following examples are given, to
each of which will be annexed a reply.

138 Alexander Hamilton

I. — ''American vessels, bound to Great Britain,
are protected, by sea-papers, against French and
Dutch searches ; but when bound to France or Hol
land, are left exposed to British searches, without
regard to ships' papers." The truth of this proposi
tion depends on another, which is, that the sea-
papers are to be absolutely conclusive; but reasons
have been given for doubting this construction,
which, it has been remarked, does not obtain in prac
tice. And it is certainly a violent one, inasmuch as
it puts it in the power of the neutral, to defeat the
rights of the belligerent party, in points of great
consequence to its safety.

II. — " American provisions, in American vessels,
bound to the enemies of Great Britain, are left by
the treaty to the seizure and use of Great Britain;
but provisions, whether American or not, in Amer
ican vessels, cannot be touched by the enemies of
Great Britain." The construction of the treaty,
upon which this difference is supposed, has been
demonstrated to be erroneous. The difference, there
fore, does not exist.

III. — " British property, in American vessels, is not
subject to French or Dutch confiscation. French or
Dutch property, in American vessels, is subject to
British confiscation." This was the case before the
treaty, which makes no alteration in the matter.
Moreover, it is counterbalanced by this circum
stance: that American property, in British vessels,
is subject to confiscation by France or Holland ; but
American property, in French or Dutch vessels, is
not subject to confiscation by Great Britain.

Camillas 139

IV. — " Articles of ship-building, bound to the ene
mies of Great Britain for the equipment of vessels of
trade only, are contraband ; bound to Great Britain,
for the equipment of vessels of war, are not contra
band." This, also, was the case before the treaty,
which, consequently, has not, in this particular more
than the former, produced any benefit to one party,
to the prejudice of the other. I forbear to dwell
upon the article of horses, as falling under a con
trary discrimination; nor shall I insist on the addi
tional circumstances, that all American goods not
generally contraband, if going to a place besieged,
blockaded, or invested by French or Dutch forces,
are liable to confiscation by France or Holland; if
going to a place besieged, blockaded, or invested by
British forces, are not liable to confiscation by Great
Britain.

Differences of these several kinds are the accidental
results of the varying views of different contracting
powers, and form slender grounds of blame or praise
of the respective contracts made with them.

The form of the criticisms last stated leaves little
doubt that it was designed to insinuate an intention
in this article to favor the monarchs of Great Britain,
at the expense of the republics of France and Hol
land. The candor of it may be judged of by the two
facts : first, that it makes no alteration, in this view,
in the antecedent state of things; and secondly,
that the relative situation of Holland, as the enemy
of Great Britain, is subsequent to the adjustment of
the article.

CAMILLUS.

140 Alexander Hamilton

NO. xxxiv x

1796.

The remaining articles of the treaty principally re
late to those maritime regulations that are usually
inserted in modern treaties between commercial
nations, and on that consideration, as well as from
their evident utility in enabling us to distinguish
with precision between what is and what is not law
ful in relation to those points, they are entitled to
our approbation; still, however, even some of these
customary articles, whose object and meaning are
so well understood, have been deemed exception
able.

The first paragraph of the nineteenth article, in
order to prevent injuries by men of war, or priva
teers, enjoins (as before noticed) all commanders of
ships of war and privateers, and all other citizens or
subjects, of either party, to forbear doing any dam
age to those of the other, or from committing any
outrage against them; and declares that, if they act
to the contrary, they shall be punishable, and, more
over, bound in their persons and estates to make
full satisfaction and reparation for all damages, of
whatsoever nature the same may be.

These prohibitions are conformable with the laws

1 John C. Hamilton says (History of the Republic, vi., 273): "It is
perceived . . . that the first twenty- two numbers, the original
drafts of which are in Hamilton's autograph, were exclusively his. Of
the remaining essays, ten, Nos. 23 to 30, both included, 34 and 35, were
from another pen, with frequent alterations, interlineations, and addi
tions by Hamilton. The residue of the numbers, being six, are also
Hamilton's exclusively." Rufus King assisted Hamilton in the essays
of Camillus, and to him the authorship of Nos. 34 and 35, as well as
Nos. 23 to 30, inclusive, may be attributed.

Camillus 141

of the United States. If, under color of authority,
those to whom the same does not relate shall receive
injury, the act, according to its circumstances, is an
offence, for which the offender is not only answer
able to his own country, but, moreover, to the injured
party, to whom he is bound to make full and com
plete reparation.

The open and explicit views of the parties, and
their mutual engagement to put this law in execu
tion against all offenders, will be a salutary check
upon the too frequent irregularities that occur in
the course of war between maritime nations. The
paragraph is a copy of a similar one contained in the
fifteenth article of the commercial treaty between
France and Great Britain, concluded in 1786, and
agrees with the fourteenth article of our treaty with
Holland. In order to guard still more effectually
against the injuries to which the citizens and sub
jects may be exposed from the private ships of war
of each other, the next paragraph stipulates that all
commanders of privateers, before they receive their
commissions, shall be subjected to give security, by
at least two responsible sureties, who have no in
terest in the privateer, in the sum of fifteen hun
dred pounds sterling, or six thousand six hundred
and sixty-six dollars; or, if the privateer is manned
with more than one hundred and fifty men, in the
sum of three thousand pounds sterling, or thirteen
thousand three hundred and thirty- three dollars, to
satisfy all damages and injuries committed by such
privateers, her officers, or any of her men, against
the tenor of the treaty, or the laws and instructions

142 Alexander Hamilton

for the regulation of their conduct; and in case of
aggression the commission of such privateer shall be
recalled and made void.

This particular regulation has been frequently in
troduced in modern treaties, and exists in this pre
cise shape in the last treaty of commerce between
France and Great Britain ; I have found no instance
where a larger sum has been mentioned. It has,
with little consideration, been made an objection to
this regulation, that the amount of the bonds is not
adequate to compensate or satisfy the damages that
may be committed by these privateers.

The preceding part of the article gives the injured
party a remedy against the persons and estates of
the aggressors; the bonds are not required for the
exclusive purpose of being the fund to which the
injured may have recourse for satisfaction, but prin
cipally for the purpose of excluding from the com
mand of privateers those dissolute and irregular
characters, who are not restrained by either moral
or political ties, and for whose good behavior re
sponsible and disinterested men would not become
bondsmen. The same principle is developed in the
civil administration of every nation. In cases of
pecuniar}7" trust, it is a common and useful precaution
to require surety for the faithful discharge of the
office ; and the principal advantage of this regula
tion is to secure the employment of virtuous and
upright officers. The amount of the bonds required
on these occasions is sufficient for this purpose,
though inferior to the property confided to them.

Thus the Treasurer of the United States, who has

Camillas 143

the custody of millions, gives bonds for only one
hundred and fifty thousand dollars, the collectors of
New York and Philadelphia for fifty and sixty thou
sand dollars ; sums very far short of the public money
[of which they are in the receipt], yet sufficient to
secure the public against characters of doubtful in
tegrity. The adequacy of the sums [in the par
ticular case] is moreover evidenced by the law and
practice of our own country. In the resolution of
Congress, of the third of April, 1776, which, so far
as regards this point, remained in force throughout
the American war, Congress required that the com
mander of every privateer, before his commission
should be delivered to him, should give bonds, with
sxireties, to the President of Congress, in the sum of
five thousand dollars, if the vessel was of or under
one hundred tons; and of ten thousand dollars, if
the vessel was upwards of one hundred tons, to ob
serve the rules and instructions prescribed for their
government. These sums are one quarter less than
those required by the article before us.

The last paragraph, requiring the judges of the
admiralty courts to furnish formal and duly authenti
cated copies of their proceedings in cases of the con
demnation of vessels or cargoes belonging to the
citizens or subjects of the parties, is pursuant to that
reasonable course of proceeding which ought always
in this and similar cases to prevail.

The twentieth article, which is in prevention of
piracy, has the sanction of numerous precedents. A
pirate is the common enemy of all mankind. All,
therefore, should unite in refusing him assistance and

144 Alexander Hamilton

refuge, and in the establishment of such regulations
relative to the sale of his plunder as, by shutting
against him every market, may thereby annihilate
the motives to his piracy.

The twenty-first article stipulates, that the citizens
and subjects of the parties shall do no acts of hos
tility or violence against each other, nor accept com
missions or instructions so to act from any foreign
state being an enemy to the other party. That the
enemies of either nation shall not be allowed to in
vite, or endeavor to enlist, in their military service,
any of the citizens or subjects of the other; and the
laws prohibiting such offences are to be punctually
executed. The article further stipulates, if any
citizen or subject of either party has accepted of a
foreign commission to arm a privateer against the
other, it shall be lawful for the said party to treat
and punish the said citizen or subject, having such
commission, as a pirate.

The general tenor of this article is in conformity
with the spirit of our preceding laws on this subject;
it is, moreover, in perfect unison with the duties of
neutrality; those duties which a just regard to the
principles of integrity, as well as an enlightened pur
suit of our own interests, require us faithfully to
perform.

Two objections have been offered against this ar
ticle: one that it precludes such of our citizens as,
with a view of acquiring military knowledge, would
otherwise engage as volunteers in foreign service;
the other, that it [makes] every citizen and subject,
of either party, who has accepted a foreign commis-

Camillas 145

sion to arm a privateer against the other, and who
shall be taken in possession of such commission,
[liable] to be punished as a pirate.

In respect to the first objection, if, by a rigorous
construction, the case is included within the pro
hibition, it should be remarked, that it is applicable
only to such engagements as commence and are
made in time of mutual war. If we have citizens
who, with the view of military education, are in
clined to engage in foreign service, though from past
experience there is not much reason to conclude that
the examples would be numerous, they have full scope,
as I understand the article, in the periods of peace,
to enter into any of the regular armies of Europe that
they may prefer; and being thus engaged, they are
free to make the campaigns of war against Great
Britain, if that is their passion, without injuring this
article. [The prohibition seems to be against engag
ing in the military service of a nation, previously in
the condition of "enemy" to one of the parties.]

The second objection has even less plausibility
than the first: the disingenuous means that have
been used to excite a reprobation of this clause of
the article, manifest the want of truth and patriot
ism of those who have employed them; passion and
the spirit of opposition have asserted, that the pro
vision before us is so extensive as to place the sub
ordinate officers and private men, on board of a
privateer, within the predicament of her commander;
nay, that all persons, citizens or subjects of either
nation, who would accept commissions [or enter, in
any capacity] in a foreign army or navy, would, in

VOL. VI. — 10.

146 Alexander Hamilton

consequence of this stipulation, be liable to be
treated and punished as pirates. It is sufficient,
after noticing these attempts to impose upon the
public, to observe that the stipulation [expressly]
confines the punishment in question to the com
manders of privateers who, contrary to the laws of
the land, and the clear and equitable obligations of
the members of a neutral nation, shall be taken with
such commission; and that it does not extend to
the under-officers or crew, much less to such persons
as, contrary to the preceding inhibition of the ar
ticle, should accept commissions in a foreign army
or navy. In respect to such misdemeanors in all
cases (except that of equipping and commanding a
privateer, which will expose the commander, when
taken, to be punished as a pirate), the offence is cog
nizable only by the nation [within whose jurisdiction
the offence is committed, or] of which the offender
is a citizen, or subject ; and, by our laws, is punish
able only by fine and imprisonment.

[A perversion of the sense of the clause, stipulating
that "the law against all such offences and aggres
sions shall be punctually executed," has been at
tempted, though nothing can be more innocent or
unexceptionable. Its plain meaning is, that each
party, in the cases falling within its jurisdiction,
shall faithfully put in execution its own laws against
the offences and aggressions, in contravention of the
article. A stipulation between the governments, to
execute laws on a certain subject, can mean nothing
else than that each shall execute its own laws on that
subject, in the cases appertaining to its jurisdiction.]

Camillas H7

Though most of the objections preferred against
the treaty are marked with that illiberal spirit which
characterizes the party who have unceasingly labored
to bring into discredit the government of the country,
yet few of them have been less veiled than this,
which condemns a stipulation intended to curb and
restrain the few dissolute and daring characters who,
from the least worthy of all motives that lead to
military enterprise, might otherwise engage in this
piratical warfare.

What virtuous citizen would feel himself justified
in accepting such command? What must be the
morals of those instructors who contend for a free
dom to commit what humanity and honor forbid?
Every treaty that we have concluded with other
nations is enriched with this stipulation; not only
our own treaties, but those between other nations
contain it. How is it that we nowhere discover a
trace of disapprobation, either on the part of our
statesmen, or from an enlightened people, against
a series of treaties, formed by different public min
isters, and ratified by a succession of Congresses,
each of which contains a provision that the crime of
accepting a foreign commission to arm and com
mand a privateer, against a nation with whom we are
at peace, shall be treated and punished as piracy ? Is
it that our virtue has become less severe ? our morality
more indulgent? Or is it that our predecessors were
less vigilant in defending the rights of our citizens,
than the ostentatious patriots of the present day?
But it is time to dismiss an objection entirely desti
tute of integrity and [decency]. CAMILLUS.

148 Alexander Hamilton

NO. xxxv

1796.

The twenty-second article bears upon its face its
own justification — it is pursuant to those [maxims
which enlightened moralists recommend, and just
nations respect]. It prescribes a course of conduct
the most likely to procure satisfaction for injuries,
and to maintain peace, and is therefore entitled to
the approbation of all good men and real patriots.
[It is particularly valuable to a weak nation, or a
nation in its infancy, as an additional guard against
sudden and unforeseen attacks of more powerful
rivals. J

The first paragraph of the twenty-third article pro
vides for the hospitable reception of the public or
national ships of war of the parties, in the ports of
-each other; and engages that the officers of such
ships shall be free from insult, and treated with
decorum and respect.

The practice which our Government has adopted
in relation to these points, independent of parties, is
agreeable to this provision.1 And though the stipu
lation will be of less importance to us than it would
be were we possessed of a respectable naval force,
yet it may be useful. By our treaty with France,
our ships of war have a right to enter their ports only
in case of urgent necessity, and not freely and for
mere convenience.

With Spain and Portugal we have no treaties, and,
consequently, not an ascertained or perfect right to

1 See Mr. Jefferson's letter of September 9, 1793, to Mr. Hammond;
also his letter of the same date to Mr. Van Berckel.

Camillas 149

use their ports. Our navigation must be protected
from the Barbary powers by force or by treaty. It
is questionable whether the latter mode will prove
effectual without the support of the former; Con
gress have therefore resolved to equip a small naval
force, for the special object of protecting our trade
against the Algerine and the other Barbary powers.
Some port convenient to the scene of its cruising
will be of essential advantage to the efficiency and
success of its employment; not only the ports of
Great Britain, but likewise the port of Gibraltar,
will, by this article of the treaty, be open to us ; and
our frigates will there be entitled to a hospitable
reception, and their officers to that respect which
shall be due to the commissions which they bear.

The other paragraph of this article provides, in
case an American vessel, by stress of weather, danger
from enemies, or other misfortune, should be obliged
to seek shelter in any British port, into which, in
ordinary cases, such vessels could not claim the
right to be admitted, that she shall be hospitably
received, permitted to refit, and to purchase such
necessaries as she may want ; and, by permission of
the local government, to sell such part of her cargo
as may be necessary to defray her expenses. Our
treaty with France contains a similar provision ; but
the restrictions with which it is guarded are less than
those of the article before us.

The twenty -fourth article stipulates that it shall
not be lawful for any foreign privateers, commis
sioned by any nation at war with either of the par
ties, to arm the vessels, or to sell or exchange their

150 Alexander Hamilton

prizes, in the ports of either of the parties ; and that
they shall not be allowed to purchase more pro
visions than shall be necessary to carry them to the
nearest port of the nation from whom they received
their commission ; and the twenty-fifth article stipu
lates that the ships of war and privateers of either
party may carry whithersoever they please the ships
and goods taken from their enemy; and that such
prizes, on their arrival in the ports of the parties,
shall not be searched, seized, detained, nor judicially
examined touching the validity of their capture, but
may freely depart ; and furthermore, that no shelter
or refuge shall be given in the ports of one of the
parties to such as have made prizes upon the citizens
or subjects of the other. Though the law of nations
is explicit, that one nation having formed a par
ticular stipulation with another, is not capable, by a
subsequent treaty with a third nation, to do away
or annul its former stipulations, but that the elder
treaty, in such case, remains in full force, notwith
standing such posterior and contradictory treaty;
yet, in order to remove all cavil on this point, and to
maintain a scrupulous regard to good faith, even in
appearance as well as in reality, and especially in
relation to our treaty with France, the article further
declares, "that nothing in the treaty contained shall
be construed or operate contrary to former and
existing public treaties with other sovereigns or
states," and adds that neither of the parties, while
they continue in friendship, will form any treaty in
consistent with this and the preceding article. [This
last clause has been censured as an undue restraint,

Camillas 151

while it is in fact a mere redundancy; as long as a
treaty between two nations continues in force, it is
against good faith for either to form a treaty with
another nation inconsistent with it; if the treaty is
once disclosed, by whatever means, no treaty with
another nation can be inconsistent with it. The
clause, therefore, only converts into an express
promise what without it is an implied one, that the
parties will not contravene their stipulations with
each other by repugnant engagements with a third
party. The disingenuity on this point has gone so
far as to torture the clause into a positive stipulation
against any treaty with another power conferring
peculiar advantages of commerce upon that power.
It is a sufficient reply to this that the clause is ex
pressly confined to the twenty-fourth and twenty-
fifth articles; determining nothing as to the other
articles of the treaty. The general principle of
this last objection has been sufficiently discussed
elsewhere.]

The article concludes with a mutual engagement,
that neither of the parties will permit the ships or
goods of the other to be taken within cannon shot of
the coast, nor in any of the bays, ports, or rivers of
their territories; and in case of such capture, the
party whose territorial rights are violated shall use
his utmost endeavors to obtain satisfaction for the
vessels or goods taken. This stipulation is con
formable to the duty and practice of nations who
have entered into no special engagements requiring
the same, and agrees with a common provision in
public treaties.

152 Alexander Hamilton

Hitherto we have prudently avoided granting to
any nation a right to arm their privateers or to
sell their prizes in our ports; our laws are explicit
in prohibiting such equipments; and the exclusion
thereof, contained in the twenty-fourth article, is
agreeable to the declared policy of the country. We
have engaged in our treaty with France to prohibit
her enemies from selling their prizes within our ports;
but not having engaged to permit France to sell her
prizes therein, we were free to agree with Great Brit
ain, that her enemies shall likewise be prohibited
from selling their prizes in our territory. A clause
in the twenty-fifth article denies all refuge to ships
of war and privateers that have made prizes on
either of the parties; and the last clause of the
twenty-fourth article stipulates that foreign priva
teers, enemies to either of the parties, shall not be
allowed to purchase more provisions than sufficient
to carry them to the nearest port of the nation from
whom they received their commission.

These clauses will operate only against such na
tions as have not, by an elder treaty, secured a right
of reception in the ports of the parties. Still, how
ever, it is alleged that these articles violate our treaty
with France. It has already been observed that the
treaty contains a clear and explicit agreement of the
parties, excepting from its operation all former exist
ing public treaties. Our treaty with France is an
antecedent and existing public treaty, and conse
quently excepted, in all its parts, from the operation
of the treaty before us. Whatever right or privilege,
therefore, is secured to France in virtue of that

Camillus 153

treaty, she will continue to enjoy, whether the same
respects the reception of her public ships of war,
privateers or prizes, in our ports, or the exclusion
therefrom of those of her enemies.

Could there be a doubt on this point, the practice
of other nations, and especially that of France, on
the very point, would effectually remove it. The
fifteenth and thirty-sixth articles of the commercial
Treaty of Utrecht, between France and Great Brit
ain, contain the same stipulations as the twenty-
fourth and twenty-fifth articles of the treaty before
us. That treaty was in existence and force at the
time of forming our treaty with France, yet France
found no difficulty in the insertion of the same stipu
lations in her treaty with us. She could not have
considered their insertion in the treaty with us as a
violation of her treaty with Great Britain, otherwise
good faith would have restrained her. The war that
soon after took place between France and Great
Britain, dissolved the Treaty of Utrecht. Our
treaty with France remained in force ; yet, in the
year 1786, France and Great Britain entered into a
commercial treaty, the sixteenth and fortieth arti
cles of which renew the stipulations contained in
the fifteenth and thirty-sixth articles of the Treaty
of Utrecht.

If France was free, first to form these stipulations
with us in 1778, notwithstanding her prior and exist
ing treaty with Great Britain, and afterwards in 1786
to renew the same stipulations with Great Britain,
we must be equally free in a treaty with the same,
or any other power, to agree to similar stipulations.

154 Alexander Hamilton

Both were free, and neither violates former engage
ments, by assenting, as we have done, to these stipu
lations in a posterior treaty.

It is further alleged, that these articles are in
jurious to the interest of the United States, because
they prohibit, in certain cases, foreign privateers to
rendezvous in our ports, and to sell within our terri
tory the prizes they may have taken. If it is de
sirable to render our principal seaports and cities
scenes of riot and confusion; if it is politic to divide
our citizens, by infusing into their minds the hostile
spirit with which the nations at war are animated
against each other; if we are prepared to see the
prostration of public authority, and to behold the
laws trampled upon by armed banditti; if we are
ready to invite our citizens to abandon their regular
and useful employments, and to engage, as adven
turers, even against each other, in the pursuit of
plunder, then is the objection well-founded, then
is the restraint pernicious, then is the stipulation
worthy of condemnation. But if to establish the
reverse of all this, is the effort and aim of every wise
and prudent government, the stipulation in question
demands the approbation of all virtuous citizens.

But were none of these consequences to be appre
hended from the free admission of the privateers of all
nations engaged in war, and the permission to sell
their plunder, it would, notwithstanding, be against
the interests of the United States to allow the same.
It is a sound commercial principle, that the interest of
buyers, as well as sellers, is best promoted by a free
competition. The great number of the sellers of for-

Camillas 155

eign manufactures and productions affords the best
market for the buyers. The great number of buy
ers of our productions affords the best market for
the sellers. Foreign privateers are precarious sellers,
and buyers only for their own consumption. They
drive away and banish from our markets, both buyers
and sellers. When our coasts are lined with foreign
privateers that rendezvous in our ports, the merchant-
ships of all nations, not excepting our own, will be
liable to interruption, and discouraged from coming
to our markets; and those of the belligerent powers
will be generally excluded. Our markets might,
perhaps, derive supplies from the prizes that such
privateers should take, so as, in some degree, to com
pensate for the deficiency that would proceed from
the exclusion of foreign merchantmen ; but this supply
would be uncertain, irregular, ill-assorted, and partial,
while the principal commercial detriment would exist
without mitigation, — that of a partial or total de
struction of foreign competition in the purchase of
our agricultural and other productions.

If, moreover, it is the duty as well as the interest of
the United States, to observe an exact and scrupulous
neutrality, amidst the wars of other nations, one of
the most efficacious means of effecting that purpose
will be, to remove every temptation that might lead
our citizens to an opposite course. No allurement
would be more likely to seduce them from their duty
than that which is offered by the expected gains of
privateering; no avenue of political mischief should,
therefore, be more carefully closed.

If these articles are exceptionable, in any respect,

156 Alexander Hamilton

it is that, in imitation of the analogous articles of our
treaty with France, they allow the privateers of the
parties, in cases not inconsistent with former treaties,
to rendezvous in, and their prizes to be brought into,
each other's ports and harbors. It would, in my
judgment, have been the true policy of the United
States, as well with the view of maintaining an im
partial and decided neutrality in the wars of Europe,
from a participation in which our remote situation,
with [due] prudence, is an exemption, as likewise, in
order to promote, in the most advantageous manner,
our national prosperity, totally and for ever to have
excluded all foreign privateers and prizes from our
ports and harbors.

But having entered into these stipulations with
France, by which she has the use of all our ports
against all other nations, we having the use of her
ports only against those nations who have not an
elder treaty with her, it would have manifested an
unwise partiality to have refused to enter into similar
stipulations with other nations who might desire
them; accordingly they are found in others of our
treaties with

as well as in that under consideration—
another refutation of the objection to this last as
being in these respects repugnant to that with France.

The twenty-sixth article provides, in case of a
rupture between the parties, that the merchants and
others of each nation, residing in the dominions of the
other, may maintain and continue their trade dur
ing good behavior; in case, however, their conduct
should become suspicious, they may be removed, and

Camillus 157

a twelve-month after the publication of the order of
removal is to be allowed for that purpose; but this
term is not to be granted to such persons as act con
trary to law, or are guilty of any offence against the
government; all such persons may be forthwith re
moved or sent out of the respective dominions of the
parties. The residue of the article is calculated to
ascertain the condition of the parties, when the rup
ture shall be deemed to exist. Each nation remains
the exclusive judge of the foreigners among them, and
will be able to decide from their behavior, how far
their residence may be compatible with the public
safety. In case of suspicion only, that their resi
dence will prove detrimental, they may order them
to depart, reasonable time being allowed them to
collect their effects. On the one hand, the article
affords to the parties perfect security against the
irregular and suspicious conduct of foreigners who
may be among them on the breaking out of war, and,
on the other hand, consults, with that liberality
which the modern usage of nations sanctions, the
safety and convenience of those who, under the faith
of the respective governments, have chosen a resi
dence in the dominions of the parties. Our treaties
with France, Holland, and Sweden secure to the
merchants of the respective parties a limited period,
after the commencement of war, within which they
may collect their effects, and remove ; the article be
fore us, relative to this subject, is a transcript of the
second article of the treaty of commerce, of 1786,
between France and Great Britain. [The objection,
therefore, to there being a certain term within which

158 Alexander Hamilton

they cannot be removed upon bare suspicion, lies
against our other treaties and against almost all the
treaties of Europe for many years. The pretence to
order away upon mere supposition would defeat all
the stipulations, that allow a certain term to collect,
sell, and remove debts and effects ; and for that rea
son could not be supported.

The remainder of the article, which gives an option
to each party, either to request the recall, or im
mediately to send home, the ambassador of the other
without prejudice to their mutual friendship and
good understanding, is a valuable feature. The
power "immediately to send home" without giving
offence, avoids much delicate embarrassment con
nected with an application to recall; it renders it
easier to arrest an intriguing minister in the midst of
a dangerous intrigue, and it is a check upon the minis
ter by placing him more completely in the power of
the government with which he resides. These last
circumstances are particularly important to a re
public, one of the chief dangers of which arises from
its exposure to foreign intrigue and corruption.]

The twenty-seventh article, which provides for the
delivery of all persons charged with murder or forgery
committed within the jurisdiction of one party, and
who have taken refuge within the territories of the
other, is a regulation of peculiar worth between na
tions whose territories are contiguous to each other.
Without such regulation, the ease with which the
perpetrators of these atrocious crimes might escape
punishment, especially on the frontiers, by passing
out of one jurisdiction into the other, would, in a

Camillas 159

great measure, destroy the security against these
offences, that arises from the fear and certainty of
punishment. The provision that such delivery shall
not be made unless upon the exhibition of such evi
dence of criminality as, according to the laws of the
place where the fugitive shall be found, would justify
his apprehension and commitment for trial, if the
crime had been there committed, will prevent vex
atious requisitions, and is a caution due to the rights
of individuals.

The twenty-eighth and concluding article estab
lishes, that the first ten articles of the treaty shall
be permanent; that the remaining ones, except the
twelfth, which, with the twenty-fifth, constitutes the
body of the commercial part of the treaty, shall be
limited in their duration to twelve years ; and recit
ing, that the twelfth will end, by its own limitation,
at the end of two years after the termination of
the present European war, further establishes, that,
within the last-mentioned term, and in time to per
fect the business by the expiration of that term, the
discussion of the subject of the twelfth article shall
be renewed, and if the parties cannot agree on such
new arrangement, concerning it, as may be satis
factory, that then all the said remaining articles (in
other words, all but the first ten) shall cease and
expire together. This article, which is an entirely
independent one, obviates the doubt, affected to be
entertained, whether the exception in the ratification,
with regard to the twelfth article, did not do away
with the stipulation, by which the continuance of the
treaty, except the first ten articles, beyond the term

160 Alexander Hamilton

of two years after the expiration of the war, is made
to depend on a further arrangement of the West
India trade. This separate article is positive and
conclusive, absolutely annulling the treaty at that
time, if such an arrangement be not made, and
thereby places it in the power of either party so to
manage the matter as to put an end to all the com
mercial part of it, except what relates to inland trade
and navigation with the neighboring British terri
tories, at the end of the short period of two years
from the termination of the existing war. This alone
is sufficient to confound all the high-charged decla
mations against the tendency of the treaty to ruin
our trade and navigation.

CAMILLUS.

NO. xxxvi

1796.

It is now time to fulfil my promise of an examina
tion of the constitutionality of the treaty. Of all the
objections which have been contrived against this
instrument, those relating to this point are the most
futile. If there be a political problem capable of
complete demonstration, the constitutionality of the
treaty, in all its parts, is of this sort. — It is even
difficult to believe, that any man in either house of
Congress, who values his reputation for discernment
or sincerity, will publicly hazard it by a serious at
tempt to controvert the position.

It is, nevertheless, too much a fashion with some
politicians, when hard pressed on the expediency of a
measure, to intrench themselves behind objections to

Camillus 161

its constitutionality — aware that there is naturally in
the public mind a jealous sensibility to objections of
that nature, which may predispose against a thing
otherwise acceptable, if even a doubt, in this respect,
can be raised. They have been too forward to take
advantage of this propensity, without weighing the
real mischief of the example. For, however it may
serve a temporary purpose, its ultimate tendency is,
by accustoming the people to observe that alarms of
this kind are repeated with levity and without cause,
to prepare them for distrusting the cry of danger
when it may be real: yet the imprudence has been
such, that there has scarcely been an important pub
lic question, which has not involved more or less of
this species of controversy.

In the present case, the motives of those who may
incline to defeat the treaty, are unusually strong for
creating, if possible, a doubt concerning its constitu
tionality.

The treaty, having been ratified on both sides, the
dilemma plainly is between a violation of the Consti
tution, by the treaty, and a violation of the Constitu
tion by obstructing the execution of the treaty.

The Vlth article of the Constitution of the United
States declares, that " the Constitution and the laws
of the United States, made in pursuance thereof, all
treaties made, or which shall be made, under the
authority of the United States, shall be the supreme
law of the land, any thing in the constitution or
laws of any State to the contrary notwithstanding/'
A law of the land, till revoked or annulled, by the
competent authority, is binding, not less on each

VOL. VI.— II.

1 62 Alexander Hamilton

branch or department of the government than on
each individual of the society. Each house of Con
gress collectively, as well as the members of it
separately, are under a constitutional obligation to
observe the injunctions of a pre-existing law, and to
give it effect. If they act otherwise, they infringe
the Constitution; the theory of which knows, in such
case, no discretion on their part. To resort to first
principles for their justification, in assuming such a
discretion, is to go out of the Constitution for an
authority which they cannot find in it ; it is to usurp
the original character of the people themselves ; it is,
in principle, to prostrate the government.

The cases must be very extraordinary that can
excuse so violent an assumption of discretion. They
must be of a kind to authorize a revolution in gov
ernment ; for every resort to original principles, in
derogation from the established Constitution, par
takes of this character.

Recalling to view, that all but the first ten articles
of the treaty are liable to expire at the termination of
two years after the present war, if the objection to it
in point of constitutionality cannot be supported, let
me ask, who is the man hardy enough to maintain,
that the instrument is of such a nature as to justify a
revolution in government?

If this can be answered in the affirmative, adieu to
all the securities which nations expect to derive from
constitutions of government. They become mere
bubbles, subject to be blown away by every breath
of party. The precedent would be a fatal one; our
government, from being fixed and limited, would

Camillus 163

become revolutionary and arbitrary; all the pro
visions which our Constitution, with so much solem
nity, ordains ''for forming a more perfect union,
establishing justice, insuring domestic tranquillity,
providing for the common defence, promoting the
general welfare, and securing the blessings of liberty
to ourselves and posterity," would evaporate and
disappear.

Equally will this be the case, if the rage of party
spirit can meditate, if the momentary ascendency of
party, in a particular branch of the government, can
effect, and if the people can be so deceived as to
tolerate — that the pretence of a violation of the Con
stitution shall be made the instrument of its actual
violation.

This, however, cannot be; there are already con
vincing indications on the very subject before us,
that the good sense of the people will triumph over
prejudice and the acts of party, that they will finally
decide according to their true interest, and that any
transient or partial superiority which may exist, if
abused for the purpose of infracting the Constitu
tion, will consign the perpetrators of the infraction to
ruin and disgrace. But alas ! what consolation would
there be in the ruin of a party for the ruin of the
Constitution?

It is time to enter on the momentous discussion.
The question shall be examined in the four following
views : i . In relation to the theory of the Constitu
tion. 2. In relation to the manner in which it was
understood by the convention who framed it, and by
the people who adopted it. 3. In relation to the

164 Alexander Hamilton

practice upon a similar power in the Confederation.
4. In relation to the practice under our present Con
stitution, prior to the treaty with Great Britain. In
all these views, the constitutionality of the treaty
can be vindicated beyond the possibility of a serious
doubt.

i. As to the theory of the Constitution. The
Constitution of the United States distributes its
powers into three departments, legislative, executive,
judiciary. The first article defines the structure, and
specifies the various powers, of the legislative depart
ment ; the second article establishes the organization
and powers of the executive department ; the third
article does the same with respect to the judiciary
department ; the fourth and fifth and sixth articles,
which are the last, are a miscellany of particular
provisions.

The first article declares that "all legislative power
granted by the Constitution shall be vested in a
Congress of the United States, which shall consist of a
Senate and a House of Representatives."

The second article, which organizes and regulates
the executive department, declares that the " execu
tive power shall be vested in a President of the United
States of America"; and proceeding to detail par
ticular authorities of the executive, it declares that
the "President shall have power, by and with the
advice and consent of the Senate, to make treaties,
provided two-thirds of the senators present concur."
There is in no part of the Constitution any explana
tion of this power to make treaties, any definition of
its objects, or delineation of its bounds. The only

Camillas 165

other provision in the Constitution respecting it is in
the sixth article, which provides, as already noticed,
that all treaties made, or which shall be made, under
the authority of the United States, shall be the
supreme law of the land! — and this notwithstanding
any thing in the Constitution or laws of any State to
the contrary.

It was impossible for words more comprehensive to
be used than those which grant the power to make
treaties. They are such as would naturally be
employed to confer a plenipotentiary authority. A
power " to make treaties," granted in these indefinite
terms, extends to all kinds of treaties, and with all
the latitude which such a power, under any form
of government, can possess; the power "to make"
implies a power to act authoritatively and conclusively,
independent of the after-clause which expressly
places treaties among the supreme laws of the land.
The thing to be made is a treaty.

With regard to the objects of the treaty, there
being no specification, there is, of course, a carte
blanche. The general proposition must, therefore,
be, that whatever is a proper subject of compact,
between nation and nation, may be embraced by a
treaty between the President of the United States,
with the advice and consent of the Senate, and the
correspondent organ of a foreign state.

The authority being general, it comprises, of
course, whatever cannot be shown to be necessarily
an exception to it.

The only constitutional exception to the power
of making treaties is, that it shall not change the

1 66 Alexander Hamilton

Constitution; which results from this fundamental
maxim, that a delegated authority cannot alter the
constituting act, unless so expressly authorized by
the constituting power. An agent cannot new-
model his own commission. A treaty, for example,
cannot transfer the legislative power to the executive
department, nor the power of this last department to
the judiciary ; in other words, it cannot stipulate that
the President, and not Congress, shall make laws
for the United States, — that the judges, and not the
President, shall command the national forces.

Again, there is also a national exception to the
power of making treaties, as there is to every other
delegated power, which respects abuses of authority
in palpable and extreme cases. On natural princi
ples, a treaty, which should manifestly betray or
sacrifice the private interests of the state, would be
null. But this presents a question foreign from that
of the modification or distribution of constitutional
powers. It applies to the case of the pernicious
exercise of a power, where there is legal competency.
Thus the power of treaty, though extending to the
right of making alliances offensive and defensive,
might not be exercised in making an alliance so in
jurious to the state as to justify the non-observance
of the contract.

Beyond these exceptions to the power, none occurs
that can be supported.

Those which have been insisted upon, towards in
validating the treaty with Great Britain, are not even
plausible. They amount to this: that a treaty can
establish nothing between the United States and a

Camillas 167

foreign nation, which it is the province of the legisla
tive authority to regulate in reference to the United
States alone. It cannot, for instance, establish a
particular rule of commercial intercourse between the
United States and Great Britain; because it is pro
vided in the Constitution, that Congress " shall have
power to regulate commerce with foreign nations. ' ' This
is equivalent to affirming that all the objects upon
which the legislative power may act, in relation to
our country, are excepted out of the power to make
treaties.

Two obvious considerations refute this doctrine:
one, that the power to make treaties, and the power
to make laws, are different things, operating by differ
ent means, upon different subjects; the other, that
the construction resulting from such a doctrine would
defeat the power to make treaties, while its opposite
reconciles this power with the power of making laws.

The power to make laws is "the power of pronounc
ing authoritatively the will of the nation as to all
persons and things over which it has jurisdiction " ; or
it may be defined to be "the power of prescribing
rules binding upon all persons and things over which
the nation has jurisdiction." It acts compulsively
upon all persons, whether foreigners or citizens, and
upon all things within the territory of such nation,
and also upon its own citizens and their property
without its territory in certain cases and under cer
tain limitations. But it can have no obligatory
action whatsoever upon a foreign nation, or upon any
person or thing within the jurisdiction of a foreign
nation.

1 68 Alexander Hamilton

The power of treaty, on the other hand, is the
power by agreement, convention, or compact, to estab
lish rules binding upon two or more nations, their re
spective citizens and property. The rule established
derives its reciprocal obligation from promise, from
the faith which the contracting parties pledge to each
other, not from the power of either to prescribe a rule
for the other. It is not here the will of a superior
that commands ; it is the consent of two independent
parties that contract.

The means which the power of legislation employs
are laws which it enacts, or rules which it enjoins; the
subject upon which it acts is the nation of whom it is,
and the persons and property within the jurisdiction
of the nation. The means which the power of treaty
employs are contracts with other nations, who may
or may not enter into them ; the subjects upon which
it acts are the nations contracting, and those per
sons and things of each to which the contract relates.
Though a treaty may effect what a law can, yet a law
cannot effect what a treaty does. These discrim
inations are obvious and decisive; and however the
operation of a treaty may, in some things, resemble
that of a law, no two ideas are more distinct than that
of legislating and that of contracting.

It follows that there is no ground for the inference
pretended to be drawn, that the legislative powers of
Congress are excepted out of the power of making
treaties. It is the province of the latter to do what
the former cannot do. Congress (to pursue still the
case of regulating trade) may regulate, by law, our
own trade and that which foreigners come to carry

Camillas 169

on with us ; but they cannot regulate the trade which
we may go to carry on in foreign countries ; they can
give to us no rights, no privileges, there. This must
depend on the will and regulations of those countries ;
and, consequently, it is the province of the power of
treaty to establish the rules of commercial intercourse
between foreign nations and the United States. The
legislative may regulate our own trade, but treaty
only can regulate the national trade between our own
and another country.

The Constitution accordingly considers the power
of treaty as different from that of legislation. This
is proved in two ways: i. That while the Constitu
tion declares that all the legislative powers which it
grants shall be vested in Congress, it vests the power
of making treaties in the President with consent of the
Senate. 2. That the same article by which it is
declared that the executive power shall be vested in a
President, and in which sundry executive powers are
detailed, gives the power to make treaties to the
President, with the auxiliary agency of the Senate.
Thus the power of making treaties is placed in the
class of executive authorities; while the force of
laws is annexed to its results. This agrees with the
distribution commonly made by theoretical writers,
though perhaps the power of treaty, from its peculiar
nature, ought to form a class by itself.

When it is said that Congress shall have power to
regulate commerce with foreign nations, this has
reference to the distribution of the general legislative
power of regulating trade between the national and
the particular governments; and serves merely to

170 Alexander Hamilton

distinguish the right of regulating our external trade,
as far as it can be done by law, which is vested in
Congress, from that of regulating the trade of a State
within itself, which is left to each State.

This will the better appear from the entire clause.
"The Congress shall have power to regulate com
merce with foreign nations and among the several
States and with the Indian tribes," which is the same
as if it had been said : The whole powers of regulating
trade by law shall reside in Congress, except as to the
trade within a State, the power to regulate which
shall remain with such State. But it is clearly for
eign to that mutual regulation of trade between the
United States and other nations, which, from the
necessity of mutual consent, can only be performed
by treaty. It is indeed an absurdity to say, that the
power of regulating trade by law is incompatible with
the power of regulating it by treaty ; since the former
can, by no means, do what the latter alone can ac
complish; consequently, it is an absurdity to say,
that the legislative power of regulating trade is an
exception to the power of making treaties.

Laws are the acts of legislation of a particular
nation for itself. Treaties are the acts of the legis
lation of several nations for themselves jointly and
reciprocally. The legislative powers of one state
cannot reach the cases which depend on the joint
legislation of two or more states. For this, resort
must be had to the partitions power, or the power
of treaty. This is another attitude of the subject,
displaying the fallacy of the proposition, that the
legislative powers of Congress are exceptions to, or

Camillas 171

limitations of, the power of the President, with the
aid of the Senate, to make treaties.

CAMILLUS.

NO. XXXVII

1796.

It shall now be shown that the objections to the
treaty, founded on its pretended interference with the
power of Congress, tend to render the power of mak
ing treaties, in a very great degree, if not altogether,
nominal. This will be best seen by an enumeration
of the cases of pretended interference.

i st. — The power of Congress to lay taxes is said to
be impaired by those stipulations which prevent the
laying of duties on particular articles; which also
prevent the laying of higher or other duties on British
commodities than on the commodities of other coun
tries ; and which restrict the power of increasing the
difference of duties on British tonnage and on goods
imported in British bottoms.

2d. — The power of Congress to regulate trade is
said to be impaired by the same restrictions respect
ing duties, inasmuch as they are intended, and op
erate, as regulations of trade; by the stipulations
against prohibitions in certain cases ; and, in general,
by all the rights, privileges, immunities, and restric
tions in trade, which are contained in the treaty; all
which are so many regulations of commerce, which
are said to encroach upon the legislative authority.

3d. — The power of Congress to establish a uniform
rule of naturalization, is said to be interfered with by
those provisions of the treaty which secure to the

172 Alexander Hamilton

settlers, within the precincts of the British posts, the
right of becoming citizens of the United States, and
those which, in certain cases, remove the disability of
alienism as to property.

4th. — The power of Congress " to define and punish
piracies and felonies, committed on the high seas, and
offences against the law of nations, " is said to be con
travened by those parts of the treaty which declare
that certain acts shall be deemed piracy, which con
stitute certain other things offences, and stipulate the
reciprocal punishment of them by each.

5th. — It is also said that the Constitution is vio
lated in relation to that provision which declares,
that " no money shall be drawn from the treasury but
in consequence of appropriations made by law " ; by
those parts of the treaty which stipulate compensa
tions to certain commissioners, and indemnifications
to Great Britain, in certain cases to be adjusted and
pronounced by the commissioners; and, generally,
by all those parts which may involve an expenditure
of money.

6th. — The Constitution is said to be violated in
that part which empowers Congress to dispose of, and
make all needful rules and regulations respecting, the
territory, or other property of the United States, by
those provisions of the treaty which respect the ad
justment of boundary in the cases of the rivers St.
Croix and Mississippi.

Lastly. — The Constitution is said to be violated,
in its provisions concerning the judiciary depart
ment, by those parts of the treaty which con
template the confiding to the determination of

Camillas 173

commissioners certain questions between the two
nations.

A careful inspection of the treaty, with these ob
jections in view, will discover that of the twenty-
eight articles which compose it, at least seventeen
are involved in the charge of unconstitutionally;
and that these seventeen comprise all the provisions
which adjust past controversies, or establish rules
of commercial intercourse between the parties. The
other eleven, which are the ist, pth, loth, lyth, i8th,
ipth, 2oth, 22d, 23d, 24th, and 28th, except the ist,
are made up of provisions which have reference to
war; the first merely declaring that there shall be
peace between the parties. And it is a question,
even with respect to all of these, except the first and
tenth, whether they also are not implicated in the
charge ; inasmuch as some of their dispositions have
commercial relations. Is not this alone sufficient to
bring under a strong suspicion the validity of the
principles which impeach the constitutionality of the
instrument?

It must have been observed that the argument in
the last number is applicable to all the legislative
powers of Congress, as well as to that of regulating
trade, which was selected, by way of illustration, on
the ground of its being common to all. Indeed the
instance of the regulations of trade is that which is
most favorable to the opposite doctrine, since foreign
nations are named in the clause; the true intent of
which, however, has been explained.

The same reasoning, too, would extend the power
of treaties to those objects which are consigned to

174 Alexander Hamilton

the legislation of individual States; but here the
Constitution has announced its meaning in express
terms, by declaring, that the treaties which have
been and shall be made under the authority of the
United States, shall be the supreme law of the land,
any thing in the Constitution or laws of any State
to the contrary notwithstanding. This manifestly
recognizes the supremacy of the power of treaties
over the laws of particular States, and goes even a
step further.

The obvious reason for this special provision, in
regard to the laws of individual states, is, that
there might otherwise have been room for ques
tion — whether a treaty of the Union could embrace
objects, the internal regulation of which belonged
to the separate authorities of the States. But with
regard to the United States there was no room for a
similar question.

The power of treaty could not but be supposed
commensurate with all these objects to which the
legislative power of the Union extended, which are
the proper subjects of compacts with foreign nations.

It is a question among some theoretical writers —
whether a treaty can repeal pre-existing laws? This
question must always be answered by the particular
form of government of each nation. In our Con
stitution, which gives, ipso facto, the force of law to
treaties, making them equal with the acts of Con
gress, the supreme law of the land, a treaty must
necessarily repeal an antecedent law contrary to it;
according to the legal maxim that " leges posteriores
prior es contr arias abrogant."

Camillas 1 75

But even in those forms of government, in which
there may be room for such a question, it is not
understood that a treaty containing stipulations
which require the repeal of antecedent laws, is, on
that account, unconstitutional and null. The true
meaning is, that the antecedent laws are not, ipso
facto, abrogated by the treaty; but the Legislature is,
nevertheless, bound in good faith, under the general
limitation stated in another place, to lend its author
ity to remove obstacles which previous laws might
oppose to a fair execution of a treaty.

One instance of the inconsistency prevailing in
the arguments against the treaty negotiated by Mr.
Jay, is observable in this point. To get rid of
the infractions of our treaty of peace with Great
Britain by certain laws of particular States, it is
strenuously maintained that treaties control the
laws of States. To impeach the constitutionality
of the treaty under consideration, it is objected that,
in some points, it interferes with the objects of
State legislation. The express provision of the Con
stitution in this particular, quoted above, has not
been sufficient to check the rage for objection.

The absurdity of the alleged interferences will
fully appear, by shewing how they would operate
upon the several kinds of treaties usual among
nations. These may be classed under three prin
cipal heads: i, treaties of commerce; 2, treaties of
alliance; 3, treaties of peace.

Treaties of commerce are, of course, excluded; for
every treaty of commerce is a system of rules devised
to regulate and govern the trade between contract-

176 Alexander Hamilton

ing nations; invading directly the exclusive power
of regulating trade which is attributed to Congress.

Treaties of alliance, whether defensive or offen
sive, are equally excluded, and this on two grounds:
i. Because it is their immediate object to define a
case or cases in which one nation shall take part with
another in war, contrary, in the sense of the objec
tion, to that clause of the Constitution which gives to
Congress the power of declaring war; and 2. Be
cause the succors stipulated, in whatever shape they
may be, must involve an expenditure of money—
not to say, that it is common to stipulate succors in
money, either in the first instance or by way of alter
native. It will be pertinent to observe incidentally,
in this place, that even the humane and laudable
provision in the seventeenth article, which all have
approved, is within the spirit of the objection; for
the effect of this is to restrain the power and discre
tion of Congress to grant reprisals, till there has been
an unsuccessful demand of justice. Nothing can
better illustrate the unreasonable tendency of the
principle.

Treaties of peace are also excluded, or, at the least,
are so narrowed as to be in the greatest number of
cases impracticable. The most common conditions
of these treaties are restitutions or cessions of terri
tory, on one side or on the other, frequently on both
sides — regulations of boundary — restitutions and
confirmations of property — pecuniary indemnifica
tions for injuries or expenses. It will, probably, not
be easy to find a precedent of a treaty of peace,
which does not contain one or more of these pro-

Camillus 177

visions, as the basis of the cessation of hostilities, and
they are all of them naturally to be looked for in an
agreement which is to put an end to the state of
war between conflicting nations.

Yet they are all precluded by the objections which
have been enumerated: pecuniary indemnifications,
by that which respects the appropriations of money ;
restitutions or cessions of territory or property, regu
lations of boundary, by that which respects the right
of Congress to dispose of, and make all needful rules
and regulations concerning the territory and property
of the United States. It is to be observed, likewise,
that cessions of territory are almost always accom
panied with stipulations in favor of those who
inhabit the ceded territory, securing personal privi
leges and private rights of property; neither of
which could be acceded to on the principles of that
objection, which relates to the power of naturaliza
tion; for this power has reference to two species of
rights, those of privilege and those of property. An
act allowing a foreigner to hold real estate is so far
an act of naturalization ; since it is one of the con
sequences of alienism, not to be able to hold real
estate.

It follows, that if the objections which are taken
to the treaty, on the point of constitutionality, are
valid, the President, with the advice and consent of
the Senate, can make neither a treaty of commerce
nor alliance, and rarely, if at all, a treaty of peace.
It is probable, that on a minute analysis, there is
scarcely any species of treaty which would not clash,
in some particular, with the principle of those

VOL. VI. — 12.

178 Alexander Hamilton

objections; and thus, as was before observed, the
power to make treaties, granted in such comprehen
sive and indefinite terms, and guarded with so much
precaution, would become essentially nugatory.

This is so obviously against the principles of sound
construction; it, at the same time, exposes the
Government to so much impotence in one great
branch of political power, in opposition to a main
intent of the Constitution; and it tends so directly
to frustrate one principal object of the situation of a
general government, the convenient management of
our external concerns, that it cannot but be rejected
by every discerning man who will examine and pro
nounce with sincerity. It is against the principles
of sound construction; because these teach us, that
every instrument is so to be interpreted, as that all
the parts may, if possible, consist with each other,
and have their effect. But the construction which
is combated would cause the legislative power to
destroy the power of making treaties. Moreover, if
the power of the executive department be inade
quate to the making of the several kinds of treaties
which have been mentioned, there is, then, no power
in the Government to make them; for there is not a
syllable in the Constitution which authorizes either
the legislative or judiciary departments to make a
treaty with a foreign nation. And our Constitution
would then exhibit the ridiculous spectacle of a
government without a power to make treaties with
foreign nations; a result as inadmissible as it is
absurd; since, in fact, our Constitution grants the
power of making treaties, in the most explicit and

Camillas 1 79

ample terms, to the President, with the advice and
consent of the Senate. On the contrary, all diffi
culty is avoided, by distinguishing the province of
the two powers, according to ideas which have been
always familiar to us, and which were never exposed
to any question till the treaty with Great Britain
gave exercise to the sub tilt ies of party spirit.

By confining the power to make laws within its
proper sphere, and restricting its actions to the es
tablishment of rules for our own nation and those
foreigners who come within our jurisdiction, and
by assigning to the power of treaty the office of
concerting those rules of mutual intercourse and con
nection, between us and foreign nations, which re
quire their consent as well as our own, allowing to
it the latitude necessary for this purpose, a har
monious agreement is preserved between the differ
ent powers of the Government — that to make laws,
and that to make treaties; between the authority
of the legislative and the authority of the executive
department. Hence —

Though Congress, by the Constitution, have power
to lay taxes, yet a treaty may restrain the exercise
of it in particular cases. For a nation, like an indi
vidual, may abridge its moral power of action by
agreement; and the organ charged with the legis
lative power of a nation may be restrained in its
operation by the agreements of the organ of its
federative power, or power to contract. Let it be
remembered, that the nation is the constituent, and
that the executive, within its sphere, is no less the
organ of its will than the Legislature.

i8o Alexander Hamilton

Though Congress are empowered to make regula
tions of trade, yet they are not exclusively so em
powered; but regulations of trade may also be made
by treaty, and, where other nations are to be bound
by them, must be made by treaty.

Though Congress are authorized to establish a
uniform rule of naturalization, yet this contem
plates only the ordinary cases of internal adminis
tration. In particular and extraordinary cases,
those in which the pretensions of a foreign govern
ment are to be managed, a treaty may also confer
the rights and privileges of citizens; thus the abso
lute cession and plenary dominion of a province or
district possessed by our arms in war may be ac
cepted by the treaty of peace on the condition that
its inhabitants shall, in their persons and property,
enjoy the privileges of citizens.

The same reasoning applies to all the other in
stances of supposed infraction of the legislative au
thority : with regard to piracies and offences against
the laws of nations, with regard to expenditures of
money, with regard to the appointment of officers,
with regard to the judiciary tribunals, with regard to
the disposal and regulation of the national territory
and property. In all these cases, the power to make
laws and the power to make treaties are concurrent
and co-ordinate. The latter, and not the former,
must act, where the co-operation of other nations is
requisite.

As to what respects the commissioners agreed to
be appointed, they are not, in a strict sense, officers.
They are arbitrators between the two countries.

Camillus 181

Though in the Constitutions, both of the United
States and of most of the individual States, a par
ticular mode of appointing officers is designated, yet,
in practice, it has not been deemed a violation of the
provision to appoint commissioners or special agents
for special purposes in a different mode.

As to the provision, which restricts the issuing of
money from the treasury to cases of appropriation
by law, and which, from its intrinsic nature, may be
considered as applicable to the exercise of every
power of government, it is, in no sort, touched by the
treaty. In the constant practice of the Govern
ment, the cause of an expenditure, or the contract
which incurs it, is a different thing from the appro
priation for satisfying it. Thus the salary of a public
officer is fixed by one law, the appropriation for its
payment by another. So, the treaty only stipulates
what may be a cause of expenditure. An appropria
tion by law will still be requisite for actual payment.

As to the disposal and regulation of the territory
and property of the United States, this will be na
turally understood of dispositions and regulations
purely domestic, and where the title is not disputed
by a foreign power. Where there are interfering
claims of foreign powers, as neither will acknowledge
the right of the other to decide, treaty must directly
or indirectly adjust the dispute.

So far then it is from being true, that the power of
treaty can extend to nothing upon which, in relation
to ourselves, the legislative power may act, that it
may rather be laid down as a general rule, that a
treaty may do between different nations whatever

1 82 Alexander Hamilton

the legislative power of each may do with regard to
itself. The exceptions to this rule are to be deduced
from the unfitness and inconvenience of its applica
tion to particular cases, and are of the nature of
abuses of a general principle.

In considering the power of legislation in its rela
tions to the power of treaty, instead of saying that
the objects of the former are excepted out of the
latter, it will be more correct, indeed it will be en
tirely correct, to invert the rule, and to say that the
power of treaty is the power of making exceptions,
in particular cases, to the power of legislation. The
stipulations of treaty are, in good faith, restraints
upon the exercise of the last-mentioned power.
Where there is no treaty, it is completely free to act.
Where there is a treaty, it is still free to act in all the
cases not specially excepted by the treaty. Thus,
Congress are free to regulate trade with a foreign
nation, with whom we have no treaty of commerce,
in such manner as they judge for the interest of the
United States; and they are also free so to regulate
it with a foreign nation with whom we have a treaty,
in all the points which the treaty does not specially
except. There is always, therefore, great latitude
for the exercise of the legislative power of regulating
trade with foreign nations, notwithstanding any
treaties of commerce which may be formed.

The effects of a treaty to impose restraints upon
the legislative powers may, in some degree, be ex
emplified by the case of the compacts which the
Legislature itself makes, as with regard to the public
debt. Its own compacts are, in good faith, excep-

Camillas 183

tions to its power of action. Treaties with foreign
powers, for obvious reasons, are much stronger
exceptions. CAMILLUS.

NO. XXXVIII — AND LAST

1796.

The manner in which the power of treaty, as it
exists in the Constitution, was understood by the
convention in framing it, and by the people in adopt
ing it, is the point next to be considered.

As to the sense of the convention, the secrecy with
which their deliberations were conducted does not
permit any formal proof of the opinions and views
which prevailed in digesting the power of treaty.
But from the best opportunity of knowing the fact, I
aver, that it was understood by all to be the intent
of the provision to give to that power the most
ample latitude — to render it competent to all the
stipulations which the exigencies of national affairs
might require ; competent to the making of treaties
of alliance, treaties of commerce, treaties of peace,
and every other species of convention usual among
nations; and competent, in the course of its exer
cise for these purposes, to control and bind the legis
lative power of Congress. And it was emphatically
for this reason that it was so carefully guarded; the
co-operation of two thirds of the Senate, with the
President, being required to make any treaty what
ever. I appeal for this, with confidence, to every
member of the convention — particularly to those in
the two houses of Congress. Two of these are in the

184 Alexander Hamilton

House of Representatives, Mr. Madison, and Mr.
Baldwin. It is expected by the adversaries of the
treaty, that these gentlemen will, in their places,
obstruct its execution. However this may be, I feel
a confidence that neither of them will deny the as
sertion I have made. To suppose them capable of
such a denial were to suppose them utterly regard
less of truth. But though direct proof of the views
of the convention on the point cannot be produced,
yet we are not wholly without proof on this head.

Three members of the convention dissented from
the Constitution: Mr. Mason, Mr. Gerry, and Mr.
Randolph. Among the reasons for his dissent, pub
lished by Mr. Mason, we find this clause: "By de
claring all treaties supreme laws of the land, the
Executive and Senate have, in many cases, an ex
clusive power of legislation, which might have been
avoided by proper distinctions with respect to
treaties, and requiring the assent of the House of Re
presentatives where it could be done with safety."
This shows the great extent of the power, in the con
ception of Mr. Mason: in many cases amounting to
an exclusive power of legislation; nor did he object to
the extent, but only desired that it should have been
further guarded, by certain distinctions, and by re
quiring, in certain cases, the assent of the House of
Representatives.

Among the objections to the Constitution, ad
dressed by Mr. Gerry to the Legislature of Massa
chusetts, we find one to have been, "that treaties of
the highest importance might be formed by the Presi
dent, with the advice of two thirds of a quorum of

Camillus 185

the Senate. " This shows his idea of the magnitude
of the power; and impliedly admitting with Mr.
Mason, the propriety of its extent, he seems only to
have desired that the concurrence of the Senate
should have embraced two thirds of the whole body,
instead of two thirds of a quorum. But how small
and how insignificant would the power of treaty be,
according to the doctrine lately promulgated, with
regard to its constitutional limit?

As to the sense of the community in the adoption
of the Constitution, this can only be ascertained from
two sources: the writings for and against it, and the
debates in the several State conventions, while it was
under consideration.

I possess not, at this moment, materials for an in
vestigation, which would enable me to present the
evidence they afford; but I refer to them, with con
fidence, for proof of the fact, that the organization
of the power of treaty in the Constitution was at
tacked and defended with an admission on both sides,
of its being of the character which I have assigned
to it. Its great extent and importance — its effect to
control, by its stipulations, the legislative authority,
were mutually taken for granted, and upon this
basis it was insisted, by way of objection, that there
were not adequate guards for the safe exercise of so
vast a power; that there ought to have been re
servations of certain rights, a better disposition of the
power to impeach, and a participation, general or
special, of the House of Representatives in the mak
ing of treaties.

The reply to these objections, acknowledging the

1 86 Alexander Hamilton

delicacy and magnitude of the power, was directed
to show that its organization was a proper one, and
that it was sufficiently guarded.1

The manner of exercising a similar power under
the Confederation shall now be examined.

To judge of the similarity of the power it will be
useful to quote the terms in which it was granted.
They are these: "The United States in Congress
assembled shall have the sole and exclusive right
and power of entering into treaties and alliances,

1 The Federalist, No. XLII. [No. 42 of The Federalist was written by
Madison, hence the peculiar aptness of the quotation at this time,
when Madison was the leader of the opposition. No. 64 was by Jay.
— ED.], has these passages: "The power to make treaties and to re
ceive and send ambassadors, speak their own propriety ; both of them
are comprised in the articles of confederation, with the difference only
that the former is disembarrassed by the plan of the convention, of an
exception by which treaties might be substantially frustrated by regu
lations of the States." This plainly alludes to the proviso which has
been cited and commented upon. "It is true that when treaties of
commerce stipulate for the nominal appointment of consuls, the ad
mission of foreign consuls may fall within the power of making com
mercial treaties." And in number LXIV. are these passages: "The
power of making treaties is an important one, especially as it relates to
war, peace, and commerce; and it should not be delegated but in such
a mode and with such precautions as will afford the highest security,
that it will be exercised by men the best qualified for the purpose, and
in the manner most conducive to the public good." "There are few
who will not admit, that the affairs of trade and navigation should be
regulated by a system cautiously formed and steadily pursued, and
that both our treaties and our laws should correspond with and be
made to promote it." "Some are displeased with it (that is, the
power of treaty), not on account of any errors or defects in it, but
because, as the treaties, when made, are to have the force of laws,
they should be made only by men invested with legislative authority ;
others, though content that treaties should be made in the mode pro
posed, are averse to their being the supreme law of the land."

It is generally understood that two persons were concerned in the
writings of these papers, who, from having been members of the con
vention, had a good opportunity of knowing its views — and were under

Camillas 187

provided that no treaty of commerce shall be made
whereby the legislative power of the respective States
shall be restrained from imposing such imposts and
duties on foreigners as their own people are subject
to, or from prohibiting the importation or exporta
tion of any species of commodities whatsoever."
(Article IX.)

It will not be disputed that the words " treaties
and alliances" are of equivalent import, and of no
greater force than the single word "treaties." An

no temptation at that time, in this particular, to misrepresent them.
[This is a curious statement, for Jay was not a member of the conven
tion, and The Federalist had, of course, three authors. It would seem
to imply that Hamilton then thought himself the author of
No. 64. See introduction to Federalist, vol. xi. — ED.]

In the address and reasons of dissent of the minority of the conven
tion of Pennsylvania to their constituents, they state, that they had
suggested the following proposition, among others, for an amendment
to the Constitution: "That no treaty which shall be directly opposed
to the existing laws of the United States in Congress assembled, shall
be valid until such laws shall be repealed or made conformable to such
treaty." This shows that it was understood that the power of treaty
in the Constitution extended to abrogating even pre-existing laws of
the United States, which was thought exceptionable; while no objec
tion was made to the idea of its controlling future exercises of the
legislative power. The same address states, in another place, that the
President and Senate "may form treaties with foreign nations, that
may control and abrogate the Constitution and laws of the several
States."

In the 2d volume of the Debates of the Convention of Virginia,
which is the only part I possess, there are many passages that show the
great extent of the power of treaty in the opinion of the speakers on
both sides. As quotations would be tedious, I will content myself
with referring to the papers where they will be found, viz., 91, 99, 131,
X37» I43, 147, 150, 186. It will, in particular, appear, that while the
opposers of the Constitution denied the power of the House of Repre
sentatives to break in upon or control the power of treaties, the friends
of the Constitution did not affirm the contrary, but merely contended
that the House of Representatives might check by its influence the
President and Senate — on the subject of treaties.

1 88 Alexander Hamilton

alliance is only a species of treaty, a particular of a
general; — and the power of " entering into treaties,"
which terms confer the authority under which the
former government acted, will not be pretended to
be stronger than the power "to make treaties,"
which are the terms constituting the authority under
which the present government acts; it follows, that
the power, respecting treaties, under the former, and
that under the present government, are similar.

But though similar, that under the present gov
ernment is more comprehensive; for it is divested of
the restriction in the provision cited above, and is
fortified by the express declaration, that its acts
shall be valid notwithstanding the constitution or
laws of any State. This is evidence (as was the
fact) of a disposition in the convention to disem
barrass and reinforce the power of treaty. It ought
not to pass unnoticed, that an important argument
results from the proviso, which accompanies the
power granted by the Confederation as to the natural
extent of this power. The declaration that no treaty
of commerce shall be made restraining the legisla
tive power of a State from imposing such duties and
imposts on foreigners as their own people are subject
to, or from prohibiting the importation or exporta
tion of any species of commodities whatsoever, is an
admission (i) that the general power of entering into
treaties included that of making treaties of com
merce, and that without the limitation in the
proviso, a treaty of commerce might have been
made which would restrain the legislative authority
of the State in the points interdicted by that proviso.

Camillas 189

Let it not be said, that the proviso, by implica
tion, granted the power to make treaties of com
merce, under which Congress afterwards acted; for
besides that this is inconsistent with the more obvious
meaning of the clause, the first article of the Con
federation leaves to the States individually every
power not expressly delegated to the United States
in Congress assembled. The power of Congress,
therefore, to make a treaty of commerce, and every
other treaty they did make, must be vindicated on
the ground that the express grant of power to enter
into treaties and alliances is a general, which neces
sarily included as particulars the various treaties
they have made, and the various stipulations of
those treaties.

Under this power, thus granted and defined, the
alliance with France was contracted; guaranteeing,
in the case of a defensive war, her West India pos
sessions, and when the casus fcederis occurs, obliging
the United States to make war for the defence of
those possessions, and consequently, to incur the
expenses of war.

Under the same power, treaties of commerce
were made with France, the Netherlands, Sweden,
and Prussia. Besides that every treaty of commerce
is necessarily a regulation of commerce between
the parties, it has been shown, in the anteced
ent comparison of those treaties T with that lately
negotiated, that they produce the specific effects of

1 Articles ad, 3d, and 4th of treaty with France, 2d, 3d, and 2oth of
treaty with Russia, ad and 3d of treaty with Holland, 3d and 4th of
treaty with Sweden.

190 Alexander Hamilton

restraining the legislative power from imposing
higher or other duties on the articles of those na
tions than on the like articles of other nations, and
from extending prohibition to them which shall not
equally extend to other nations the most favored;
and thus abridge the exercise of the legislative power
to tax, and the exercise of the legislative power to
regulate trade.

These treaties likewise define and establish the
same case of piracy which is defined in the treaty
with Great Britain. Moreover, the treaty with
France, as has been elsewhere shown, with regard to
the rights of property, naturalizes the whole French
nation.

The consular convention with France, nego
tiated, likewise, under the same power, grants to the
consuls of that country various authorities and
jurisdiction, some of a judicial nature, which are
actual transfers to them of portions of the internal
jurisdiction and ordinary judiciary power of the
country, the exercise of which our government is
bound to aid with its whole strength. It also grants
exemptions to French consuls from certain kinds of
taxes, and to them, and French citizens, from all
personal service; all which are extremely delicate
interferences with our internal policy and ordinary
jurisdiction.

Under the same power, the treaty with Morocco
was formed, which, besides various other regulations
relative to war, and several relative to trade, con
tains the rule, that neither party shall make war
without a previous demand of reparation ; in restraint

Camillas 191

of the general discretionary power of Congress to
declare war.

Under the same power, the treaty of peace with
Great Britain was made. This treaty contains the
establishment of a boundary line between the par
ties, which, in part, is arbitrary, and could not have
been predicated upon precise antecedent right. It
also prohibits the future confiscation of the property
of adherents to Great Britain; declares that no
person shall, on account of the part he took in the
war, suffer any future loss or damage in his person,
liberty, or property, and provides for the release of
such persons from confinement, and the discon
tinuance of prosecutions against them.

It is difficult to conceive a higher act of control,
both of the legislative and judiciary authority, than
by this article. These provisions are analogous, in
principle, to those stipulations which, in the second
and ninth articles of the treaty under examination,
have given occasion to constitutional objection.

Under the same power, various treaties with In
dians, inhabiting the territory of the United States,
have been made, establishing arbitrary lines of
boundary with them, which determine the right
of soil on the one side and on the other. Some of
these treaties proceed on the principle of the United
States having conquered the Indian country, and
profess to make gratuitous concessions to them of
the lands which are left to their occupation. There
is also a feature of importance common to these
treaties, which is the withdrawing of the protection
of the United States from those of their citizens who

192 Alexander Hamilton

intrude on Indian lands, leaving them to be pun
ished at the pleasure of the Indians.

Hence it appears that, except as to the stipula
tions for appointing commissioners, the treaties
made under the Confederation contain all the fea
tures, identically or by analogy, which create con
stitutional objections to the treaty before us: they
restrain, in certain instances, the legislative power
to lay taxes; they make numerous and important
regulations of trade; they confer the benefit of
naturalization as to property; they define cases of
piracy; they create causes of expenditure; they
direct and modify the power of war; they erect,
within the country, tribunals unknown to our con
stitutions and laws, in cases to which these are com
petent — whereas the treaty with Great Britain only
provides for the appointment of arbitrators in cases
to which our tribunals and laws are incompetent;
and they make dispositions concerning the territory
and property of the United States.

It is true, that some of the treaties made under the
former government, though subsequent to the pro
posing of the articles of confederation to the States,
were prior to the final adoption of these articles;
but still it is presumable that the treaties were nego
tiated with an eye to the powers of the pending na
tional compact. Those with Great Britain, Sweden,
Russia, and Morocco, and the convention with
France, were posterior to the completion of that
compact.

It may, perhaps, be argued that a more extensive
construction of the power of treaty in the Confed-

Camillus 193

eration, than in our present Constitution, was coun
tenanced by the union in the same body of legislative
powers with the power of treaty. But this argu
ment can have no force, when it is considered
that the principal legislative powers, with regard to
the objects embraced by the treaties of Congress,
were not vested in that body, but remained with the
individual States. Such are the power of specific
taxation, the power of regulating trade, the power
of naturalization, etc.

If in theory the objects of legislative power are
excepted out of the power of treaty, this must have
been equally, at least, the case with the legislative
powers of the State governments as with those of the
United States. Indeed the argument was much
stronger for the objection, where distinct govern
ments were the depository of the legislative power,
than where the same government was the depository
of that power and of the power of treaty. Nothing
but the intrinsic force of the power of treaty could
have enabled it to penetrate the separate spheres
of the State governments. The practice under the
Confederation for so many years, acquiesced in by
all the States, is, therefore, a conclusive illustration
of the power of treaty, and an irresistible refutation
of the novel and preposterous doctrine which im
peaches the constitutionality of that lately nego
tiated. If the natural import of the terms used in
the Constitution were less clear and decisive than
they are, that practice is a commentary upon them,
and fixes their sense. For the sense in which certain
terms were practised upon in a prior constitution of

VOL. VI. — 13.

194 Alexander Hamilton

government, must be presumed to have been in
tended, in using the like terms in a subsequent con
stitution of government for the same nation.

Accordingly, the practice under the present gov
ernment, before the late treaty, has corresponded
with that sense.

Our treaties with several Indian nations regulate
and change the boundaries between them and the
United States. And in addition to compensations
in gross, they stipulate the payment of certain
specific and perpetual annuities. Thus a treaty in
August, 1790, with the Creeks (article 5) promises
them the yearly sum of one thousand five hundred
dollars. And similar features are found in subse
quent treaties with the Six Nations, the Cherokees,
and the Northwestern Indians. This last has just
been ratified by the unanimous voice of the Senate.
It stipulates an annuity of 9,500 dollars, and relin
quishes to the Indians a large tract of land which
they had, by preceding treaties, ceded to the United
States.

Hence we find that our former treaties under the
present government, as well as one subsequent to
that under consideration, contradict the doctrine set
up against its constitutionality, in the important
particulars of making dispositions concerning the
territory and property of the United States, and
binding them to raise and pay money. These treat
ies have not only been made by the President, and
ratified by the Senate, without any impeachment of
their constitutionality, but the House of Represent
atives has heretofore concurred, and without objec-

Camillus 195

tion, in carrying them into effect, by the requisite
appropriation of money.

The consular convention of France stands in a
peculiar predicament. It was negotiated under the
former government, and ratified under the present;
and so may be regarded as a treaty of both govern
ments, illustrative of the extent of the power of
treaty in both. The delicate and even the extra
ordinary nature of the provisions it contains, have
been adverted to. Though all reflecting men have
thought ill of the propriety of some of them, as in
conveniently breaking in upon our interior admin
istration, legislative, executive, and judiciary, only
acquiescing in them from the difficulty of getting rid
of stipulations entered into by our public agents
under competent powers, yet no question has been
heard about their constitutionality. And Congress
have, by law, assisted their execution by making
our judicial tribunals, and the public force of the
country, auxiliary to the decrees of the foreign tri
bunals which they authorize within our territory.

If it should be said that our Constitution, by mak
ing all former treaties and engagements as obliga
tory upon the United States, tinder that Constitution,
as they were under the Confederation, rendered the
ratification of the convention a matter of necessity,
the answer is, that either the engagements which it
contracted were already conclusive, or they were
not; if the former, there was no need of a ratifica
tion; if the latter, there was no absolute obligation
to it. And, in every supposition, a ratification by
the President, with the consent of the Senate, could

196 Alexander Hamilton

have been predicated only upon the power given in
the present Constitution in relation to treaties; and
to have any validity, must have been within the
limit of that power.

But it has been heretofore seen that the inference
from this instrument is no less strong, if referred to
the power under the Confederation, than if referred
to the power under the present Constitution.

How happens it, that all these invasions of the
Constitution, if they were such, were never dis
covered, and that all the departments of the govern
ment, and all parties in the public councils, should
have co-operated in giving them a sanction? Does
it not prove that all were convinced, that the power
of treaty applied in our exterior relations to objects
which, in the ordinary course of internal administra
tion and in reference to ourselves, were of the cog
nizance of the legislative power? and particularly
that the former was competent to bind the latter
in the delicate points of raising and appropriating
money? If competent to this, what legislative
power can be more sacred, more out of its reach?

Let me now ask (and a very solemn question it is,
especially for those who are bound by oath to sup
port the Constitution), has it not been demonstrated
that the provisions in the treaty are justified by the
true and manifest interpretation of the Constitution —
are sanctioned by the practice upon a similar power
under the Confederation, and by the practice in
other instances under the present government?

If this has been demonstrated, what shall we think
of the candor and sincerity of the objections which

Camillus 197

have been erected on the basis of a contrary supposi
tion? Do they not unequivocally prove, that the
adversaries of the treaty have been resolved to dis
credit it by every artifice they could invent? That
they have not had truth for their guide, and conse
quently are very unfit guides for the public opinion,
very unsafe guardians of the public welfare?

It is really painful and disgusting to observe
sophisms so miserable as those which question the
constitutionality of the treaty, retailed to an en
lightened people, and insisted upon with so much
seeming fervency and earnestness. It is impossible
not to bestow on sensible men who act this part, the
imputation of hypocrisy. The absurdity of the doc
trine is too glaring to permit even charity itself to
suppose it sincere. If it were possible to imagine
that a majority in any branch of our government
could betray the Constitution, and trifle with the
nation, so far as to adopt and act upon such a doc
trine, it would be time to despair of the republic.

There would be no security at home, no respecta
bility abroad. Our constitutional charter would be
come a dead letter. The organ of our government
for foreign affairs would be treated with derision
whenever he should hereafter talk of negotiation or
treaty. May the great Ruler of nations avert from
our country so grievous a calamity!

CAMILLUS.

FOREIGN POLICY
FOREIGN POLICY

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON

NEW YORK, September 4, 1795.

SIR: — I had the pleasure of receiving, two days
since, your letter of the 3ist ultimo. A great press
of business, and an indifferent state of health, have
put it out of my power sooner to attend to it.

The incidents which have lately occurred have
been in every way vexatious and untoward. They
render indispensable a very serious, though calm
and measured, remonstrance from this government,
carrying among others this idea, that it is not suffi
cient that the British Government entertain toward
our nation no hostile disposition; 't is essential that
they take adequate measures to prevent those op
pressions of our citizens, and of our commerce, by
their officers and courts, of which there are too fre
quent examples, and by which we are exposed to
suffer inconveniences too nearly approaching to
those of a state of war. A strong expectation should
be signified of the punishment of Capt. Holmes, for
the attempt to violate an ambassador passing through
our territory, and for the hostile and offensive men
aces which he has thrown out. The dignity of our
country, and the preservation of the confidence of
2O2 Alexander Hamilton

the people in the government, require both solemn
ity and seriousness in these representations.

As to the negotiation for alteration in, and addi
tions to, the treaty, I think it ought to embrace the
following objects :

A new modification of the i2th article, so as to
extend the tonnage, and restrain the prohibition to
export from this country, to articles of the growth
or production of the British islands. The more the
tonnage is extended the better; but I think ninety
tons would work advantageously, if nothing better
could be done. I had even rather have the article
with seventy, as it stood, than not at all, if the re
striction on exportation is placed on the proper foot
ing. Some of our merchants, however, think its
value would be questionable at so low a tonnage as
seventy. It would be also desirable that the article
should enumerate the commodities which may be
carried to, and brought from, the British islands.
This would render it more precise and more in
telligible to all.

Great Britain may have substantial security for the
execution of the restriction, if it be stipulated on our
side: "That a law shall be passed and continued in
force during the continuance of the article, prohibit
ing the exportation in vessels of the United States, of
any of the articles in question, if brought from Brit
ish islands, on pain of forfeiture of the vessel, for
wilful breach of the law; and that the same law
shall provide that the regulations contained in our
laws respecting drawbacks, shall be applied to all
exportations in our vessels of the articles in question,

Hamilton to Washington 203

to ascertain that they were imported into the United
States from other than British islands, and this
whether a drawback of duty is required or not by
the exporter; and shall also provide that all such
articles exported in our vessels from the United
States, shall be expressed in the clearance, with a
certificate of the collector endorsed, specifying that
he has carefully examined, according to the treaty
and to the law, the identity of the articles exported,
and that it did bona fide appear to him that they had
not been imported from any British island or isl
ands/' This security is the greatest difficulty in
the case, and would, in my opinion, be given by a
provision similar to the foregoing.

It would be a very valuable alteration in the i3th
article, if a right could be stipulated for the United
States to go with articles taken in the British terri
tories in India to other parts of Asia. The object of
the present restriction upon us to bring them to
America was, I believe, to prevent our interference
with the British East India Company in the Euro
pean trade in India goods. If so, there could be no
objection to our having a right to carry commodities
from the British territories to other parts of Asia.
But if all this latitude cannot be obtained, it would
be a great point gained to have a right to carry them
thence to China. It is a usual and beneficial course
of the trade to go from the United States to Bombay,
and take in there a freight for Canton, purchase at the
last place a cargo of teas, etc.

It would be well if that part of the i5th article,
which speaks of countervailing duties, could be so

2O4 Alexander Hamilton

explained as to fix its sense. I am of opinion that
its only practicable construction is, and ought to be,
that they may lay on the exportation from their
European dominions, in vessels of the United States,
the same additional duty on articles which we lay on
the importation of the same articles into the United
States in British vessels. But the terms of the clause
are vague and general, and may give occasion to set
up constructions injurious and contentious.

As to the more exact equalization of duties, of
which this article speaks, it is a ticklish subject, and
had better, I think, be left alone.

It would be right that it should be expressly
agreed that wherever our vessels pay, in the ports of
Great Britain, higher charges than their own vessels,
a proportional reduction shall be made out of any
duty of tonnage which may be laid on our vessels to
counteract the difference of tonnage on theirs in our
ports.

The 1 8th article is really an unpleasant one, and,
though there is, I fear, little chance of altering it for
the better, it may be necessary, for the justification
of the President, to attempt it. The standard to be
approached by us as nearly as possible is that in our
treaty with France. As to the point of free ships
making free goods, though it be desirable to us to es
tablish it if practicable — and it ought to be aimed at
— yet I neither expect that it will be done at present,
nor that the great maritime powers will be disposed
to suffer it to become an established rule, and I
verily believe that it will be very liable, though
stipulated, to be disregarded, as it has been by

Hamilton to Washington 205

France through the greater part of the present war.
But naval stores and provisions ought, if possible, to
be expressly excluded from the list of contraband,
except when going to a blockaded or besieged port,
town, or fortress, or to a fleet or army engaged in a
military operation, for I can imagine no other cases
in which there is a just pretence to make provisions
contraband.

Some provision for the protection of our seamen
is infinitely desirable. At least Great Britain ought
to agree that no seaman shall be impressed out of
any of our vessels at sea, and that none shall be taken
out of such vessel in any of her colonies which were
in the vessel at the time of her arrival at such colony.
This provision ought to be pressed with energy as
one unexceptionably just, and at the same time safe
for Great Britain.

The affair of the negroes, to give satisfaction, may
be retouched, but with caution and delicacy. The
resolution proposed in the Senate will afford a good
standard for this.

As to the crowd of loose suggestions respecting the
treaty, which have no reasonable foundation, it would
not consist with the reputation of the government
to move concerning them. Only reasonable things
merit or can, with propriety, have attention.

I beg, sir, that you will at no time have any scruples
about commanding me. I shall always with pleasure
comply with your commands. I wish my health, or
the time for it, would permit me now to be more
correct. The other part of your letter shall be care
fully attended to in time.

206 Alexander Hamilton

FRANCE *

1796.

There are circumstances which render it too proba
ble that a very delicate state of things is approach
ing between the United States and France. When
threatened with foreign danger, from whatever quar
ter, it is highly necessary that we should be united
at home ; and considering our partiality hitherto for
France, it is necessary towards this union, that we
should understand what has really been the conduct
of that country toward us. It is time for plain
truths, which can only be unacceptable to the hire
lings or dupes of that nation.

France, in our revolution war, took part with us.
At first she afforded us secret and rather scanty
succor, which wore more the complexion of a dispo
sition to nourish a temporary disturbance in the
dominions of a rival power, than of an intention to
second a revolution.

The capture of Burgoyne and his army decided
the till then hesitating councils of France ; produced
the acknowledgment of our independence, and treat
ies of commerce and defensive alliance. These again
produced the war which ensued between France and
Great Britain.

The co-operation and succor of France after this

1 In 1796 the canvass for the Presidency was proceeding with great
violence, and M. Adet, the French minister, was making every effort
to bully our government into aiding France, and doing all in his power
to help the opposition. Under these circumstances Hamilton felt it to
be essential to expose the real attitude and conduct of the French,
and destroy so far as possible the dangerous sentiment of unreasonable
affection and gratitude toward our former allies. He therefore pub
lished the essay entitled France.

France 207

period were efficient and liberal. They were ex
tremely useful to our cause, and no doubt con
tributed materially to its success.

The primary motive of France for the assistance
she gave us, was obviously to enfeeble a hated and
powerful rival, by breaking in pieces the British
Empire. A secondary motive was to extend her
relations of commerce in the New World, and to
acquire additional security for her possessions there,
by forming a connection with this country when
detached from Great Britain. To ascribe to her any
other motives — to suppose that she was actuated by
friendship towards us, or by a regard for our par
ticular advantage, is to be ignorant of the springs of
action which invariably regulate the cabinets of
princes. He must be a fool, who can be credulous
enough to believe, that a despotic court aided a
popular revolution, from regard to liberty or friend
ship to the principles of such a revolution. In
forming the conditions upon which France lent her
aid, she was too politic to attempt to take any un
worthy advantage of our situation. But they are
much mistaken who imagine that she did not take
care to make a good bargain for herself. Without
granting to us any material privilege in any of her
external possessions, she secured in perpetuity a
right to participate in our trade, on the foot of the
most favored nation. But what is far more import
ant, she, in return for the guaranty of our sover
eignty and independence, obtained our guaranty of
her West India possessions in every future defensive
war. This may appear at first sight a mutual and

208 Alexander Hamilton

equal advantage, but in its permanent operation it
is not so. The guaranty of our sovereignty and in
dependence, which is never likely to be again drawn
into question, must hereafter be essentially nominal ;
while our guaranty of the West India possessions
must grow into a solid advantage, increasing in im
portance as we advance in strength, and exposing us
often to the chances of being engaged in wars, in
which we may have no direct interest. However
this guaranty may be regarded as nominal on our
part, in this very early stage of our national power,
it cannot be so in time to come. We shall be able
to afford it with effect, and our faith will oblige us
to do so.

But whatever were the motives of France, and
though the conditions of the alliance may be in their
permanent tendency more beneficial to her than to
us, it was our duty to be faithful to the engagements
which we contracted with her, and it even became
us, without scanning too rigidly those motives, to
yield ourselves to the impulses of kind and cordial
sentiments towards a power by which we were suc
cored in so perilous a crisis.

Nor should we ever lightly depart from the line of
conduct which these principles dictate. But they
ought not to be carried so far as to occasion us to
shut our eyes against the just causes of complaint
which France has given or may hereafter give us.
They ought not to blind us to the real nature of any
instances of an unfair and unfriendly policy which
we have experienced or may hereafter experience
from that country. Let us cherish faith, justice,

France 209

and, as far as possible, good will, but let us not be
dupes.

It is certain that in the progress and towards the
close of our revolution war, the views of France, in
several important particulars, did not accord with
our interests. She manifestly favored and intrigued
to effect the sacrifice of our pretensions on the Mis
sissippi to Spain; she looked coldly upon our claim
to the privileges we enjoy in the cod fisheries; and
she patronized our negotiation with Great Britain
without the previous acknowledgment of our in
dependence; — a conduct which, whatever color of
moderation may be attempted to be given to it, can
only be rationally explained into the desire of leaving
us in such a state of half peace, half hostility with
Great Britain, as would necessarily render us depend
ent upon France.

Since the peace every careful observer has been
convinced that the policy of the French Government
has been adverse to our acquiring internally the
consistency of which we were capable — in other words,
a well-constituted and efficient government. Her
agents everywhere supported, and with too little
reserve, that feeble and anarchical system — the old
Confederation, — which had brought us almost to
the last stage of national nothingness, and which
remained the theme of their eulogies, when every
enlightened and virtuous man of this country per
ceived and acknowledged its radical defects and the
necessity of essential alterations.

The truth of all this, of which no vigilant and un
biassed friend to his country had before the least

VOL. VI.— 14.

2io Alexander Hamilton

doubt, has been fully confirmed to us by the present
government of France, which has formally pro
claimed to us and to the whole world the Machiavel
lian conduct of the old governments toward this
country; nor can we suspect the promulgation to
have been the effect of the enmity of the new against
the old government, for our records and our own
observations assure us that there is no misrepre
sentation.

This disclosure, which has not sufficiently at
tracted the attention of the American people, is very
serious and instructive. Surely it ought to put us
upon our guard — to convince us that it is at least
possible the succeeding rulers of France may have
been on some occasions tinctured with a similar
spirit. They ought to remember that the mag
nanimity and kindness of France and the former
government were as much trumpeted by its par
tisans among us as are now the magnanimity and
kindness of the present government. What say
facts?

Genet was the first minister sent by the new gov
ernment to this country. Are there no marks of a
crooked policy in his behavior, or in his instructions?
Did he say to us, or was he instructed to say to us,
with frankness and fair-dealing : " Americans, France
wishes your co-operation; she thinks you bound by
your treaty — or by gratitude — or by affinity of prin
ciples, to afford it"? Not a word of all this. The
language was: "France does not require your as
sistance; she wishes you to pursue what you think
your interest."

France 211

What was the conduct? Genet came out with his
pocket full of commissions to arm privateers. Ar
rived at Charleston, before he had an opportunity
of sounding our government, he begins to issue them,
and to fit privateers from our ports. Certain that
this was a practice never to be tolerated by the ene
mies of France, and that it would infallibly implicate
us in the war, our government mildly signifies to
him its disapprobation of the measure. He affects
to acquiesce, but still goes on in the same way —
very soon in open defiance of the government; be
tween which and our own citizens he presently en
deavors to introduce jealousy and schism. He sets
011 foot intrigues with our southern and western ex
tremes, and attempts to organize our territory, and
to carry on from it military expeditions against the
territories of Spain in our neighborhood — a nation
with which we were at peace.

It is impossible to doubt that the end of all this
was to drag us into the war, with the humiliation of
being plunged into it without ever being consulted,
and without any volition of our own.

No government or people could have been more
horridly treated than we were by this foreign agent.
Our Executive, nevertheless, from the strong desire
of maintaining good understanding with France, for
bore to impute to the French Government the con
duct of its agent ; made the matter personal with him,
and requested his recall. The French Government
could not refuse our request without a rupture with
us, which at that time would have been extremely in
convenient for many plain reasons. The application

212 Alexander Hamilton

for the recall accordingly had full success; and the
more readily as it arrived shortly after the over
throw of the Girondist party (to which Genet be
longed), and thus afforded another opportunity of
exercising vengeance on that devoted party.

But it were to be very credulous to be persuaded
that Genet acted in this extraordinary manner, from
the very beginning, without the authority of the
government by which he was sent; and did not the
nature of his conduct contain an internal evidence
of the source, it could be easily traced in the instruc
tions which he published. These instructions demon
strate three things, though the last is couched in
very covert terms: i. That France did not con
sider us as bound to aid her in the war. 2. That
she desired to engage us in it, and the principal bribe
was to be large privileges in her West India trade. 3 .
That if direct negotiation did not succeed, indirect
means were to be taken to entangle us in it whether
so disposed or not. It is not matter of complaint,
that France should endeavor to engage by fair means
our assistance in the war, if she thought it would be
useful to her, but it is just matter of bitter com
plaint, that she should attempt against our will to
ensnare or drive us into it.

Fauchet succeeded Genet. It was a meteor follow
ing a comet. No very marked phenomena distinguish
his course. But the little twinkling appearances
which here and there are discernible, indicate the
same general policy in him which governed his pre
decessor. The Executive of our country, in conse
quence of an insurrection, to which one of them had

France 213

materially contributed, had publicly arraigned po
litical clubs. Fauchet, in opposition, openly patron
izes them. At the festivals of these clubs he is
always a guest, swallowing toasts full of sedition
and hostility to the government. Without examin
ing what is the real tendency of these clubs, without
examining even the policy of what is called the
President's denunciation of them, it was enough for
a foreign minister that the Chief Magistrate of our
country had declared them to be occasions of calamity
to it. It was neither friendly nor decent in a foreign
minister after this to countenance these institutions.
This conduct discovered towards us not only unkind-
ness but contempt. There is the more point in it,
as this countenance continued after similar societies
had been proscribed in France ; — what were destruc
tive poisons there, were in this country salutary
medicines. But the hostility of the views of this
minister is palpable in that intercepted letter of his,
which unveils the treachery of Randolph. We there
learn, that he pretended to think it was a duty of
patriotism to second the Western insurrection ; that
he knew and approved of a conspiracy which was
destined to overthrow the administration of our gov
ernment, even by the most irregular means.

Another revolution of party in France placed Mr.
Adet in the room of Mr. Fauchet. Mr. Adet has been
more circumspect than either of his predecessors;
and perhaps we ought scarcely to impute it to him
as matter of reproach that he openly seconded the
opposition in Congress to the treaty concluded with
Great Britain. This was a measure of a nature to

214 Alexander Hamilton

call forth the manoeuvres of diplomatic tactics. But
if we are wise, we shall endeavor to estimate rightly
the probable motives of whatever displeasure France
or her agents may have shown at this measure. Can
it be any thing else than a part of the same plan
which induced the minister of Louis XVI. to advise
us to treat with Great Britain without the previous
acknowledgment of our independence? Can it be
any thing else than a part of that policy which deems
it useful to France, that there should perpetually
exist between us and Great Britain germs of discord
and quarrel? Is it not manifest that in the eyes of
France the unpardonable sin of that treaty is, that
it roots up for the present those germs of discord and
quarrel? To pretend that the treaty interferes with
our engagements with France, is a ridiculous ab
surdity — for it expressly except s them. To say that
it establishes a course of things hurtful to France in
her present struggle, is belied by the very course of
things since the treaty — all goes on exactly as it did
before.

Those who can justify displeasure in France on
this account, are not Americans, but Frenchmen.
They are not fit for being members of an independent
nation, but are prepared for the dependent state of
colonists. If our government could not without the
permission of France terminate its controversies with
another foreign power, and settle with it a treaty of
commerce, to endure three or four years, our boasted
independence is a name. We have only transferred
our allegiance! we are slaves!

The Answer 215

THE ANSWER1

(From the Minerva.)

December 6, 1796.

The French Republic have, at various times during
the present war, complained of certain principles and
decisions of the American Government, as being
violations of its neutrality, or infractions of the
treaty made with France in the year 1778. These
complaints were principally made in the year 1793,
and explanations, which till now were deemed satis
factory, were made by Mr. Jefferson's correspond
ence, in August of that year. They are now not only
renewed with great exaggeration, but the French
Government have directed that it should be done in
the tone of reproach, instead of the language of friend
ship. The apparent intention of this menacing tone,
at this particular time, is to influence timid minds to
vote agreeably to their wishes in the election of
President and Vice-President, and probably with this
view the memorial was published in the newspapers.
This is certainly a practice that must not be per
mitted. If one foreign minister is permitted to pub
lish what he pleases to the people, in the name of his
government, every other foreign minister must be in
dulged with the same right. What then will be our
situation on the election of a President and Vice-
President, when the government is insulted, the per
sons who administer it traduced, and the election

1 From Adet's offensive note announcing the decree of the French
Government against neutrals, a sharp correspondence had sprung up
with Pickering, our Secretary of State. Just after Congress assembled
Hamilton replied to Adet in The Answer, under his old signature of
" Americanus."

216 Alexander Hamilton

menaced by public addresses from these intriguing
agents? Poland, that was once a respectable and
powerful nation, but is now a nation no longer, is a
melancholy example of the dangers of foreign influ
ence in the election of a chief magistrate. Eleven
millions of people have lost their independence from
that cause alone. What would have been the con
duct of the French Directory, if the American min
ister had published an elaborate and inflammatory
address to the people of France against the govern
ment, reprobating the conduct of those in power, and
extolling that of the party opposed to them? They
would have done as the Parliament of England did
in 1727, when the emperor's Resident presented an
insolent memorial to the king, and published it next
day in the newspapers. All parties concurred in
expressing the highest indignation and resentment
at the affront offered to the government by the
memorial delivered by Monsieur Palm, and more
particularly at his audacious manner of appealing
from the government to the people, under the pre
text of applying for reparation and redress of sup
posed injuries. In consequence of an address from
both houses, Monsieur Palm was ordered to quit
England immediately. And is it not necessary that
we should adopt some remedy adequate to this evil
to avoid those serious consequences which may
otherwise be apprehended from it?

The conduct of the American Government to pre
serve its neutrality has been repeatedly justified by
arguments drawn from the law of nations, and in the
application of its principles they have gone as far, in

The Answer 217

every instance, and in one particular instance farther,
in favor of France, than the strict rule of neutrality
would justify. It would, therefore, answer no valu
able purpose to state the same principles, and deduce
the same consequences, in order to justify ourselves
on the same ground, that we have already done ; but
as the reproaches of the French Republic are founded
on an idea that our construction and application of
the law of nations is erroneous, partial, and inimical,
it may be worth while to examine whether we cannot
justify ourselves by the example of the French nation
itself. I presume a better rule of justification against
any charge cannot be required, than the conduct of
those who have made it in like cases.

I propose, therefore, to compare the decisions of
the American Government, in the several points
wherein they have been complained of in Mr. Adet's
memorial, with the laws of France on the same
points.

It is asserted that the American Government has
violated the i7th article of the treaty of 1778, by
arresting French privateers and their prizes; and
that it has exercised shocking persecutions toward
them.

It will be found, on an accurate inquiry, that all
the prizes brought in under French commissions, that
have been restored, have been found to be in one or
the other of the following descriptions:

1. Those captured within a marine league of the
shores of the United States.

2. When the capturing vessel was owned and prin
cipally manned by American citizens.

218 Alexander Hamilton

3. When the capturing vessel was armed in our
ports.

As to the jurisdiction exercised by the United
States over the sea contiguous to its shores, all
nations claim and exercise such a jurisdiction, and
all writers admit this claim to be well founded: and
they have differed in opinion only as to the distance
to which it may extend. Let us see whether France
has claimed a greater or less extent of dominion over
the sea than the United States. Valin, the king's
advocate at Rochelle, in his new commentary on the
marine laws of France, published first in 1761, and
again by approbation in I776,1 after mentioning the
opinions of many different writers on public law on
this subject, says: "As far as the distance of two
leagues the sea is the dominion of the sovereign of
the neighboring coast; and that whether there be
soundings there or not. It is proper to observe this
method in favor of states whose coasts are so high
that there are no soundings close to the shore, but
this does not prevent the extension of the dominion
of the sea, as well in respect to jurisdiction as to
fisheries, to a greater distance by particular treaties,
or the rule herein before mentioned, which extends
dominion as far as there are soundings, or as far as
the reach of a cannon shot; which is the rule at
present universally acknowledged." "The effect of
this dominion," the same author says, " according to
the principles of Puffendorf , which are incontestable,
is, that every sovereign has a right to protect foreign
commerce, in his dominions, as well as to secure it

1 Book V., title i.

The Answer 219

from insult, by preventing others from approaching
nearer than a certain distance/' In extending our
dominion over the sea to one league, we have not
extended it so far as the example of France and the
other powers of Europe would have justified. They,
therefore, can have no right to complain of our con
duct in this respect.

The second description of cases which has induced
the American Government to restore prizes claimed
by the French, is when our citizens have made the
capture under a French commission.

The third article of the ordinances of the marine of
France, which the commission now given to French
privateers requires to be observed (Valin, vol. 2, 235),
is as follows: "We prohibit all our subjects from
taking commissions from foreign kings, princes, or
states, to arm vessels for war, and to cruise at sea
under their colors, unless by our permission, on pain
of being treated as pirates. " The commentator says
these general and indefinite prohibitions have no
exception. They extend to commissions taken from
friends or allies, as well as neutrals, and those that
are equivocal, and they were considered as necessary
consequences of the laws of neutrality.

"If," says Valin, "the commission of the foreign
prince be to cruise against his enemies who are our
allies, or those with whom we intend to preserve
neutrality, it would afford just ground of complaint
on their part, and might lead to a rupture." The
rule extends as well to subjects domiciliated as not
domiciliated in the kingdom, and foreign countries;
"for Frenchmen are not the less Frenchmen, for

22O Alexander Hamilton

having gone to live in foreign countries." If France
may rightfully prohibit her citizens from accepting
foreign commissions to make prize of the property of
her friends, why should the United States be re
proached for exercising a similar right ? A necessary
consequence of this wise and just prohibition is, that
all prizes taken contrary to it should be restored with
damages to the party injured.

The third description of prizes restored, is where
they have been fitted and armed in the ports of the
United States.

I find no direct, positive provision by the marine
laws of France, prohibiting this ; but the whole tenor
of those laws supposes that vessels of war are armed
in the ports of the sovereign who gives the commis
sion. French privateers must not only fit out in a
French port, but are bound to bring all prizes made
by them into some particular port or ports expressed
in their commissions (Valin, vol. 2, 276). Arid it is
certain that the king of France, previous to his
alliance with the United States, delivered up some
American prizes to the English, because the captur
ing vessel had been armed in a French port.

Mr. Adet's memorial charges that the English have
been permitted to arm their vessels and bring their
prizes into our ports. As to this charge, the fact is
simply denied. In the cases mentioned, the vessels
said to have taken in guns for their defence, were
gone before he made his representation ; yet he com
plained, and the government did nothing. I ask
what could they have done ? Mr. Adet will answer :
They might have declared war against Great Britain ;

The Answer 221

and it is certain this was the only remedy that re
mained in such a case; but neither our interest nor
our duty would have permitted us to have adopted it.
Our interest did not permit us to give up our neu
trality and engage in a foreign war, the event of
which would have produced many and certain evils,
and could not by any possibility have produced any
good; and it was contrary to every principle by
which a just nation would desire to act, to have made
war on a whole people because one or two of them
had clandestinely taken arms on board for their de
fence, in one of our ports, without the knowledge of
their government or of ours.

The memorial complains that we have infringed
the i yth article of the treaty of 1778, by restraining
the prohibition therein contained only to the ships of
war and privateers of their enemies, who should come
into our ports with their prizes.

The literal sense of the i7th article is, that no
armed ship, who shall have made prizes from the
French people, shall receive an asylum in our ports.
The 22d article says that no privateer, fitted under
a commission of the enemy of either, shall have
asylum in the ports of the others. Neither of these
articles says any thing of prizes. The literal appli
cation of them therefore would exclude the capturing
vessels, but give admission to their prizes; which
would never have been the intention of the parties.
The laws of nations, expressly adopted by France,
relative to the right of asylum, may illustrate these
articles of the treaty. Ord. Louis XIV., Art. XIV.,
declares "that no prizes made by captains under a

222 Alexander Hamilton

foreign commission shall remain in our ports longer
than twenty-four hours, unless detained by bad
weather, or unless the prize have been made from
our enemies." But this article, says Valin, is only
applicable to prizes carried into a neutral port, " and
not at all to armed vessels, whether neutral or allies,
who have taken refuge there, without prizes, either to
escape the pursuit of enemies, or for any other cause.
They may in this case remain as long as they please. "
By the law of neutrality, simply, French prizes could
only have remained twenty-four hours in our ports,
but by the treaty they have obtained the privilege of
remaining as long as they please. This privilege has
not only been allowed them in its fullest extent,
but we had gone a step further, and as a favor per
mitted them to sell their prizes, which neither the
treaty nor the law of nations required; and which
was of more importance than all the rest put to
gether. This favor, as favors generally are, is now
claimed as a right, and the withholding is considered
as an injury. Let us see what the ordinances of the
French marine have said on this point. Ord. Louis
XIV., Tit. Prizes, Art. XIV.: "If in the prizes
brought into our ports by vessels armed under a
foreign commission, there be any merchandises be
longing to our subjects, or allies, those belonging to
our subjects shall be restored, and the rest shall not be
put into any storehouses, or be purchased by any person
under any pretext whatsoever." "And all this," says
Valin, " is founded on the law of neutrality. " By the
Treaty of Utrecht, Louis XIV., and his grandson the
king of Spain, agreed mutually to permit the prizes

The Answer 223

made by one to be brought in and sold in the ports of
the other. But this, the same author says, was only
a particular arrangement, so much the less to be pro
posed for a general rule, as the two nations had
given up the duties on the prize goods sold in their
dominions, which however did not last long, on ac
count of the abuses to which it gave rise. Abuses
similar, I presume, to those to which the same per
mission gave rise in this country. The next ground
of complaint is the British treaty and its conse
quences. This treaty is said to deprive France of all
the advantages stipulated in a preceding treaty, and
this is done by an abandonment of the modern law of
nations.

If we may credit the declaration of the king of
France, there were no exclusive advantages stipu
lated for France in that treaty. His ambassador
delivered a paper to the British court, dated the i3th
of March, 1778, wherein, after announcing the treaty
between France and the United States, he says:
" His Majesty declares at the same time, that the con
tracting parties have paid great attention not to
stipulate any exclusive advantages in favor of the
French nation; and that the United States have reserved
the liberty of treating with every other nation whatever,
upon the same footing of equality and reciprocity.11

The injury supposed to have resulted from an
abandonment of the modern public law, assumes two
propositions, neither of which is true: ist. That
neutral ships make neutral property. 2d. That
materials for building ships are not among the articles
considered as contraband of war. By the marine

224 Alexander Hamilton

laws of France, Reg. Dec. 1744, Art. 5, it is directed,
that " if there are found on board of neutral vessels,
of whatever nation they may be, merchandises or
effects belonging to the enemies of his Majesty, they
shall be good prize, even though they are not of the
growth or manufacture of the enemy's country, but
the vessels shall be released. " Previous to this regu
lation, and contrary to the law of nations, as Valin
acknowledges, if either the ship or the cargo, or any
part of it, was enemy's property, the whole was con
fiscated by the laws of France. And at this day
neutral property on board of an enemy's ships is, by
the same laws, liable to confiscation.

As to the contraband of war, timber is enumerated
among the articles that are so, by Vatel, Lib. iii.,
chap. vii. ; but Valin is much more particular, vol. 2,
264 : " In the treaty of commerce concluded with the
king of Denmark, the 23d of August, 1724, pitch and
tar were declared contraband, as also rosin, sail-cloth,
hemp, cordage, mats and timber, for the building of
ships. There would have been, therefore, no reason
to complain of the conduct of the English, if they had
not violated particular treaties ; for of right (de droii)
these things are contraband at present, and have been
so since the beginning of this century, which was not
the case formerly." By the modern law of nations,
expressly adopted by France, enemies' property, on
board neutral ships, is good prize ; and by the same
law, the number of contraband articles has been
increased so as to include the materials for ship
building. All the situations were probably foreseen,
in which the treaty might operate favorably or unfa-

The Answer 225

vorably for France at the time it was made. It might
have been stipulated that materials for ship-building
should be deemed contraband, instead of declaring
that they should not; or, that the United States
should not enter into any treaty in which they should
be made so. Neither of these being the case, there
is no ground of complaint, except that the consequence
is inconvenient, at present, to France, and the belli
gerent powers allied to her. If timber and naval
stores are contraband by the law of nations, to de
clare them to be so by a treaty cannot be considered
as a privilege granted to one nation, or an injury to
any other. The French nation will not persist in
asserting, that because the exercise of rights which
she has claimed as legitimate on former occasions,
becomes inconvenient when exercised by others, she
may therefore refuse to acknowledge and respect
them. This would be the language of a haughty
despot in a conquered country, not of justice, honor,
and good faith from one friend to another.

It is said that the i8th article of the treaty with
Great Britain suspends all the commercial relations
between the United States and France, by preventing
the supplies looked for by France from this country.

This article has not introduced any new case, in
which provisions may be contraband. It only alters
the consequence resulting from a seizure of them,
when they are so. Valin (vol. 2, 264) says: " By our
law and the law of nations, provisions are not pro
hibited, except to places besieged or blockaded." The
article complained of says explicitly, that when pro
visions and other articles not generally contraband are

VOL. VI.— 15.

226 Alexander Hamilton

become so, according to the existing law of nations,
and shall, for that reason, be seized, they shall not be
confiscated, but the owner shall be completely indem
nified, and receive besides a reasonable mercantile
profit. This principle operated as an encouragement
for American vessels to seek the French markets, by
insuring them against loss, if they happened in any
instance to be interrupted in the voyage. France, I
presume, might consider our vessels bound with
provisions to a place besieged or blockaded liable
to seizure, after due notice of the fact. If, instead of
this, they contend for the privilege of paying for them
according to the terms of the treaty with Great
Britain, I suppose it will not be denied to them.
But if, under pretence that a vessel is bound to a
besieged or blockaded port, when she is not, either
France or Great Britain should seize or detain her, it
is an injury not authorized by the treaty or the law
of nations. This is what both nations have done,
when their interests or necessities required it — some
times with, and often without any apology; and
what they will often continue to do, I fear, as long as
they know we cannot punish them for it.

These injuries are said to have been received, while
every other object around reminds us of the tyranny
of Britain and the generous assistance of France,
during the American war,

The generosity of France and the gratitude of the
United States have been often suggested by some of
our own citizens, and we are now reproached with it
by France herself. Gratitude is due for favors re
ceived; and this virtue may exist among nations as

The Answer 227

well as among individuals; but the motive of the
benefit must be solely the advantage of the party on
whom it was conferred, else it ceases to be a favor.
There is positive proof that France did not enter
into the alliance with us in 1778 for our advantage,
but for her own. The whole course of the investiga
tion, as well as a positive knowledge of the fact,
proves this. She resisted all of our solicitations for
effectual assistance for war three years ; and rose in
her demand during the campaign of 1777, when our
affairs presented the most threatening aspect. Me
morials were presented in August and September of
that year, while General Burgoyne's army arrived in
December; fearing we might be able to do the
business without them, the French court began to
change its tone. In January the British minister
gave notice in the House of Commons that he meant
to propose terms of accommodation with America.
The French ministry, on the arrival of this intelli
gence in France, immediately pressed the conclusion
of the treaty which they had resisted for three years,
and proposed terms much more favorable for us than
those our commissioner had offered, and they had re
fused three months before. The treaty was signed
on the 8th of February. I perceive no generosity in
all this. They did then as we have done now, and as
every discerning nation will do — they regarded only
their own interest and advantage, and not that of any
other nation. In the interval between the declara
tion of independence and the alliance with France,
that court sometimes ordered away our privateers,
and sometimes restored their prizes. They refused

228 Alexander Hamilton

to receive an ambassador or acknowledge our in
dependence; all of which was for fear of bringing
France prematurely into the war. The fact is, that
the French spoke of very different terms, as the con
dition of their assistance, before the capture of
Burgoyne, from those actually agreed on afterwards.
There can be no doubt that our success on that
occasion, and the disposition it appeared to have pro
duced in the British ministry, were the immediate
causes of that alliance. It was certainly the interest
of the French to unite with America in the war
against Great Britain. They therefore acted right
in doing this at last, though with too much refinement
in putting it off so long, but it is not the interest of
the United States to be engaged in any war whatso
ever — much less do they desire to imbrue their hands
in the blood of one nation to gratify the hatred or
serve the interest of another. We have acted right
hitherto in laying it down as a principle, not to suffer
ourselves to be drawn into the wars of Europe; and
if we must have a war, I hope it will be for refusing
to depart from that principle.

Our government has acted with firmness, con
sistency, and moderation, in repelling the unjust pre
tensions of the belligerent powers, as far as reason
and argument could have weight. If it has not at
tempted in every instance to preserve our rights by
force, wherein the remedy would have been worse
than the disease, they have not yielded them by con
cession, in any instance. Into whatsoever hands the
administration of the government may now come,
they are called on by the suggestions of a wise policy,

The Warning 229

and the voice of their country, to pursue the same gen
eral line of conduct that has been hitherto pursued,
without yielding to the violence of party on either
side. They will then be sure of the approbation and
support of the most virtuous, which it is to be hoped
are the most numerous of all parties. On the con
trary, if, departing from these principles, they un
necessarily involve their country in the horrors of
war, they will meet the merited execration of good
men, and in the end the punishment justly due to
such conduct from an injured people.

AMERICANUS.

THE WARNING x

I

January 27, 1797.

There are appearances too strong not to excite
apprehension that the affairs of this country are
drawing fast to an eventful crisis. Various circum
stances, daily unfolding themselves, authorize a con
clusion that France has adopted a system of conduct
toward the neutral maritime nations generally, which
amounts to little less than actual hostility. I mean
the total interruption of their trade with the ports of
her enemies; a pretension so violent, and at the same
time so oppressive, humiliating, and ruinous to them,

1 The Warning was in continuation of the line of argument pursued
in France. Its purpose was to arouse the people against French influ
ence, and to show that we ought to be independent of all foreigners,
and not allow ourselves to be dragged by France into a war with Eng
land, but rather be prepared to withstand the more dangerous en
croachments of the "Great Republic itself."

230 Alexander Hamilton

that they cannot submit to it, without not only the
complete sacrifice of their commerce, but their ab
solute degradation from the rank of sovereign and
independent states.

It seems to have become latterly a primary object
in the policy of France to make the principal attack
upon Great Britain through her commerce, in order,
by extinguishing the sources of her revenue and
credit, to disable her from continuing the war, and
compel her to accept any conditions of peace which
her antagonist may think fit to prescribe. It is to
this plan we are to attribute the unjustifiable treat
ment of Tuscany, in the seizure of Leghorn, and
shutting her ports against the English, contrary to
the will of her own government. The same plan has
dictated the attempts which are understood to have
been made to oblige Naples to exclude Great Britain
from her ports during the present war. And there
have been indications of a design to effect a similar
restraint on all the Italian states, and expel the
British trade wholly from the Mediterranean. The
same object of wounding Great Britain through her
commerce, has been promoted by the war into which
Spain has been drawn, and may be considered as the
principal advantage expected from it ; while it is like
wise alleged to be the intention to force Portugal to
suspend her commercial relations with Great Britain.
The late decree forbidding the importation of British
manufactures into France, is a further proof of the
eagerness with which the policy of destroying the
British commerce is pursued; since it is presumable,
from the derangement of French manufactures by

The Warning 231

the war, that there must have been a convenience
in the supply which that importation has afforded.

It is obviously to the same origin that we are to
trace the decree lately communicated by the French
minister to our government, with respect to the in
tended treatment of the trade of neutrals, and the
spoliations which ours has for a long time past
suffered. While neutral nations were permitted to
enjoy securely their rights, besides the direct com
merce between them and the British dominions, the
commerce of Great Britain would be carried on in
neutral bottoms, even with the countries where it
was denied access in British bottoms. It follows,
that the abridgment of neutral rights is essential to
the scheme of destroying the British commerce. And
here we find the true solution of those unfriendly
proceedings, on the part of France toward this
country, which are hypocritically charged to the
account of the treaty with Great Britain, and other
acts of pretended infidelity in our government.

Did we need a confirmation of this truth, we should
find it in the intelligence lately received from Cadiz.
We are informed, through a respectable channel,1
that Danish and Swedish, as well as American ves
sels, carried into that port by French cruisers, have,
with their cargoes, been condemned and confiscated
by the French consul or tribunal there, on the de
clared principle of intercepting the trade of neu
trals with the ports of the enemies of France. This

1 Mr. Ignardi, our consul at Cadiz, lately arrived, who mentioned the
fact as here stated, adding, without reserve, that the principle above
mentioned is avowed in the correspondence of the French consul at
Cadiz.

212 Alexander Hamilton

indiscriminate spoliation of the commerce of neutral
powers is a clear proof that France is actuated, not
by particular causes of discontent given by our gov
ernment, but by a general plan of policy.

The practice upon the decree is a comment much
broader than the text. The decree purports that
France would observe toward neutrals the same con
duct which they permitted her enemies to observe
toward them. But the practice goes a great deal
further. None of the enemies of France, even at the
height of their power and presumption, ever pre
tended totally to cut off the trade of neutrals with her
ports. This is a pretension reserved for her, to in
crease the catalogue of extraordinary examples, of
which her revolution has been so fruitful.

The allegations of discontent with this country are
evidently a mere coloring to the intended violation of
its rights, by treaty as well as by the laws of nations.
Some pretext was necessary, and this has been seized.
It will probably appear hereafter that Denmark and
Sweden have been mocked with a similar tale of
grievances. It is, indeed, already understood that
Sweden, outraged in the person of her representative,
has been obliged to go the length of withdrawing her
minister from Paris.

The complaints of France may be regarded prin
cipally as weapons furnished to her adherents to
defend her cause, notwithstanding the blows she in
flicts. Her aim has been, in every instance, to seduce
the people from their government, and, by dividing,
to conquer and oppress. Hitherto, happily, the
potent spells of this political sorcery have, in most

The Warning 233

countries, been counteracted and dissipated by the
sacred flame of patriotism. One melancholy excep
tion serves as a warning to the rest of mankind to
shun the fatal snare. It is, nevertheless, humiliat
ing, that there are men among us depraved enough to
make use of the arms she has furnished in her service,
and to vindicate her aggressions as the effect of a just
resentment, provoked by the ill conduct of our gov
ernment. But the artifice will not succeed. The
eyes of the people of this country are, every day,
more and more opened to the true character of the
politics of France; and the period is fast approach
ing when it will be seen in all its intrinsic deformity.

The desire of a power at war to destroy the com
merce of its enemy, is a natural effect of the state of
war, and while exercised within bounds, consistent
with the rights of nations who are not engaged in the
contest, is entirely justifiable ; but when it manifestly
overleaps these bounds, and indulges in palpable vio
lations of neutral rights, without even the color of
justification in the usages of war, it becomes an in
tolerable tyranny, wounds the sovereignty of nations,
and calls them to resistance by every motive of self-
preservation and self-respect.

The conduct of France, from the commencement
of her successes, has, by gradual developments, be
trayed a spirit of universal domination; an opinion
that she had a right to be the legislatrix of nations;
that they are all bound to submit to her mandates, to
take from her their moral, political, and religious
creeds; that her plastic and regenerating hand is
to mould them into whatever shape she thinks fit;

234 Alexander Hamilton

and that her interest is to be the sole measure of
the rights of the rest of the world. The specious
pretence of enlightening mankind, and reforming
their civil institutions, is the varnish to the real
design of subjugating them. The vast projects of
a Louis XIV. dwindle into insignificance compared
with the more gigantic schemes of his republican
successors.

Men, well informed and unprejudiced, early dis
covered the symptoms of this spirit. Reasoning
from human nature, they foresaw its growth with
success; that from the love of dominion, inherent in
the heart of man, the rulers of the most powerful
nation in the world, whether a Committee of Safety
or a Directory, will forever aim at an undue empire
over other nations; and that this disposition, in
flamed as it was by enthusiasm, if encouraged by a
continuation of success, would be apt to exhibit it
self, during the course of the French Revolution, in
excesses of which there has been no example since
the days of Roman greatness.

Every day confirms the justice of that anticipation.
It is now indispensable that the disagreeable and
menacing truth should be exposed in full day to the
people of America ; that they should contemplate it
seriously, and prepare their minds for extremities,
which nothing short of abject submission may be able
to avert. This will serve them as an armor against
the machinations of traitorous men, who may wish to
make them instruments of the ambition of a foreign
power, to persuade them to concur in forging chains
for mankind, and to accept, as their award, the

The Warning 235

despicable privilege of wearing them a day later than
others.

Already in certain circles is heard the debasing
doctrine that France is determined to reduce us to
the alternative of war with her enemies, or war with
herself, and that it is our interest and safety to elect
the former.

There was a time when it was believed that a simi
lar alternative would be imposed by Great Britain.
At this crisis there was but one sentiment. The
firmest friends of moderation and peace, no less than
the noisiest partisans of violence and war, resolved to
elect war with that power which should drive us to
the election. This resolution was the dictate of mor
ality and honor, of a just regard to national dignity
and independence. If any consideration, in any situa
tion, should degrade us into a different resolution,
we, that instant, shake hands with crime and infamy:
we descend from the high ground of an independent
people, and stoop to the ignominious level of vassals.
I trust there are few Americans who would not cheer
fully encounter the worst evils of a contest with any
nation on earth rather than subscribe to so shameful
an abdication of their rank as men and citizens.

AMERICUS.

ii

February 7, 1797.

Independent of the commands of honor the coolest
calculations of interest forbid our becoming the in
struments of the ambition of France, by associating
with her in the war. The question is no longer the

236 Alexander Hamilton

establishment of liberty on the basis of republican
government. This point the enemies of France have
ceased to dispute. The question now is whether she
shall be aggrandized by new acquisitions, and her
enemies reduced by dismemberments, to a degree
which may render her the mistress of Europe, and
consequently, in a great measure, of America. This
is truly the remaining subject of contention.

They who understood the real strength and re
sources of France before the present war, knew that
she was intrinsically the most powerful nation of
Europe. The incidents of the war have displayed
this fact in a manner which is the astonishment of the
world. If France can finally realize her present plan
of aggrandizement, she will attain to a degree of
greatness and power which, if not counteracted by
internal disorder, will tend to make her the terror and
the scourge of nations. The spirit of moderation in
a state of overbearing power is a phenomenon which
has not yet appeared, and which no wise man will ex
pect ever to see. It is certain that a very different
spirit has hitherto marked the career of the new re
public ; and it is due to truth to add, that the ardent,
impetuous, and military genius of the French affords
perhaps less prospect of such a spirit in them than in
any other people.

'T were therefore contrary to our true interest to
assist in building up this colossus to the enormous
size at which she aims. 'T were a policy as short
sighted as mean to seek safety in a subserviency to
her views as the price of her clemency. This at best
would be but a temporary respite from the rod; if

The Warning 237

indeed that can be called a respite, which is of itself
the sacrifice of a real to a nominal independence.

These reflections are not designed to rouse a spirit
of hostility against France, or to inculcate the idea
that we ought of choice to participate in the war
against her. They are intended merely to fortify the
motives of honor, which forbid our stooping to be
compelled, either to submit without resistance to a
virtual war on her part, or to avert her blows by
engaging in the war on her side.

When it was the opinion, that France was defend
ing the cause of liberty, it was a decisive argument
against embarking with her in the contest, that it
would expose us to hazards and evils infinitely dis-
proportioned to the assistance we could render. Now
the question plainly is, whether France shall give the
law to mankind. The addition of our opposition to
her plan could have too little influence upon the
event to justify our willingly encountering the cer
tain dangers and mischiefs of the enterprise. 'T is
our true policy to remain at peace if we can, to ne
gotiate our subjects of complaint as long as they
shall be at all negotiable, to defer and to wait.

When the indiscriminate seizure of our vessels by
British cruisers, under the order of the sixth of No
vember, 1793, had brought our affairs with Great
Britain to a crisis, which led to the measure of send
ing a special envoy to that country to obtain relief
and reparation, it was well understood that the issue
of that mission was to determine the question of
peace or war between the two nations. In like man-
mer, it is to be expected that our Executive will make

238 Alexander Hamilton

a solemn and final appeal to the justice and interest
of France, will insist in mild but explicit terms on
the renunciation of the pretension to intercept the
lawful commerce of neutrals with the enemies of
France, and the institution of some equitable mode
of ascertaining and retributing the losses which the
exercise of it has inflicted upon our merchants. If
the experiment shall fail, there will be nothing left
but to repel aggression and defend our commerce and
independence. The resolution to do this will then
be imposed on the government by a painful but ir
resistible necessity, and it were an outrage to the
American name and character to doubt that the
people of the United States will approve the resolu
tion, and will support it with a constancy worthy of
the justice of their cause, and of the glory they have
heretofore deserved and acquired.

No ! let this never be doubted ! the servile minions
of France — those who have no sensibility to injury
but when it comes from Great Britain, who are uncon
scious of any rights to be protected against France ;
who, at a moment when the public safety more than
ever demands a strict union between the people and
their government, traitorously labor to detach them
from it, and to turn against the government, for
pretended faults, the resentment which the real op
pressions of France ought to inspire ; — these wretched
men will discover in the end, that they are as insig
nificant as they are unprincipled. They will find
that they have vainly flattered themselves with the
co-operation of the great body of those men with
whom the spirit of party has hitherto associated

The Warning 239

them. In such an extremity the adventitious dis
criminations of party will be lost in the patriotism
and pride of the American character. Good citizens
of every political denomination will remember that
they are Americans; that when their country is in
danger, the merit or demerit of particular measures
is no longer a question ; that it is the duty of all to
unite their efforts to guard the national rights, to
avert national humiliation, and to withstand the im
position of a foreign yoke. The true and genuine
spirit of 1776, not the vile counterfeits of it which so
often disgust our eyes and our ears, will warm every
truly American heart, and light up in it a noble em
ulation to maintain inviolate the rights and unsullied
the honor of the American nation. It will be proved,
to the confusion of all false patriots, that we did not
break the fetters of one foreign tyranny to put on
those of another. It will be again proved to the
world that we understand our rights, and have the
courage to defend them.

But there is still ground to hope that we shall not
be driven to this disagreeable extremity. The more
deliberate calculations of France will probably rescue
us from the present embarrassment. If she perse
veres in her plan, she must inevitably add all the
neutral powers to the number of her enemies. How
will this fulfil the purpose of destroying the com
merce of Great Britain? The commerce of those
powers with France will then entirely cease, and be
turned more extensively into the channels of Great
Britain, protected by her navy, with the co-operation
of the maritime force of those powers. The result

240 Alexander Hamilton

will be the reverse of what is projected by the meas
ure. The commerce and revenue of Britain will, in
all likelihood, be augmented rather than diminished ;
and her arms will receive an important reinforce
ment. Violent and unjust measures commonly de
feat their own purpose. The plan of starving France
was of this description, and operated against the
views of its projectors. This plan now adopted by
France, of cutting off the trade of neutrals with her
enemies, alike violent and unjust, will no doubt end
in similar disappointment. Let us hope that it will
be abandoned, and that ultimate rupture will be
avoided ; but let us also contemplate the possibility
of the contrary, and prepare our minds seriously for
the unwelcome event.

AMERICUS.

in

February 21, 1797.

The Paris accounts inform us, that France has
lately exercised toward Genoa an act of atrocious
oppression, which is an additional and striking in
dication of the domineering and predatory spirit by
which she is governed. This little republic, whose
territory scarcely extends beyond the walls of her
metropolis, has been compelled, it seems, to ransom
herself from the talons of France by a contribution
of nearly a million of dollars, a large sum for her
contracted resources. For this boon, "the French
Government engages on its part to renounce all
claims upon Genoa, to forget what has passed during
the present war, and to forbear any future demands. "

The Warning 241

It would appear from this, that France, to color the
odious exaction, besides the pretence of misconduct
toward her in the present war, has not disdained to
resort to the stale and pitiful device of reviving some
antiquated claim upon the country itself. In vain
did the signal hazards encountered by Genoa to pre
serve her neutrality, in defiance of the host of ene
mies originally leagued against France, — in vain did
the character and title of republic plead for a more
generous treatment. The attractions of plunder
predominated. The spirit of rapine, callous to the
touch of justice, blind to the evidence of truth, deaf
to the voice of entreaty, had marked out, and devoted
the mark. There was no alternative but to com
pound or perish.

If it be even supposed, though this has never ap
peared, that at some period of the war Genoa may
be chargeable with acts of questionable propriety in
relation to France, it is manifest, that it ought to be
attributed to the necessity of a situation which must
have obliged her to temporize. A very small and
feeble state, in the midst of so many great conflicting
powers, parts of her territories occupied by armies
which she was unable to oppose, it were a miracle,
indeed, if her conduct in every particular will bear
the test of rigorous scrutiny. But if at any time the
pressure of circumstances may have occasioned some
slight deviation, there is, nevertheless, full evidence
of a constant solicitude on the part of Genoa to
maintain, to the utmost of her ability, a sincere neu
trality. It is impossible to forget the glorious stand
which she at one time made against the imperious

VOL. VI. — 16.

242 Alexander Hamilton

efforts of Great Britain to force her from her neutral
position. The magnanimous and exemplary forti
tude which she displayed on that occasion excited in
this country universal admiration, and must have
made a deep impression. 'T is only to recollect that
instance to be satisfied that the treatment which
she has just experienced from France merits the in
dignant execration of mankind. Unfortunate Genoa !
how little didst thou imagine that thou wert de
stined so soon to be compelled to purchase thy safety
from the crushing weight of that hand which ought
to have been the first to rise in thy defence !

How fruitful at the same time of instruction to us
is this painful example! The most infatuated par
tisans of France cannot but see in it an unequivocal
proof of the rapacious and vindictive policy which
dictates her measures. All men must see in it, that
the flagrant injuries which we are now suffering
from her, proceed from a general plan of domination
and plunder ; from a disposition to prostrate nations
at her feet; to trample upon their necks; to ravish
from them whatever her avidity or convenience may
think fit to dedicate to her own use.

The last intelligence from France seems to dispel
the doubt whether the depredations in the West
Indies may not have resulted from misapprehension
or abuse of the orders of the French Government. It
is now understood to be a fact that the cruisers
of France everywhere are authorized to capture
and bring in all vessels bound to the ports of her
enemies.

This plan is pregnant with the worst evils, which

The Warning 243

are to be dreaded from the declared and unqualified
hostility of any foreign power. If France, after be
ing properly called upon to renounce it, shall per
severe in the measure, there cannot be a question but
that open war will be preferable to such a state. By
whatever name treachery or pusillanimity may at
tempt to disguise it, 't is in fact war of the worst kind,
war on one side. If we can be induced to submit to
it longer than is necessary to ascertain that it cannot
be averted by negotiation, we are undone as a people.
Whether our determination shall be to coop up our
trade by embargoes, or to permit our commerce to
continue to float an unprotected prey to French
cruisers, our degradation and ruin will be equally
complete. The destruction of our navigation and
commerce, the annihilation of our mercantile cap
ital, the dispersion and loss of our seamen — obliged
to emigrate for subsistence, — the extinction of our
revenue, the fall of public credit, the stagnation of
every species of industry, the general impoverish
ment of our citizens, — these will be minor evils in
the dreadful catalogue. Some years of security and
exertion might repair them. But the humiliation of
the American mind would be a lasting and a mortal
disease in our social habit. Mental debasement is
the greatest misfortune that can befall a people.
The most pernicious of conquests which a state can
experience is a conquest over that just and elevated
sense of its own rights which inspires a due sensi
bility to insult and injury; over that virtuous and
generous pride of character, which prefers any peril
or sacrifice to a final submission to oppression, and

244 Alexander Hamilton

which regards national ignominy as the greatest of
national calamities.

The records of history contain numerous proofs of
this truth. But an appeal to them is unnecessary.
Holland and Italy present to our immediate observa
tion, examples as decisive as they are deplorable.
The former within the last ten years has undergone
two revolutions by the intervention of foreign pow
ers, without even a serious struggle. Mutilated of
precious portions of its territory at home by pre
tended benefactors but real despoilers, its dominions
abroad slide into the possession of its enemies rather
as derelicts than as the acquisitions of victory. Its
fleets surrender without a blow. Important only by
the spoils which it offers no less to its friends than to
its enemies, every symptom in its affairs is portentous
of national annihilation. With regard to Italy, 't is
sufficient to say that she is debased enough, not even
to dare to take part in a contest, on which, at this
moment, her destiny is suspended.

Moderation in every nation is a virtue. In weak
or young nations, it is often wise to take every chance
by patience and address to divert hostility, and in
this view to hold parley with insult and injury; but
to capitulate with oppression, or rather to surrender
to it at discretion, is, in any nation that has any
power of resistance, at all times as foolish as it is
contemptible. The honor of a nation is its life. De
liberately to abandon it, is to commit an act of
political suicide. There is treason in the sentiment,
avowed in the language of some, and betrayed by
the conduct of others, that we ought to bear any

The Warning 245

thing from France, rather than go to war with her.
The nation, which can prefer disgrace to danger is
prepared for a Master and deserves one.

AMERICUS.

IV

February 27, 1797.

The emissaries of France when driven from every
other expedient for extenuating her depredations,
have a last refuge in the example of Great Britain.
The treatment which we now receive from France
(say they) is not worse than that which we have
received from Great Britain. If this apology were
founded in fact, it would still be a miserable sub
terfuge. For what excuse is it to France, or what
consolation to us, that she, our boasted friend and
benefactress, treats us only not worse than a power
which is stigmatized as an envious rival and an im
placable foe?

The conduct of Great Britain, appealed to in justi
fication of France, was admitted by all to be inexcus
able. Even Gallic faction thought it so extreme as to
call for immediate reprisals. The real patriots dif
fered from them only in thinking, that an armed
negotiation, to end in reprisals, if unattended with
success, was preferable to immediate hostility. How
dare the men, who at that period were the clamorous
champions of our national dignity, — how dare they
(I ask) now to stand forth the preachers not of mod
eration (for in the propriety of this all unite) but of
tame submission — of a servility abject enough to
love and cherish the hand which despoils us, to kiss

246 Alexander Hamilton

the rod which stings us with unprovoked lashes?
What logic, what magic, can render innocent or
venial in France that which was so criminal and
odious in Great Britain?

The pretext (we know) of France is, that we have
permitted Great Britain to treat us in the same
manner, and her deluded or debauched adherents
are mean or prostrate enough to re-echo the excuse.

Let us grant, for argument's sake, all that can be
pretended on this subject — namely, that through
want of energy in our administration, or from the
opinion which it entertained of the situation of the
country, there has been too much patience under
the oppressions of Great Britain. Is this really a
justification to France? Is a defect of vigor in the
government of one country, or an underestimate of
its means for repelling injury, a sufficient cause for
another government, lavish in profession of friend
ship, to imitate toward it the aggressions which it has
suffered from an oppressor? What in private life
would be said of that man, who called himself the
friend of another, and because the last had too
passively allowed a third, the enemy of both, to
wrest from him a portion of his property, should
deduce from this a pretext to strip him of the re
mainder? Has language epithets too severe for
such a character ? Is not the guilt of unjust violence
in a case like this aggravated by that of hypocrisy
and perfidy?

But this is not our only reply. The truth is (and
a truth we may boldly proclaim) that we never did
tolerate the aggressions of Great Britain; that we

The Warning 247

have steadily resisted them, and resisted them with
success. In the respectable attitude of an armed
negotiation, seconded by the self-denying and very
influential measure of an embargo, we sent to de
mand a revocation of the orders under which we
suffered, and retribution for the losses which we
had sustained. The orders were revoked and the
retribution has been stipulated, and the stipulation
is in a course of honorable and liberal execution.
The redress of ancient grievances, on the ground of
a reciprocity, demanded by every principle of recti
tude, has been superadded to that of more recent
ones.

Our flags at this moment proudly wave on the
ramparts which had been so long detained from us;
and Indian butcheries along the whole extent of our
vast frontier have been terminated. More than this
— the redress obtained from Great Britain was a
principal cause of the happy accommodation of our
dispute with Spain, of the recognition of our right to
navigate the Mississippi, and of the establishment of
a southern boundary equal to our most sanguine
wishes.1 These are the fruits (and immense fruits
they are) of a vigorous though temperate resistance
to the aggressions of Great Britain.

T is, therefore, in every sense false, that our gov-

1 This consequence was foreseen and foretold. And the prediction
is confirmed by that part of the declaration of war of Spain against
Great Britain which makes it a charge against the latter, that in the
treaty with the United States "she had no respect or consideration for
the known rights of Spain," and in the sudden disappearance, after
that treaty, of the obstacles which had so long impeded our negotia
tion with Spain.

248 Alexander Hamilton

eminent has permitted Great Britain to do as France
is now doing. Except here and there the accidental
irregularity of the commander of a particular ship,
there is not one clear right which the law of nations
entitles us to claim, that is not now respected by
Great Britain, and to a degree unusual in the history
of the treatment of neutral nations by great belli
gerent powers.

It follows that the suggestion on which France
bottoms her ill-treatment of us is a frivolous and a
colorless pretext. 'T is to confound all just ideas,
to consider a temporary forbearance as a permission
or acquiescence — to pretend, above all, to retaliate
that injury after it has passed, has ceased, and has
been redressed. We are bound, then, to conclude
that our real crime in the eyes of France is, that we
had the temerity to think and to act for ourselves,
and did not plunge headlong into war with Great
Britain; that the principal streams of our com
merce, from the natural relations of demand and
supply, flow through the channels of her commerce;
and that the booty which it offers to rapacity ex
ceeds the organized means of protection.

But a country, containing five millions of people,
the second in the number of its seamen, that prime
sinew of maritime force, with a varied industry, and
an export of sixty millions, understanding its rights,
not deficient in spirit to vindicate them, if com
pelled against its will to exert its strength and re
sources, will, under the guidance of faithful and
patriotic counsels, be at no loss to convince its de-
spoilers that there is as much folly as wickedness in

The Warning 249

such a calculation. This reflection ought at once to
console and to animate us ; though the remembrance
of former friendship and a spirit of virtuous modera
tion will induce us still to wish that there may be
some error in appearances — that the views of France
are not as violent and as hostile as they seem to be —
that an amicable explanation may yet dispel the im
pending clouds, and brighten the political horizon
with a happy reconciliation.

AMERICUS.

v

March 13, 1797.

I have asserted that the conduct of Great Britain
toward us and other neutral powers has been at
no period so exceptionable as that of France at
the present juncture. A more distinct view of this
truth may be useful, which will be assisted by a re
trospect of the principal acts of violence on both
sides.

Though the circumstances were contemporarily
disclosed in all our newspapers, yet so blind and
deaf were we rendered by our partiality for France,
that few among us, till very lately, have been aware,
that the first of those acts is fairly chargeable upon
her. Such, notwithstanding, is the fact. The first
in order of time is a decree of the National Conven
tion of the Qth of May, 1793, which, reciting that
neutral flags are not respected by the enemies of
France, and enumerating some instances of alleged
violation, proceeds to authorize the vessels of war
and cruisers of France to arrest and conduct into her

250 Alexander Hamilton

ports all neutral vessels which are found laden in whole
or in part with provisions belonging to neutrals, or
merchandises belonging to the enemies of France ; the
latter to be confiscated as prize for the benefit of the
captors, the former to be detained, but paid for ac
cording to their value at the places for which they
were destined.

The instances enumerated as the pretext for so
direct and formal an attack upon the rights of neutral
powers, except two, turn upon the pretensions to
capture goods of an enemy in the ships of a friend.
Of the remaining two, one is the case of an Ameri
can vessel going from Falmouth to St. M aloes with a
cargo of wheat, which the decree states was taken by
an English frigate and carried into Guernsey, where
the agents of the English Government detained the
cargo, upon a promise to pay the value, as not being
for French account; the other is the case of some
French passengers going in a Genoese vessel from
Cadiz to Bayonne, who were plundered on the pas
sage by the crew of an English privateer.

There is no question but that Great Britain, from
the beginning of the war, has claimed and exercised
the right of capturing the property of her enemies
found in neutral bottoms, and it has been unanswer
ably demonstrated, that for this she has the sanction
of the general law of nations. But France, from
the exercise of that right by Great Britain, when not
forbidden by any treaty, can certainly derive no justi
fication for the imitation of the practice, in opposition
to the precise and peremptory stipulations of her
treaties. Every treaty which established the rule of

The Warning 251

"free ships free goods," must have contemplated the
unequal operation of that rule to the contracting
parties, when one was at peace, the other at war;
looking for indemnification to the correspondent of
taking friends' property in enemies' ships, and to
the reciprocal effect of the rule when the state of
peace and war should be reversed. To make its un
equal operation in an existing war an excuse for dis
regarding the rule, is therefore a subterfuge for a
breach of faith, which hardly seeks to save appear
ances. France, as she once was, would have blushed
to use it. It is one, among many instances, of the
attempts of revolutionary France to dogmatize man
kind out of its reason, as if she expected to work a
change in the faculties as well as in the habits and
opinions of men.

The case of the American vessel carried to Guern
sey is that of a clear infraction of neutral right. But
standing singly, it was insufficient evidence of a plan
of the British Government to pursue the principle.
It countenanced suspicion of a secret order for the
purpose; but it did not amount to proof of such an
order. There might have been misapprehension or
misrepresentation; or if neither was the case, the
circumstance was resolvable into the mere irregu
larity of particular agents; it is unjustifiable to
ascribe to a government, as the result of a pre
meditated plan, and to use as the ground of reprisals,
a single case of irregularity happening in a detached
portion of the dominions of that government.
France was bound to have waited for more full evi
dence. There was no warrant in a solitary precedent

252 Alexander Hamilton

for general retaliation; even if we could admit the
detestable doctrine, that the injustice of one belli
gerent power towards neutral nations is a warrant
for similar injustice in another.

The violation of the courtesy of war in the instance
of the French passengers, however brutal in itself,
was truly a frivolous pretext for the decree. The
frequency of irregular conduct in the commanders
and crews of privateers, even in contempt of the
regulations of their own governments, naturally ex
plains such a transaction into the cupidity of indi
viduals, and forbids the imputation of it to their
governments. There never was a war in which
similar outrages did not occur in spite of the most
sincere endeavors to prevent them.

The natural and plain conclusion is, that the decree
in question was a wanton proceeding in the French
Government, uncountenanced by the previous con
duct either of its enemies, or of the neutral nations
who were destined to punishment for their faults.

For, the first order of the British Government au
thorizing the seizure of provisions is dated the sixth
of June, 1793, nearly a month posterior to the French
decree. As there is not the least vestige of any prior
order, the presumption is that none ever existed. If
any had existed, the course of things has been such
as to afford a moral certainty that it would have ap
peared. The subsequent date of the British order is
a strong confirmation of the argument, that the affair
of the vessel carried to Guernsey was nothing more
than a particular irregularity.

The publicity of all the proceedings of the French

The Warning 253

Government, and the celerity of communication be
tween Paris and London, leave no doubt that the
decree of May the gth was known in London before
the order of June the 6th. It follows, that France
herself furnished to Great Britain the example and
the pretext for the most odious of the measures with
which she is chargeable ; and, that so far as precedent
can justify crime, Great Britain may find in the con
duct of France the vindication of her own.

An obvious reflection presents itself. How great
was the infatuation of France thus to set the example
of an interruption of neutral commerce in provisions,
in the freedom of which she was so much more inter
ested than her adversaries. If the detention of the
cargo at Guernsey was a bait, we cannot but be
astonished at the stupid levity with which it was
swallowed.

We are no less struck with the eager precipitancy
with which France seized the pretext for a formal and
systematic invasion of the rights of neutral powers;
equally regardless of the obligations of treaty and of
the injunctions of the laws of nations. The presump
tion of the connivance of the neutral power in infrac
tions of its rights is the only colorable ground for the
French idea of retaliation on the sufferers. Here the
yet early stage of the war and the recency of the facts
alleged as motives to the decree, preclude the suppo
sition of connivance. The unjust violence of France,
consequently, in resorting to retaliation, stands with
out the slightest veil. From this prominent trait we
may distinguish, without possibility of mistake, the
real character of her system. AMERICUS.

254 Alexander Hamilton

VI

March 27, 1797.

It has been seen that the Government of France
has an indisputable title to the culpable pre-eminence
of having taken lead in the violation of neutral
rights; and that the first instance on the part of the
British Government, is nearly a month posterior to
the commencement of the evil by France. But it
was not only posterior, it was also less comprehensive :
that of France extended to all provisions, that of
Great Britain to certain kinds only — CORN, FLOUR,
and MEAL.

The French decree, as to the United States, was
repeatedly suspended and revived. As to other neu
tral nations, it continued a permanent precedent to
sanction the practice of Great Britain.

This decretal versatility is alone complete evidence
of want of principle. It is the more censurable,
because it is ascertained that it proceeded, in part at
least, from a corrupt source. The sacred power of
law-making became the minister and the accomplice
of private rapine. Decrees exacted by the solemn
obligations of treaty were sacrificed to sea rovers — to
enable them to enjoy the prey, for the seizure of
which they ought to have been condignly punished.1

The next and most injurious of the acts of Great
Britain is the order of the 6th of November, 1793,
which instructs the commanders of ships of war and
privateers to stop, detain, and carry in for adjudica-

1 The report of the Secretary of State mentions (as was known at the
time) that one repeal was effected by the influence of the owners of a
privateer, which had captured the valuable American ship Laurens,
to give effect to her condemnation.

' The Warning 255

tion all ships, laden with the produce of any French
colony, or carrying provisions or other supplies for the
use of such colony. It was under the cover of this
order that were committed the numerous depreda
tions on our commerce, which were the immediate
cause of sending an envoy to Great Britain.

The terms of this order were ambiguous, warrant
ing a suspicion that they were designed to admit of an
oppressive interpretation, and yet to leave room for a
disavowal of it. Whether this was really the case, or
whether the order was in fact misconstrued by the
British officers and tribunals in the West Indies, it is
certain that the British Government, almost as soon
as their construction was known in England, not only
disclaimed it, but issued a new order, dated the first
of January, 1794, revoking that of the sixth of No
vember, and expressly restraining the power to detain
and carry in vessels for adjudication to such as were
laden with the produce of a French island going from
a port in the island to a port in Europe, to such as
were laden with the like produce belonging to subjects of
France whithersoever bound, to such as were laden in
whole or in part with naval or military stores bound to
a French island.

This last order obviated in a great measure the
mischief of the former ; and though its principles were
in some respect such as we ought never to recognize,
yet were they conformable with the practice of the
principal maritime powers in antecedent modern
wars, especially of France and Great Britain.

These acts comprise the whole of those on which
the British spoliations have been founded. Taken

256 Alexander Hamilton

with all the latitude of construction adopted by the
British officers and courts in the West Indies, they
amount to this, and to no more: "the seizure and
appropriations of our corn, flour, and meal, going to a
French port, on the condition of paying for them, the
seizure and confiscation of our vessels with their car
goes, when laden with the produce of a French colony,
or in the act of carrying provisions or other supplies
for the use of said colony." Our trade with France
herself, except in corn, flour, and meal, and in contra
band articles, has in the worst of times remained
unmolested, and has even been allowed to be carried
on directly from British ports.

Iniquitous and oppressive as were the acts of
Great Britain, how very far short do they fall of the
more iniquitous and oppressive decrees of France, as
these have been construed and acted upon, not only
by the colonial administrations, but by some of its
tribunals in Europe! The decree of the second of
July, 1796, purports in substance, that France will
treat the neutral powers as they have permitted her
enemies to treat them. But under this masked
battery the whole of our trade with the enemies of
France has been assailed. The two edicts of her pro
consuls in the West Indies J proclaim the capture of
all neutral vessels bound to or coming from English
ports, and the uniform consequence is confiscation of
vessel and cargo. We are now likewise officially in
formed that a French consular tribunal at Cadiz has
condemned neutral vessels carried in there, on the

1 Santhonax & Co., November 27, 1796. Victor Hugues, isth Plu-
viose, 5th year of the Republic.

The Warning 257

same broad principle. The evil to us has been mag
nified by various aggravations. Our vessels going
from one neutral port to another, even our vessels
going from French ports, have been the victims of the
piratical spirit which dictated those edicts. Outrage,
imprisonment, fetters, disease, and death, inflicted or
brought upon the commanders and crews of our ves
sels, cause the bitter cup of our sufferings to overflow,
and leave the imagination at a loss for a parallel with
out seeking for it in the ferocious regions of Barbary.

The ambiguity of the British order of November
was a just subject of reproach to its authors. What
shall be said of the perfidious ambiguity of the
French decree of the 2d of July, 1796? When re
taliation of the partial injuries which neutral nations
have suffered from the enemies of France was an
nounced, who could have dreamt that a universal
war on their trade was meditated? Who that has a
spark of the American in his soul can refuse his
utmost indignation, as well at the manner as at the
matter of this atrocious proceeding? Not only the
partisans of France, the advocates for the honor of
republican government, but the friends of human
nature, must desire that the final explanation may
reject, as a criminal abuse, the practice upon that
decree, and repair as far as possible the mischiefs
which it has occasioned.

But the treaty with Great Britain (still exclaim the
dupes or hirelings of France), that abominable instru
ment, is the Pandora's box from which all our misfor
tunes issue. When that instrument was confirmed,
who could have expected anything better?

VOL. VI.— 17.

258 Alexander Hamilton

Peace, ye seduced or seducing babblers! Had
Denmark or Sweden any share in making that repro
bated treaty? Besides the refutation of your flimsy
pretence, by the ill-treatment in other shapes of sev
eral of the neutral powers in Europe — by the informa
tion from Cadiz of the indiscriminate seizure and
condemnation of neutral vessels going to or coming
from English ports, — do ye not read in the recent
accounts from St. Bartholomews, a Swedish island,
that not Americans only, that Danes, that Swedes,
that all the neutral nations partake in the common
calamity — alike the prey of a devouring rapacity?
Will ye still then insist on the barefaced imposture
of ascribing to the treaty grievances which are the
mere effects of a spirit of oppression and rapine?
Read the letter of Mr. Skip with to Mr. Monroe,
dated at Paris, the third of October, 1794, prior to
the signature of the treaty by Mr. Jay. Remember
that he is an American agent, acting under the eye
of an American minister, and that both the minister
and the agent are distinguished by a partiality for
France, which exempts them from the suspicion of
exaggerating her misdeeds. What does that letter
tell us? Why, in express terms, that " INNUMERABLE
embarrassments and difficulties had for a long time
oppressed her commerce in different ports of the re
public ; that if the French Government did not soon
remedy the incessant abuses and vexations practised
daily upon our merchants, the trade of the United States
with France must cease." Hence may we learn,
that long before our treaty with Great Britain, the
vexations of our trade in the ports of France were

The Stand 259

so extreme as to have become intolerable; that " the
indiscriminate capture of our vessels at sea by the
vessels of war of the republic, " l formed only one class
of the injuries which our commerce has sustained : in
a word, that the predatory system of France existed
before the treaty, and has only of late acquired
greater activity from the cravings of an exhausted
treasury.

The man who, after this mass of evidence, shall be
the apologist of France, and the calumniator of his
own government, is not an American. The choice
for him lies between being deemed a fool, a madman,
or a traitor.

THE STAND 3

(From the New York Commercial Advertiser.)

I

March 10, 1798.

The enlightened friends of America never saw
greater occasion of disquietude than at the present
juncture. Our nation, through its official organs, has
been treatied with studied contempt and systematic
insult: essential rights of the country are persever-
ingly violated, and its independence and liberty
eventually threatened by the most flagitious, des
potic, and vindictive government that ever disgraced
the annals of mankind; by a government marching

1 This is also a passage verbatim from Mr. Skipwith's letter — and
he produces a long list of cases to support his assertions.

2 We were now on the verge of the X. Y. Z. letters and an open rup
ture with France. To arouse the people at this crisis to their true
policy towards the French, Hamilton published The Stand.

260 Alexander Hamilton

with hasty and colossal strides to universal empire,
and in the execution of this hideous project, wielding
with absolute authority the whole physical force of
the most enthralled but most powerful nation on
earth. In a situation like this, how great is the
cause to lament, how afflicting to every heart alive to
the honor and interests of its country to observe, that
distracted and inefficient councils, that a palsied and
unconscious state of the public mind, afford too little
assurance of measures adequate either to the urgency
of the evils which are felt, or to the magnitude of the
dangers which are in prospect.

When Great Britain attempted to wrest from us
those rights, without which we must have descended
from the rank of freemen, a keen and strong sense of
injury and danger ran with electric swiftness through
the breasts of our citizens. The mass and weight
of talents, property, and character hastened to con
federate in the public cause. The great body of our
community everywhere burned with a holy zeal to
defend it, and were eager to make sacrifices on the
altar of their country.

If the nation with which we were called to contend
was then the preponderating power of Europe; if by
her great wealth and the success of her arms she was
in a condition to bias or to awe the cabinets of
princes; if her fleets covered and domineered over
the ocean, facilitating depredation and invasion; if
the penalties of rebellion hung over an unsuccessful
contest; if America was yet in the cradle of her po
litical existence; if her population little exceeded
two millions; if she was without government, with-

The Stand 261

out fleets or armies, arsenals or magazines, without
military knowledge ; still her citizens had a just and
elevated sense of her rights ; were thoroughly awake
to the violence and injustice of the attack upon them ;
saw the conduct of her adversary without apology
or extenuation; and under the impulse of these im
pressions and views, determined, with little short of
unanimity, to brave every hazard in her defence.

This magnanimous spirit was the sure pledge that
all the energies of the country would be exerted to
bring all its resources into action; that whatever
was possible would be done towards effectual op
position; and this, combined with the immense ad
vantage of distance, warranted the expectation of
ultimate success. The event justified the expecta
tion and rewarded the glorious spirit from which it
was derived.

Far different is the picture of our present situa
tion! The five tyrants of France, after binding in
chains their own countrymen, after prostrating sur
rounding nations, and vanquishing all external re
sistance to the revolutionary despotism at home,
without the shadow of necessity, with no discernible
motive, other than to confirm their usurpation and
extend the sphere of their domination abroad,—
these implacable tyrants obstinately and remorse
lessly persist in prolonging the calamities of mankind,
and seem resolved, as far as they can, to multiply
and perpetuate them. Acting upon the pretension
to universal empire, they have at length in fact,
though not in name, decreed war against all na
tions not in league with themselves; and towards

262 Alexander Hamilton

this country in particular, they add to a long train of
unprovoked aggressions and affronts the insupport
able outrage of refusing to receive the extraordinary
ambassadors whom we sent to endeavor to appease
and conciliate. Thus have they, in regard to us,
filled up the measure of national insult and humilia
tion. 'T is not in their power, unless we are accom
plices in the design, to sink us lower. 'T is only in
our own power to do this by an abject submission to
their will.

But though a knowledge of the true character of
the citizens of this country will not permit it to be
suspected that a majority either in our public coun
cils or in the community can be so degraded or in
fatuated; yet to the firm and independent lover of
his country, there are appearances at once mortify
ing and alarming.

Among those who divide our legislative councils,
we perceive hitherto, on the one side, unremitting
efforts to justify or excuse the despots of France, to
vilify and discredit our own government, of course
to destroy its necessary vigor, and to distract the
opinion and to damp the zeal of our citizens, — what
is worse, to divert their affections from their own to
a foreign country; on the other side, we have as yet
seen neither expanded views of our situation, nor
measures at all proportioned to the seriousness and
extent of the danger. While our independence is
menaced, little more is heard than of guarding our
trade, and this too in very feeble and tremulous
accents.

In the community, though in a sounder state than

The Stand 263

its representatives, we discover the vestiges of the
same divisions which enervate our councils. A few
—happily, a contemptible few, — prostituted to a
foreign enemy, seem willing that their country should
become a province to France. Some of these dare
even to insinuate the treasonable and parricidal sen
timent, that in case of invasion they would join the
standard of France. Another and a more consider
able part are weak enough to appear disposed to
sacrifice our commerce, to endure every indignity,
and even to become tributary, rather than to en
counter war or to increase the chances of it; as if a
nation could preserve any rights — could even retain
its freedom, — which should conduct itself on the
principle of passive obedience to injury and outrage ;
as if the debasement of the public mind did not in
clude the debasement of the individual mind, and
the dereliction of whatever adorns or exalts human
nature; as if there could be any security in com
pounding with tyranny and injustice by degrading
compliances; as if submission to the existing viola
tions of our sovereignty would not invite still greater,
and whet the appetite to devour us by the allure
ment of an unresisting prey ; as if war was ever to be
averted by betraying unequivocally a pusillanimous
dread of it as the greatest of all evils.

This country has doubtless powerful motives to
cultivate peace. It is its policy, for the sake of this
object, to go a great way in yielding secondary inter
ests, and to meet injury with patience, as long as it
could be done without the manifest abandonment of
essential rights — without absolute dishonor. But to

264 Alexander Hamilton

do more than this is suicide in any people who have
the least chance of contending with effect. The
conduct of our government has corresponded with
the cogent inducements to a pacific system. Toward
Great Britain it displayed forbearance — toward
France it hath shown humility. In the case of
Great Britain its moderation was attended with
success. But the inexorable arrogance and rapacity
of the oppressors of unhappy France bar all the
avenues to reconciliation as well as to redress, accu
mulating upon us injury and insult, till there is no
choice left but between resistance and infamy. My
countrymen, can ye hesitate which to prefer? Can
ye consent to taste the brutalizing cup of disgrace;
to wear the livery of foreign masters ; to put on the
hateful fetters of foreign bondage? Will it make
any difference to you, that the badge of your servi
tude is a cap rather than an epaulet? Will tyranny
be less odious because five instead of one inflict the
rod? What is there to deter you from the manful
vindication of your rights and your honor?

With an immense ocean rolling between the
United States and France; with ample materials
for ship-building, and a body of hardy seamen more
numerous and more expert than France can boast;
with a population exceeding five millions, spread
over a wide extent of country, offering no one point,
the seizure of which, as of the great capitals of Eu
rope, might decide the issue; with a soil liberal of
all the productions that give strength and resource ;
with the rudiments of the most essential manufac
tures, capable of being developed in proportion to

The Stand 265

our want; with a numerous and, in many quarters,
well-appointed militia; with respectable revenues
and a flourishing credit; with many of the principal
sources of taxation yet untouched; with consider
able arsenals, and the means of extending them;
with experienced officers ready to form an army
under the command of the same illustrious chief who
before led them to victory and glory, and who, if the
occasion should require it, could not hesitate to obey
the summons of his country; — what a striking and
encouraging contrast does this situation in many
respects present, to that in which we defied the
thunder of Britain! What is there in it to excuse
or palliate the cowardice and baseness of a tame
surrender of our rights to France ?

The question is unnecessary. The people of Amer
ica are neither idiots nor dastards. They did not
break one yoke to put on another. Though a por
tion of them have been hitherto misled ; yet not even
these, still less the great body of the nation, can be
long unaware of the true situation, or blind to the
treacherous arts by which they are attempted to be
hoodwinked. The unfaithful and guilty leaders of
a foreign faction, unmasked in all their intrinsic de
formity, must quickly shrink from the scene appalled
and confounded. The virtuous whom they have led
astray will renounce their exotic standard. Honest
men of all parties will unite to maintain and defend
the honor and the sovereignty of their country.

The crisis demands it. 'T is folly to dissemble.
The despots of France are waging war against us.
Intoxicated with success and the inordinate love of

266 Alexander Hamilton

power, they virtually threaten our independence.
All amicable means have in vain been tried towards
accommodation. The problem now to be solved is
whether we will maintain or surrender our sover
eignty. To maintain it with firmness is the most
sacred of duties, the most glorious of tasks. The
happiness of our country, the honor of the American
name, demands it; the genius of independence ex
horts to it; the secret mourning voice of oppressed
millions in the very country whose despots menace
us, admonish to it by their suffering example; the
offended dignity of man commands us not to be
accessory to its further degradation; reverence to
the Supreme Governor of the universe enjoins us
not to bow the knee to the modern Titans I who
erect their impious crests against him and vainly im
agine they can subvert his eternal throne.

But 't is not enough to resist. 'T is requisite to
resist with energy. That will be a narrow view of
our situation which does not contemplate that we
may be called, at our very doors, to defend our inde
pendence and liberty, and which does not provide
against it by bringing into activity and completely
organizing all the resources of our country. A re
spectable naval force ought to protect our commerce,
and a respectable army ought both to diminish the
temptation to invasion, by lessening the apparent
chance of success, and to guarantee us not only
against the signal success of such an attempt, but
against the serious though partial calamities which
in that case would certainly await us if we have to

1 A race of giants fabled of old to have made war on heaven.

The Stand 267

rely on militia alone against the enterprises of vet
eran troops, drenched in blood and slaughter, and
led by a skilful and daring chief.

TITUS MANLIUS.

ii

April 4, 1798.

The description of vice, by a celebrated poet, may
aptly be applied to the Revolutionary Government
of France. It is

" A monster of such horrid mien
As to be hated needs but to be seen"

Unfortunately, however, for mankind, a species of
moral pestilence has so far disordered the mental
eye of a considerable portion of it, as to prevent a
distinct view of the deformities of this prodigy of
human wickedness and folly. It is the misfortune
of this country in particular, that too many among
its citizens have seen the monster, in all its dread
ful transformations, with complacency or toleration.
Nor is it among the least of the contradictions of
the human mind, that a religious, moral, and sober
people should have regarded with indulgence so
frightful a volcano of atheism, depravity, and ab
surdity; that a gentle and humane people should
have viewed without detestation, so hateful an in
strument of cruelty and bloodshed; that a people
having an enlightened and ardent attachment to
genuine liberty, should have contemplated without
horror so tremendous an engine of despotism and
slavery. The film indeed begins to be removed, but

268 Alexander Hamilton

the vision of many of those who have been under its
influence is not yet restored to the necessary energy
or clearness.

It is of the last importance to our national safety
and welfare, that the remaining obscurity should
be speedily dispelled. Till this shall be the case, we
shall stand on the brink of a precipice.

To exhibit the hydra in all its horrible pre-em
inence of guilt and mischief, would require volumes.
Slight sketches, chiefly to portray its character in
reference to other nations, are all that will comport
with the plan of these papers.

In retracing the progress of a war which has im
mersed Europe in blood and calamity, it is an error
as common as it is strange to acquit France of re
sponsibility, and throw the whole blame upon her
adversaries. This is a principal source of the indul
gence which is shown to the extravagances and enor
mities of her revolution. And yet the plainest facts
demonstrate that the reverse of this supposition is
far more agreeable to truth. It required all the bold
imposing pretences of the demagogues of France,
all the docile partiality of a warm admiration for her
revolution, to have secured a moment's success to so
glaring a deception.

The origin of the war is usually charged to the
treaty of Pilnitz and to the counter-revolutionary
projects of the parties to it.

To this day we are without authentic and accurate
evidence of the nature of that treaty. Taking its
existence for granted, there is not the least proof that
it comprehended any other powers than Austria,

The Stand 269

Prussia, and Sardinia. Beyond these therefore un
less suspicion be substituted for fact, it could not
afford even a pretext for hostility. It is likewise
certain that, after the date assigned to the treaty of
Pilnitz, the emperor, who was the reputed head of
the confederacy, gave strong proof of the renuncia
tion of its object, if hostile to the revolution, by sig
nifying, through his ministers, to all the foreign
courts, his determination to acquiesce in the con
stitution of 1792, accepted by Louis the XVI.

The diplomatic correspondence between France
and Austria, which preceded the rupture, evinces
that the treaty of Pilnitz was not the cause of the
war, for it is not even mentioned. The immediate,
ostensible cause, as it there appears, was the refusal
of Austria to disarm in compliance with the peremp
tory demand of France: a demand to which this
apparently very reasonable reply was given — that
France had previously armed to a greater extent;
and that Austria could not safely reduce her force
while France remained in so disturbed and inflamed
a state as to leave her neighbors every moment ex
posed to the enterprises of her revolutionary fervor.
There is no absolute criterion by which it can be
pronounced whether this reply was merely a pretext
or the dictate of a serious apprehension. But it is
certain that the correspondence discovers great ap
pearance of moderation and candor, on the part of
the imperial cabinet, and it is not to be denied, that
the state of effervescence of the French nation at
this juncture furnished real cause of alarm to the
neighboring governments.

270 Alexander Hamilton

It is then, at best, problematical, whether France
in declaring war, as she did at the same time against
Austria and Prussia, was actuated by the conviction
that it was necessary to anticipate and disconcert
the unfriendly views of those powers ; or whether the
war, as has been suggested with great probability,
was sought by the republican party as a means of
embarrassing the executive government, and paving
the way for the overthrow of royalty. Two things
well established are instructive on this point. The
one, that the king was driven against his wish, by
a ministry forced upon him by the popular party,
to propose the declaration of war, which he consid
ered as the tomb of his family ; the other, that Bris-
sot, the head of the then prevailing faction, some
time afterwards exultingly boasted that, "but for
this war, the revolution of the tenth of August would
never have taken place — that, but for this war,
France would never have been a republic."

Admitting nevertheless that the true source of the
war with Austria and Prussia is enveloped in some
obscurity, there is none as to the wars in which
France became subsequently engaged. It is clear as
to them that she was the original aggressor.

It appeared from contemporary testimony that one
of the first acts of that assembly which dethroned the
king was, in a paroxysm of revolutionary frenzy, to
declare itself "A Committee of Insurrection of the
whole human race, for the purpose of overturning all
existing government. ' ' This extravagant declaration
surpasses any thing to be found in the ample record
of human madness. It amounted to an act of hos-

The Stand 271

tility against mankind. The republic of America
no less than the despotism of Turkey was included in
the anathema. It breathed that wild and excessive
spirit of fanaticism which would scruple no means of
establishing its favorite tenets; and which, in its
avowed object, threatening the disorganization of all
governments, warranted a universal combination to
destroy the monstrous system of which it was the
soul.

The decrees of the igth of November and the i5th
of December, 1792, were modifications of the same
spirit. The first offered fraternity and assistance to
every people who should wish to recover their liberty,
and charged the executive power to send orders to
their generals to give that assistance, and to defend
those citizens who had been or might be vexed for the
cause of liberty.

The last declared that the French nation would
treat as enemies any people who, refusing or renounc
ing liberty and equality, were desirous of preserving,
recalling, or entering into accommodation with their
prince and privileged castes.

The first was a general signal to insurrection and
revolt. It was an invitation to the seditious of every
country, in pursuit of chimerical schemes of more per
fect liberty, to conspire under the patronage of France
against the established government, however free.
To assist a people in a reasonable and virtuous strug
gle for liberty, already begun, is both justifiable and
laudable; but to incite to revolution everywhere
by indiscriminate offers of assistance beforehand, is
to invade and endanger the foundation of social

272 Alexander Hamilton

tranquillity. There is no term of reproach or execra
tion too strong for so flagitious an attempt.

The last of the two decrees is not merely in spirit-
it is in terms equivalent to a manifesto of war against
every nation having a prince or nobility. It declares
explicitly and formally that the French nation will
treat as enemies every people who may desire to pre
serve or restore a government of that character.

It is impossible not to feel the utmost indignation
against so presumptuous and so odious a measure.
It was not only to scatter the embers of a general
conflagration in Europe ; it was to interfere coercively
in the interior arrangements of other nations ; it was
to dictate to them, under the penalty of the venge
ance of France, what form of government they
should live under; it was to forbid them to pursue
their political happiness in their own way ; it was to
set up the worst of all despotisms, a despotism over
opinion, not against one nation, but against almost
all nations. With what propriety is the interference
of the powers ultimately coalesced against France, in
her interior arrangements, imputed to them as an un
pardonable crime, when her leaders had given so ter
rible an example, and had provoked retaliation as a
means of self-preservation? x

These decrees preceded the transactions which im-

1 If it be true, as pretended, that Austria and Prussia first interfered
in this way with France, it was no plea for her to retaliate on all the
rest of Europe. Great Britain in particular, as far as appears, had ob
served a fair neutrality. Yet the principle of the French decree was
emphatically pointed against her, by the open reception of deputations
of malcontents, and public declarations to them, on behalf of the French
Government, avowing the desire of seeing all thrones overturned, of
a national convention, and a republican revolution in England.

The Stand 273

mediately led to a rupture between France and the
other powers, Austria and Prussia excepted.

It is idle to pretend, that they did not furnish to
those powers just cause of war. There is no rule of
public law better established, or on better grounds,
than that when one nation unequivocally avows
maxims of conduct dangerous to the security and
tranquillity of others, they have a right to attack her
and to endeavor to disable her from carrying her
schemes into effect. They are not bound to wait till
inimical designs are matured for action, when it may
be too late to defeat them.

How far it may have been wise in a particular
government to have taken up the gauntlet, or, if in
its option, to have left France to the fermentations of
the pernicious principles by which its leaders were
actuated, is a question of mere expediency, distinct
from the right. It is also a complicated and difficult
question, one which able and upright men might de
cide different ways. But the right is still indisput
able. The moment the convention vomited forth
these venomous decrees, all the governments threat
ened were justifiable in making war upon France.

Neither were they bound to be satisfied with after-
explanations or qualifications of the principles which
had been declared. They had a right to judge con
scientiously whether reliance could be placed on any
pretended change of system, and to act accordingly.
And while the power of France remained in the same
men, who had discovered such hostile views, and
while the effervescence of the public mind continued
at its height, there could not have been, in the

VOL. VI. — l8

274 Alexander Hamilton

nature of things, any security in assurances of greater
moderation. Fanaticism is a spirit equally fraud
ulent and intractable. Fanatics may dissemble the
better to effect their aims, but they seldom suddenly
reform. No faith is due to the reformation which
they may effect, unless it has been the work of time
and experience.

But whether a wrong or right election, in point of
expediency, may have been made by all or any of the
powers which, after the passing of those decrees, be
came engaged in hostility with France, it is not the
less true, that her government was the first aggressor,
and is primarily chargeable with the evils which have
followed. This conclusion is greatly aided by the
striking fact, that it was France which declared war,
not only against Austria and Prussia, but against
England, Spain, Sardinia, and Holland.

Two very important inferences result from the facts
which have been presented: one, that in blowing up
the dreadful flame which has overwhelmed Europe in
misfortune, France is the party principally culpable ;
the other, that the prominent original feature of her
revolution is the spirit of proselytism, or the desire of
new modelling the political institutions of the rest
of the world according to her standard. The course
of the revolution also demonstrates that, whatever
change of system may have been at any time pre
tended, or however the system may in particular
instances have yielded to a temporary policy, it
has continued in the main to govern the conduct
of the parties who have successively triumphed and
tyrannized. TITUS MANLIUS.

The Stand 275

in

April 7, 1798.

In reviewing the disgusting spectacle of the French
Revolution, it is difficult to avert the eye entirely
from those features of it which betray a plan to dis
organize the human mind itself, as well as to under
mine the venerable pillars that support the edifice of
civilized society. The attempt by the rulers of a
nation to destroy all religious opinion, and to per
vert a whole nation to atheism, is a phenomenon of
profligacy reserved to consummate the infamy of the
unprincipled reformers of France. The proofs of this
terrible design are numerous and convincing.

The animosity to the Christian system is demon
strated by the single fact of the ridiculous and im
politic establishment of the decades, with the evident
object of supplanting the Christian Sabbath. The
inscriptions by public authority on the tombs of the
deceased, affirming death to be an eternal sleep, wit
ness the desire to discredit the belief of the immor
tality of the soul. The open profession of atheism in
the convention,1 received with acclamations; the
honorable mention on its journals of a book profess
ing to prove the nothingness of all religion 2 ; the
institution of a festival to offer public worship to a
courtesan decorated with the pompous title of " God
dess of Reason"; the congratulatory reception of
impious children appearing in the hall of the conven
tion to lisp blasphemy against the King of kings, are
among the dreadful proofs of a conspiracy to estab-

1 By Dupont, Danton, etc.

2 Written and presented by Anacharsis Clootz, calling himself oratoi
of the human race.

276 Alexander Hamilton

lish atheism on the ruins of Christianity, — to deprive
mankind of its best consolations and most animating
hopes, and to make a gloomy desert of the universe.

Latterly, the indications of this plan are not so fre
quent as they were, but from time to time something
still escapes which discovers that it is not renounced.
The late address of Buonaparte to the Directory is an
example. That unequalled conqueror, from whom it
is painful to detract, in whom one would wish to find
virtues worthy of his shining talents, profanely unites
religion (not superstition) with royalty and the feudal
system as the scourges of Europe for centuries past.
The decades likewise remain the catapulta which are
to batter down Christianity.

Equal pains have been taken to deprave the morals
as to extinguish the religion of the country, if indeed
morality in a community can be separated from
religion. It is among the singular and fantastic
vagaries of the French Revolution, that while the
Duke of Brunswick was marching to Paris a new law
of divorce was passed, which makes it as easy for a
husband to get rid of his wife, and a wife of her hus
band, as to discard a worn-out habit.1 To complete
the dissolution of those ties, which are the chief links
of domestic and ultimately of social attachment, the
journals of the convention record with guilty ap
plause the accusations preferred by children against
their parents.

It is not necessary to heighten the picture by

1 This law, it . was understood, had been lately modified in conse
quence of its manifestly pernicious tendency: but upon a plan which,
according to the opinions of the best men in the two councils lately
banished, would leave the evil in full force.

The Stand 277

sketching the horrid group of proscriptions and mur
ders which have made France a den of pillage and
slaughter; blackening with eternal opprobrium the
very name of man.

The pious and moral weep over these scenes as a
sepulchre destined to entomb all they revere and es
teem. The politician who loves liberty, sees them
with regret as a gulf that may swallow up the liberty
to which he is devoted. He knows that morality
overthrown (and morality must fall with religion),
the terrors of despotism can alone curb the impetuous
passions of man, and confine him within the bounds
of social duty.

But let us return to the conduct of revolutionary
France towards other nations, as more immediately
within our purpose.

It has been seen that she commenced her career
as the champion of universal liberty; and proclaim
ing destruction to the governments which she was
pleased to denominate despotic, made a tender of
fraternity and assistance to the nations whom they
oppressed. She at the same time disclaimed con
quest and aggrandizement.

But it has since clearly appeared that at the very
moment she was making these professions, and while
her diplomatic agents were hypocritically amusing
foreign courts * with conciliatory explanations and
promises of moderation, she was exerting every
faculty, by force and fraud, to accomplish the very
conquest and aggrandizement which she insidiously
disavowed. The people of Belgium, ensnared by

1 England among the rest.

278 Alexander Hamilton

fair pretences, believed that in abandoning the de
fence of their country and the cause of their ancient
sovereign, they acquired a title to enjoy liberty under
a government of their own choice, protected by
France. Contrary to the hopes which were inspired
—contrary to the known will of a large majority of
that people — contrary to all their religious and
national prejudices, they have been compelled to
become departments of France. And their violated
temples have afforded a rich plunder to aliment fur
ther conquest and oppression. The Dutch, seduced
by the same arts to facilitate rather than obstruct
the entrance of a French army into their country,
thought they were only getting rid of their stadt-
holder and nobles, and were to retain their territory
and their wealth, secured by such a civil establish
ment as they should freely choose. Their reward is
the dismemberment of their country and the loss
of their wealth by exhausting contributions; and
they are obliged to take a government, dictated by
a faction openly countenanced and supported by
France. Completely a province of France, in imita
tion of their frantic masters they are advancing with
rapid strides to a lawless tyranny at home.1 France,
professing eternal hatred to kings, was to be the
tutelary genius of republics. Holland, Genoa, Ven
ice, the Swiss Canton, and the United States, are
agonizing witnesses of her sincerity.

Of undone Holland no more need be said ; nothing

1 By the last accounts, some of the most independent citizens have
been seized and imprisoned merely for the constitutional exercise of
their opinion.

The Stand 279

remains for us but to exercise tender sympathy in the
unfortunate fate of a country which generously lent
its aid to establish our independence, and to deduce
from her melancholy example an instructive lesson to
repel with determined vigor the mortal embrace of
her seducer and destroyer.

Genoa, a speck on the globe, for having at every
hazard resisted the efforts of the enemies of France
to force her from a neutral station, is recompensed
with a subversion of her government and the pil
lage of her wealth, by compulsory and burthensome
contributions.

Venice is no more! In vain had she preserved a
faithful neutrality, when, perhaps, her interposition
might have inclined the scale of victory in Italy
against France. A few of her citizens * kill some
French soldiers. Instant retaliation takes place.
Every atonement is offered. Nothing will suffice but
the overthrow of her government. 'T is effected.
Her own citizens, attracted by the lure of democracy,
become accessory to it, and receive a popular govern
ment at the hand of France. What is the sequel?
what the faith kept with them? It suits France to
bribe the emperor to a surrender of the Netherlands
and to peace, that she may pursue her projects else
where with less obstacle. It suits France to extend
her power and commerce by the acquisitions of por
tions of the Venetian territories. The bribe is offered
and accepted. Venice is divided. She disappears
from the map of nations. The tragedy of Poland is
re-enacted with circumstances of aggravated atrocity.

1 Were they not French agents employed to create the pretext ?

280 Alexander Hamilton

France is perfidious enough to sacrifice a people who
at her desire, had consented to abrogate their privi
leged castes to the chief of those despots against
whom she had vowed eternal hatred.

The Swiss Cantons — the boast of republicans — the
model to which they have been glad to appeal in
proof that a republican government may consist with
the order and happiness of society — the old and
faithful allies of France, who are not even pretended
to have deviated from sincere neutrality, — what are
they at this moment? Perhaps like Venice, a story
told ! The despots of France had found pretences to
quarrel with them; commotions were excited; the
legions of France were in march to second the in
surgents. Little other hope remains than that the
death of this respectable people will be as glorious
as their life; that they will sell their independence
as dearly as they bought it. But why despair of a
brave and virtuous people who appear determined to
meet the impending danger with a countenance emu
lous of their ancient renown?

The United States — what is their situation ? Their
sovereignty trampled in the dust, and their commerce
bleeding at every pore, speak in loud accents the
spirit of oppression and rapine which characterizes
the usurpers of France. But of this a distinct view is
requisite, and will be taken.

In these transactions we discover ambition and
fanaticism marching hand in hand — bearing the
ensigns of hypocrisy, treachery, and rapine. The
dogmas of a false and fatal creed second the weapons
of ambition. Like the prophet of Mecca, the tyrants

The Stand 281

of France press forward with the alcoran of their
faith in one hand and the sword in the other. They
proselyte, subjugate, and debase; no distinction is
made between republic and monarchy ; all must alike
yield to the aggrandizement of the "great nation" —
the distinctive, the arrogant appellation lately as
sumed by France to assert in the face of nations her
superiority and ascendency. Nor is it a mere title
with which vanity decorates itself — it is the substan
tial claim of dominion. France, swelled to a gigantic
size, and aping ancient Rome, except in her virtues,
plainly meditates the control of mankind, and is
actually giving the law to nations. Unless they
quickly rouse and compel her to abdicate her insolent
claim, they will verify the truth of that philosophy,
which makes man in his natural state a quadruped,
and it will only remain for the miserable animal, con
verting his hands into paws in the attitude of prone
submission, to offer his patient and servile back to
whatever burthens the lordly tyrants of France may
think fit to impose. TITUS MANLIUS.

IV

April 12, 1798.

In the pursuit of her plan of universal empire, the
two objects which now seem to occupy the atten
tion of France, are a new organization of Germany
favorable to other influence, and the demolition of
Great Britain. The subversion and plunder, first of
Portugal and next of Spain, will be merely collateral
instances in the great drama of iniquity.

In the new distribution of the territories, popula-

282 Alexander Hamilton

tion, and political power of the Germanic body,
which has been announced as in contemplation of
the Directory, three characters are conspicuous: a
despotism to build up rivals to the imperial chief,
strong enough to feel the sentiment of competition,
but too weak to hazard it alone, who will therefore
stand in need of the patronage of France, and, as a
consequence, will facilitate her influence in the affairs
of the empire; a generosity in making compensation,
at the expense of others, for the spoils with which she
has aggrandized herself; a facility of transferring
communities like herds of cattle from one master to
another, without the privilege of an option. In a
project like this, it is impossible to overlook the plain
indications of a restless, overbearing ambition, com
bined with a total disregard of the rights and wishes
of nations. The people are counted for nothing,
their masters every thing.

The conduct of France towards Great Britain is the
copy of that of Rome towards Carthage. Its mani
fest aim is to destroy the principal obstacle to a
domination over Europe. History proves that Great
Britain has repeatedly upheld the balance of power
there, in opposition to the grasping ambition of
France. She has no doubt occasionally employed
the pretence of danger, as the instrument of her own
ambition ; but it is not the less true that she has been
more than once an essential and effectual shield
against real danger. This was remarkably the case
in the reign of Louis the XlVth, when the security of
Europe was seriously threatened by the successful
enterprises of that very ambitious monarch

The Stand 283

The course of the last negotiation between France
and Britain leaves no doubt that the former was re
solved against peace on any practicable terms. This
of itself indicates that the destruction of the latter is
the direct object in view. But this object is not left
to inference. It has been fastidiously proclaimed to
the world ; and the necessity of crushing the tyrant of
the sea has been trumpeted as a motive to other
powers to acquiesce in the execution of a plan by
which France endeavors to become the tyrant both
of sea and land. The understanding of mankind has,
at the same time, been mocked with the proposition
that the peace of Europe would be secured by the
aggrandizement of France on the ruins of her rivals;
because then, it is said, having nothing to fear, she
would have no motive to attack; as if moderation
was to be expected from a government or people
having the power to impose its own will without
control. The peace of Europe would in such a case
be the peace of vassalage.

Towards the execution of the plan of destroying
Great Britain, the rights of other nations are daringly
and openly invaded. The confiscation is decreed of
all vessels with their cargoes, if composed in any part
of articles of British fabric ; and all nations are to be
compelled to shut their ports against the meditated
victim. Hamburg is stated to have already reluc
tantly yielded to this humiliating compulsion.

While the demolition of Great Britain is eagerly
pursued as a primary object, that of Portugal seems
designed to form an episode in the tragedy. Her
fears had induced her to buy a peace. The money

284 Alexander Hamilton

she had paid was the immediate instrument of the
revolution of September last. Yet no sooner had the
news of pacification with the emperor reached Paris,
than pretences were sought to elude the ratification
of the purchased treaty. A larger tribute was de
manded — more probably than it was expected Portu
gal would be able to pay, to serve as an excuse for
marching an army to revolutionize and plunder.1
The blow may perhaps be suspended by further sacri
fices, but it is not likely to be finally averted.

Spain, too, was in a fair way of enjoying the fruits
of her weakness in putting on the yoke of France, and
of furnishing another proof of the general scheme of
aggrandizement and oppression. The demand of
the cession of Louisiana, long pressed upon her, had
at length become categoric. The alternative was
to comply or offend. The probability is that before
this time the cession has been made ; and Spain has
learnt to her cost that the chief privilege of an ally of
France is to be plundered at discretion. With the
acquisition of Louisiana, the foundation will be laid
for stripping her of South America and her mines;
and perhaps for dismembering the United States.
The magnitude of this mighty mischief is not easily
calculated.

Such vast projects and pretensions pursued by
such unexampled means are full evidence of a plan to
acquire an absolute ascendant among nations. The
difficulties in the final execution of a plan of this kind
are, with many, decisive reasons against its existence.

1 Such is the account of the transaction received through authentic
channels.

The Stand 285

But, in the case of ancient Rome, did it not in fact
exist, and was it not substantially realized? Does
the experience of the past day warrant the opinion
that men are not as capable of mad and wicked pro
jects as they were at any former period? Does not
the conduct of the French Government display a
vastness and sublimation of views, an enormity of
ambition, and a destitution of principle which render
the supposition of such a design probable ? Has not
a more rapid progress been made towards its execu
tion than was ever made by Rome in an equal period?
In their intercourse with foreign nations, do not the
Directory affect an ostentatious imitation of Roman
pride and superiority ? Is it not natural to conclude
that the same spirit points to the same ends? The
project is possible. The evidence of its existence is
strong, and it will be the wisdom of every other state
to act upon the supposition of its reality.

Let it be understood, that the supposition does not
imply the intention to reduce all other nations form
ally to the condition of provinces. This was not
done by Rome in the zenith of her greatness. She
had her provinces, and she had her allies. But her
allies were in fact her vassals. They obeyed her nod.
Their princes were deposed and created at pleasure.

Such is the proud pre-eminence to which the am
bition of France aspires! After securing as much
territory as she thinks it expedient immediately to
govern, after wresting from Great Britain and attach
ing to herself the command of the sea, after despoiling
Spain of the riches of Mexico and Peru, after attaining
by all these means to a degree of strength sufficient to

286 Alexander Hamilton

defy and awe competition, she may be content, under
the modest denomination of allies, to rule the rest of
the world by her frown or her smile.

The character of the actual Directory of France
justifies the imputation to them of any project the
most extravagant and criminal. Viewed internally,
as well as externally, their conduct is alike detestable.
They have overturned the constitution, which they
were appointed to administer, with circumstances
of barefaced guilt that disgrace a revolution, before
so tarnished as seemed scarcely to admit of greater
degradation, and have erected in its stead a military
despotism, clothed but not disguised with the mere
garb of the constitution which they have abolished.
In the accomplishment of this usurpation, they have
assassinated one of their colleagues 1 and seized and
banished another, together with all those members of
the two councils who were disposed and able to com
bat their pernicious aims. They have done more;
not content with rendering themselves masters of
the two councils, and converting them into the
mere pageants of national representation, they have
thought it proper to secure their own power by exiling
or imprisoning such private citizens as they feared
might promote the future election of men hostile to
their views, on the futile pretence of a counter-revo
lutionary plot, to be effected by royalizing the elec
tions. Thus have they not only monopolized all the
power for the present, but they have made provisions

1 Carnot, as was reported at the time, and as is confirmed by nothing
having been since heard of him. He had been too deeply in the secrets
of the violent party. It was necessary to silence him.

The Stand 287

for its perpetuation, so long at least as the Praetorian
bands will permit.

No impartial man can doubt that the plot charged
upon the exiled members is a forgery. The charac
ters of several of the accused belie it. Barthelemy
and Pichegru are virtuous men. The former has long
merited and possessed this character. The latter has
given numerous proofs of a good title to it ; his only
fault seems to have been that of enthusiasm in the
worst of causes. Neither of them, like Dumourier,
had been, from his entrance on public life, marked out
as the votary of an irregular ambition. The alleged
object of the plot, as to such men, from the circum
stances of the conjuncture, was wholly improbable;
nothing like satisfactory proof has come to light.
But the decisive argument of their innocence is that
the usurpers did not dare to confront them with a fair
legal accusation and trial. It was so clearly their
interest and policy to have justified themselves by
establishing the guilt of the accused, if in their power,
that the omission to attempt it is the demonstration
of its impossibility. Having all authority in their
own hands, and the army at their devotion, they had
nothing to fear from the pursuit ; and they must have
foreseen that the banishment without trial would
finally marshal public opinion against them. There
can be little doubt that the people of France at this
moment regard with compassion and regret the ban
ished directors and deputies, and with horror and
detestation the authors of their disgrace. But the
people of France internally are annihilated; to their
liberty and happiness this last usurpation gave a

288 Alexander Hamilton

more fatal blow than any or all of the former. It has
more of system in it, been less sanguinary, and is less
likely to provoke resistance from despair.

The inference from the transaction is evident. The
real crime of the banished was the desire of arresting
the mad career of the Directory, and of restoring
peace to France, in the hope that peace might tend to
settle the government on the foundation of order,
security, and tranquillity. The majority of the
Directory foresaw that peace would not prove an ele
ment congenial with the duration of their power; or
perhaps, under the guidance of Sieves, the conjurer of
the scene, they judged it expedient to continue in
motion the revolutionary wheel till matters were
better prepared for creating a new dynasty and a new
aristocracy * to regenerate the exploded monarchy of
France with due regard to their own interest.

Thus we perceive that the interior conduct of the
Directory has the same characters with their exterior
— the same irregular ambition, the same contempt
of principle, the same boldness of design, the same
temerity of execution. From such men what is not
to be expected? The development of their recent
conduct towards the United States will no doubt
confirm all the inferences to be drawn from other
parts of the portrait, and will contribute to prove
that there is nothing too abandoned or too mon
strous for them to meditate or attempt.

Who that loves his country, or respects the dig-

1 There is good evidence that this, at bottom, is the real plan of the
Abbe" Sieves, and some of the most influential in the executive depart
ment are his creatures.

The Stand 289

nity of his nature, would not rather perish than sub
scribe to the prostration of both before such men
and such a system? What sacrifice, what danger
is too great to be incurred in opposition to both?
What security in any compromise with such un
principled men? What safety, but in union, in
vigor, in preparation for every extremity; in a
decisive and courageous stand for the rights and
honor of our injured and insulted country?

TITUS MANLIUS.

April 16, 1798.

To estimate properly the conduct of revolutionary
France towards the United States, the circumstances
which have reciprocally taken place must be viewed
together. It is a whole, not a part, which is to be
contemplated. A rapid summary, nevertheless, of
the most material is all that can be presented.

Not only the unanimous good wishes of the citi
zens of this country spontaneously attached them
selves to the revolution of France in its first stages,
but no sooner was the change from monarchy to a
republic officially announced, than our government,
consulting the principles of our own revolution, and
the wishes of our citizens, hastened to acknowledge
the new order of things. This was done to the last
minister sent by Louis the XVIth, before the arrival
of the first envoy from the republic. Genet after
wards came; his reception by the government was
cordial — by the people, enthusiastic.

VOL. VI. — 19

290 Alexander Hamilton

The government did not merely receive the min
ister of the republic, in fact, and defer the obligation
of treaties till the contest concerning its establish
ment had been terminated by success; but giving
the utmost latitude to the maxim that real treaties
bind nations, notwithstanding revolutions of govern
ment, ours did not hesitate to admit the immediate
operation of the antecedent treaties between the two
countries, though the revolution could not be re
garded as yet fully accomplished — though a warrant
for a contrary policy might have been found in the
conduct of France herself — and though the treaties
contained several stipulations which gave to her im
portant preferences relative to war, and which were
likely to give umbrage to the powers coalesced
against her.

In acknowledging the republic, the United States
preceded every other nation. It was not till a long
time after, that any of the neutral powers followed
the example. Had prudence been exclusively con
sulted, our government might not have done all that
it did at this juncture, when the case was very nearly
Europe in arms against France.

But good faith and a regard to consistency of
principle prevailed over the sense of danger. It was
resolved to encounter it; qualifying the step by the
manifestation of a disposition to observe a sincere
neutrality, as far as it should consist with the
stipulations of treaty. Hence the proclamation of
neutrality.

It ought to have no small merit in the eyes of
France, that at so critical a period of her affairs, we

The Stand 291

were willing to run risks so imminent. The fact is,
that it had nearly implicated us in the war on her
side, at a juncture when all calculations were against
her, and when it was certain she could have afforded
us no protection or assistance.

What was the return ? Genet came with neutrality
on his lips, but war in his heart. The instructions
published by himself, and his practice upon them,
demonstrate that it was the premeditated plan to
involve us in the contest ; not by a candid appeal to
the judgment, friendship, or interest of our country
but by alluring the avarice of bad citizens into acts
of predatory hostility, by instituting within our terri
tory military expeditions against nations with whom
we were at peace. And when it was found that
our Executive would not connive at this insidious
plan, bold attempts were made to create a schism
between the people and the government, and, conse
quently, to sow the seeds of civil discord, insurrec
tion, and revolution. Thus began the republic.

It is true that the Girondist faction, having been
subverted by that of Robespierre, our complaint of
the agent of the former was attended with success.
The spirit of vengeance came in aid of the justice of
our demand. The offending minister was recalled
with disgrace. But Robespierre did not fail in a
public speech to give a gentle hint of delinquency in
the United States, sufficiently indicating that the
authors and the manner were more in fault, in his
opinion, than the thing. It was not the expedient
to quarrel with us. There was still a hope that a
course of things, or more dexterous management,

292 Alexander Hamilton

might embark us in the war, as an auxiliary to
France.

The treaties were made by us the criterion of our
duty; but as they did not require us to go to war, as
France did never even pretend this to be the case,
listening to the suggestions, not only of interest, but
of safety, we resolved to endeavor to preserve peace.
But we were equally resolved to fulfil our real obliga
tions in every respect. We saw without murmur our
property seized in belligerent vessels; we allowed to
French ships of war and privateers, all the peculiar
exclusive privileges in our ports to which they were
entitled by our treaties upon fair construction — upon
a construction fully concurred in by the political leader x
of the adherents to France; we went further, and
gratuitously suffered her to sell her prizes in our
country, in contravention, perhaps, of the true prin
ciples of neutrality; we paid to her new government
the debt contracted by us with the old, not only as
fast as it became due, but by an anticipation, which
did not give pleasure to her enemies. While our
government was faithful, our citizens were zealous.
Not content with good wishes, they adventured their
property in the furnishing of supplies to an extent
that showed, in many cases, the co-operation of zeal
with interest.

Our country, our merchants, and our ships, in the
gloomy periods of her revolution, have been the
organs of succors to France, to a degree which gives
us an undoubted title to the character of very useful
friends.

1 Mr. Jefferson.

The Stand 293

Reverse the medal. France from the beginning,
has violated essential points in the treaties between
the two countries. The first formal unequivocal act
by either of the belligerent parties, interfering with
the rule that "free ships make free goods," was a
decree of the French convention. This violation has
been persisted in, and successive violations added,
till they amount to a general war on our commerce.

First, the plea of necessity repelled our feeble and
modest complaints of infractions. Next, the plea
of delinquencies on our part was called in aid of
the depredations which it was found convenient
to practise upon our trade. Our refusal to accord
privileges not granted by our treaties, but claimed
by misconstructions destitute even of plausibility —
privileges which would have put us at once in a state
of war with the enemies of France; the reciprocal
application to them of principles originally estab
lished against their remonstrances in favor of France ;
occasional embarrassments to her privateers, arising
from the established forms of our courts, and the
necessity of vigilance to frustrate her efforts to
entangle us against our will in the war; delays in
giving relief in a few instances, rendered unavoidable
by the nature of our government, and the great ex
tent of our territory; these were so many topics of
bitter accusation against our government, and of in
sult, as rude as it was unmerited.

Our citizens, in judging whether the accusation
was captious or well founded, ought to bear in mind,
that most of the transactions on which it was
predicated happened under the administration of

294 Alexander Hamilton

Jefferson and Randolph, and, as is well ascertained,
with their full assent and co-operation. They will
not readily suppose that these very cunning men
were the dupes of colleagues actuated by ill-will
towards France ; but they will discover in this union
of opinion, among men of very opposite principles,
a strong probability that our government acted with
propriety, and that the dissatisfaction of France, if
more than a color, was unreasonable.

Hitherto, the progress no less than the origin of our
controversy with France exhibits plain marks of a
disposition on her part to disregard those provisions
in the treaties which it was our interest should be
observed by her — to exact from us a scrupulous per
formance of our engagements, and even the exten
sion of them beyond their true import — to embroil
us with her enemies, contrary to our inclination and
interest, and without even the allegation of a claim
upon our faith — to make unreasonable demands upon
the grounds of complaints against us, and excuses to
violate our property and rights — to divide our nation,
and to disturb our government.

Many of the most determined advocates of France
among us appear lately to admit, that previous to
the treaty with Great Britain the complaints of
France against the United States were frivolous;
those of the United States against France, real and
serious.

But the treaty with Great Britain, it is affirmed,
has changed the ground. This, it is said, has given
just cause of discontent to France ; this has brought
us to the verge of war with our first ally and best

The Stand 295

friend; to this fatal instrument are we indebted for
the evils we feel, and the still greater which impend
over our heads.

These suggestions are without the shadow of foun
dation. They prove the infatuated devotion to a
foreign power of those who invented them, and the
easy credulity of those with whom they have ob
tained currency. The evidence of a previous dis
position in France to complain without a cause, and
to injure without provocation, is a sufficient com
ment upon the resentment she professes against the
treaty. The partiality or indulgence with which the
ill treatment received from her prior to that event
was viewed by her decided partisans, is a proof of
the facility with which they credit her pretensions
and palliate her aggressions.

The most significant of the charges against the
treaty, as it respects France, are, that it abandons
the rule of free ships making free goods; that it
extended unduly the list of contraband articles, and
gave color to the claim of a right to subject provi
sions to seizure; that a treaty of amity with the
enemy of France, in the midst of a war, was a mark
of preference to that enemy, and of ill-will to her.

The replies which have been given to these charges
are conclusive.

As to the first point, the stipulation of two powers
to observe between themselves a particular rule in
their respective wars — a rule, too, innovating upon
the general law of nations — can, on no known or
reasonable principle of interpretation, be construed w
to intend that they will insist upon that rule with all

296 Alexander Hamilton

other nations, and will make no treaty with any,
however beneficial in other respects, which does not
comprehend it. To tie up the will of a nation, and
its power of providing for its own interests, to so im
mense an extent, required a stipulation in positive
terms. In vain shall we seek in the treaty for such
a stipulation or its equivalent. There is not even a
single expression to imply it. The idea is, conse
quently, no less ridiculous than it is novel. The
contemporary proceedings, legislative and judicial,
of our government, show that it was not so under
stood in this country. Congress even declined to
become a formal party to the armed neutrality of
which it was the basis; unwilling to be pledged to
the coercive maintenance of a principle which they
were only disposed to promote by particular acts.
It is equally futile to seek to derive the obligation of
the United States to adhere to this rule, from the
supposition of a change in the law of nations by the
force of that league. Neither theory nor practice
warrants the attributing so important an effect to
a military association, springing up in the war and
ending with it, not having had the universal consent
of nations, nor a course of long practice to give it a
sanction.

Were it necessary to resort to an auxiliary argu
ment, it might be said with conclusive force that
France, having before our treaty with Great Britain
violated in practice the rule in question, absolved us
from all obligations to observe it, if any did pre
viously exist.

As to the second point, it has been repeatedly

The Stand 297

demonstrated that the enumeration of contraband
in the treaty with Great Britain, is agreeable to the
general law of nations. But this is a matter from its
nature liable to vary according to relative situation,
and to be variously modified, not only between differ
ent nations, but between one nation and different
nations. Thus, in our treaty with Great Britain,
some articles are enumerated which are omitted in
that with France ; in that with France, some articles
are inserted which are omitted in that with Britain.
But it is, perhaps, the first time that a diversity of
this sort has been deemed a ground of umbrage to a
third party.

With regard to provisions, the treaty only decides
that where by the law of nations they are subject to
seizure, they are to be paid for. It does not define
or admit any new case. As to its giving color to
abuse in this respect, this, if true, would amount
to nothing. For, till some abuse has actually hap
pened, and been tolerated to the prejudice of France,
there was no cause of complaint. The possibility of
abuse from a doubtful construction of a treaty be
tween two powers, is no subject of offence to a third.
It is the fact which must govern. According to this
indisputable criterion, France has had no cause to
complain on this account; for since the ratification
of the treaty, no instance of the seizure of provisions
has occurred, and it is known that our government
protested against such a construction.

Further, the treaty has made no change whatever
in the actual antecedent state of things to the dis
advantage of France.

298 Alexander Hamilton

Great Britain had, before the treaty, with the sanc
tion of our government, acted upon the principles as
to free ships making free goods, and generally, as to
the affair of contraband which the treaty recognizes.
Nor was that sanction merely tacit, but explicit and
direct. It was even diplomatically communicated
to the agents of France. If there was any thing
wrong, therefore, in this matter, it was chargeable,
not upon the treaty, but upon the prior measures of
the government, which had left these points mere
points of form in the treaty.

The remaining charge against that instrument in
volves a species of political metaphysics. Neither
the theory of writers nor the history of nations will
bear out the position, that a treaty of amity between
a neutral state and one belligerent party, not grant
ing either succors or new privileges relative to war,
not derogatory from any obligation of the neutral
state to the other belligerent party, is a cause of
umbrage to the latter. There can be no reason why
a neutral power should not settle differences or ad
just a plan of intercourse beneficial to itself with
another power, because this last happens to be at
war with a third. All this must be a mere question
of courtesy; and might be uncourteous or otherwise
according to circumstances, but never a ground of
quarrel. If there even might have been want of
courtesy in the United States to have entered into a
treaty of this sort with the enemy of France, had
they volunteered it without cogent motives, there
could be none in the particular situation. They
were led to the treaty by pre-existing differences,

The Stand 299

which had nearly ripened to a rupture, and the am
icable settlement of which affected very important in
terests . No favorable con j uncture for this settlement
was to be lost. The settlement, by the usual formu
las in such cases, would amount to a treaty of amity.

Thus it is evident that the treaty, like all the rest,
has been a mere pretence for ill treatment. But
admitting that this was not the case, that it really
afforded some cause of displeasure, was this of a
nature to admit of no atonement, or of none short of
the humiliation of our country? If the contrary
must be conceded, it is certain that our government
has done all that was possible towards reconciliation,
and enough to have satisfied any reasonable or just
government.

France, after the treaty, proceeded to inflict still
deeper wounds upon our commerce. She has en
deavored to intercept and destroy it with all the
ports of her enemies. Nor was this the worst. The
spoliation has frequently attended our trade with
her own dominions — attended with unparalleled cir
cumstances of rapacity and violence.

The diplomatic representative of the French Gov
ernment to the United States was ordered to deliver
to our government a most insulting manifesto, and
then to withdraw.

Yet our government, notwithstanding this accu
mulation of wrongs, after knowing that it had been
repeatedly outraged in the person of one minister,
condescended to send another specially charged to
endeavor to conciliate. This minister was known
to unite fidelity to his country with principles

300 Alexander Hamilton

friendly to France arid her revolution. It was hoped
that the latter would make him acceptable, and that
he would be able, by amicable explanations and
overtures, to obviate misunderstanding and restore
harmony. He was not received.

Though it was very problematical whether the
honor of the United States, after this, permitted
a further advance, yet the government, anxious if
possible to preserve peace, concluded to make an
other and more solemn experiment. A new mis
sion, confided to three extraordinary ministers, took
place. They were all three, in different degrees, men
well affected to France and her revolution. They
were all men of high respectability, and among the
purest characters of our country. Their powers and
instructions were so ample as to have extorted, from
the most determined opposers of the government in
the two houses of Congress, a reluctant approbation
in this instance of the President's conduct.

In contempt of the established usage, and of the
respect due to us an independent people, with the
deliberate design of humbling and mortifying our
government, these special and extraordinary minis
ters have been refused to be received. Admitting all
the charges brought against us by France to be well
founded, still ministers of that description ought on
every principle to have been accredited and con
ferred with, till it was ascertained that they were not
ready to do as much as was expected. Not to pursue
this course was to deny us the rank of an independent
nation ; it was to treat us as Great Britain did while
we were yet contending with her for this character.

The Stand 301

Instead of this, informal agents, probably panders
and mistresses, are appointed to intrigue with our
envoys. These, attending only to the earnest wish
of their constituents for peace, stoop to the confer
ence. What is the misshapen result?

Money, money, is the burden of the discordant
song of these foul birds of prey. Great indignation
is at first professed against expressions in the Presi
dent's speech of May last. The reparation of a
disavowal is absolutely due to the honor of the Direc
tory and of the Republic, but it turns out that there
is a practicable substitute more valuable. The honor
of both, being a marketable commodity, is ready to
be commuted for gold.

A douceur of 50,000 pounds sterling for the special
benefit of the Directory was to pave the way. In
stead of reparation for the spoliations on our com
merce exceeding twenty millions of dollars, a loan
equal to the amount of them is to be made by us
to the French Government. Then perhaps a mode
might be settled for the liquidation of the claims of
our merchants, to be compensated at some future
period. The depredations, nevertheless, were to con
tinue till the treaty should be concluded, which,
from the distance between the two countries, must
at all events take a great length of time, and might
be procrastinated indefinitely at the pleasure of the
Directory.

In addition to all this, we must purchase of the
Directory, at par, Dutch inscriptions to the amount
of thirty millions of florins, and look to the ability of
the Batavian Republic to redeem them. Already are

302 Alexander Hamilton

these assignats depreciated to half their nominal
value, and in all probability will come to nothing,
serving merely as a flimsy veil to the extortion of a
further and immense contribution. " Money, a great
deal of money," * is the cry from the first to the last;
and our commissioners are assured that without this
they may stay in Paris six months without ad
vancing a step. To enforce the argument they are
reminded of the fate of Venice.

At so hideous a compound of corruption and extor
tion, at demands so exorbitant and degrading, there
is not a spark of virtuous indignation in an American
breast, which will not kindle into a flame. And yet
there are men, could it be believed, vile and degen
erate enough to run about the streets to contradict,
to palliate, to justify, to preach the expediency of
compliance. Such men merit all the detestation of
all their fellow-citizens: and there is no doubt that,
with time and opportunity, they will merit much
more from the offended justice of the laws.

TITUS MANLIUS.

VI

April 19, 1798.

The inevitable conclusion, from the facts which
have been presented, is that revolutionary France
has been and continues to be governed by a spirit of
proselytism, conquest, domination, and rapine. The
detail well justifies the position that we may have to
contend at pur very doors for our independence and
liberty. When the wonders achieved by the arms of

1 II faut de 1' argent — il faut beaucoup de 1' argent.

The Stand 303

France are duly considered, the possibility of the
overthrow of Great Britain seems not to be chi
merical. If, by any of those extraordinary coin
cidences of circumstances which occasionally decide
the fate of empires, the meditated expedition against
England shall succeed; or if, by the immense ex
pense to which that country is driven, and the de
rangement of her commerce by the powerful means
employed to that end, her affairs shall be thrown
into such disorder as may enable France to dictate
to her the terms of peace; in either of these un
fortunate events the probability is, that the United
States will have to choose between the surrender of
their sovereignty, the new-modelling of their govern
ment according to the fancy of the Directory, the
emptying of their wealth by contributions into the
coffers of the greedy and insatiable monster, and
resistance to invasion in order to compel submission
to those ruinous conditions.

In opposition to this it is suggested that the in
terest of France, concurring with the difficulty of
execution, is a safeguard against the enterprise. It
is asked, what incentives sufficiently potent can
stimulate to so unpromising an attempt? The an
swer is, the strongest passions of bad hearts — inor
dinate ambition — the love of domination, that prime
characteristic of the despots of France, — the spirit
of vengeance for the presumption of having thought
and acted for ourselves, a spirit which has marked
every step of the revolutionary leaders, — the fan
atical egotism of obliging the rest of the world to
adapt their political system to the French standard

304 Alexander Hamilton

of perfection — the desire of securing the future con
trol of our affairs by humbling and ruining the inde
pendent supporters of their country, and of elevating
the partisans and tools of France, — the desire of
entangling our commerce with preferences and re
strictions which would give to her the monopoly;—
these passions, the most imperious, — these motives,
the most enticing to a crooked policy, are sufficient
persuasives to undertake the subjugation of this
country.

Added to these primary inducements, the desire of
finding an outlet for a part of the vast armies which,
on the termination of the European war, are likely
to perplex and endanger the men in power, would be
an auxiliary motive of great force. The total loss of
the troops sent would be no loss to France. Their
cupidity would be readily excited to the undertaking
by the prospect of dividing among themselves the
fertile lands of this country. Great Britain once
silenced, there would be no insuperable obstacle to
the transportation. The divisions among us which
have been urged to our commissioners as one motive
to a compliance with the unreasonable demands of
the Directory, would be equally an encouragement
to invasion. It would be believed that a sufficient
number would flock to the standard of France to
render it easy to quell the resistance of the rest.
Drunk with success, nothing would be thought too
arduous to be accomplished.

It is too much a part of our temper to indulge an
overweening security. At the close of our revolu
tion war, the phantom of perpetual peace danced

The Stand 305

before the eyes of everybody. We see at this early
period with how much difficulty war has been
parried, and that with all our efforts to preserve
peace, we are now in a state of partial hostility. Un
taught by this experience we now seem inclined to
regard the idea of invasion as incredible, and to regu
late our conduct by the belief of its improbability.
Who would have thought, eighteen months ago, that
Great Britain would at this time have been in serious
danger of an invasion from France? Is it not now
more probable that such a danger may overtake us,
than it was then that it would so soon Great Britain ?

There are currents in human affairs when events,
at other times little less than miraculous, are to be
considered as natural and simple. Such were the
eras of Macedonian, of Roman, of Gothic, of Saracen
inundation. Such is the present era of French
fanaticism. Wise men, when they discover symp
toms of a similar era, look for prodigies, and prepare
for them with foresight and energy.

Admit that in our case invasion is upon the whole
improbable; yet, if there are any circumstances
which pronounce that the apprehension of it is not
absolutely chimerical, it is the part of wisdom to act
as if it were likely to happen. What are the incon
veniences of preparation compared with the infinite
magnitude of the evil if it shall surprise us unpre
pared? They are lighter than air, weighed against
the smallest probability of so disastrous a result.

But what is to be done? Is it not wiser to com
pound on any terms than to provoke the conse
quences of resistance?

VOL. VI.— 20.

306 Alexander Hamilton

To do this is dishonor — it is ruin — it is death.
Waiving other considerations, there can be no
reliance on its efficacy. The example of Portugal
teaches us that it is to purchase disgrace, not safety.
The cravings of despotic rapacity may be appeased,
but they are not to be satisfied. They will quickly
renew their force, and call for new sacrifices in pro
portion to the facility with which the first were
made. The situation of France is likely to make
plunder for considerable time to come an indis
pensable expedient of government. Excluding the
great considerations of public policy, and bringing
the matter to the simple test of pecuniary calcula
tion, resistance is to be preferred to submission.
The surrender of our whole wealth would only pro
cure respite, not safety. The disbursements for war
will chiefly be at home. They will not necessarily
carry away our riches, and they will preserve our
honor and give us security.

But, in the event supposed, can we oppose with
success? There is no event in which we may not
look with confidence to a successful resistance.
Though Great Britain should be impolitic or wicked
enough (which is hoped to be impossible) to com
promise her difficulties with France, to divide the
United States according to the insulting threat of
the agents of France, still it is in our power to main
tain our independence and baffle every enemy. The
people of the United States, from their number,
situation, and resources, are invincible, if they are
provident and faithful to themselves.

The question returns, What is to be done ? Shall

The Stand 30?

we declare war ? No ; there are still chances to avoid
a rupture, which ought to be taken. Want of suc
cess must bring the present despots to reason.
Every day may produce a revolution which may
substitute better men in their place, and lead to
honorable accommodation.

Our true policy is, in the attitude of calm defiance,
to meet the aggressions upon us by proportionate
resistance, and to prepare vigorously for further
resistance. To this end, the chief measures requisite
are — to invigorate our treasury by calling into ac
tivity the principal untouched resources of revenue —
to fortify in earnest our chief seaports — to establish
founderies, and increase our arsenals — to create a
respectable naval force, and to raise with the utmost
diligence a considerable army. Our merchant vessels
ought to be permitted not only to arm themselves, but
to sink or capture their assailants. Our vessels of
war ought to cruise on our coast and serve as convoys
to our trade. In doing this, they ought also to be
authorized not only to sink or capture assailants, but
likewise to capture and bring in privateers found
hovering within twenty leagues of our coast. For this
last measure, precedent, if requisite, is to be found in
the conduct of neutral powers on other occasions.

This course, it will be objected, implies a state of
war. Let it be so. But it will be a limited, a miti
gated state of war, to grow into a general war or not
at the election of France. What may be that elec
tion will probably depend on future and incalculable
events. The continuation of success on the part
of France would insure war. The want of it might

308 Alexander Hamilton

facilitate accommodation. There are examples in
which states have been for a long time in a state of
partial hostility without proceeding to general rup
ture. The duration of this course of conduct on our
part may be restricted to the continuance of the two
last decrees of France: that by which the trade of
neutrals with the ports of her enemies has been in
tercepted, and that by which vessels and their car
goes composed in whole or in part of British fabrics,
are liable to seizure and condemnation.

The declared suspension of our treaties with
France, is a measure of evident justice and necessity.
It is the natural consequence of a total violation on
one side. It would be preposterous to be fettered by
treaties, which are wholly disregarded by the other
party. It is essentially our interest to get rid of the
guaranty in the treaty of alliance, which, on the part
of France, is likely to be henceforth nugatory; on
the part of the United States, is a substantial and
dangerous stipulation, obliging them in good faith to
take part with France in any future defensive war
in which her West India colonies may be attacked.
The consular convention is likewise a mischievous in
strument, devised by France in the spirit of extend
ing her influence into other countries, and producing
to a certain extent imperium in imperio.

It may be happy for the United States that an
occasion has been furnished by France in which
with good faith they may break through these
trammels; readjusting, when reconciliation shall
take place, a basis of connection or intercourse more
convenient and more eligible.

The Stand 309

The resolution to raise an army, it is to be feared,
is that one of the measures suggested which will
meet with the greatest obstacles, and yet it is the one
which ought to unite opinion. Being merely a pre
caution for internal security, it can in no sense tend
to provoke war; and looking to eventual security in
a case which, if it should happen, would threaten our
very existence as a nation, it is the most important.

The history of our revolution war is a serious ad
monition to it. The American cause had nearly
been lost for want of creating, in the first instance,
a solid force commensurate in duration with the war.
Immense additional expense and waste and a variety
of other evils were incurred, which might have been
avoided.

Suppose an invasion, and that we are left to de
pend on militia alone, can it be doubted that a rapid
and formidable progress would, in the first instance,
be made by the invaders? Who can answer what
dismay this might inspire, how far it might go to
create general panic, to rally under the banners of
the enemy the false and the timid? The imagina
tion cannot, without alarm, anticipate the conse
quences. Prudence commands that they shall be
guarded against. To have a good army on foot will
be the best of all precautions to prevent, as well as
to repel, invasion.

The propriety of the measure is so palpable that it
will argue treachery or incapacity in our councils, if
it be not adopted. The friends of the government
owe it to their own characters to press it; its op-
posers can give no better proof that they are not

310 Alexander Hamilton

abandoned to a foreign power, than to concur in it.
The public safety will be more indebted to its ad
vocates than to the advocates of any other measure,
in proportion as our independence and liberty are of
more consequence than our trade.

It is the fervent wish of patriotism that our councils
and nation may be united and resolute. The dearest
interests call for it. A great public danger com
mands it. Every good man will rejoice to embrace
the adversary of his former opinions, if he will now
by candor and energy evince his attachment to his
country. Whoever does not do this, consigns him
self to irrevocable dishonor. But it is not the tri
umph over a political rival which the true lover of his
country desires — it is the safety and the welfare of
that country ; and he will gladly share with his bitter
est opponent the glory of defending and preserving
her. Americans, rouse — be unanimous, be virtuous,
be firm, exert your courage, trust in Heaven, and
nobly defy the enemies both of God and man I

-TiTus MANLIUS.

VII

April 21, 1798.

The dispatches from our envoys have at length
made their appearance.1 They present a picture of
the French Government exceeding in turpitude what
ever was anticipated from the previous intimations
of their contents. It was natural to expect that the
perusal of them would have inspired a universal

1 They were sent in to Congress April 3d.

The Stand 311

sentiment of indignation and disgust; and that no
man calling himself an American would have had
the hardihood to defend or even to palliate a conduct
so atrocious. But it is already apparent that an
expectation of this kind would not have been well
founded.

There are strong symptoms that men in power in
France understand better than ourselves the true
character of their faction in this country, at least of
its leaders ; and that as to these, the agents who con
ferred with our envoys were not mistaken in predict
ing that the unreasonableness of the demands upon
us would not serve to detach the party from France,
or to reunite them to their own country. The high-
priest of this sect, with a tender regard for the honor
of the immaculate Directory, has already imagined
several ingenious distinctions to rescue them from the
odium and corruption unfolded by the dispatches.
Among these is the suggestion that there is no proof
of the privity of the Directory — all may have been
the mere contrivance of the Minister for Foreign
Relations.

The presumption from so miserable a subterfuge is,
that had the propositions proceeded immediately
from the Directory, the cry from the same quarter
would have been — there is no evidence the council or
nation approved of them; they, at least, are not
implicated; the friendship of the two republics ought
not to be disturbed on account of the villany of the
transitory and fugitive organs of one of them. The
inventor of the subterfuge, however, well knew that
the executive organ of a nation never comes forward

312 Alexander Hamilton

in person to negotiate with foreign ministers; and
that unless it be presumed to direct and adopt what
is done by its agents, it may always be sheltered from
responsibility or blame. The recourse to so pitiful an
evasion, betrays in its author a systematic design to
excuse France at all events — to soften a spirit of sub
mission to every violence she may commit — and to
prepare the way for implicit subjection to her will.
To be the proconsul of a despotic Directory over the
United States, degraded to the condition of a pro
vince, can alone be the criminal, the ignoble aim of so
seditious, so prostitute a character.

The subaltern mercenaries go still further. Pub
lications have appeared, endeavoring to justify or
extenuate the demands upon our envoys, and to
inculcate the slavish doctrine of compliance. The
United States, it is said, are the aggressors, and ought
to make atonement. France assisted them in their
revolution with loans, and they ought to reciprocate
the benefit ; peace is a boon worth the price required
for it, and it ought to be paid. In this motley form
our country is urged to sink, voluntarily and without
a struggle, to a state of tributary vassalage. Ameri
cans are found audacious and mean enough to join
in the chorus of a foreign nation, which calls upon us
to barter our independence for a respite from the lash.

The charge of aggression upon the United States is
false; and if true, the reparation, from the nature of
the case, ought not to be pecuniary. This species of
indemnification between nations is only proper where
there has been pecuniary injury.

The loans received by us from France were asked as

The Stand 313

a favor, on condition of reimbursement by the United
States; and were freely granted for a purpose of
mutual advantage. The advances to be made by us
were exacted as the price of peace. Though in name
loans, they would be in fact contributions, by the
coercion of a power which has already wrested from
our citizens an immense property, for which it owes
to them compensation.

To pay such a price for peace, is to prefer peace to
independence, and the nation which becomes tribu
tary takes a master.1 Peace is doubtless precious,
but it is a bauble compared with national independ
ence, which includes national liberty. The evils of
war to resist such a precedent are insignificant, com
pared with the evils of the precedent. Besides that,
there could be no possible security for the enjoyment
of the object for which the disgraceful sacrifice was
made. To disguise the poison, misrepresentation is
combined with sophistry. It is alleged that finally
no more was asked than that the United States
should purchase sixteen millions of Dutch inscrip
tions, and that by doing this, they would have se
cured compensation to their citizens for depredations
on their trade to four times the amount, with an inter
mission of the depredations; that no hazard of ulti
mate loss could have attended the operation, because

1 The argument of what has been done in the cases of Algerines and
Indians, has nothing pertinent but in the comparison of relative fero
city. In this view the claim of the Directory is indisputable ; but in
every other it is preposterous. It is the general practice of civilized
nations to pay barbarians; there is no point of honor to the contrary.
But between civilized nations, the payment of tribute by one to an
other, is, by the common opinion of mankind, a badge of servitude.

314 Alexander Hamilton

the United States owed the Dutch a much larger sum,
which would be a pledge for payment or discount.

This is a palpable attempt to deceive. The first
propositions were such as have been represented in a
former paper; but it appears in the sequel that the
French agents, seeing the inflexible opposition of our
envoys to their plan, and hoping to extort finally a
considerable sum, though less than at first contem
plated, relaxed so far in their demands, as to narrow
them down to the payment of a douceur of twelve
hundred thousand livres, with a positive engagement
to advance to the French Government a sum equal
to the amount of the spoliations of our trade, and a
further engagement to send to our government for
power to purchase of France thirty-two millions of
the inscriptions (12,800,000 dollars) ; in return for all
which, our envoys were to be permitted to remain six
months in Paris, depredations on our trade during
that time were to be suspended, and a commission of
five persons was to be appointed to liquidate the
claims for past depredations, which were to be satis
fied " in a time and manner to be agreed upon. " The
substance of these demands is to pay absolutely
twenty millions of dollars more than the estimated
amount of the spoliations ; for what ? Barely for the
acknowledgment of a debt due to our citizens, which,
without it, is not the less due, and for the suspension
of hostilities J for six months.

Afterwards, in a conversation between the French

1 It is observable that the French give themselves the denomination
of hostilities to their depredations upon us. Our Jacobins would have
us consider them as gentle caresses.

The Stand 315

minister himself and one of our envoys, the proposi
tions assumed another form. The United States
were required to purchase of France, at par, sixteen
millions of inscriptions, and to promise further aid
when in their power. This arrangement being first
made, and not before, France was to take measures
for reimbursing the equitable demands of our citizens
on account of captures.

The purchase of the inscriptions was to be a prelim
inary. The arrangement for reimbursing our mer
chants was to follow. The nature of it was not
explained ; but it is to be inferred from all that pre
ceded that the expedient of the advance of an equal
sum by the United States would have been pressed
as the basis of the promised arrangement. This last
proposal was in its principle as bad as either of the
former; its tendency, worse. The promise of future
assistance would have carried with it the privilege to
repeat at pleasure the demand of money, and to dis
pute with us about our ability to supply ; and it would
have embarked us as an associate with France in the
war. It was to promise her the most effectual aid in
our power, and that of which she stood most in need.

The scheme of concealment was a trick. The in
terest of France to engage us in the war against Great
Britain, as a means of wounding her commerce, is too
strong to have permitted the secret to be kept by her.
By the ratification of the treaty, in which the Senate
must have concurred, too many would have obtained
possession of the secret to allow it to remain one.
While it did, the apprehension of discovery would
have enabled France to use it as an engine of

316 Alexander Hamilton

•unlimited extortion. But a still greater objection is,
that it would have been infamous in the United States
thus covertly to relinquish their neutrality, and with
equal cowardice and hypocrisy to wear the mask of it,
when they had renounced the reality.

The idea of securing our advances, by means of the
debt which we owe to the Dutch, is without founda
tion. The creditors of the United States are the
private citizens of the Batavian Republic. Their de
mands could not be opposed by a claim of our gov
ernment upon their government. The only shape in
which it could be attempted must be in that of re
prisals for the delinquency of the government. But
this would not only be a gross violation of the princi
ple, it would be contrary to express stipulations in the
contracts for the loans.1

In the same spirit of deception it has also been
alleged that our envoys, by giving the douceur of
twelve hundred thousand livres, and agreeing to send
for powers to make a loan, might have obtained a
suspension of depredations for six months. There is
not a syllable in the dispatches to countenance this
assertion. A large advance in addition, either on the
basis of the spoliations, or by way of purchase of the
inscriptions, is uniformly made the condition of sus
pending hostilities.

Glosses so false and insidious as these, in a crisis of
such imminent public danger, to mislead the opinion
of our nation concerning the conduct and views of a
foreign enemy, are shoots from a pernicious trunk.

1 They all provide against seizure or sequestration byway or reprisals,
etc.

The Stand 317

Opportunity alone is wanting to unveil the treason
which lurks at the core.

What signifies the quantum of the contribution had
it been really as unimportant as it is represented?
'T is the principle which is to be resisted at every
hazard. 'T is the pretension to make us tributary, in
opposition to which every American ought to resign
the last drop of his blood.

The pratings of the Gallic faction at this time re
mind us of those of the British faction at the com
mencement of our revolution.

The insignificance of a duty of three pence per
pound on tea was echoed and re-echoed as the bait
to an admission of the right to bind us in all cases
whatsoever.

The tools of France incessantly clamor against the
treaty with Britain as the just cause of the resent
ment of France. It is curious to remark, that in the
conferences with our envoys this treaty was never
once mentioned by the French agents. Particular
passages in the speech of the President are alone
specified as a ground of dissatisfaction. This is at
once a specimen of the fruitful versatility with which
causes of complaint are contrived, and of the very
slight foundations on which they are adopted. A
temperate expression of sensibility at an outrageous
indignity, offered to our government by a member of
the Directory, is converted into a mortal offence. The
tyrants will not endure a murmur at the blows they
inflict. But the dispatches of our envoys, while they
do not sanction the charge preferred by the Gallic
faction against the treaty, confirm a very serious

318 Alexander Hamilton

charge which the friends of the government bring
against that faction. They prove by the unreserved
confession of her agents, that France places absolute
dependence on this party in every event, and counts
upon their devotion to her as an encouragement to
the conditions which they attempt to impose. The
people of this country must be infatuated indeed, if
after this plain confession they are at a loss for the
true source of the evils they suffered, or may hereafter
suffer from the despots of France. T is the un
natural league of a portion of our citizens with the
oppressors of their country.

TITUS MANLIUS.

DETECTOR J

1798.

Every day brings fresh confirmations of the truth
of the prediction to our envoys that the French fac
tion in America would go all lengths with their im
perious and unprincipled masters. It is more and
more evident that as many of them as may dare will
join the standard of France if once erected in this
country. After all that has happened, there is no
other solution of the indefatigable and malignant
exertions which they are making to propagate dis
affection to our own government, and to justify or
extenuate the conduct of France. The authors of
these exertions understand too well the human heart

1 This paper, now first printed from the Hamilton MSS. (Vol. XV.,
p. 101) , is an elaborate examination of the X. Y. Z. correspondence. It
is in the same line as the preceding essays of The Stand, and must
have followed them closely in point of time.

Detector 319

not to know, that ideas which have once taken deep
root in a community, and have enlisted its passions
against one object and in favor of another, cannot
suddenly be changed; and that in the event of an
invasion they could not, if so disposed, prevent their
followers from acting in conformity with the strong
bias which had been previously given to their feel
ings. They know this so well that if they were not in
their hearts more Frenchmen than Americans; if they
were not ready in the gratification of ambition,
vanity, or revenge, or in compliance with the wages
of corruption, to immolate the independence and
welfare of their country at the shrine of France
* * * they would not, as they do, pursue a conduct
which they cannot be insensible leads to that fatal
result. Their pride, if not their patriotism, would
prevent them. Openly claimed by a foreign govern
ment as its obsequious tools, the jealousy of their
own honor would prompt them to be forward in
giving the lie to a claim to them so pregnant with ig
nominy. That this has not been the effect, is a con
vincing proof that they have embarked beyond the
power of retreat. It affords a presumption that they
are in a situation which leaves them no longer wills of
their own. It is astonishing to observe, that they
not only do not contradict the charge by their actions,
but seem little, if at all, solicitous to disavow it in
their language. And in the measures which they
advocate, with an effrontery unequalled, under simi
lar circumstances, in the history of any nation, they
display unequivocally their prostitute devotion to the
enemies of their country.

320 Alexander Hamilton

A principal expedient employed by these men to
second the views of the French Government, and
counteract the salutary impressions on the public
mind, which its abominable treatment of us is calcu
lated to produce, is to inculcate that our envoys, in
the conferences they have communicated, have been
the dupes of unauthorized and swindling impostors,
and that our government, in publishing these dis
patches, has been actuated by a desire to make
the circumstance subservient to a long premeditated
design of rupture with France.

The French account of a transaction in which the
despots of France have violated a right of nations
sacred among savages as well as civilized men, by im
prisoning the Ambassador of Portugal, is pressed into
the service of the infamous scheme of defaming our
own government and vindicating those despots. This
account represents the Portuguese Minister as having
been deceived into the advance of a large sum of
money, as a bribe to three of the Directory, by pre
tended agents of the French Government, which,
coming to light through the channel of the French
Minister at the Court of Portugal, occasioned the im
prisonment of the Portuguese Ambassador and sev
eral of the pretended agents. And it is alleged that a
like imposition has, in all probability, been practised
upon our envoys.

What may appear to be the real nature of the
transaction in question can only be judged of when
the Portuguese Government, free from the dread of
France, shall have told its story; when, if ever, the
imprisoned Minister shall be at liberty to explain

Detector 321

the grounds of the confidence which he reposed in the
agents to whom the money was advanced. Till then
all judgment of the true complexion of the affair
must be suspended.

In the meantime the character of bold iniquity
which the Directory have so eminently earned, au
thorizes the supposition that the agents now dis
avowed were really agents of the government — that
they actually received the bribe for the Directory;
that these, deeming it expedient afterwards to dis
appoint the expectation given to Portugal, found it
necessary to disclaim the inducement, and as a color
to their ill-faith, and a shield against the infamy of
the proceeding, to imprison the Minister and the
inferior agents. The present rulers of France have
soared to so stupendous a height of profligacy that
the diminutive vices of other men afford no standard
by which to judge of their conduct — no clue to the
mysterious labyrinth of their complicated crimes.

There are even circumstances to countenance the
supposition of this double plot. It is stated that
Wasco witch, one of the persons disavowed and
seized, was apparently in close connection with
Beaumarchais; was in "ostensible familiarity with
government men," and had actually had communica
tion with a real agent of government for the purpose of
discovering the views of newly-arrived foreign envoys.
And it appears that Beaumarchais is not among the
persons seized.

It may serve as an index to the affair to understand
that Beaumarchais is one of the most cunning and
intriguing men of Europe; that he was employed

VOL. VI.— 21.

322 Alexander Hamilton

under the royal government as a secret confidential
agent, in which capacity he acted between the United
States and France, before the acknowledgment of our
independence, and that he is known to be in intimate
connection with the present French Minister for
Foreign Relations.

In the capacity of confidential agent a considerable
part of the monies advanced by France for the use of
the United States passed through his hands. There
was a sum of a million of livres which Dr. Franklin, in
the carelessness of confidence, acknowledged to have
been received, of which the application could not be
traced. When inquiry on behalf of our government
was made of the French Minister concerning the ap
propriation of this million, the only answer to be
obtained was that it was a " secret du cabinet." But
the Revolution has unravelled this secret. During
the reign of Robespierre, Beaumarchais was in dis
grace and a fugitive. The ministry of that period,
not scrupling to unveil the corruptions of the old
government, charged the receipt of the missing mil
lion upon Beaumarchais, and furnished a copy of the
receipt which he is alleged to have given for it.

This transaction proves that Beaumarchais, besides
being the confidential political agent of the then
administration of France, was the instrument or
accomplice of its cupidity. What but the participa
tion of the Minister in a scheme of embezzlement
could have induced him to make a cabinet secret of the
application of this million?

Who a more likely, a more fit instrument of the
avidity of the present government than this same

Detector 323

Beaumarchais f When men apparently in close con
nection with him take bribes from foreign ministers,
professedly for the use of the Directory, what more
probable than that they are truly for that use — that
Beaumarchais is the link between the Directory and
the ostensible agents?

If afterwards expedient or necessary to disavow,
what more easy to be managed ? Beaumarchais is no
doubt too adroit to transact such business in a man
ner that can admit of proof of his agency. If incul
pated by his agents he has only boldly to deny the
charge and to treat it as a part of the imposture.
The all sufficient patronage of the Directory could not
fail to ensure credit to his denial and to shield him
from detection.

In such a case the appearances to be expected are
exactly such as occur in the present affair. The im
mediate and chief agent goes untouched. The sub
alterns are consigned to punishment, real or seeming,
The semblance of punishment may even be a thing
understood all round. As yet nothing more than
imprisonment is known to have taken place ; and it is
very possible that final impunity may attend Was-
cowitch and his colleagues ; though from the character
of the Directory, if necessary to their purposes, they
would find no difficulty in the sacrifice of these men,
by hurrying them to the guillotine after a mock- trial,
or by giving them, like Carnot, a secret passport to the
other world.

If it be true, as we are told, that France has sus
pended the project of invading Portugal, and is in
negotiation with her under the auspices of Spain, it

324 Alexander Hamilton

is very possible that the precautions of the Portu
guese Minister to establish the participation of the
Directory were better than was at first suspected,
and that the apprehension of having the affair
seriously probed may obtain for Portugal a suspen
sion from Ruin.

This comment upon the affair is justified by the
facts ascertained in our case. The participation of
the French Minister for Foreign Relations in the
propositions of the secret agents to our envoys admits
of no question. To be convinced of these we have
only to compare the declarations and proposals of the
agents with those of the Minister himself.

In the communications of those agents the leading
ideas are that the Directory were greatly incensed at
some passages in the President's speech; that repara
tion must be made for them ; that money might be a
substitute for other reparation ; that this money was
to be offered by our envoys, and to serve as pocket-
money, as a gratuity, for the Directory; and that in
addition to it there must be a loan to the republic,
in the shape of purchase of Dutch rescriptions, or
in some other shape. The gratuity to be about
£50,000 sterling.

The same ideas substantially appear in the con
ference with Talleyrand himself.

As a criterion of this it is in the first place to be
observed that these agents originally suggested the
bribe or gratuity, contradistinguished from the loan, as
a substitute for other reparation to the Directory for a
pretended insult in the President's speech. In the
conference between the Minister Talleyrand and one

Detector 325

of our envoys of the 28th of October, the same idea
is distinctly marked; so as to evince a concert * not
only in substance but in circumstances between the
Minister and the agents. They began their confer
ences by stating the umbrage taken by the Directory
at the President's speech, the necessity of reparation
for it, and the possibility of commuting that repara
tion for money to be offered by our envoys. The
Minister, treading in their steps, began the confer
ence 2 by observing that the Directory had passed an
arret, in which they had demanded of the envoys an
explanation of some parts and reparation for other
parts of the President's speech to Congress; that he
was sensible difficulties would exist on the part of the
envoys relative to this demand, but that by their
offering money he thought he could prevent the effect
of the arret.

The characteristic features in both cases are — of
fence given by the speech, reparation to be demanded
by the Directory, and a commutation of the required
reparation for money. The only difference is that
the agents call this pocket-money for the Directory a
gratuity, etc., while the Minister gives it no specific
name or designation. But we discover still more
clearly from what follows that he means the same
thing with the agents. The envoy having answered
that he and his colleagues had no power to make a
loan, but could send one of their number for instruc
tions on the proposition, if deemed expedient, pro
vided that the other objects of the negotiation could

'See Exhibit C., Dec.

2 See dispatch commencing the 2;th of October, 1797.

326 Alexander Hamilton

be discussed and adjusted, Talleyrand replied that
this matter about the money might be settled directly
without sending to America; that he would not com
municate the arrdt for a week, and that if the en
voys could adjust the difficulty with respect to the
speech an application would nevertheless go to the
United States for a loan. The loan is here manifestly
a different thing from the money to be advanced for
reparation. The last might be arranged immediately,
though the first might wait the issue of an application
to the government of this country. The first is
plainly the 50,000 sterling for pocket-money; the last
is the contribution by way of loan to the republic.
This coincidence fixes definitively the concert be
tween the Minister and the agents, and traces un
equivocally to the former the double demand of a
bribe and a loan. The conclusion is inevitable.

It is also confirmed by what took place on the i;th
of December, when one of our envoys mentioned to
the Minister that the person designated as Y had that
morning made him propositions (alluding to those for
the gratuity and loan) . The Minister replied that the
information which Y had given was just, and might
always be relied upon. This was explicitly to recog
nize Y as his agent and to authorize the giving
of credit to his propositions. A quibble has been
started on this point. It is pretended that the
declaration that the information given by Y was just,
did not import that the propositions he had made
were authorized. But besides that it was natural to
look for vagueness of expression in so mysterious and
so foul a transaction, — as the term information was

Detector 327

used in reply to the suggestion that propositions had
been made, it must necessarily be understood and
intend that the information which Y had given, in
reference to the propositions spoken of by the en
voy, was just and might be relied upon. Again, in
formation was the most apt term that could have
been employed. Y and the other agents professed
not to make propositions, but to inform our envoys
what propositions made by them were likely to be
acceptable.

Such are the wretched shifts to which the factious
adherents of France are driven in the attempts to
obscure the truth and to mislead their countrymen.
Their futility is evident. It is evident that the
agents who conferred with our envoys were not im
postors but were truly the commissaries of the French
minister, and that their most odious propositions
were not only sanctioned but even reiterated by him.
The connection between the Minister and the Direc
tory, from the nature of the thing, can only be in
ferred from his office and from his personal character.
The most circumspect man in the world, it is utterly
incredible that he would hazard himself in such a way
unless, acting for the Directory, he was assured of
their omnipotent support. Whether he be himself
a mercenary partaker of the bribes which are ex
torted, or only the instrument of the rapacity of the
Directory to retain his influence with them for the
accomplishment of some great ulterior design, must
be referred to time, and is of little moment to the
United States.

Whatever, then, may have been the case with

328 Alexander Hamilton

respect to the Portuguese Minister, 't is demonstrated
that our envoys have not been, as alleged, the dupes
of unauthorized agents, but have had the dexterity
to ascertain the conception and expression from the
mouth of the Minister himself. The probability is
that in the other instance likewise the corruption
which is now denied did really exist, as it most cer
tainly does in our case; though it is to be looked for
that here also it will be denied, and our envoys, if
within the grasp of the monsters, made the victims
of their fraudulent tyranny. The abject partisans of
France, anticipating this result, are preparing the
way for its justification.

DETECTOR.

A FRENCH FACTION

1798.

There is a set of men whose mouths are always full
of the phrases, British faction — British agents —
British influence. Feeling that they themselves are
interested in a foreign faction, they imagine that it
must be so with every one else, and that whoever will
not join with them in sacrificing the interests of their
country to another country, must be engaged in an
opposite foreign faction ; Frenchmen in all their feel
ings and wishes, they can see in their opponents
nothing but Englishmen. Every true American —
every really independent man, becomes, in their eyes,
a British agent — a British emissary.

The truth is, that there is in this country a decided
French faction, but no other foreign faction. I speak
as to those who have a share in the public councils,

A French Faction 329

or in the political influence of the country; those
who adhered to Great Britain during the revolution
may be presumed, generally, to have still a partiality
for her. But the number of those who have at this
time any agency in public affairs is very insignificant.
They are neither numerous nor weighty enough to
form in the public councils a distinct faction. Nor
is it to this description of men that the passage is
applied.

The satellites of France have the audacity to be
stow it upon men who have risked more in opposi
tion to Great Britain, than but few of them ever did
—to men who have given every possible proof of
their exclusive devotion to the interests of their own
country. Let facts speak. The leaders of the
French faction during the war managed to place the
minister of the country abroad in a servile depend
ence on the ministry of France, and but for the vir
tuous independence of those men, which led them to
break their instructions, it is very problematical we
should have had as early, or as good a peace as
that we obtained. The same men, during the same
period, effected the revocation of a commission which
had been given for making a commercial treaty with
Great Britain, and again, on the approach of peace,
defeated an attempt to produce a renewal of that
commission, and thus lost an opportunity known to
have been favorable for establishing a beneficial
treaty of commerce with that country — though they
have since made the obtaining of such a treaty, a
pretext for reiterated attempts to renew hostilities
with her. The same men have been constantly

33° Alexander Hamilton

laboring, from the first institution of the present
government, to render it subservient, not to the ad
vancement of our own manufactures, but to the
advancement of the navigation and manufactures
of France.

In a proposal which aims at fostering our own
navigation and elevating our own manufactures, by
giving them advantages over those of all foreign
nations, a thousand obstacles occur, a thousand
alarms are sounded — usurpation of ungranted pow
ers, designs to promote the interests of different
parts of the Union at the expense of the other parts
of it, and innumerable other spectres are conjured up
to terrify us from the pursuit. Is the project to
confer particular favors upon the navigation and
manufactures of France, even at the expense of the
United States? — then all difficulties vanish. This
is the true and only object of the Constitution — for
this it was framed — by this alone it can live and have
a being. To this precious end, we are assured, the
States who may particularly suffer will be willing to
sacrifice. In this holy cause we are to risk every
thing — our trade, our navigation, our manufactures,
our agriculture, our revenues, our peace. Not to
consent is to want spirit — to want honor — to want
patriotism. Thus does Gallicism assume the hon
orable part of patriotism.

THE WAR IN EUROPE

1799.

Every step of the progress of the present war in
Europe has been marked with horrors. If the per-

The War in Europe 331

petration of them was confined to those who are
the acknowledged instruments of despotic power, it
would excite less surprise ; but when they are acted
upon by those who profess themselves to be the
champions of the rights of man, they naturally occa
sion both wonder and regret. Passing by the ex
treme severities which the French have exercised in
Italy, what shall we think of the declarations of
Jourdan to the inhabitants of Germany?

******

Good God! is it a crime for men to defend their
own government and country? Is it a punishable
offence in the Germans that they will not accept
from the French what they offer as liberty at the
point of the bayonet? This is to confound all ideas
of morality and humanity ; it is to trample upon all
the rights of man and nations; it is to restore the
ages of barbarism; according to the laws and prac
tice of modern war, the peasantry of a country, if
they remain peaceably at home, are protected from
other harm than a contribution to the necessities of
the invading army. Those who join the armies of
their country and fight with them, are considered
and treated as other soldiers. But the present
French doctrine is, that they are to be treated as
rebels and criminals.

German patriotism is a heinous offence in the eyes
of French patriots. How are we to solve this other
wise than by observing that the French are influenced
by the same spirit of domination which governed the
ancient Romans. They considered themselves as
having a right to be the masters of the world, and to

332 Alexander Hamilton

treat the rest of mankind as their vassals. How
clearly is it proved by this that the praise of a civil
ized world is justly due to Christianity; — war, by
the influence of the humane principles of that re
ligion, has been stripped of half its horrors. The
French renounce Christianity, and they relapse into
barbarism ; — war resumes the same hideous and
savage form which it wore in the ages of Gothic and
Roman violence.

ALLEGORICAL DEVICE

1799.

A globe, with Europe and part of Africa on one
side, America on the other, the Atlantic between.
The portion occupied by America to be larger than
that occupied by Europe. A Colossus to be placed
on this globe, with one foot on Europe, the other ex
tending partly over the Atlantic toward America;
having on his head a quintuple crown., in his right
hand an iron sceptre, projecting, but broken in the
middle; in his left hand a pileus (cap of liberty)
reversed ; the staff entwined by a snake with its head
downward, having the staff of the pileus in its mouth,
and folding in its tail (as if in the act of strangling) a
label with the words " Rights of Man." Upon a
base supported by fifteen columns erected on the
continent of America, the genius of America to be
placed, represented by the figure of Pallas — a female
in armor, with a firm, composed countenance, a
golden breastplate, a spear in her right hand, and an
aegis or shield in her left, having upon it the scales of

Pericles 333

justice (instead of the Medusa's head); her helmet
encircled with wreaths of olive, her spear striking
upon the sceptre of the Colossus and breaking it
asunder ; over her head a radiated crown of glory.
It would improve the allegory to represent the
Atlantic in a tempest, as indicative of rage, and
Neptune in the position of aiming a blow at the
Colossus with his trident.

Explanation. — It is known that the globe is an
ancient symbol of universal dominion. This, with
the Colossus, alluding to the French Directory, will
denote the project of acquiring such dominion — the
position of the Colossus signifying the intent to ex
tend it to America. The Colossus will represent the
French Republic ; and Pallas, as the genius of Amer
ica, will intimate that though loving peace as a pri
mary object (of which the olive -wreath is the symbol),
yet, guided by wisdom and justice, America success
fully exerts her valor to break the sceptre of the
tyrant.

PERICLES *

(For the Evening Post.)

1803.

Since the question of independence, none has oc
curred more deeply interesting to the United States
than the cession of Louisiana to France.

1 Reprinted from the History of the Republic, by John C. Hamilton,
and now first included with Hamilton's writings.

It is a very interesting paper, as it shows how completely Hamilton
parted with his party on the Louisiana question and how unswervingly
national he was in every thing.

334 Alexander Hamilton

This event threatens the early dismemberment of
a large portion of the country; more immediately,
the safety of all the Southern States; and remotely,
the independence of the whole Union. This is the
portentous aspect which the affair presents to all
men of sound and reflecting minds, of whatever
party; and it is not to be concealed, that the only
question which now offers itself, is how the evil is to
be averted?

The strict right to resort at once to war, if it
should be deemed expedient, cannot be doubted. A
manifest and great danger to the nation ; the nature
of the cession to France, extending to ancient limits
without respect to our rights by treaty; the direct
infraction of an important article of the treaty itself,
in withholding the deposit of New Orleans : either of
these affords justifiable cause of war, and that they
would authorize immediate hostilities, is not to be
questioned by the most scrupulous mind.

The whole is then a question of expediency. Two
courses only present: First, to negotiate, and en
deavor to purchase; and if this fails, to go to war.
Secondly, to seize at once on the Floridas and New
Orleans, and then negotiate. A strong objection
offers itself to the first. There is not the most dis
tant probability that the ambitious and aggrandizing
views of Buonaparte will commute the territory for
money. Its acquisition is of immense importance
to France, and has long been an object of her ex
treme solicitude. The attempt, therefore, to pur
chase, in the first instance, will certainly fail; and
in the end, war must be resorted to, under all the

Pericles 335

accumulation of difficulties caused by a previous and
strongly fortified possession of the country by our
adversary.

The second plan is, therefore, evidently the best.
First, because effectual; the acquisition easy; the
preservation afterwards easy. The evils of a war
with France at this time are certainly not very
formidable: her fleet crippled and powerless; her
treasury empty; her resources almost dried up; in
short, gasping for breath after a tremendous con
flict, which, though it left her victorious, left her
nearly exhausted under her extraordinary exertions.
On the other hand, we might count with certainty on
the aid of Great Britain with her powerful navy.

Secondly, this plan is preferable, because it affords
us the only chance of avoiding a long-continued war.
When we have once taken possession the business
will present itself to France in a new aspect. She
will then have to weigh the immense difficulties, if not
the utter impracticability, of wresting it from us. In
this posture of affairs she will naturally conclude it is
her interest to bargain. Now it may become ex
pedient to terminate hostilities by a purchase, and a
cheaper one may reasonably be expected. To se
cure the better prospect of final success, the following
auxiliary measures ought to be adopted. The army
should be increased to ten thousand men, for the
purpose of insuring the preservation of the conquest.
Preparations for increasing our naval force should be
made. The militia should be classed, and effectual
provision made for raising, on an emergency, forty
thousand men. Negotiations should be pushed with

336 Alexander Hamilton

Great Britain, to induce her to hold herself in readi
ness to co-operate fully with us, at a moment's warn
ing. This plan should be adopted and proclaimed
before the departure of our envoy. Such measures
would astonish and disconcert Buonaparte himself;
our envoy would be enabled to speak and treat with
effect, and all Europe would be taught to respect us.
These ideas have been long entertained by the writer,
but he has never given himself the trouble to commit
them to the public, because he despaired of their
being adopted. They are now thrown out with very
little hope of their producing any change in the con
duct of the Administration, yet with the encourage
ment that there is a strong current of public feeling
in favor of decisive measures. If the President
would adopt this course, he might yet retrieve his
character, induce the best part of the community to
look favorably upon his political career, exalt him
self in the eyes of Europe, save the country, and
secure a permanent fame. But, for this, alas ! Jeffer
son is not destined.

PERICLES.

THE WHISKEY REBELLION

VOL. VI.— 22
THE WHISKEY REBELLION

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON *

TREASURY DEPARTMENT, September i, 1792.

SIR: — I have the honor to inclose sundry papers
which have been handed to me by the Commissioners
of the Revenue, respecting the state of the excise
law in the Western Survey of the District of
Pennsylvania.

1 This letter, and those which follow, give the history of the whiskey
rebellion from the point of view of the Secretary of the Treasury. That
first insurrection against the government is an important chapter in
the life of Hamilton. It was his system narrowly victorious at the
last point which caused the assumption of the State debts as a part of
the general financial policy. It was the assumption of the State debts
which made an increase of taxation necessary, and for this purpose the
excise on spirits was laid. The new tax produced an outburst of re
sistance in the Alleghany region — that is, in Western Pennsylvania,
Virginia, and North Carolina. By the efforts of Washington, and by
modifying the law almost to the verge of imprudent concession, the
disturbances in Virginia and North Carolina were allayed. But in
Pennsylvania matters went from bad to worse, until resistance cul
minated in open rebellion. Judging in accordance with the best prin
ciples of taxation, no one would now question the propriety of the
excise. But when the opposition to it became revolt, the affair rose in
Hamilton's eyes to something far graver than the successful collection
of a certain amount of money. He felt that it was the first sharp test
of the value and strength of the government formed under the Con
stitution, and he knew that if the government prevailed, it would be
greatly invigorated. When Washington was satisfied that conciliation
had been tried to the last point consistent with safety, he adopted
Hamilton's measures, ordered out an overwhelming force, and sent it
34° Alexander Hamilton

Such persevering and violent opposition to the
law gives the business a still more serious aspect
than it has hitherto worn, and seems to call for
vigorous and decisive measures on the part of the
government.

I have directed that the supervisor of the district
shall repair forthwith to the survey in question, to
ascertain in person the true state of the survey; to
collect evidences respecting the violences that have
been committed, in order to a prosecution of the
offenders ; to ascertain particulars as to the meeting
which appears to have been held at Pittsburgh ; to
encourage the perseverance of the officers; giving
expectations, as far as it can be done with propriety,
of indemnification from the government for any
losses which they may sustain in consequence of
their offices; to endeavor to prevail upon the in
habitants of the county of Alleghany, who appear
at present the least refractory, to come into an
acquiescence of the law; representing to discreet
persons the impropriety of government's remaining
a passive spectator of the contempt of its laws.

I shall also immediately submit to the Attorney-
General, for his opinion, whether an indictable of
fence has not been committed by the persons who

against the insurgents. Before this display of energy and vigor the
insurrection faded away without bloodshed into ignominy and ridicule.
The result was most valuable. There had been a struggle of principles
and parties, and the Federal Government had conquered. In the
following pages, containing all that Hamilton wrote on the subject,
the story of this incident, so important and so full of meaning to our
early development as a nation, is told by the principal actor on the
side of the Administration.

Hamilton to Washington 341

were assembled at Pittsburgh, and of what nature
is the paper which contains their proceedings ; with
a view, if judged expedient by you, that it may be
brought under the notice of the Circuit Court, which,
I understand, is to be held in October at Yorktown.

My present clear conviction is, that it is indis
pensable, if competent evidence can be obtained, to
exert the full force of the law against the offenders,
with every circumstance that can manifest the deter
mination of government to enforce its execution;
and if the processes of the courts are resisted, as is
rather to be expected, to employ those means which
in the last resort are put in the power of the Execu
tive. If this is not done, the spirit of disobedience
will naturally extend, and the authority of the gov
ernment will be prostrated. Moderation enough has
been shown; it is time to assume a different tone.
The well-disposed part of the community will begin
to think the Executive wanting in decision and vigor.
I submit these impressions to your consideration,
previous to any step which will involve the necessity
of ulterior proceedings ; and shall hope as speedily as
possible to receive your instructions.

With the highest respect and the truest attach
ment, I have the honor to be, etc.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON

TREASURY DEPARTMENT, September 8, 1792.

SIR: — I have to acknowledge the honor of your
letter of the 3ist of August.

342 Alexander Hamilton

Letters from the supervisor of North Carolina con
firm the representation contained in the letter from
the inspector of the 5th survey to you. My letter
which accompanies this, suggests the measure which,
on mature reflection, has appeared most proper to
be taken upon the whole subject of the opposition
to the law. If the idea is approved by you, I believe
it will be advisable to transmit a copy of the pro
clamation to the governors of each of the States of
South Carolina, North Carolina, and Pennsylvania,
calling their attention in a proper manner to the
state of affairs within their respective governments.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON

TREASURY DEPARTMENT, September 9, 1792.

SIR: — I had the honor of writing to you by the
post of Monday last, and then transmitted sundry
papers, respecting a meeting at Pittsburgh on the
2ist of August, and other proceedings of a disorderly
nature in opposition to the laws laying a duty on
distilled spirits, and I added my opinion that it was
advisable for the government to take measures for
suppressing these disorders and enforcing the laws
with vigor and decision.

The result of further and mature deliberation is,
that it will be expedient for the President to issue a
proclamation adverting in general terms to the ir
regular proceedings, and manifesting an intention to
put the laws in force against offenders. The induce
ments to this measure are:

Hamilton to Washington 343

1. That it is a usual course in like cases, and
seems, all circumstances considered, requisite to the
justification of the Executive Department. It is
now more than fourteen months since the duty in
question began to operate. In the four western
counties of Pennsylvania, and in a great part of
North Carolina, it has never been in any degree sub
mitted to. And the late meeting at Pittsburgh is, in
substance, a repetition of what happened last year
in the same scene. The disorders in that quarter
acquire additional consequence from their being
acted in the State which is the immediate seat of
government. Hence the occasion appears to be
sufficiently serious and of sufficient importance to
call for such a procedure.

2. As an accommodating and temporizing conduct
has been hitherto pursued, a proclamation seems
to be the natural prelude to a different course of
conduct.

3. There is considerable danger that before meas
ures can be matured for making a public impression
by the prosecution of offenders, the spirit of opposi
tion may extend and break out in other quarters, and
by its extension become much more difficult to be
overcome. There is reason to hope that a proclama
tion will arrest it, and give time for more effectual
measures.

4. It may even prevent the necessity of ulterior
coercion. The character of the President will nat
urally induce a conclusion, that he means to treat
the matter seriously. This idea will be impressive
on the most refractory, it will restrain the timid and

344 Alexander Hamilton

wavering, and it will encourage the well disposed.
The appearance of the President in the business will
awaken the attention of a great number of persons
of the last description to the evil tendency of the
conduct reprehended, who have not yet viewed it
with due seriousness. And from the co-operation
of these circumstances good may reasonably be
expected.

In either view, therefore, of the propriety of con
duct, or the effects to be hoped for, the measure
seems to be an advisable one. I beg leave to add,
that, in my judgment, it is not only advisable, but
necessary. Besides the state of things in the western
part of North Carolina, which is known to you, a
letter has just been received from the supervisor of
South Carolina, mentioning that a spirit of discontent
and opposition had been revived in two of the coun
ties of that State bordering on North Carolina, in
which it had been apparently suppressed. This
shows the necessity of some immediate step of a
general aspect, while things are preparing, if un
happily it should become necessary, to act with
decision in the western counties of Pennsylvania,
where the government, for several obvious considera
tions, will be left in condition to do it. Decision
successfully exerted in one place, will, it is presumed,
be efficacious everywhere.

The Secretary of War and Attorney-General agree
with me in opinion on the expediency of a proclama
tion. The draft of one now submitted has been
framed in concert with the latter, except as to one or
two particulars, which are noted in the margin of the

Hamilton to Washington 345

rough draft in my handwriting, herewith also trans
mitted. In respect to these, the objections of that
gentleman did not appear to me well founded, and
would, I think, unnecessarily diminish the force of
the instrument.

With the highest respect and truest attachment, I
have the honor to be, etc.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON

PHILADELPHIA, September n, 1792.

SIR: — Herewith is an official letter, submitting the
draft of a proclamation. I reserve some observations
as most proper for a private letter.

In the case of a former proclamation, I observe it
was under the seal of the United States, and counter
signed by the Secretary of State. If the precedent
was now to be formed, I should express a doubt
whether it was such an instrument as ought to be
under the seal of the United States; and I believe
usage, as well in this country under the State govern
ments as in Great Britain, would be found against it;
but the practice having been begun, there are ijiany
reasons which in this instance recommend an adher
ence to it, and the form of the attestation is adapted
to this idea.

But still, if the Secretary of State should be at so
great a distance, or if an uncertainty of his being in
the way should involve the probability of consider
able delay, it will be well to consider if the precedent
ought not to be departed from. In this case, the

346 Alexander Hamilton

attestation will be required to be varied, so as to
omit from the words "In testimony*' to the words
"my hand," inclusively, and to substitute the word
"Given" to "Done"; and it may be advisable to
direct the Attorney-General to countersign it.

Every day's delay will render the act less impres
sive, and defeat part of its object.

The propriety of issuing the proclamation depends
of course upon a resolution to act in conformity to it,
and put in force all the powers and means with which
the Executive is possessed, as occasion shall require.
My own mind is made up fully to this issue, and on
this my suggestion of the measure is founded. Your
letter by the last post, confirming former intimations,
assures me that you view the matter in the same
light.

The words in the proclamation, "dictated by
weighty reasons of public exigency and policy," are
not essential to the general scope of it. They
amount to an additional commitment of the President
on the question of the merits of the law, and will
require to be well considered.

That the proclamation, both as to manner and
matter, will be criticised, cannot be matter of surprise,
if it should happen, to any one who is aware of the
lengths to which a certain party is prepared to go.
It ought to be anticipated as probable.

In a step so delicate and full of responsibility, I
thought it my duty to make these observations;
though I was sure they would of themselves occur.

It is satisfactory to know that a jury in Chester
County convicted a person who was guilty of assault-

Hamilton to Washington 347

ing an officer of inspection. On being interrogated,
they answered that they had found him guilty upon
the count in the indictment which charged him with
assaulting the officer in the execution of his duty;
that the law was a constitutional act of government,
and was not to be resisted by violence. I have di
rected Mr. Coxe to collect and publish the particulars.
The symptom is a good one.

With the most faithful and affectionate attach
ment, etc.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

TREASURY DEPARTMENT, September 22, 1792.

SIR: — I have been duly honored with your letters
of the yth and iyth instant, and perceive with much
pleasure a confirmation of the expectation which your
former communications had given, that your view of
the measures proper to be pursued, respecting the
proceedings therein referred to, would correspond
with the impressions entertained here.

I flatter myself that the proclamation will answer a
very valuable purpose; but every thing which the
law and prudence will warrant, will be put in train as
circumstances shall indicate, for such eventual meas
ures as may be found necessary. I do not, however,
despair that, with a proper countenance, the ordinary
course of legal coercion will be found adequate.

The inclosed copy of a letter from the inspector of
Kentucky to the supervisor of Virginia, of the i2th
of July last, and the copy of a letter from one of his

348 Alexander Hamilton

collectors to him of the ist of June, contain interest
ing and, comparatively, not discouraging matter
respecting the state of things in that survey.

The supervisor of Virginia, in a letter to the Com
missioner of the Revenue, of the loth instant,
expresses himself thus: "I can truly say that the
excise is now fairly on its legs in this district; it rests
on the good-will of the greater part of the people,
and our collectors are from no cause indisposed to the
service, but the apprehension of too much business
for too little compensation." A letter from Mr.
Hawkins (Senator) to Mr. Coxe, announces favor
able symptoms in the part of North Carolina which is
in the vicinity of his residence.

On the whole, I see no cause of apprehension but
that the law will finally go into full operation, with as
much good- will of the people as usually attends
revenue laws.

With the highest respect and truest attachment,
etc.

P. S. — I have the pleasure to transmit herewith a
letter from Mr. G. Morris, which was handed to me
by Mr. R. Morris. The supervisor has been desired
to forward to the Circuit Court at Yorktown such
proof as he should be able to collect, addressed to
the Attorney-General. It will, I perceive, be satisfac
tory to that officer to receive your direction to pro
ceed there. His presence is of importance, as well
to give weight to what it may be proper to do, as to
afford security that nothing which cannot be sup
ported will be attempted. I submit the expediency
of a line from you to him.

Hamilton to Washington 349

WASHINGTON TO GOVERNORS OF PENNSYLVANIA AND
NORTH AND SOUTH CAROLINA

(CIRCULAR)

Draft by Hamilton.

UNITED STATES, September 29, 1792.

SIR: — Inclosed you will find a copy of a pro
clamation which I have thought proper to issue,
in consequence of certain irregular and refractory
proceedings, which have taken place in particular
parts of some of the States, contravening the laws
therein mentioned.

I feel an entire confidence that the weight and in
fluence of the Executive of - — , will be cheerfully
exerted in every proper way, to further the objects of
this measure, and to promote on every occasion a
due obedience to the constitutional laws of the
Union. With respect, I am, sir, etc.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON

November 27, 1792.

The Secretary of the Treasury presents his respects
to the President. The execution of the process by
the marshal himself is, for many reasons, so import
ant, that it does not appear possible to dispense with
it. If there should be any failure in the deputy, it
would probably furnish a topic of censure and a
source of much embarrassment. The impediment in
point of health is to be regretted, but, it would seem,
must be surmounted.

35° Alexander Hamilton

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON

TREASURY DEPARTMENT, June 4, 1794.

SIR:

Upon the receipt of the communication to you
from the Governor of Pennsylvania, of the i8th of
April last, I put that letter and the papers attending
it into the hands of the Commissioner of Revenue to
examine into the suggestions made, and report to me
concerning them.

The result is contained in a letter from that officer,
dated the 25th of April (which hurry of business put
out of sight), and which is now communicated only
for the information of the President, as the case does
not seem to require any particular reply to the Gov
ernor, nor any act upon the subject ; and the exhibi
tion to him of the picture, which I believe is justly
drawn, of the conduct of Mr. Addison and others,
would perhaps only excite useless irritation.

The removal of either of the officers objected to,
after the persecution they have suffered, and the per
severance they have displayed, would be a hazardous
step ; and a suspicion is warranted by the conduct of
the parties, that it may have been recommended with
an insidious view. Experience, however, may better
explain in a little time, whether any concession on
that point will be expedient; in which case, some
means of indemnifying the officer or officers who
should be removed, would be demanded both by
justice and policy.

With perfect respect, etc.

Hamilton to Washington 351

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON

June 14, 1794.

The Secretary of the Treasury presents his respects
to the President. He had thought that the appoint
ment of a supervisor for Pennsylvania might, without
inconvenience, be deferred till the return of the
President, and therefore deferred mentioning it ; but
on more particular reflection, as a new revenue year
commences with the ist of July, he believes it would
be of use to accelerate the appointment.

The persons who have more particularly occurred
to the inquiries of the Secretary (and his inquiries
have been particular and extensive), are General
Hand, now Inspector ; Colonel Henry Miller, of York
County; Charles Biddle, of this city; Colonel Francis
Nichols; Mr. Clarkson, Mayor; and Major Lennox.

General Hand, from situation, would claim par
ticular consideration; but the Secretary, with much
esteem for that gentleman on personal accounts, is
obliged in duty to say, that he has been so materially
defective in the execution of his present office, as to
forbid an assurance that the superior one would be
executed by him with due attention and exertion.
And it is of vast consequence to the revenue and to
the government, that no mistake should be com
mitted in the present choice.

Of the persons named, Col. Miller, all circumstances
considered, has the judgment of the Secretary in his
favor. All agree that he is a man of good character,
of friendly dispositions to the government and laws
of the United States, of industry, exertion, address
and distinguished firmness, of adequate though not

35 2 Alexander Hamilton

superior ability, and most likely, of any man on whom
equal dependence can be placed, to have weight in
the most refractory scene of this State. He is also
a man of decent property, unembarrassed. Among
those who warmly recommend him is Mr. Ross,
Senator of this State, who lives in one of the most
western counties.

Mr. Biddle has many things in his favor. Perhaps
he has more ability than any of the persons named,
and no doubts are entertained of his firmness, ac
tivity, or attention. His connections and influence
are principally among the malcontents; but most
persons who have been consulted entertain an un
favorable impression of his political principles, and
think there is not full assurance that he would not
sacrifice the duties of his station and the interests of
the government to party considerations. He was
named by the Democratic Society Vice-President,
which he has, it seems, neither accepted nor publicly
disavowed. Several attach an idea of cunning and
duplicity to the character. One good judge of
character thinks favorably of his principles, and that
reliance may be placed; but the result of a compre
hensive inquiry is, that there would be hazard in the
appointment, and the case is believed to be one in
which nothing ought to be hazarded.

Col. Nichols and Major Lennox stand nearly on a
level — both men of adequate understanding, honor
able characters, some property, undoubted firmness,
and probable exertion; but on the last point there
is greater assurance of Major Lennox. But neither
of these gentlemen seem to have that extensive

Hamilton to Washington 353

notoriety and popularity of character which is de
sirable to assist the progress of disagreeable laws.
In this particular, Mr. Miller or Mr. Biddle has
greatly the advantage.

Mr. Clarkson has several things in his favor;
perhaps rather more ability than most of the other
persons ; but he wants bodily activity, which may be
a point of consequence; and he is said to be much
embarrassed in his circumstances.

The Secretary has committed these remarks to
writing, not wishing to intrude on the President to
day, and desirous of placing the subject immediately
before him. If he should conclude on the person be
fore he leaves town, it is requested that he would
leave a commission, signed but not completed, in
order that it may be previously ascertained whether
Mr. Miller will accept.

Among the persons who have been consulted is
the Attorney-General. He gave a preference to Mr.
Miller. His knowledge of State characters is dif
fusive and accurate. Mr. Miller was lately a very
promising candidate for the place of Senator in the
Senate of the United States.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON

TREASURY DEPARTMENT, August 2, 1794.

SIR:

In compliance with your requisitions, I have the
honor to submit my opinion as to the course which it
will be advisable for the President to pursue, in regard
to the armed opposition recently given in the four

VOL VI.— 23

354 Alexander Hamilton

western counties of Pennsylvania to the execution of
the laws of the United States laying duties upon
spirits distilled within the United States, and upon
stills.

The case upon which an opinion is required, is
summarily as follows. The four most western
counties of Pennsylvania, since the commencement
of those laws, a period of more than three years, have
been in steady and violent opposition to them. By
formal public meetings of influential individuals,
whose resolutions and proceedings had for undis
guised objects to render the laws odious, to discoun
tenance a compliance with them, and to intimidate
individuals from accepting and executing offices
under them; by a general spirit of opposition (thus
fomented) among the inhabitants, by repeated in
stances of armed parties going in disguise to the
houses of the officers of the revenue, and inflicting
upon them personal violence and outrage, by general
combinations to forbear a compliance with the re
quisitions of the laws, by examples of injury to the
property and insult to the persons of individuals who
have shown by their conduct a disposition to comply,
and by an almost universal non-compliance with the
laws, their execution within the counties in question
has been completely frustrated.

Various alterations have been made in the laws by
the Legislature, to obviate, as far as possible, the
objections of the inhabitants of those counties.

The executive, on its part, has been far from
deficient in forbearance, lenity, or a spirit of accom
modation.

Hamilton to Washington 355

But neither the legislative nor the executive ac
commodations have had any effect in producing com
pliance with the laws.

The opposition has continued and matured, till it
has at length broken out in acts which are presumed
to amount to treason.

Armed collections of men, with the avowed design
of opposing the execution of the laws, have attacked
the house of the Inspector of the Revenue, burnt and
destroyed his property, and shed the blood of persons
engaged in its defence; have made prisoner of the
marshal of the district, and did not release him till,
for the safety of his life, he stipulated to execute no
more processes within the disaffected counties ; have
compelled both him and the Inspector of the Revenue
to fly the country by a circuitous route, to avoid
personal injury, perhaps assassination; have pro
posed the assembling of a convention of delegates
from those counties and the neighboring ones of Vir
ginia, probably with a view to systematize measures
of more effectual opposition; have forcibly seized,
opened, and spoliated a mail of the United States.

What in this state of things is proper to be done?
The President has, with the advice of the heads of
departments and the Attorney-General, caused to be
submitted all the evidence of the foregoing facts to
the consideration of an associate judge, under the act
entitled, "An act to provide for calling forth the
militia to execute the laws of the Union, suppress
insurrection, and repel invasion."

If the judge shall pronounce that the case de
scribed in the second section of that act exists, it will

356 Alexander Hamilton

follow that a competent force of militia should be
called forth and employed to suppress the insurrec
tion, and support the civil authority in effectuating
obedience to the laws and punishment of offenders.

It appears to me that the very existence of govern
ment demands this course, and that a duty of the
highest nature urges the Chief Magistrate to pursue
it. The Constitution and laws of the United States
contemplate and provide for it.

What force of militia shall be called out, and from
what State or States ?

The force ought, if attainable, to be an imposing
one, such, if practicable, as will deter from opposition,
save the effusion of the blood of citizens, and serve
the object to be accomplished.

The quantum must, of course, be regulated by the
resistance to be expected. 'T is computed that the
four opposing counties contain upwards of sixteen
thousand males of sixteen years and more; that of
these about seven thousand may be expected to be
armed.

'T is possible that the union of the neighboring
counties of Virginia may augment this force. 'T is
not impossible that it may receive an accession from
some adjacent counties of this State on this side of
the Alleghany Mountains.

To be prepared for the worst, I am of opinion that
twelve thousand militia ought to be ordered to as
semble — 9,000 foot and 3,000 horse. I should not
propose so many horse, but for the probability that
this description of militia will be more easily procured
for the service.

Hamilton to Washington 357

From what State or States shall these come?

The law contemplates that the militia of a State
in which an insurrection happens, if willing and suffi
cient, shall first be employed, but gives power to
employ the militia of other States in the case either
of refusal or insufficiency.

The Governor of Pennsylvania, in an official con
ference this day, gave it explicitly as his opinion to
the President, that the militia of Pennsylvania alone
would be found incompetent to the suppression of the
insurrection.

This opinion of the Chief Magistrate of the State is
presumed to be a sufficient foundation for calling in,
in the first instance, the aid of the militia of the
neighboring States.

I would submit, then, that Pennsylvania be re
quired to furnish 6,000 men, of whom 1,000 to be
horse; New Jersey 2,000, of whom 800 to be horse;
Maryland 2,000, of whom 600 to be horse; Virginia
2,000, of whom 600 to be horse.

Or, perhaps, it may be as eligible to call upon each
State for such a number of troops, leaving to itself
the proportion of horse and foot according to con
venience. The militia called for to rendezvous at
Carlisle, in Pennsylvania, and Cumberland Fort, in
Virginia, on the loth of September next. The law
requires that previous to the using of force, a pro
clamation shall issue, commanding the insurgents to
disperse and return peaceably to their respective
abodes within a limited time. This step must, of
course, be taken.

The application of the force to be called out and

358 Alexander Hamilton

other ulterior measures must depend on circum
stances as they shall arise.

With the most perfect respect, etc.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON

Report on Opposition to Internal Duties

TREASURY DEPARTMENT, August 5, 1794.

SIR: — The disagreeable crisis at which matters
have lately arrived in some of the western counties
of Pennsylvania, with regard to the law laying duties
on spirits distilled within the United States, and on
stills, seems to render proper a review of the circum
stances which have attended those laws in that scene
from their commencement to the present time, and of
the conduct which has hitherto been observed on the
part of the government, its motives and effect, in
order to a better judgment of the measures neces
sary to be pursued in the existing emergency.

The opposition to those laws in the four most
western counties of Pennsylvania (Alleghany, Wash
ington, Fayette, and Westmoreland) commenced as
early as they were known to have been passed. It
has continued with different degrees of violence in
different counties, and at different periods, but
Washington has uniformly distinguished its resist
ance by a more excessive spirit than has appeared in
the other counties, and seems to have been chiefly
instrumental in kindling and keeping alive the flame.

The opposition first manifested itself in the milder
shape of the circulation of opinions unfavorable to

Hamilton to Washington 359

the law, and calculated by the influence of public
disesteem to discourage the accepting or holding of
offices under it, or the complying with it by those
who might be so disposed, to which was added the
show of a discontinuance of the business of distilling.

These expedients were shortly after succeeded by
private associations to forbear compliance with the
law. But it was not long before these more negative
modes of opposition were perceived to be likely to
prove ineffectual. And in proportion as this was the
case, and as the means of introducing the laws into
operation were put into execution, the disposition to
resistance became more turbulent and more inclined
to adopt and practise violent expedients. The offi
cers now began to experience marks of contempt and
insult. Threats against them became more frequent
and loud; and after some time these threats were
ripened into acts of ill treatment and outrage.

These acts of violence were preceded by certain
meetings of malcontent persons, who entered into
resolutions calculated at once to confirm, inflame,
and systematize the spirit of opposition.

The first of these meetings was holden at a place
called Red Stone Old Fort, on the 2;th of July, 1791,
where it was concerted that county committees
should be convened in the four counties, at the re
spective seats of justice therein. On the 23d of
August following one of these committees assembled
in the county of Washington.

This meeting passed some intemperate resolutions,
which were afterward printed in the Pittsburgh
Gazette, containing a strong censure on the law,

360 Alexander Hamilton

declaring that any person who had accepted or might
accept an office under Congress, in order to carry it into
effect, should be considered as inimical to the interests
of the country; and recommending to the citizens of
Washington County to treat every person who had
accepted or might thereafter accept any such office,
with contempt, and absolutely to refuse all kind of
communication or intercourse with the officers, and to
withhold from them all aid, support, or comfort.

Not content with this vindictive proscription of
those who might esteem it their duty, in the capacity
of officers, to aid in the execution of the constitu
tional laws of the land, the meeting proceeded to
accumulate topics of crimination of the government,
though foreign to each other; authorizing, by this
zeal for censure, a suspicion that they were actuated,
not merely by the dislike of a particular law, but by a
disposition to render the government itself unpopular
and odious.

This meeting, in further prosecution of their plan,
deputed three of their members to meet delegates
from the counties of Westmoreland, Fayette, and
Alleghany, on the first Tuesday of September follow
ing, for the purpose of expressing the sense of the
people of those counties, in an address to the Legis
lature of the United States upon the subject of the
excise law and other grievances.

Another meeting accordingly took place on the 7th
of September, 1791, at Pittsburgh, in the county of
Alleghany, at which there appeared persons in the
character of delegates from the four western counties.

This meeting entered into resolutions more com-

Hamilton to Washington 361

prehensive in their objects, and not less inflammatory
in their tendency than those which had before passed
the meeting in Washington.

Their resolutions contained severe censures, not
only on the law which was the immediate subject of
objection, but upon what they termed the exorbitant
salaries of officers, the unreasonable interest of the
public debt, the want of discrimination between
original holders and transferees, and the institution
of a national bank. The same unfriendly temper
towards the Government of the United States, which
seemed to have led out of their way the meeting at
Washington, appears to have produced a similar
wandering in that at Pittsburgh.

A representation to Congress, and a remonstrance
to the Legislature of Pennsylvania against the law
more particularly complained of, were prepared by
this meeting, published together with the other pro
ceedings in the Pittsburgh Gazette, and afterwards
presented to the respective bodies to whom they were
addressed.

These meetings, composed of very influential indi
viduals, and conducted without moderation or pru
dence, are justly chargeable with the excesses which
have been from time to time committed; serving to
give consistency to an opposition which has at length
matured to a point that threatens the foundations of
the government and of the Union, unless speedily
and effectually subdued.

On the 6th of the same month of September, the
opposition broke out in an act of violence upon the
person and property of Robert Johnson, collector

362 Alexander Hamilton

of the revenues for the counties of Alleghany and
Washington.

A party of men, armed and disguised, waylaid him
at a place on Pidgeon Creek, in Washington County,
seized, tarred and feathered him, cut off his hair, and
deprived him of his horse, obliging him to travel on
foot a considerable distance in that mortifying and
painful situation.

The case was brought before the District Court of
Pennsylvania, out of which processes issued against
John Robertson, John Hamilton, and Thomas
McComb, three of the persons concerned in the
outrage.

The serving of these processes was confided by the
then marshall, Clement Biddle, to his deputy, Joseph
Fox, who in the month of October went into Alle
ghany County for the purpose of serving them.

The appearances and circumstances which Mr. Fox
observed himself, in the course of his journey, and
learned afterwards, upon his arrival at Pittsburgh,
had the effect of deterring him from the service of the
processes, and unfortunately led him to adopt the
injudicious and fruitless expedient of sending them to
the parties by a private messenger under cover.

The deputy's report to the marshal states a number
of particulars evincing a considerable fermentation in
the part of the country to which he was sent, and
inducing a belief on his part, that he could not with
safety have executed the processes. The marshal,
transmitting this report to the district attorney,
makes the following observations upon it: "I am
sorry to add, that he (the deputy) found the people in

Hamilton to Washington 363

general in the western part of the State, and par
ticularly beyond the Alleghany Mountains, in such a
ferment on account of the act of Congress for laying
a duty on distilled spirits, and so much opposed to
the execution of the said act, and from a variety of
threats to himself personally, although he took the
utmost precaution to conceal his errand, that he was
not only convinced of the impossibility of serving the
process, but that any attempt to effect it would have
occasioned the most violent opposition from the
greater part of the inhabitants ; and he declares that
if he had attempted it, he believes he should not have
returned alive. I spared no expense nor pains to
have the process of the court executed, and have not
the least doubt that my deputy would have accom
plished it, if it could have been done."

The reality of the danger to the deputy was coun
tenanced by the opinion of General Neville, the in
spector of the revenue, a man who before had given,
and since has given, numerous proofs of a steady
and firm temper. And what followed is a further
confirmation of it. The person who had been sent
with the processes was seized, whipped, tarred and
feathered, and after having his money and horse
taken from him, was blindfolded and tied in the
woods, in which condition he remained five hours.

Very serious reflections naturally occurred upon
this occasion. It seemed highly probable, from the
issue of the experiment which had been made, that
the ordinary course of civil process would be ineffect
ual for enforcing the execution of the law in the scene
in question, and that a perseverance in this course

364 Alexander Hamilton

might lead to a serious concussion. The law itself
was still in the infancy of its operation, and far from
established in other important portions of the Union.
Prejudices against it had been industriously dissem
inated, misrepresentations diffused, misconceptions
fostered. The Legislature of the United States had
not yet organized the means by which the Executive
could come in aid of the Judiciary, when found in
competent to the execution of the laws. If neither of
these impediments to a decisive exertion had existed,
it was desirable, especially in a republican govern
ment, to avoid what is in such cases the ultimate
resort, till all the milder means had been tried without
success.

Under the united influence of these considerations,
it appeared advisable to forbear urging coercive meas
ures, until the laws had gone into more extensive
operation, till further time for reflection and experi
ence of its operation had served to correct false im
pressions and inspire greater moderation, and till the
Legislature had had an opportunity, by a revision of
the law, to remove, as far as possible, objections, and
to reinforce the provisions for securing its execution.

Other incidents occurred from time to time, which
are further proofs of the very improper temper that
prevailed among the inhabitants of the refractory
counties.

Mr. Johnson was not the only officer who about the
same period experienced outrage. Mr. Wells, col
lector of the revenue for Westmoreland and Fayette,
was also ill-treated at Greensburgh and Union Town ;
nor were the outrages perpetrated confined to the

Hamilton to Washington 365

officers; they extended to private citizens who only
dared to show their respect for the laws of their
country.

Some time in October, 1791, an unhappy man of
the name of Wilson, a stranger in the county, and
manifestly disordered in his intellects, imagining him
self to be a collector of the revenue, or invested with
some trust in relation to it, was so unlucky as to make
inquiries concerning distillers who had entered their
stills, giving out that he was to travel through the
United States, to ascertain and report to Congress the
number of stills, etc. This man was pursued by a
party in disguise, taken out of his bed, carried about
five miles back to a smith's shop, stripped of his
clothes, which were afterwards burnt, and, after hav
ing been himself inhumanly burnt in several places
with a heated iron, was tarred and feathered, and
about daylight dismissed — naked, wounded, and
otherwise in a very suffering condition. These par
ticulars are communicated in a letter from the in
spector of the revenue, of the i yth of November, who
declares that he had then himself seen the unfortun
ate maniac, the abuse of whom, as he expresses it,
exceeded description, and was sufficient to make
human nature shudder. The affair is the more ex
traordinary, as persons of weight and consideration
in that county are understood to have been actors in
it, and as the symptoms of insanity were, during the
whole time of inflicting the punishment, apparent—
the unhappy sufferer displaying the heroic fortitude
of a man who conceived himself to be a martyr to the
discharge of some important duty.

366 Alexander Hamilton

Not long after, a person of the name of Roseberry
underwent the humiliating punishment of tarring and
feathering, with some aggravations, for having in
conversation hazarded the very natural and just but
unpalatable remark, that the inhabitants of that
county could not reasonably expect protection from a
government whose laws they so strenuously opposed.

The audacity of the perpetrators of those excesses
was so great, that an armed banditti ventured to seize
and carry off two persons who were witnesses against
the rioters in the case of Wilson, in order to prevent
their giving testimony of the riot to a court then
sitting, or about to sit.

Designs of personal violence against the Inspector
of the Revenue himself, to force him to a resignation,
were repeatedly attempted to be put in execution by
armed parties, but by different circumstances were
frustrated.

In the session of Congress which commenced in
October, 1791, the law laying a duty on distilled
spirits and stills came under the revision of Congress,
as had been anticipated. By an act passed May 8,
1792, during that session, material alterations were
made in it. Among these the duty was reduced to a
rate so moderate as to have silenced complaint on
that head; and a new and very favorable alternative
was given to the distiller, that of paying a monthly
instead of a yearly rate, according to the capacity of
his still, with liberty to take a license for the precise
term which he should intend to work it, and to renew
that license for a further term or terms. This amend
ing act, in its progress through the Legislature, en-

Hamilton to Washington 367

gaged the particular attention of members who
themselves were interested in distilleries, and of
others who represented parts of the country in which
the business of distilling was extensively carried on.

Objections were well considered, and great pains
taken to obviate all such as had the semblance of
reasonableness.

The effect has in a great measure corresponded
with the views of the Legislature. Opposition has
subsided in several districts where it before prevailed ;
and it was natural to entertain, and not easy to
abandon, a hope that the same thing would by degrees
have taken place in the four western counties of this
State. But, notwithstanding some flattering appear
ances at particular junctures, and infinite pains by
various expedients to produce the desirable issue, the
hope entertained has never been realized, and is now
at an end, as far as the ordinary means of executing
laws are concerned.

The first law had left the number and positions of
the offices of inspection, which were to be established
in each district for receiving entries of stills, to the
discretion of the supervisor. The second, to secure
a due accommodation to distillers, provides peremp
torily that there shall be one in each county.

The idea was immediately embraced, that it was a
very important point in the scheme of opposition to
the law, to prevent the establishment of offices in the
respective counties. For this purpose the intimida
tion of well-disposed inhabitants was added to the
plan of molesting and obstructing the officers by force
or otherwise, as might be necessary. So effectually

368 Alexander Hamilton

was the first point carried (the certain destruction of
property and the peril of life being involved), that
it became almost impracticable to obtain suitable
places for offices in some of the counties, and when
obtained, it was found a matter of necessity, in almost
every instance, to abandon them.

After much effort, the Inspector of the Revenue
succeeded in procuring the house of William Faulk
ner, a captain in the army, for an office of inspection
in the county of Washington. This took place in
August, 1792. The office was attended by the in
spector of the revenue in person, till prevented by the
following incidents.

Captain Faulkner, being in pursuit of some desert
ers from the troops, was encountered by a number of
people in the same neighborhood where Mr. Johnson
had been ill-treated the preceding year, who re
proached him with letting his house for an office of
inspection, drew a knife upon him, threatened to scalp
him, tar and feather him, and reduce his house and
property to ashes, if he did not solemnly promise to
prevent the further use of his house for an office.
Capt. Faulkner was induced to make the promise
exacted, and, in consequence of the circumstance,
wrote a letter to the inspector, dated the 2oth of
August, countermanding the permission for using his
house, and the day following gave a public notice in
the Pittsburgh Gazette that the office of inspection
should be no longer kept there.

At the same time another engine of opposition was
in operation. Agreeable to a previous notification,
there met at Pittsburgh, on the 2ist of August, a

Hamilton to Washington 369

number of persons styling themselves "A Meeting
of Sundry Inhabitants of the Western Counties of
Pennsylvania."

This meeting entered into resolutions not less ex
ceptionable than those of its predecessors. The pre
amble suggested that a tax on spirituous liquors is
unjust in itself, and oppressive upon the poor; that
internal taxes upon consumption must, in the end,
destroy the liberties of every country in which they
are introduced ; that the law in question, from certain
local circumstances which are specified, would bring
immediate distress and ruin upon the western
country ; and concludes with the sentiment, that they
think it their duty to persist in remonstrances to
Congress, and in every other LEGAL measure that may
obstruct the operation of the LAW.

The resolutions then proceed, first, to appoint a
committee to prepare and cause to be presented to
Congress an address, stating objections to the law,
and praying for its repeal ; secondly, to appoint com
mittees of correspondence for Washington, Fayette,
and Alleghany, charged to correspond together, and
with such committee as should be appointed for the
same purpose in the county of Westmoreland, or with
any committees of a similar nature that might be
appointed in other parts of the United States, and
also, if found necessary, to call together either general
meetings of the people, in their respective counties, or
conferences of the several committees; and lastly, to
declare that they will, in future, consider those who
hold offices for the collection of the duty, as unworthy
of their friendship, that they will have no intercourse

VOL. VI. — 24.

37° Alexander Hamilton

nor dealings with them, will withdraw from them every
assistance, withhold all the comforts of life which depend
upon those duties that as men and fellow-citizens we owe
to each other, and will upon all occasions treat them with
contempt, earnestly RECOMMENDING IT TO THE PEOPLE

AT LARGE TO FOLLOW THE SAME LINE OF CONDUCT
TOWARDS THEM.

The idea of pursuing legal measures to obstruct the
operation of a law, needs little comment. Legal meas
ures may be pursued to procure the repeal of a law,
but to obstruct its operation presents a contradiction in
terms. The operation, or, what is the same thing,
the execution of a law, cannot be obstructed after it
has been constitutionally enacted, without illegality
and crime. The expression quoted is one of those
phrases which can only be used to conceal a disorderly
and culpable intention under forms that may escape
the hold of the law.

Neither was it difficult to perceive that the ana
thema pronounced against the officers of the revenue
placed them in a state of virtual outlawry, and oper
ated as a signal to all those who were bold enough to
encounter the guilt and the danger to violate both
their lives and their properties.

The foregoing proceedings, as soon as known, were
reported by the Secretary of the Treasury to the
President. The President, on the 1 5th of September,
1792, issued a proclamation, "earnestly admonishing
and exhorting all persons whom it might concern to
refrain and desist from all unlawful combinations and
proceedings whatsoever, having for object, or tend
ing, to obstruct the operation of the laws aforesaid,

Hamilton to Washington 371

inasmuch as all lawful ways and means would be put
in execution for bringing to justice the infractors
thereof, and securing obedience thereto; and more
over, charging and requiring all courts, magistrates,
and officers whom it might concern, according to the
duties of their several offices, to exert the powers
in them respectively vested by law, for the purposes
aforesaid; thereby also enjoining and requiring all
persons whomsoever, as they tendered the welfare of
their country, the just and due authority of govern
ment, and the preservation of the public peace, to be
aiding and assisting therein according to law"; and
likewise directed that prosecutions might be instituted
against the offenders in the cases in which the laws
would support and the requisite evidence could be
obtained.

Pursuant to these instructions, the Attorney-Gen
eral, in co-operation with the attorney of the district,
attended a circuit court which was holden at York-
town, in October, 1792, for the purpose of bringing
forward prosecutions in the proper cases.

Collateral measures were taken to procure for this
purpose the necessary evidence.

The supervisor of the revenue was sent into the
opposing survey, to ascertain the real state of that
survey, to obtain evidence of the persons who were
concerned in the riot in Faulkner's case, and of those
who composed the meeting at Pittsburgh, to uphold
the confidence and encourage the perseverance of
the officers acting under the law, and to induce, if
possible, the inhabitants of that part of the survey
which appeared least disinclined, to come voluntarily

372 Alexander Hamilton

into the law by arguments addressed to their sense
of duty, and exhibiting the eventual dangers and
mischiefs of resistance.

The mission of the supervisor had no other fruit
than that of obtaining evidence of the persons who
composed the meeting at Pittsburgh, and of two who
were understood to be concerned in the riot; and a
confirmation of the enmity which certain active and
designing leaders had industriously infused into a
large proportion of the inhabitants, not against the
particular laws in question only, but of a more ancient
date, against the Government of the United States
itself.

The then Attorney-General being of opinion that it
was at best a doubtful point whether the proceedings
of the meeting at Pittsburgh contained indictable
matter, no prosecution was attempted against those
who composed it, though, if the ground for proceeding
against them had appeared to be firm, it is presumed
that the truest policy would have dictated that
course.

Indictments were preferred to the Circuit Court,
and found against the two persons understood to have
been concerned in the riot, and the usual measures
were taken for carrying them into effect.

But it appearing afterwards from various repre
sentations, supported by satisfactory testimony, that
there had been some mistake as to the persons ac
cused, justice and policy demanded that the prosecu
tions should be discontinued, which was accordingly
done.

This issue of the business unavoidably defeated the

Hamilton to Washington 373

attempt to establish examples of the punishment of
persons who engaged in a violent resistance of the
laws, and left the officers to struggle against the
stream of resistance without the advantage of such
examples.

The following plan, which was afterwards put in
execution, was about this time digested, for carrying,
if possible, the laws into effect without the necessity
of recurring to force.

i . To prosecute delinquents in the cases in which it
could be clearly done for non-compliance with the
laws. 2. To intercept the markets for the surplus
produce of the distilleries of the non-complying
counties, by seizing the spirits on their way to those
markets in places where it could be effected without
opposition. 3. By purchases through agents, for the
use of the army (instead of deriving the supply
through contracts as formerly), confining them to
spirits, in respect to which there had been a com
pliance with the laws.

The motives to this plan speak for themselves. It
aimed, besides the influence of penalties on delin
quents, at making it the general interest of the dis
tillers to comply with the laws, by interrupting the
market for a very considerable surplus, and by at the
same time confining the benefit of the large demand
for public service to those who did their duty to the
public, and furnishing, through the means of payment
in cash, that medium for paying the duties, the want
of which was alleged to be a great difficulty in the way
of compliance. But two circumstances conspired to
counteract the success of the plan : one, the necessity,

374 Alexander Hamilton

towards incurring the penalties of non-compliance, of
there being an office of inspection in each county,
which was prevented in some of the counties by means
of the intimidation practised for that purpose; an
other, the non-extension of the law to the territory
northwest of the Ohio, into which a large proportion
of the surplus before mentioned was sent. A cure for
these defects could only come from the Legislature.
Accordingly, in the session which began in November,
1792, measures were taken for procuring a further
revision of the laws. A bill containing amendments
of those and other defects, was brought in; but it so
happened, that this object, by reason of more urgent
business, was deferred till towards the close of the
session, and finally went off through the usual hurry
of that period.

The continuance of the embarrassment incident to
this state of things, naturally tended to diminish
much of the efficacy of the plan which had been de
vised. Yet it was resolved, as far as legal provisions
would bear out the officers, to pursue it with per
severance. There was ground to entertain hopes of
its good effects ; and it was certainly the most likely
course which could have been adopted towards attain
ing the objects of the laws, by means short of force ;
evincing unequivocally the sincere disposition to avoid
this painful resort, and the steady moderation which
has characterized the measures of the government.

In pursuance of this plan, prosecutions were occa
sionally instituted in the mildest forms, seizures were
made as opportunities occurred, and purchases on
public account were carried on.

Hamilton to Washington 375

It may be incidentally remarked that these pur
chases were extended to other places; where, though
the same disorders did not exist, it appeared advisable
to facilitate the payment of the duties by this species
of accommodation.

Nor was this plan, notwithstanding the deficiency
of legal provision, which impeded its full execution,
without corresponding effects. Symptoms from time
to time appeared which authorized expectations, that
with the aid, at another session, of the desired supple
mentary provisions, it was capable of accomplishing
its end, if no extraordinary events occurred.

The opponents of the laws, not insensible of the
tendency of that plan, nor of the defects in the laws
which interfered with it, did not fail from time to time
to pursue analogous modes of counteraction. The
effort to frustrate the establishment of offices of in
spection, in particular, was persisted in, and even in
creased. Means of intimidating officers and others,
continued to be exerted.

In April, 1793, a party of armed men in disguise
made an attack in the night upon the house of a
collector of revenue who resided in Fayette County,
but he happening to be from home, they contented
themselves with breaking open his house, threatening,
terrifying, and abusing his family.

Warrants were issued for apprehending some of the
rioters upon this occasion, by Isaac Mason and James
Findlay, assistant judges of Fayette County, which
were delivered to the sheriff of that county, who, it
seems, refused to execute them, for which he has since
been indicted.

376 Alexander Hamilton

This is at once an example of the disposition to sup
port the laws of the Union, and of an opposite one,
in the local officers of Pennsylvania, within the non-
complying scene. But it is a truth too important not
to be noticed, and too injurious not to be lamented,
that the prevailing spirit of those officers has been
either hostile or lukewarm to the execution of those
laws; and that the weight of an unfriendly official
influence has been one of the most serious obstacles
with which they have had to struggle.

In June following, the Inspector of the Revenue
was burnt in effigy in Alleghany County, at a place
and on a day of some public election, with much dis
play, in the presence of and without interruption from
magistrates and other public officers.

On the night of the 226. of November, another
party of men, some of them armed, and all in disguise,
went to the house of the same collector of Fayette
which had been visited in April, broke and entered it,
and demanded a surrender of the officer's commission
and official books. Upon his refusing to deliver them
up, they presented pistols at him, and swore that if
he did not comply they would instantly put him to
death. At length a surrender of the commission and
books was enforced. But not content with this, the
rioters, before they departed, required of the officer
that he should, within two weeks, publish his resigna
tion, on pain of another such visit and a destruction of
his house.

Notwithstanding these excesses, the laws appeared
during the latter periods of this year to be rather
gaining ground. Several principal distillers, who had

Hamilton to Washington 377

formerly held out, complied, and others discovered a
disposition to comply, which was only restrained by
the fear of violence.

But these favorable circumstances served to beget
alarm among those who were determined, at all
events, to prevent the quiet establishment of the
laws. It soon appeared that they meditated, by
fresh and greater excesses, to aim a still more
effectual blow at them, to subdue the growing
spirit of compliance, and to destroy entirely the or
gans of the laws, within that part of the country,
by compelling all the officers to renounce their
offices.

The last proceeding in the case of the collector of
Fayette, was in this spirit.

In January, of the present year, further violences
appear to have been perpetrated. William Rich
mond, who had given information against some of
the rioters in the affair of WILSON, had his barn
burnt, with all the grain and hay which it con
tained; and the same thing happened to Robert
Shawhan, a distiller, who had been among the first
to comply with the law, and who had always spoken
favorably of it. But in neither of these instances
(which happened in the county of Alleghany),
though the presumptions were violent, was any
positive proof obtained.

The Inspector of the Revenue, in a letter of the
27th of February, writes, that he had received in
formation that persons living near the dividing line
of Alleghany and Washington had thrown out threats
of tarring and feathering one William Cochran, a

378 Alexander Hamilton

complying distiller, and of burning his distillery;
and that it had also been given out that, in three
weeks, there would not be a house standing in Alle-
ghany County, of any person who had complied
with the laws. In consequence of which, he had
been induced to pay a visit to several leading in
dividuals in that quarter, as well to ascertain the
truth of the information, as to endeavor to avert the
attempt to execute such threats.

It appeared afterwards, that on his return home
he had been pursued by a collection of disorderly
persons, threatening, as they went along, vengeance
against him. On their way these men called at the
house of James Kiddoe, who had recently complied
with the laws, broke into his still-house, fired several
balls under his still, and scattered fire over and
about the house.

Letters from the Inspector, in March, announce an
increased activity in promoting opposition to the
laws; frequent meetings to cement and extend the
combinations against it; and among other means
for this purpose, a plan of collecting a force to seize
him, compel him to resign his commission, and de
tain him prisoner probably as a hostage.

In May and June new violences were committed.
James Kiddoe, the person above mentioned, and
William Cochran, another complying distiller, met
with repeated injury to their property. Kiddoe had
parts of his grist-mill at different times carried away,
and Cochran suffered more material injuries; his
still was destroyed, his saw-mill was rendered useless
by the taking away of the saw, and his grist-mill so

Hamilton to Washington 379

injured as to require to be repaired at considerable
expense.

At the last visit, a note in writing was left, re
quiring him to publish what he had suffered in the
Pittsburgh Gazette, on pain of another visit, in which
he is threatened, in figurative but intelligible terms,
with the destruction of his property by fire; thus
adding to the profligacy of doing wanton injuries to
a fellow-citizen, the tyranny of compelling him to be
the publisher of his wrongs.

June being the month for receiving annual entries
of stills, endeavors were used to open offices in West
moreland and Washington, where it had been hith
erto found impracticable. With much pains and
difficulty places were secured for the purpose. That
in Westmoreland was repeatedly attacked in the
night by armed men, who frequently fired upon it,
but according to a report which has been made to
this department, it was defended with so much
courage and perseverance by John Wells, an auxiliary
officer, and Philip Regan, the owner of the house, as
to have been maintained during the remainder of
the month.

That in Washington, after repeated attempts, was
suppressed ; the first attempt was confined to pulling
down the sign of the office, and threats of future
destruction; the second effected the object in the
following mode: About twelve persons, armed and
painted black, in the night of the 6th of June, broke
into the house of John Lynn, where the office was
kept, and after having treacherously seduced him to
come down stairs and put himself in their power, by

380 Alexander Hamilton

a promise of safety to himself and his house, they
seized and tied him, threatened to hang him, took
him to a retired spot in a neighboring wood, and
there, after cutting off his hair, tarring and feathering
him, swore him never again to allow the use of his
house for an office, never to disclose their names, and
never again to have any sort of agency in aid of the
excise; having done which, they bound him naked
to a tree, and left him in that situation till morning,
when he succeeded in extricating himself. Not con
tent with this, the malcontents some days after
made him another visit, pulled down part of his
house, and put him in a situation to be obliged to
become an exile from his home, and to find an
asylum elsewhere.

During this time several of the distillers, who had
made entries and benefited by them, refused the
payment of the duties, actuated, no doubt, by vari
ous motives.

Indications of a plan to proceed against the In
spector of the Revenue, in the manner which has
been before mentioned, continued. In a letter from
him of the loth of July, he observed that the threat
ened visit had not been made, though he had still
reason to expect it.

In the session of Congress which began in Decem
ber, 1793, a bill for making the amendments in the
laws, which had been for some time desired, was
brought in, and on the 5th of June last became a law.

It is not to be doubted that the different stages of
this business were regularly notified to the malcon
tents, and that a conviction of the tendency of the

Hamilton to Washington 381

amendments contemplated to effectuate the execu
tion of the law, had matured the resolution to bring
matters to a violent crisis.

The increasing energy of the opposition rendered
it indispensable to meet the evil with proportionable
decision. The idea of giving time for the law to
extend itself in scenes where the dissatisfaction with
it was the effect not of an improper spirit, but of
causes which were of a nature to yield to reason,
reflection, and experience (which had constantly
weighed in the estimate of the measures proper to
be pursued), had had its effect in an extensive de
gree. The experiment, too, had been long enough
tried to ascertain, that where resistance continued,
the root of the evil lay deep, and required measures
of greater efficacy than had been pursued.

The laws had undergone repeated revisions of the
legislative representatives of the Union, and had
virtually received their repeated sanction, without
even an attempt, as far as is now recollected or can
be traced, to effect their repeal — affording an evi
dence of the general sense of the community in their
favor. Complaints began to be loud from complying
quarters, against the impropriety and injustice of
suffering the laws to remain unexecuted in others.

Under the united influence of these considerations,
there was no choice but to try the efficiency of
the laws in prosecuting with vigor delinquents and
offenders.

Processes issued against a number of non-com
plying distillers in the counties of Fayette and
Alleghany, and indictments having been found at a

382 Alexander Hamilton

circuit court, holden at Philadelphia in July last,
against Robert Smilie and John McCulloch, two of
the rioters in the attack which in November pre
ceding had been made upon the house of a collector
of the revenue in Fayette County, processes issued
against them also, to bring them to trial, and, if
guilty, to punishment.

The marshal of the district went in person to serve
these processes. He executed the trust without
interruption, though under many discouraging cir
cumstances, in Fayette County; but while he was in
the execution of it in Alleghany County — being then
accompanied by the Inspector of the Revenue, to
wit — on the i5th of July last, he was beset on the
road by a party of from thirty to forty armed men,
who, after much previous irregularity of conduct,
finally fired upon him, but, as it happened, without
injury either to him or to the Inspector.

This attempt on the marshal was but the prelude
of greater excesses.

About break of day, the i6th of July, in conform
ity with a plan which seems to have been for some
time entertained, and which probably was only ac
celerated by the coming of the marshal into the sur
vey, an attack by about one hundred persons, armed
with guns and other weapons, was made upon the
house of the Inspector, in the vicinity of Pittsburgh.
The Inspector, though alone, vigorously defended
himself against the assailants, and obliged them to
retreat without accomplishing their purpose.

Apprehending that the business would not ter
minate here, he made application, by letter, to the

Hamilton to Washington 383

judges, generals of militia, and sheriff of the country
for protection. A reply to his application from John
Wilkins, junior, and John Gibson, magistrates and
militia officers, informed him that the laws could not
be executed so as to afford him the protection to
which he was entitled, owing to the too general com
bination of the people in that part of Pennsylvania
to oppose the revenue law ; adding, that they would
take every step in their power to bring the rioters
to justice, and would be glad to receive information
of the individuals concerned in the attack upon
his house, that prosecutions might be commenced
against them; and expressing their sorrow that,
should the POSSE COMITATUS of the county be
ordered out in support of the civil authority, very
few could be gotten that were not of the party of the
rioters.

The day following, the insurgents reassembled
with a considerable augmentation of numbers,
amounting, as has been computed, to at least five
hundred, and on the iyth of July renewed their at
tack upon the house of the Inspector, who, in the
interval, had taken the precaution of calling to his
aid a small detachment from the garrison of Fort
Pitt, which, at the time of the attack, consisted of
eleven men, who had been joined by Major Abra
ham Kirkpatrick, a friend and connection of the
Inspector.

There being scarcely a prospect of effectual de
fence against so large a body as then appeared, and
as the Inspector had every thing to apprehend for
his person, if taken, it was judged advisable that he

384 Alexander Hamilton

should withdraw from the house to a place of conceal
ment — Major Kirkpatrick generously agreeing to
remain with the eleven men, in the intention, if
practicable, to make a capitulation in favor of the
property; if not, to defend it as long as possible.

A parley took place, under cover of a flag which
was sent by the insurgents to the house, to demand
that the inspector should come forth, renounce his
office, and stipulate never again to accept office
under the same laws. To this it was replied, that
the inspector had left the house upon their first ap
proach, and that the place to which he had retired
was unknown. They then declared that they must
have whatever related to his office. They were an
swered, that they might send persons, not exceeding
six, to search the house and take away whatever
papers they could find appertaining to the office.
But, not satisfied with this, they insisted, uncon
ditionally, that the armed men who were in the
house for its defence should march out and ground
their arms, which Major Kirkpatrick peremptorily
refused, considering it, and representing it to them,
as a proof of their design to destroy the property.
This refusal put an end to the parley.

A brisk firing then ensued between the insurgents
and those in the house, which, it is said, lasted for
nearly an hour, till the assailants, having set fire
to the neighboring and adjacent buildings, eight in
number, the intenseness of the heat, and the danger
of an immediate communication of the fire to the
house, obliged Major Kirkpatrick and his small
party to come out and surrender themselves. In

Hamilton to Washington 385

the course of the firing, one of the insurgents was
killed and several wounded, and three of the persons
in the house were also wounded. The person killed
is understood to have been the leader of the party,
of the name of James McFarlane, then a major in the
militia, formerly a lieutenant in the Pennsylvania
line. The dwelling-house, after the surrender, shared
the fate of the other buildings, the whole of which
were consumed to the ground. The loss of property
to the inspector, upon this occasion, is estimated
(and, as it is believed, with great moderation) at not
less than three thousand pounds.

The marshal, Colonel Presley Neville, and several
others, were taken by the insurgents going to the
inspector's house. All, except the marshal and
Colonel Neville, soon made their escape; but these
were carried off some distance from the place where
the affray had happened, and detained till one or
two o'clock the next morning. In the course of
their detention, the marshal in particular suffered
very severe and humiliating treatment, and was
frequently in imminent danger of his life. Several
of the party repeatedly presented their pieces at
him, with every appearance of a design to assassinate
him, from which they were with difficulty restrained
by the efforts of a few, more humane and more
prudent.

Nor could he obtain safety or liberty, but upon
the condition of a promise, guaranteed by Colonel
Neville, that he would serve no other process on
the west side of the Alleghany Mountains. The
alternative being immediate death, extorted from

VOL. VI. — 25.

386 Alexander Hamilton

the marshal a compliance with this condition, not
withstanding the just sense of official dignity and
the firmness of character which were witnessed by
his conduct throughout the trying scenes he had
experienced.

The insurgents, on the i8th, sent a deputation of
two of their number (one a justice of the peace) to
Pittsburgh, to require of the marshal a surrender of
the processes in his possession, intimating that his
compliance would satisfy the people and add to his
safety; and also to demand of General Neville, in
peremptory terms, the resignation of his office;
threatening, in case of refusal, to attack the place,
and take him by force — demands which both these
officers did not hesitate to reject, as alike incom
patible with their honor and their duty.

As it was well ascertained that no protection was
to be expected from the magistrates or inhabitants
of Pittsburgh, it became necessary to the safety
both of the inspector and the marshal, to quit that
place ; and, as it was known that all the usual routes
to Philadelphia were beset by the insurgents, they
concluded to descend the Ohio, and proceed by a
circuitous route to the seat of government, which
they began to put in execution on the night of the
1 9th of July.

Information has also been received of a meeting
of a considerable number of persons at a place called
Mingo Creek Meeting-house, in the county of Wash
ington, to consult about the further measures which
it might be advisable to pursue; that at this meeting
a motion was made to approve and agree to support

Hamilton to Washington 387

the proceedings which had taken place, until the
excise law was repealed, and an act of oblivion
passed; but that, instead of this, it had been agreed
that the four western counties of Pennsylvania and
the neighboring counties of Virginia should be in
vited to meet in a convention of delegates, on the
1 4th of the present month, at Parkinson's, on Mingo
Creek, in the county of Washington, to take into
consideration the situation of the western country,
and concert such measures as should appear suited
to the occasion.

It appears, moreover, that, on the 25th of July
last, the mail of the United States, on the road from
Pittsburgh to Philadelphia, was stopped by two
armed men, who cut it open, and took out all the
letters except those contained in one packet. These
armed men, from all the circumstances which oc
curred, were manifestly acting on the part of the
insurgents.

The declared object of the foregoing proceedings
is to obstruct the execution and compel a repeal of
the laws laying duties on spirits distilled within the
United States, and upon stills. There is just cause
to believe that this is connected with an indisposi
tion, too general in that quarter, to share in the
common burdens of the community, and with a
wish, among some persons of influence, to embarrass
the government. It is affirmed, by well-informed
persons, to be a fact of notoriety, that the revenue
laws of the State itself have always been either re
sisted or very defectively complied with in the same
quarter.

388 Alexander Hamilton

With the most perfect respect, I have the honor to
be, etc.

CABINET OPINION — HAMILTON AND KNOX TO
WASHINGTON

PHILADELPHIA, August 5, 1794.

SIR:

The draft of a proclamation and that of an instruc
tion to the commissioners being both prepared, we
take the liberty to suggest that we think a meeting
to-morrow morning, at such hour as may be con
venient to the President, may be advisable. The
Secretary of State and Attorney-General being out
of town, we cannot consult them, but we will engage
the attendance of the Attorney-General, provision
ally, by nine o'clock, and if the President concludes
on the meeting at that hour, he can have the Secre
tary of State apprised of it.

We have the honor to be, etc.

A. HAMILTON.

H. KNOX.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON

August 6, 1794.

The Secretary of the Treasury presents his re
spects to the President, and sends him the statement
of facts promised. The date is proposed to be two
or three days before the proclamation, when it was
in fact begun. There is a blank to be filled with a
quotation from a former proclamation, which is not

Proclamation 3^9

immediately at hand; but the blank will be filled
before it goes to the press. If the President thinks
the publication proper, and will be pleased to return
the inclosed, the original draft being too much oblit
erated for the purpose, it shall be immediately begun
in Dunlap's paper.

PROCLAMATION

August 7, 1794.

By the President of the United States of America

A PROCLAMATION

Whereas, combinations to defeat the execution of
the laws laying duties upon spirits distilled within
the United States, and upon stills, have, from the
time of the commencement of those laws, existed in
some of the western parts of Pennsylvania: and
whereas, the said combinations, proceeding in a
manner subversive equally of the just authority of
government and of the rights of individuals, have
hitherto effected their dangerous and criminal pur
pose, by the influence of certain irregular meetings,
whose proceedings have tended to encourage and
uphold the spirit of opposition; by misrepresenta
tions of the laws, calculated to render them odious ;
by endeavors to deter those who might be so dis
posed from accepting offices under them, through
fear of public resentment, and of injury to person
and property, and to compel those who had ac
cepted such offices, by actual violence to surrender

39° Alexander Hamilton

or forbear the execution of them ; by circulating vin
dictive menaces against all those who should other
wise directly or indirectly aid in the execution of the
said laws, or who, yielding to the dictates of con
science and to a sense of obligation, should them
selves comply therewith, by actually injuring and
destroying the property of persons who were under
stood to have so complied; by inflicting cruel and
humiliating punishments upon private citizens, for
no other cause than that of appearing to be the
friends of the laws ; by intercepting the public
officers on the highways, abusing, assaulting, and
otherwise ill-treating them; by going to their houses
in the night, gaining admittance by force, taking
away their papers, and committing other outrages;
employing for these unwarrantable purposes the
agency of armed banditti, disguised in such man
ner as for the most part to escape discovery: and
whereas, the endeavors of the Legislature to obviate
objections to the said laws, by lowering the duties,
and by other alterations conducive to the convenience
of those whom they immediately affect (though they
have given satisfaction in other quarters), and the
endeavors of the executive officers to conciliate a
compliance with the laws, by explanations, by for
bearance, and even by particular accommodations,
founded on the suggestions of local considerations,
have been disappointed of their effect by the mach
inations of persons, whose industry to excite re
sistance has increased with every appearance of a
disposition among the people to relax in their oppo
sition and to acquiesce in the laws, insomuch that

Proclamation 391

many persons in the said western parts of Pennsyl
vania have at length been hardy enough to perpetrate
acts which I am advised amount to treason, being
overt acts of levying war against the United States ;
the said persons having, on the i6th and zyth of
July last past, proceeded in arms (on the second
day amounting to several hundreds) to the house of
John Neville, inspector of the revenue for the fourth
survey of the district of Pennsylvania, having re
peatedly attacked the said house, with the persons
therein, wounding some of them; having seized
David Lenox, marshal of the district of Pennsyl
vania, who previous thereto had been fired upon
while in the execution of his duty by a party of armed
men, detaining him for some time prisoner, till, for
the preservation of his life, and the obtaining of his
liberty, he found it necessary to enter into stipula
tions to forbear the execution of certain official
duties touching processes issuing out of a court of the
United States; and having finally obliged the said
inspector of the said revenue, and the said marshal,
from considerations of personal safety, to fly from
that part of the country, in order, by a circuitous
route, to proceed to the seat of government; avow
ing, as the motives of these outrageous proceedings,
an intention to prevent, by force of arms, the execu
tion of the said laws ; to oblige the said inspector of
the revenue to renounce his said office ; to withstand,
by open violence, the lawful authority of the Gov
ernment of the United States ; and to compel there
by an alteration in the measures of the Legislature,
and a repeal of the laws aforesaid : and whereas, by

39 2 Alexander Hamilton

a law of the United States, entitled " An act to pro
vide for calling forth the militia to execute the laws
of the Union, suppress insurrections, and repel inva
sions," it is enacted, " that, whenever the laws of the
United States shall be opposed, or the execution
thereof obstructed, in any State, by combinations
too powerful to be suppressed by the ordinary course
of judicial proceedings, or by the powers vested in the
marshals by that act, the same being notified by an
associate justice or the district judge, it shall be law
ful for the President of the United States to call
forth the militia of such State to suppress such com
binations, and to cause the laws to be duly executed ;
and if the militia of a State where such combinations
may happen shall refuse, or be insufficient, to sup
press the same, it shall be lawful for the President, if
the Legislature of the United States shall not be in
session, to call forth and employ such members of
the militia of any other State or States most con
venient thereto, as may be necessary; and the use of
the militia, so to be called forth, may be continued,
if necessary, until the expiration of thirty days after
the commencement of the ensuing session; provided
always, that whenever it may be necessary, in the
judgment of the President, to use the military force
hereby directed to be called forth, the President
shall forthwith, and previous thereto, by proclama
tion, command such insurgents to disperse and retire
peaceably to their respective abodes within a limited
time"; and whereas, James Wilson, an associate
justice, on the 4th instant, by writing under his
hand, did, from evidence which had been laid before

Proclamation 393

him, notify to me that, " in the counties of Washing
ton and Alleghany, in Pennsylvania, laws of the
United States are opposed, and the execution there
of obstructed by combinations too powerful to be
suppressed by the ordinary course of judicial pro
ceedings, or by the powers vested in the marshal of
that district": and whereas, it is in my judgment
necessary, tinder the circumstances of the case, to
take measures for calling forth the militia in order to
suppress the combinations aforesaid, and to cause
the laws to be duly executed, I have accordingly
determined so to do, feeling the deepest regret for the
occasion, but withal the most solemn conviction that
the essential interests of the Union demand it, that
the very existence of government and the funda
mental principles of social order are materially in
volved in the issue, and that the patriotism and
firmness of all good citizens are seriously called upon,
as occasions may require, to aid in the effectual sup
pression of so fatal a spirit.

Wherefore, and in pursuance of the proviso above
recited, I, George Washington, President of the
United States, do hereby command all persons,
being insurgents as aforesaid, and all others whom it
may concern, on or before the first day of September
next, to disperse and retire peaceably to their re
spective abodes. And I do, moreover, warn all
persons whomsoever, against aiding, abetting, or
comforting the perpetrators of the aforesaid trea
sonable acts; and do require all officers and other
citizens, according to their respective duties, and
the laws of the land, to exert their utmost

394 Alexander Hamilton

endeavors to prevent and suppress such dangerous
proceedings.

In testimony whereof, I have caused the seal of the
United States of America to be affixed to these
presents, and signed the same with my hand.

Done at the city of Philadelphia, the seventh day of
August, one thousand seven hundred and

[L. S.] ninety four, and of the independence of the
United States of America, the nineteenth.

GEO. WASHINGTON.
By the President,

EDMUND RANDOLPH.

SECRETARY OF STATE TO MIFFLIN

Draft by Hamilton.

PHILADELPHIA, August 7, 1794.

SIR: — The President of the United States has di
rected me to acknowledge the receipt of your letter
of the 5th instant, and to communicate to you the
following reply:

In requesting an interview with you on the sub
ject of the recent disturbances in the western parts
of Pennsylvania, the President, besides the desire of
manifesting a respectful attention to the chief magis
trate of a State immediately affected, was influenced
by the hopes that a free conference, guided by a
united and comprehensive view of the Constitutions
of the United States and of Pennsylvania, and of the
respective institutions, authorities, rights, and duties

Secretary of State to Mifflin 395

of the two governments, would have assisted him in
forming more precise ideas of the nature of the co
operation which could be established between them,
and a better judgment of the plan which it might be
advisable for him to pursue, in the execution of his
trust in so important and delicate a conjuncture.
This having been his object, it is matter of some re
gret, that the course which has been suggested by
you, as proper to be pursued, seems to have con
templated Pennsylvania in a light too separate and
unconnected. The propriety of that course, in most
if not in all respects, would be susceptible of little
question if there were no federal government, federal
laws, federal judiciary, or federal officers; if impor
tant laws of the United States, by a series of violent
as well as of artful expedients, had not been frus
trated in their execution for more than three years;
if officers immediately charged with that execution,
after suffering much and repeated insult, abuse, per
sonal ill-treatment, and the destruction of property,
had not been compelled for safety to fly the places
of their residences, and the scenes of their official
duties ; if the service of the processes of a court of the
United States had not been resisted ; the marshal of
the district made and detained for some time a
prisoner, and compelled for safety also to abandon
the performance of his duty, and return by a cir
cuitous route to the seat of government; if, in fine, a
judge of the United States had not in due form of
law notified to the President, "that in the counties
of Washington and Alleghany, in Pennsylvania, laws
of the United States are opposed, and the execution

Alexander Hamilton

thereof obstructed by combinations too powerful to
be suppressed by the ordinary course of judicial pro
ceedings, or by the powers vested in the marshal of
that district." It is true, your excellency has re
marked, that in the plan suggested you have only
spoken as the executive magistrate of Pennsylvania,
charged with a general superintendence and care,
that the laws of the commonwealth be fully executed,
leaving it implicitly to the judgment of the Presi
dent to choose, on such evidence as he approves, the
measures for discharging the analogous trust which
is confided to him in relation to the laws of the
Union. But it is impossible not to think that the
current of the observations in your letter, especially
as to the consequences which may result from the
employment of coercive measures, previous to the
preliminary course which is indicated in it, may be
construed to imply a virtual disapprobation of that
plan of conduct, on the part of the General Govern
ment, in the actual stage of its affairs, which you
acknowledge would be proper on the part of the
Government of Pennsylvania, if arrived at a similar
stage. Let it be assumed here (to be more particu
larly shown hereafter), that the Government of the
United States is now at that point, where it is ad
mitted, if the Government of Pennsylvania was, the
employment of force by its authority would be jus
tifiable; and let the following extracts be consulted
for the truth of the inference which has been just
expressed. "Will not the resort to force inflame
and cement the existing opposition? Will it not
associate in a common resistance those who have

Secretary of State to Mifflin 397

hitherto peaceably, as well as those who have riot
ously, expressed their abhorrence of the excise? Will
it not collect and combine every latent principle
of discontent, arising from the supposed oppressive
operations of the federal judiciary, the obstruction
of the western navigation, and a variety of other
local sources? May not the magnitude of the op
position on the part of the ill-disposed, or the dis
satisfaction of a premature resort to arms on the part
of the well-disposed citizens of the State, eventually
involve the necessity of employing the militia of other
States? And the accumulation of discontent which
the jealousy engendered by that movement may
produce, who can calculate, or who will be able to
avert?"

These important questions naturally give birth to
the following serious reflections. The issues of hu
man affairs are in the hands of Providence. Those
intrusted with them in society have no other sure
guide than the sincere and faithful discharge of
their duty, according to the best of their judgments.
In emergencies, great and difficult, not to act with
an energy proportioned to their magnitude and pres
sure, is as dangerous as any other conceivable course.
In the present case, not to exert the means which
the laws prescribe for effectuating their own execu
tion, would be to sacrifice those laws, and with them
the Constitution, the Government, the principles of
social order, and the bulwarks of private right and
security. What worse can happen from the exertion
of these means?

If, as cannot be doubted, the great body of the

398 Alexander Hamilton

citizens of the United States are attached to the
Constitution, which they have established for the
management of their common concerns ; if they are
resolved to support their own authority in that of
the constitutional laws, against disorderly and vio
lent combinations of comparatively small portions
of the community ; if they are determined to protect
each other in the enjoyment of security to person
and property; if they are decided to preserve the
character of republican government, by evincing
that it has adequate resources for maintaining the
public order; if they are persuaded that their safety
and their welfare are materially connected with the
preservation of the Union, and consequently of a
government adequate to its exigencies; in fine, if
they are disposed to continue that state of respect
ability and prosperity which is now deservedly the
admiration of mankind — the enterprise to be accom
plished, should a resort to force prove inevitable,
though disagreeable and painful, cannot be arduous
or alarming.

If, in addition to these dispositions in the com
munity at large, the officers of the governments of
the respective States, feeling it to be not only a patri
otic but a constitutional duty (inculcated by the oath
enjoined upon all the officers of a State, legislative,
executive, and judicial), to support in their several
stations the Constitution of the United States, shall
be disposed, as occasion may require (a thing as little
to be doubted as the former), with sincerity and
good faith to co-operate with the Government of the
United States, to second with all their influence and

Secretary of State to Mifflin 399

weight its legal and necessary measures, by a legal
and substantial concert, then the enterprise to be
accomplished can hardly even be deemed difficult.

But if, contrary to the anticipations which are
entertained of these favorable dispositions, the great
body of the people should be found indifferent to the
preservation of the government of the Union, or in
sensible to the necessity of vigorous exertions to repel
the danger which threatens their most important in
terests; or, if an unwillingness to encounter partial
inconveniences should interfere with the discharge
of what they owe to their permanent welfare ; or if,
either yielding to the suggestions of particular pre
judices, or misled by the arts which may be employed
to infuse jealousy and discontent, they should suffer
their zeal for the support of public order to be re
laxed by an unfavorable opinion of the merits and
tendency of the measures which may be adopted; if
above all it were possible that any of the State govern
ments should, instead of prompting the exertions of
the citizens, assist directly or indirectly in damping
their ardor by giving a wrong bias to their judg
ment, or by disseminating dissatisfaction with the
proceedings of the General Government, or should
counteract the success of those proceedings by any
sinister influence whatever, then, indeed, no one can
calculate or may be able to avert the fatal evils
with which such a state of things would be preg
nant. Then, indeed, the foundations of our political
happiness may be deeply shaken, if not altogether
overturned.

The President, however, can suppose none of these

4OO Alexander Hamilton

things. He cherishes an unqualified confidence in
the virtue and good sense of the people, in the in
tegrity and patriotism of the officers of the State
governments; and he counts absolutely on the same
affectionate support, which he has experienced upon
all former occasions, and which he is conscious that
the goodness of his intentions now, not less than
heretofore, merits.

It has been promised to show more particularly
hereafter that the Government of the United States
is now at that point where, it is confessed, if the State
Government was, the employment of force on its part
would be justifiable. This promise remains to be
fulfilled.

The facts already noted establish the conclusion;
but to render it palpable, it will be of use to apply them
to the positions which your excellency has been
pleased to lay down.

You admit that, as the offences committed respect
the State, the military power of the government
ought to be employed, when its judiciary authority,
after a fair experiment, had proved incompetent to
enforce obedience or to punish infractions of the
law; that if the strength and audacity of a lawless
combination shall baffle and destroy the efforts of the
judiciary authority, to recover a penalty or inflict
a punishment, that authority may constitutionally
claim the auxiliary intervention of the military power ;
that in the last resort, at the requisition and as an
auxiliary of the civil authority, the military force of
the State would be called forth. And you declare
that the circumstances of the case evidently require

Secretary of State to Mifflin 401

a firm and energetic conduct on the part both of the
State and General Government.

For more than three years, as already observed,
certain laws of the United States have been ob
structed in their execution by disorderly combina
tions. Not only officers, whose immediate duty it
was to carry them into effect, have suffered violent
personal outrage and injury, and destruction of prop
erty, at different times, but similar persecution has
been extended to private citizens, who have aided,
countenanced, or only complied with the laws. The
violences committed have been so frequent, and such
in their degree as to have been matters of general
notoriety and alarm ; and it may be added that they
have been abundantly within the knowledge and
under the notice of the judges and magistrates of
Pennsylvania, of superior as well as inferior juris
diction. If in particular instances they have been
punished by the exertions of the magistrates, it
is at least certain that their efforts have been in the
main ineffectual. The spirit has continued, and, with
some intervals of relaxation, has been progressive,
manifesting itself in reiterated excesses. The ju
diciary authority of the United States has also, prior
to the attempt which preceded the late crisis, made
some fruitless efforts. Under a former marshal, an
officer sent to execute process was deterred from it by
the manifest danger of proceeding. These particulars
serve to explain the extent, obstinacy, and inveteracy
of the evil.

But the facts which immediately decide the com
plexion of the existing crisis are these: Numerous

VOL. VI.— 26.

402 Alexander Hamilton

delinquencies existed with regard to a compliance
with the laws laying duties on spirits distilled within
the United States, and upon stills. An armed ban
ditti, in disguise, had recently gone to the house of
an officer of the revenue, in the night, attacked it,
broken open the doors, and, by menaces of instant
death, enforced by pistols presented at him, had com
pelled a surrender of his commission and books of
office. Contemporary acts of violence had been per
petrated in other quarters. Processes were issued
out of a court of the United States, to recover the
penalties incident to a non-compliance with the laws,
and to bring to punishment the violent infractors
of them, in the above-mentioned case, against two of
whom indictments had been found. The marshal of
the district went in person to execute these pro
cesses. In the course of his duty he was actually
fired upon, on the high-road, by a body of armed
men. Shortly after, other bodies of armed men (in
the last instance amounting to several hundred per
sons) repeatedly attacked the house of the inspector
of the revenue, with the declared intention of com
pelling him to renounce his office, and of obstructing
the execution of the laws. One of these bodies of
armed men made prisoner the marshal of the district,
put him in jeopardy of his life, and did not release
him till, for safety and to obtain his liberty, he en
gaged to forbear the further execution of the pro
cesses with which he was charged. In consequence
of further requisitions and menaces of the insurgents,
the marshal, together with the inspector of the
revenue, has been since under the necessity of fly-

Secretary of State to Mifflin 403

ing, secretly and by a circuitous route, from the
scene of these transactions, towards the seat of
government. An associate justice, pursuant to the
provisions of the laws for that purpose, has, in the
manner already stated, officially notified the President
of the existence of combinations, in two of the coun
ties of this State, to obstruct the execution of the
laws, too powerful to be suppressed by the judiciary
authority, or by the powers of the marshal.

Thus, then, it is unequivocally and in due form
ascertained, in reference to the Government of the
United States, that the judiciary authority, after a
fair and full experiment, has proved incompetent to
enforce obedience to, or to punish infractions of, the
laws ; that the strength and audacity of certain law
less combinations have baffled and destroyed the
efforts of the judiciary authority to recover penalties
or inflict punishment; and that this authority, by a
regular notification of this state of things, has, in the
last resort, as an auxiliary of the civil authority,
claimed the intervention of the military power of
the United States. It results, from these facts, that
the case exists when — according to the positions ad
vanced by your excellency, in reference to the State
Government — the military power may, with due
regard for all the requisite cautions, be rightfully
interposed; and that the interposition of this power
is called for, not only by principles of a firm and
energetic conduct on the part of the General Govern
ment, but by the indispensable duty which the Con
stitution and the laws prescribe to the Executive
of the United States. In this conclusion, your

404 Alexander Hamilton

excellency's discernment, on mature reflection, can
not, it is presumed, fail to acquiesce ; nor can it refuse
its concurrence in the opinion which the President en
tertains, that he may reasonably expect, when called
for, the zealous co-operation of the militia of Penn
sylvania; that as citizens, and friends to law and
order, they may comply with the call, without any
thing that can properly be denominated " a passive
obedience to the mandates of government"; and
that, as freemen, judging rightly of the cause and
nature of the service proposed to them, they will feel
themselves under the most sacred obligations to ac
cept and perform it with alacrity. The theory of our
political institutions knows no difference between the
obligations of our citizens, in such a case, whether it
relate to the government of this Union or of a State ;
and it is hoped and confided, that a difference will be
as little known to their affections or opinions.

Your excellency, it is also presumed, will as little
doubt, on the like mature reflection, that in such a
case the President could not, without an abdica
tion of the undoubted rights and authorities of the
United States, and of his duty, postpone the measures
for which the laws of the United States provide, to a
previous experiment of the plan which is delineated
in your letter.

The people of the United States have established
a government for the management of their general
interests; they have instituted executive organs for
administering that government; and their repre
sentatives have established the rules by which these
organs are to act. When their authority in that of

Secretary of State to Mifflin 405

their government is attacked, by lawless combina
tions of the citizens of part of a State, they could
never be expected to approve that the care of vin
dicating their authority, of enforcing their laws,
should be transferred from the officers of their own
government to those of a State, and this to wait the
issue of a process so undeterminate in its duration
as that which it is proposed to pursue; comprehend
ing a further and full experiment of the judiciary
authority of the State, a proclamation "to declare
the sentiments of its government, announce a deter
mination to prosecute and punish offenders, and to
exhort the citizens at large to pursue a peaceable
and patriotic conduct"; the sending of commis
sioners " to address those who have embarked in the
present combinations tipon the lawless nature and
ruinous tendency of their proceedings; to inculcate
the necessity of an immediate return to the duty
which they owe their country; and to promise, as
far as the State is concerned, forgiveness of their
past transactions, upon receiving a satisfactory as
surance that, in future, they will submit to the laws ' ' ;
and, finally, a call of the Legislature of Pennsylvania,
"that the ultimate means of subduing the spirit of
insurrection, and of restoring tranquillity and order,
may be prescribed by their wisdom and authority."
If there were no other objection to a transfer of
this kind, the very important difference which is sup
posed to exist in the nature and consequences of the
offences that have been committed, in the contempla
tion of the laws of the United States and those of
Pennsylvania, would alone be a very serious obstacle.

406 Alexander Hamilton

The paramount considerations which forbid an ac
quiescence in this course of proceeding, render it
unnecessary to discuss the probability of its success ;
else it might have been proper to test the considera
tions which have been mentioned as a ground of
hope, by the inquiry, what was the precise extent
of the success of past experiments, and especially
whether the execution of the revenue laws of Penn
sylvania within the scene in question was truly and
effectually accomplished by them, or whether they
did not rather terminate in a tacit compromise, by
which appearances only were saved ?

You are already, sir, advised that the President,
yielding to the impressions which have been stated,
has determined to take measures for calling forth the
militia; and that these measures contemplate the
assembling of a body of between twelve and thirteen
thousand men, from Pennsylvania and the neighbor
ing States of Virginia, Maryland, and New Jersey.
The recourse thus early to the militia of the neighbor
ing States, prevails from a probability of the insuf
ficiency of that of Pennsylvania alone to accomplish
the object ; your excellency having, in your conference
with the President, confirmed the conclusion which
was deducible from the known local and other cir
cumstances of the State, by the frank and express
declaration which you made of your conviction of
that insufficiency in reference to the number which
could be expected to be drawn forth for the purpose.

But, while the President has conceived himself to
be under an indispensable obligation to prepare for
that eventual resort, he has still consulted the senti-

Secretary of State to Mifflin 40?

ment of regret which he expressed to you, at the
possible necessity of an appeal to arms; and to avert
it, if practicable, as well as to manifest his attention
to the principle, that " a firm and energetic conduct
does not preclude the exercise of a prudent and
humane policy," he has (as you have been also
advised) concluded upon the measure of sending
himself commissioners to the discontented counties,
to make one more experiment of a conciliatory appeal
to the reason, virtue, and patriotism of their inhabit
ants; and has also signified to you how agreeable
would be to him your co-operation in the same
expedient, which you have been pleased to afford. It
can scarcely be requisite to add, that there is nothing
he has more at heart than that the issue of this ex
periment, by establishing the authority of the laws,
may preclude the always calamitous necessity of an
appeal to arms. It would plant a thorn in the
remainder of his path through life, to have been
obliged to employ force against fellow-citizens, for
giving solidity and permanency to blessings which it
has been his greatest happiness to co-operate with
them in procuring for a much-loved country.

The President receives with much pleasure the
assurance you have repeated to him, that whatever
requisition he may make, whatever duty he may
impose, in pursuance of his constitutional and legal
powers, will, on your part, be promptly undertaken
and faithfully discharged ; and acknowledging, as an
earnest of this, and even more, the measures of co
operation which you are pursuing, he assures you, in
return, that he relies fully on the most cordial aid and

Alexander Hamilton

support from you in every way which the Constitu
tions of the United States and of Pennsylvania shall
authorize, and present or future exigencies may
require.

And he requests that you will construe, with a refer
ence to this assurance of his confidence, whatever re
marks may have been made in the course of this
reply to your letter, if it shall have happened that any
of them have erred from a misconception of the
sentiments and views which you may have meant to
communicate.

With perfect respect and esteem, I have the honor
to be, etc.,

EDMUND RANDOLPH,

Secretary of State.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON

August 12, 1794.

The Secretary of the Treasury presents his respects
to the President, and sends him two letters which
were received last night from Pittsburgh.

Would it not be advisable to put the garrison of
Fort Franklin in the power of Major Butler, so that
if he deems it advisable he may draw a part of it to
his aid?

An attack from the Indians appears at present im
probable, and an attack from the insurgents probable
enough.

The bearer of the letters waits orders to return.
Will the President suggest any thing?

Hamilton to Washington 409

HAMILTON TO CRAIG

PHILADELPHIA, August 13, 1794.

SIR: — In consequence of an arrangement of the
Secretary of War, who is absent, your letter of the
3d instant has been communicated to me. It is
satisfactory to receive exact intelligence of the move
ments of the insurgents. Your care of the interest
confided to you is in every event depended upon
according to circumstances. The keeping the arms
and stores out of the hands of the insurgents is a
matter of great importance. It is hoped that you will
personally, in the worst issue of things, find safety in
the fort. The friends of government may depend
that it will not be wanting to its ditty and interest
upon this occasion. And can there be any doubt of
the sufficiency of its means?

With much esteem, I am, etc.,

ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
For the Secretary of War.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON

TREASURY DEPARTMENT, August 16, 1794.

SIR: — It appears probable that advantages will
result from giving to the citizens at large information
on the subject of the disturbances which exist in the
western part of Pennsylvania.

With this view, if no objection tc the measure
should occur to you, I would cause a publication to be
made of the report which I had the honor to address
to you, dated the 5th instant.

With the most perfect respect, etc.

Alexander Hamilton

TULLY x

To the People of the United States
I

August 23, 1794.

It has, from the first establishment of YOUR present
Constitution, been predicted, that every occasion of
serious embarrassment which should occur in the af
fairs of the government, every misfortune which it
should experience, whether produced from its own
faults or mistakes, or from other causes, would be the
signal of an attempt to overthrow it, or to lay the
foundation of its overthrow, by defeating the exercise
of constitutional and necessary authorities. The dis
turbances which have recently broken out in the
western counties of Pennsylvania, furnish an occasion
of this sort. It remains to see whether the prediction
which has been quoted proceeded from an unfounded
jealousy, excited by partial differences of opinion, or
was a just inference from causes inherent in the struc
ture of our political institutions. Every virtuous
man, every good citizen, and especially EVERY TRUE
REPUBLICAN, must fervently pray, that the issue may
confound and not confirm so ill-omened a prediction.

Your firm attachment to the government YOU have
established, cannot be doubted.

If a proof of this were wanting to animate the confi
dence of your public agents, it would be sufficient to
remark that as often as any attempt to counteract its

1 These essays were written simply with a view to inform the public
of the facts, and prepare the people to support the Administration at
the critical moment of the insurrection.

Tully 411

measures appear, it is carefully prepared by strong
professions of friendship to the government and dis
avowals of any intention to injure it. This can only
result from a conviction that the government carries
with it YOUR affections ; and that an attack upon it,
to be successful, must veil the stroke under the ap
pearances of good will.

It is therefore very important that YOU should
clearly discern, in the present instance, the shape in
which a design of turning the existing insurrection
to the prejudice of the government would naturally
assume. Thus guarded, you will more readily dis
cover and more easily shun the artful snares which
may be laid to entangle your feelings and your judg
ment, and will be the less apt to be misled from the
path by which alone you can give security and per
manency to the blessings you enjoy, and can avoid
the incalculable mischiefs incident to a subversion of
the just and necessary authority of the laws.

The design alluded to, if it shall be entertained,
would not appear in an open justification of the
principles or conduct of the insurgents, or in a direct
dissuasion from the support of the government.
These methods would produce general indignation
and defeat the object. It is too absurd and shocking
a position to be directly maintained, that forcible
resistance by a sixtieth part of the community to the
representative will of the WHOLE, and to constitu
tional laws expressed by that will, and acquiesced in
by the people at large, is justifiable or even excusable.
It is a position too untenable and disgusting to be
directly advocated, that the government ought not

412 Alexander Hamilton

to be supported in exertions to establish the authority
of the laws against a resistance so incapable of justi
fication or excuse.

The adversaries of good order in every country
have too great a share of cunning, too exact a know
ledge of the human heart, to pursue so unpromising a
cause. Those among us would take upon the present
occasion one far more artful, and consequently far
more dangerous.

They would unite with good citizens, and perhaps
be among the loudest in condemning the disorderly
conduct of the insurgents. They would agree that it
is utterly unjustifiable, contrary to the vital principle
of republican government, and of the most dangerous
tendency. But they would, at the same time, slily
add, that excise laws are pernicious things, very hos
tile to liberty (or perhaps they might more smoothly
lament that the government had been imprudent
enough to pass laws so contrary to the genius of a free
people), and they would still more cautiously hint
that it is enough for those who disapprove of such
laws to submit to them — too much to expect their
aid in forcing them upon others. They would be apt
to intimate further, that there is reason to believe
that the Executive has been to blame, sometimes by
too much forbearance, encouraging the hope that the
laws would not be enforced, at other times in pro
voking violence by severe and irritating measures;
and they would generally remark, with an affectation
of moderation and prudence, that the case is to be
lamented, but difficult to be remedied; that a trial
of force would be delicate and dangerous; that there

Tully 413

is no foreseeing how or where it would end ; that it
is perhaps better to temporize, and by mild means
to allay the ferment, and afterwards to remove the
cause by repealing the exceptionable laws. They
would probably also propose, by anticipation of and
in concert with the views of the insurgents, plans
of procrastination. They would say, if force must
finally be resorted to, let it not be till after Congress
has been consulted, who, if they think fit to persist
in continuing the laws, can make additional pro
vision for enforcing their execution. This, too, they
would argue, will afford an opportunity for the public
sense to be better known, which (if ascertained to be
in favor of the laws) will give the government greater
assurance of success in measures of coercion.

By these means, artfully calculated to divert YOUR
attention from the true question to be decided; to
combat, by prejudices against a particular system, a
just sense of the criminality and danger of violent
resistance to the laws; to oppose the suggestion of
misconduct on the part of government to the fact of
misconduct on the part of the insurgents; to foster
the spirit of indolence and procrastination natural to
the human mind, as an obstacle to the vigor and
exertion which so alarming an attack upon the funda
mental principles of public and private security de
mands ; to distract YOUR opinion on the course proper
to be pursued, and consequently on the propriety of
the measures which may be pursued. They would
expect (I say) by these and similar means equally in
sidious and pernicious, to abate YOUR just indignation
at the daring affront which has been offered to YOUR

4H Alexander Hamilton

authority and your zeal for the maintenance and sup
port of the laws; to prevent a competent force, if
force is finally called forth, from complying with the
call ; and thus to leave the government of the Union
in the prostrate condition of seeing the laws trampled
under foot by an unprincipled combination of a small
portion of the community, habitually disobedient to
laws, and itself destitute of the necessary aid for
vindicating their authority.

Virtuous and enlightened citizens of a new and
happy country! ye could not be the dupes of artifices
so detestable, of a scheme so fatal ; ye cannot be in
sensible to the destructive consequences with which
it would be pregnant ; ye cannot but remember that
the government is YOUR own work, that those who
administer it are but your temporary agents; that
you are called upon not to support their power, BUT
YOUR OWN POWER. And you will not fail to do what
your rights, your best interests, your character as a
people, your security as members of society, conspire
to demand of you.

TULLY.

ii

August 26, 1794.

It has been observed that the means most likely to
be employed to turn the insurrection in the western
country to the detriment of the government, would
be artfully calculated among other things "to divert
your attention from the true question to be decided. "

Let us see then what is this question. It is plainly
this — Shall the majority govern or be governed?

Tully 415

shall the nation rule or be ruled? shall the general
will prevail, or the will of a faction? shall there be
government or no government? It is impossible to
deny that this is the true and the whole question.
No art, no sophistry can involve it in the least
obscurity.

The Constitution you have ordained for yourselves
and your posterity contains this express clause : " The
Congress shall have power to lay and collect taxes,
duties, imposts, and excises, to pay the debts, and
provide for the common defence and general welfare
of the United States." You have, then, by a solemn
and deliberate act, the most important and sacred
that a nation can perform, pronounced and decreed,
that your representatives in Congress shall have
power to lay excises. You have done nothing since
to reverse or impair that decree.

Your representatives in Congress, pursuant to the
commission derived from you, and with a full know
ledge of the public exigencies, have laid an excise. At
three succeeding sessions they have revised that act,
and have as often, with a degree of unanimity not
common, and after the best opportunities of knowing
your sense, renewed their sanction to it, you have
acquiesced in it, it has gone into general operation,
and you have actually paid more than a million of
dollars on account of it.

But the four western counties of Pennsylvania
undertake to re judge and reverse your decrees. You
have said, "The Congress shall have power to lay
excises.11 They say, "The Congress shall not have
this power." Or, what is equivalent — they shall not

416 Alexander Hamilton

exercise it: for a power that may not be exercised is
a nullity. Your representatives have said, and four
times repeated it, " An excise on distilled spirits shall
be collected." They say it shall not be collected.
We will punish, expel, and banish the officers who
shall attempt the collection. We will do the same
by every other person who shall dare to comply with
your decree expressed in the constitutional charter;
and with that of your representatives expressed in
the laws. The sovereignty shall not reside with you,
but with us. If you presume to dispute the point by
force, we are ready to measure swords with you, and
if unequal ourselves to the contest, we will call in the
aid of a foreign nation. We will league ourselves
with a foreign power.

If there is a man among us who shall affirm that
the question is not what it has been stated to be,
who shall endeavor to perplex it by ill-timed declama
tions against excise laws, who shall strive to paralyze
the efforts of the community by invectives or insinua
tions against the government, who shall inculcate,
directly or indirectly, that force ought not to be em
ployed to compel the insurgents to a submission to
the laws, if the pending experiment to bring them to
reason (an experiment which will immortalize the
moderation of the government) shall fail, — such a
man is not a good citizen; such a man, however he
may prate and babble republicanism, is not a re
publican; he attempts to set up the will of a part
against the will of the whole, the will of a faction
against the will of the nation, the pleasure of a
few against your pleasure, the violence of a lawless

Tully 417

combination against the sacred authority of laws
pronounced under your indisputable commission.

Mark such a man, if such there be. The occasion
may enable you to discriminate the true from pre
tended republicans; your friends from the friends of
faction. T is in vain that the latter shall attempt to
conceal their pernicious principles under a crowd of
odious invectives against the laws. Your answer is
this: " We have already in the constitutional act
decided the point against you, and against those for
whom you apologize. We have pronounced that
excises may be laid, and consequently that they are
not, as you say, inconsistent with liberty. Let our
will be first obeyed, and then we shall be ready to
consider the reasons which can be afforded to prove
our judgment has been erroneous; and if they con
vince us, to cause them to be observed. We have not
neglected the means of amending in a regular course
the constitutional act. And we shall know how to
make our sense be respected whenever we shall dis
cover that any part of it needs correction. But as an
earnest of this, it is our intention to begin by securing
obedience to our authority, from those who have been
bold enough to set it at defiance. In a full respect
for the laws, we discern the reality of our power and
the means of providing for our welfare as occasion
may require; in the contempt of the laws we see
the annihilation of our power, the possibility and the
danger of its being usurped by others, and of the
despotism of individuals succeeding to the regular
authority of the nation." That a fate like this may
never await you, let it be deeply imprinted in your

Alexander Hamilton

minds, and handed down to your latest posterity, that
there is no road to despotism more sure or more to be
dreaded than that which begins at anarchy.

Threats of joining the British are actually thrown
out — how far the idea may go is not known.

TULLY.

in

August 28, 1794.

If it were to be asked, What is the most sacred
duty, and the greatest source of security in a repub
lic? the answer would be, An inviolable respect for
the Constitution and laws — the first growing out of
the last. It is by this, in a great degree, that the rich
and the powerful are to be restrained from enterprises
against the common liberty — operated upon by the
influence of a general sentiment, by their interest
in the principle, and by the obstacles which the habit
it produces erects against innovation and encroach
ment. It is by this, in a still greater degree, that
caballers, intriguers, and demagogues are prevented
from climbing on the shoulders of faction to the
tempting seats of usurpation and tyranny.

Were it not that it might require too long a dis
cussion, it would not be difficult to demonstrate that
a large and well-organized republic can scarcely lose
its liberty from any other cause than that of anarchy,
to which a contempt of the laws is the high-road.

But without entering into so wide a field, it is suf
ficient to present to your view a more simple and a
more obvious truth, which is this: that a sacred re-

Tully 419

spect for the constitutional law is the vital principle,
the sustaining energy, of a free government.

Government is frequently and aptly classed under
two descriptions — a government of FORCE, and a
government of LAWS; the first is the definition of
despotism — the last, of liberty. But how can a gov
ernment of laws exist when the laws are disrespected
and disobeyed? Government supposes control. It
is that POWER by which individuals in society are
kept from doing injury to each other, and are brought
to co-operate to a common end. The instruments by
which it must act are either the AUTHORITY of the
laws or FORCE. If the first be destroyed, the last
must be substituted; and where this becomes the
ordinary instrument of government, there is an end
to liberty!

Those, therefore, who preach doctrines, or set ex
amples which undermine or subvert the authority of
the laws, lead us from freedom to slavery ; they in
capacitate us for a GOVERNMENT of LAWS, and con
sequently prepare the way for one of FORCE, for
mankind must have GOVERNMENT OF ONE SORT OR
ANOTHER. There are, indeed, great and urgent cases
where the bounds of the Constitution are manifestly
transgressed, or its constitutional authorities so ex
ercised as to produce unequivocal oppression on the
community, and to render resistance justifiable. But
such cases can give no color to the resistance by a
comparatively inconsiderable part of a community,
of constitutional laws distinguished by no extra
ordinary features of rigor or oppression, and acqui
esced in by the body of the community.

420 Alexander Hamilton

Such a resistance is treason against society, against
liberty, against every thing that ought to be dear to a
free, enlightened, and prudent people. To tolerate
it, were to abandon your most precious interests.
Not to subdue it, were to tolerate it. Those who
openly or covertly dissuade you from exertions ade
quate to the occasion, are your worst enemies. They
treat you either as fools or cowards, too weak to per
ceive your interest or your duty, or too dastardly
to pursue them. They therefore merit and will, no
doubt, meet your contempt. To the plausible but
hollow harangue of such conspirators you cannot fail
to reply, How long, ye Catilines, will ye abuse our
patience ?

To urge the execution of that system would mani
fest, it is said, an intemperate spirit; and to excite
your disapprobation of that course, you are threat
ened with the danger of a civil war, which is called
the consummation of human evil.

To crown the outrage upon your understandings,
the insurgents are represented as men who understand
the principles of freedom, and know the horrors and
distresses of anarchy, and who, therefore, must have
been tempted to hostility against the laws by a
RADICAL DEFECT, EITHER in the government or in
those intrusted with its administration. How thin
the partition which divides the insinuation from the
assertion, that the government is in fault, and the
insurgents in the right!

Fellow-citizens: A name, a sound, has too often
had influence on the affairs of nations; an EXCISE has
too long been the successful watchword of party. It

Tully 421

has even sometimes led astray well-meaning men.
The experiment is now to be tried whether there be
any spell in it of sufficient force to unnerve the arm
which may be found necessary to be raised in defence
of law and order.

The jugglers who endeavor to cheat us with the
sound, have never dared to venture into the fair fields
of argument. They are conscious that it is easier to
declaim than to reason on the subject. They know it
to be better to play a game with the passions and
prejudices, than to engage seriously with the under
standing of the auditory. You have already seen
that the merits of excise laws are immaterial to the
question to be decided, that you have prejudged the
point by a solemn constitutional act, and that until
you shall have revoked or modified that act, resist
ance to its operation is a criminal infraction of the
social compact, an inversion of the fundamental
principles of republican government, and a daring
attack upon YOUR sovereignty, which you are bound,
by every motive of duty and self-preservation, to
withstand and defeat. The matter might safely be
suffered to rest here ; but I shall take a future oppor
tunity to examine the reasonableness of the prejudice
which is inculcated against excise laws, and which has
become the pretext for excesses tending to dissolve
the bands of society.

Fellow-citizens: You are told that it will be intem
perate to urge the execution of the laws which are
resisted. What? Will it be indeed intemperate in
your Chief Magistrate, sworn to maintain the Con
stitution, charged faithfully to execute the laws, and

422 Alexander Hamilton

authorized to employ for that purpose force, when the
ordinary means fail — will it be intemperate in him to
exert that force, when the Constitution and the laws
are opposed by force? Can he answer it to his con
science, to you, not to exert it?

Yes, it is said; because the execution of it will pro
duce civil war — the consummation of human evil.

Fellow-citizens : Civil war is, undoubtedly, a great
evil. It is one that every good man would wish to
avoid, and will deplore if inevitable. But it is incom
parably a less evil than the destruction of govern
ment. The first brings with it serious but temporary
and partial ills; the last undermines the foundations
of our security and happiness. And where should we
be if it were once to grow into a maxim, that force is
not to be used against the seditious combinations of
parts of the community to resist the laws? This
would be to give a CARTE BLANCHE to ambition, to
licentiousness, to foreign intrigue, to make you the
prey of the gold of other nations — the sport of the
passions and vices of individuals among yourselves.
The hydra Anarchy would rear its head in every
quarter. The goodly fabric you have established
would be rent asunder, and precipitated into the dust.
You knew how to encounter civil war rather than
surrender your liberty to foreign domination; you
will not hesitate now to brave it rather than to sur
render your sovereignty to the tyranny of a faction ;
you will be as deaf to the apostles of anarchy now as
you were to the emissaries of despotism then. Your
love of liberty will guide you now as it did then; you
know that the POWER of the majority and LIBERTY

Tully 423

are inseparable. Destroy that, and this perishes.
But, in truth, that which properly can be called civil
war is not to be apprehended — unless from the act of
those who endeavor to fan the flame, by rendering the
government odious. A civil war is a contest between
two GREAT parts of the same empire. The exertion
of the strength of the nation to suppress resistance to
its laws, by a sixtieth part of itself, is not of that
description.

After endeavoring to alarm you with the horrors of
civil war, an attempt is made to excite your sym
pathy in favor of the armed faction, by telling you
that those who compose it are men who understand
the principles of freedom, and know the horrors and
distresses of anarchy, and must therefore have been
prompted to hostility against the laws by a radical
defect EITHER in the government OR in its adminis
tration. Fellow-citizens, for an answer to this you
have only to consult your senses. The natural con
sequences of radical defect in a government, or in
its administration, are national distress and suffering.
Look around you — where is it ? Do you feel it ? Do
you see it?

Go in quest of it beyond the Alleghany, and instead
of it you will find that there also a scene of unparal
leled prosperity upbraids the ingratitude and mad
ness of those who are endeavoring to cloud the bright
face of our political horizon, and to mar the happiest
lot that beneficent Heaven ever indulged to unde
serving mortals.

When you have turned your eyes towards that
scene, examine well the men whose knowledge of the

424 Alexander Hamilton

principles of freedom is so emphatically vaunted —
where did they get their better knowledge of those
principles than that which you possess? How is it
that you have been so blind or tame as to remain
quiet, while they have been goaded into hostility
against the laws by a RADICAL DEFECT in the govern
ment or its administration ? Are you willing to yield
them the palm of discernment, of patriotism, or of

courage?

TULLY.

IV

September 2, 1794.

The prediction mentioned in my first letter begins
to be fulfilled. Fresh symptoms every moment ap
pear of a dark conspiracy, hostile to your government,
to your peace abroad, to your tranquillity at home.
One of its orators dares to prostitute the name of
FRANKLIN by annexing it to a publication as insidious
as it is incendiary. Aware of the folly and the danger
of a direct advocacy of the cause of the insurgents, he
makes the impudent attempt to enlist your passions
in their favor by false and virulent railings against
those who have heretofore represented you in Con
gress. The foreground of the piece presented you
with a bitter invective against that wise, moderate,
and pacific policy, which in all probability will rescue
you from the calamities of a foreign war, with an
increase of new dignity and with additional lustre to
the American name and character. Your representa
tives are delineated as corrupt, pusillanimous, and
unworthy of your confidence ; because they did not

Tully 425

plunge headlong into measures which might have
rendered war inevitable; because they contented
themselves with preparing for it, instead of making
it, leaving the path open to the Executive for one last
and solemn effort of negotiation; because they did
not dispay either the promptness of gladiators, or
the blustering of bullies, but assumed that firm yet
temperate attitude which alone is suited to the re
presentatives of a brave but rational people; who
deprecated war, though they did not fear it; and
who have a great and solid interest in peace, which
ought only to be abandoned when it is unequivocally
ascertained that the sacrifice is absolutely due to the
vindication of their honor and the preservation of
their essential rights; because, in fine, your repre
sentatives wished to give an example to the world,
that the boasted moderation of republican govern
ments was not (like the patriotism of our political
barkers) an empty declaration, but a precious reality.
The sallies of a momentary sensibility, roused and
stung by injury, were excusable. It was not wonder
ful that the events of war were under the first impres
sions heard from good and prudent men. But to
revive them at this late hour, when fact and reflection
unite to condemn them; to arraign a conduct which
has elevated the national character to the highest
point of true glory; to hope to embark you in the
condemnation of that conduct, and to make your in
dignation against it useful to the cause of insurrection
and treason, are indications of a wrong-headedness,
perverseness, or profligacy, for which it is not easy to
find terms of adequate reprobation.

426 Alexander Hamilton

Happily the plotters of mischief knew ye not.
They derive what they mistake for your image from
an original in their own heated and crooked imagina
tions, and they hope to mould a wise, reflecting, and
dispassionate people to purposes which presuppose an
ignorant, unthinking, and turbulent herd.

But the declamation against your representatives
for their love of peace is but the preface to the main
design. That design is to alienate you from the sup
port of the laws, by the spectre of an odious excise
system, baneful to liberty, engendered by corruption,
and nurtured by the INSTRUMENTALITY (favored
word, fruitful source of mountebank wit) of the ene
mies of freedom.

TULLY.

HAMILTON TO CRAIG

WAR DEPARTMENT, August 25, 1794.

SIR: — Your letter of the iyth instant to the Secre
tary of War has been received and duly attended to.

The suggestions respecting additional measures of
defence have been considered; but the danger of the
means falling into the hands of the insurgents appears
at present an objection.

It is hoped that every thing at Pittsburgh, or which
shall come there, not necessary to the post itself, has
been forwarded down the river, and will continue to
be so, as long and as fast as it can be done with
safety. The friends of government at Pittsburgh
ought to rally their confidence, and, if necessary,
manifest it by acts. They cannot surely doubt the

Secretary of State to Mifflin 427

power of the United States to uphold the authority of
the laws ; and they may be assured, that the necessity
of doing it, towards preserving the very existence of
government, so directly attacked, will dictate and
produce a most vigorous and persevering effort, in
which the known good sense and love of order of the
quiet body of the people, and all the information
hitherto received of their sentiments and feelings
with regard to the present emergency, authorize a
full expectation of their hearty co-operation.

SECRETARY OF STATE TO MIFFLIN
Draft by Hamilton.

PHILADELPHIA, August 30, 1794.

SIR: — I am directed by the President to acknow
ledge the receipt on the i7th of your excellency's
letter, dated on the 1 2th instant.

The President feels with you the force of the
motives which render undesirable an extension of
correspondence on the subject in question. But the
case being truly one of great importance and delicacy,
these motives must yield in a degree to the propriety
and utility of giving precision to every part of the
transaction, and guarding effectually against ultimate
misapprehension .

To this end it is deemed advisable, in the first
place, to state some facts, which either do not appear,
or are conceived not to have assumed an accurate
shape in your excellency's letter. They are these:

428 Alexander Hamilton

1 . You were informed at the conference that all the
information which had been received had been laid
before an associate justice, in order that he might
consider and determine whether such a case as is
contemplated by the second section of the act, which
provides for calling forth the militia to execute the
laws of the Union, suppress insurrections and repel
invasions, had occurred; that is, whether combina
tions existed too powerful to be suppressed by the
ordinary course of judicial proceedings, or by the
powers vested in the marshal by that act ; in which
case the President is authorized to call forth the
militia to suppress the combinations and to cause the
laws to be duly executed.

2. The idea of a preliminary proceeding by you
was pointed to an eventual co-operation with the
Executive of the United States, in such plan as, upon
mature deliberation, should be deemed advisable, in
conformity with the laws of the Union. The inquiry
was particularly directed towards the possibility of
some previous accessory step in relation to the
militia, to expedite the calling them forth if an
acceleration should be judged expedient and proper,
and if any delay on the score of evidence should
attend the notification from a judge, which the laws
make the condition of the power of the President
to require the aid of the militia, and turned more
especially upon the point whether the law of Penn
sylvania, of the 22d September, 1783, was or was not
still in force. The question emphatically was: Has
the executive of Pennsylvania power to put the
militia in motion, previous to a requisition from the

Secretary of State to Mifflin 429

President, under the laws of the Union, if it shall be
thought advisable so to do? Indeed it seems to be
admitted by one part of your letter, that the pre
liminary measure contemplated did turn on this
question, and with a particular eye to the authority
and existence of the act just mentioned.

3. The information contained in the papers read
at the conference, besides the violence offered to the
marshal while in company with the inspector of the
revenue, established that the marshal had been after
wards made prisoner by tLo insurgents, put in
jeopardy of his life, had been obliged to obtain safety
and liberty by a promise, guaranteed by Colonel
Presley Neville, that he would serve no other process
on the west side of the Alleghany Mountains; that, in
addition to this, a deputation of the insurgents had
gone to Pittsburgh, to demand of the marshal a sur
render of the processes in his possession, under the
intimation that it would satisfy the people and add to
his safety, which necessarily implied that he would
be in danger of further violence without such a sur
render; that under the influence of this menace,
he had found it necessary to seek security by taking,
secretly, and in the night, a circuitous route.

This recapitulation is not made to invalidate the
explanation offered in your last letter, of the view of
the subject which you assert to have led to the sug
gestions contained in your first, and of the sense
which you wish to be received as that of the observa
tions accompanying those suggestions. It is intended
solely to manifest that it was natural for the Presi
dent to regard your communication of the 5th instant

43° Alexander Hamilton

in the light under which it is presented in the reply
to it.

For having informed you that the matter was
before an associate justice, with a view to the law of
the United States, which has been mentioned, and
having pointed out what was said respecting a
preliminary proceeding on your part to a call of
the militia under the authority of a State law, by
anticipation of a requisition from the General Govern
ment, and in co-operation with an eventual plan to
be founded on the laws of the Union, it was not
natural to expect that it would have presented a plan
of conduct entirely on the basis of the State govern
ment, even to the extent of resorting to the Legis
lature of Pennsylvania, after its judiciary had proved
incompetent "to prescribe by their wisdom and
authority the means of subduing the spirit of insur
rection and of restoring tranquillity and order," a
plan which, being incompatible with the course
marked out in the laws of the United States, evidently
could not have been acceded to without a suspension,
for a long and indefinite period, of the movements of
the federal Executive pursuant to those laws. The
repugnancy and incompatibility of the two modes of
proceeding at the same time cannot, it is presumed,
be made a question.

Was it extraordinary, then, that the plan suggested
should have been unexpected, and that it should even
have been thought liable to the observation of having
contemplated Pennsylvania in a light too separate
and unconnected?

The propriety of the remark, " that it was impossi-

Secretary of State to Mifflin 43 1

ble not to think the current of the observations in
your letter might be construed to imply a virtual dis
approbation of that plan of conduct on the part of the
Government of Pennsylvania, if arrived at a similar
stage," must be referred to the general tenor and
complexion of those observations, and to the in
ference they were naturally calculated to inculcate.
If this inference was, that under the known circum
stances of the case, the employment of force to
suppress the insurrection was improper, without a
long train of preparatory expedients; and if, in fact,
the Government of the United States (which has
not been controverted) was at that point where it
was admitted that the Government of Pennsylvania
being arrived the resort to force on its part would be
proper, the impression which was made could not
have been effaced by the consideration that the forms
of referring what concerned the government of the
Union to the judgment of its own Executive, were
carefully observed. There was no difficulty in recon
ciling the intimation of an opinion unfavorable to a
particular course of proceeding, with an explicit refer
ence of the subject (officially speaking) to the judg
ment of the officer charged by the Constitution to
decide, and with a sincere recognition of the subjec
tion of the individual authority of the State to the
national jurisdiction of the Union.

The disavowal by your excellency of an intention
to sanction the inference which was drawn, renders
what has been said a mere explanation of the cause
of that inference, and of the impressions which it at
first made.

43 2 Alexander Hamilton

It would be foreign to the object of this letter to
discuss the various observations, which have been
adduced to obviate a misapprehension of your views,
and to maintain the propriety of the course pursued
in your first communication. It is far more pleasing
to the President to understand you in the sense you
desire, and to conclude that no opinion has been
indicated by you inconsistent with that which he has
entertained of the state of things and of his duty in
relation to it. And he remarks, with satisfaction,
the effect which subsequent information is supposed
to be calculated to produce favoring an approxima
tion of sentiments.

But there are a few miscellaneous points which,
more effectually to prevent misconceptions anywhere,
seem to demand a cursory notice.

You observe that the President had already deter
mined to exercise his legal powers in drafting a com
petent force of the militia. At the point of time to
which you are understood to refer — namely, that of
the conference, the President had no legal power to
call forth the militia. No judge had yet pronounced
that a case justifying the exercise of that power ex
isted. You must be sensible, sir, that all idea of your
calling out the militia by your authority, was referred
to a state of things antecedent to the lawful capacity
of the President to do it by his own authority; and
when he had once determined upon the call, pursuant
to his legal powers, it were absurd to have proposed
to you a separate and unconnected call. How, too,
it might be asked, could such a determination, if it
had been made, and was known to you, have com-

Secretary of State to Mifflin 433

ported with the plan suggested in your letter, which
pre-supposes that the employment of force had not
already been determined upon?

This passage of your letter is, therefore, considered
to mean only that the President had manifested an
opinion predicated upon the event of such a noti
fication from a judge as the law prescribes, that the
nature of the case was such as would probably require
the employment of force. You will also, it is be
lieved, recollect that he had not at the time finally
determined upon any thing, and that the conference
ended with referring the whole subject to further
consideration.

You say, that if you had undertaken not only to
comply promptly with the President's requisition, but
to embody a distinct corps for the same service, a
useless expense would have been incurred by the
State, an unnecessary burden would have been im
posed on the citizens, and embarrassment and con
fusion would probably have been introduced instead
of system and co-operation. But they were never
expected. Your embodying the militia independent
of a requisition from the President, was never thought
of, except as a preliminary and auxiliary step. Had
it taken place when the requisition came, the corps
embodied would have been ready toward a com
pliance with it, and no one of the inconveniences
suggested could possibly have risen.

You say, in another place, that you " were called
upon to act, not in conformity to a positive law, but
in compliance with the duty which is supposed to re
sult from the nature and constitution of the executive

VOL. V!.— 28.

434 Alexander Hamilton

office. " It is conceived that it would have been more
correct to have said, " you were called upon to be con
sulted whether you had power in the given case to
call forth the militia without a previous requisition
from the General Government." The supposition
that you might possess this power was referred to a
law of Pennsylvania, which appeared, on examina
tion, to have been repealed. A gentleman who
accompanied you thought that the power, after a due
notification of the incompetency of the judiciary,
might be deduced from the nature and constitution
of the executive office.

It has appeared to your excellency fit and expedient
to animadvert upon the nature of the evidence pro
duced at the conference, and to express some doubts
which had occurred to your mind concerning it.

As the laws of the United States have referred the
evidence in such cases to the judgment of a district
judge, or associate justice, and, foreseeing that cir
cumstances so peculiar might arise as to render rules
relating to the ordinary and peaceable state of society
inapplicable, have forborne to prescribe any, leaving
it to the understanding and conscience of the judge,
upon his responsibility, to pronounce what kind and
degree of evidence should suffice, the President would
not sanction a discussion of the standard or measure
by which evidence in those cases ought to be gov
erned. He would restrain himself by the reflection
that this appertains to the province of another, and
that he might rely as a guide upon the decision which
should be made by the proper organ of the laws for
that purpose.

Secretary of State to Mifflin 435

But it may be no deviation from this rule to notice
to you that the facts stated in the beginning of this
letter, under the third head, appear to have been
overlooked in your survey of the evidence, while
they seem to be far from immaterial to a just estimate
of it.

You remark that " when you found that the mar
shal had, without molestation, executed his office in
the county of Fayette, that he never was insulted
or opposed till he acted in company with General
Neville, and that the virulence of the rioters was
directly manifested against the person and property
of the latter gentleman, and only incidentally against
the person of the former, you thought there was
ground yet to suppose that a spirit of opposition to
the officers employed under the excise law, and not
a spirit of opposition to the officers employed in the
administration of justice, was the immediate source
of the outrages which are deprecated."

It is natural to inquire how this supposition could
consist with the additional facts which appeared by
the same evidence, namely, that the marshal, having
been afterward made prisoner by the rioters, had
been compelled, for obtaining safety and liberty, to
promise to execute no more processes within the dis
contented scene ; and that subsequently again to this,
in consequence of a deputation of the rioters deliber
ately sent to demand a surrender of the processes in
his possession, enforced by a threat, he had found it
necessary to seek security in withdrawing by a secret
and circuitous route; did not these circumstances
unequivocally denote that officers employed in the

436 Alexander Hamilton

administration of justice were as much objects of
opposition as those employed in the execution of the
particular laws, and that the rioters were at least
consistent in their plan ?

It must needs be, that these facts escaped your
excellency's attention, else they are too material to
have been omitted in your review of the evidence,
and too conclusive not to have set aside the supposi
tion which you entertained, and which seemed to
have had so great a share in your general view of the
subject.

There remains only one point on which your excel
lency will be longer detained — a point, indeed, of
great importance, and which consequently demands
serious and careful reflection. It is the opinion you
so emphatically express, that the mere dispersion of
the insurgents is the sole object for which the militia
can be called out, or kept in service after they may
have been called out.

The President reserves to the last moment the
consideration and decision of this point.

But there are arguments weighing heavily against
the opinion you have expressed, which, in the mean
time, are offered to your candid consideration.

The Constitution of the United States (article i,
section 8) empowers Congress "to provide for calling
forth the militia to execute the laws of the Union,
suppress insurrections, and repel invasions," evi
dently, from the wording and distribution of the
sentence, contemplating the execution of the laws of
the Union as a thing distinct from the suppression of
insurrections.

Secretary of State to Mifflin 437

The act of May 2, 1792, for carrying the provision
of the Constitution into effect, adopts for its title the
very words of the Constitution, being "An act to
provide for calling forth the militia to execute the
laws of the Union, suppress insurrections, and repel
invasions," continuing the constitutional distinction.

The first section of the act provides for the cases of
invasion and of insurrection, confining the latter to
the case of insurrection against the government of a
State. The second section provides for the case of
the execution of the laws being obstructed by combi
nations too powerful to be suppressed by the ordinary
course of judicial proceedings, or by the powers vested
in the marshals.

The words are these : " Whenever the laws of the
United States shall be opposed, or the execution
thereof obstructed, in any State, by combinations too
powerful to be suppressed by the ordinary course of
judicial proceedings, or by the powers vested in the
marshals by this act, the same being notified to the
President of the United States by an associate judge,
or the district judge, it shall be lawful for the Presi
dent of the United States to call forth the militia of
such State to suppress suck combinations, and to cause
the laws to be duly executed." Then follows a pro
vision for calling forth the militia of other States.

The terms of this section appear to contemplate
and describe something that may be less than insur
rection. "The combinations" mentioned may in
deed amount to insurrections, but it is conceivable
that they may stop at associations not to comply
with the law, supported by riots, assassinations, and

438 Alexander Hamilton

murders, and by a general spirit in a part of the
community, which may baffle the ordinary judiciary
means, with no other aid than the posse comitatus,
magistrates, and officers in the execution of their duty.
And the objects for which the militia are to be called
are expressly not only to suppress these combinations
(whether amounting to insurrections or not), but to
cause the laws to be duly executed.

It is therefore plainly contrary to the manifest
general intent of the Constitution and of this act,
and to the positive and express terms of the second
section of the act, to say that the militia called forth
are not to be continued in service for the purpose of
causing the laws to be duly executed, and, of course, till
they are so executed.

What is the main and ultimate object of calling
forth the militia? "To cause the laws to be exe
cuted. ' ' Which are the laws to be executed ? Those
which are opposed and obstructed in their execution
by the combinations described in the present case—
the laws laying duties upon spirits distilled within the
United States, and upon stills ; and incidentally those
which uphold the judiciary functions. When are
the laws executed? Clearly, when the opposition
is subdued; when penalties for disobedience can be
enforced; when a compliance is effectuated.

Would the mere dispersion of insurgents, and their
retiring to their respective homes, do this? Would
it satisfy either member of the provision — the sup
pression of the combinations or the execution of the
laws? Might not the former, notwithstanding the
dispersion, continue in full vigor, ready at any

Secretary of State to Mifflin 439

moment to break out into new acts of resistance to
the laws? Are the militia to be kept perpetually
marching and counter-marching towards the insur
gents while they are embodied, and from them when
they have separated and retired ? Suppose the insur
gents, hardy enough to wait the experiment of a
battle, are vanquished, and then disperse and retire
home, are the militia immediately to retire also? to
give them an opportunity to reassemble, recruit, and
prepare for another battle ? And is this to go on, and
be repeated without limit?

Such construction of the law, if true, were certainly
a very unfortunate one, rendering its provisions
essentially nugatory, and leading to endless expense,
and as endless disappointment. It could hardly be
advisable to vex the militia, by marching them to a
distant point, where they might scarcely be arrived
before it would be legally necessary for them to
return, not in consequence of having effected their
object — of having " caused the laws to be executed,"
— but in consequence of the mere stratagem of a
deceitful dispersion and retiring.

Thus far the spirit as well as the positive letter
of the law combats the construction which you
have adopted. It remains to see if there be any
other part of it which compels to a renunciation
both of the letter and spirit of the antecedent pro
visions.

The part which seems to be relied upon for this
effect, is the third section, which by way of proviso
enjoins, " That whenever it may be necessary, in the
judgment of the President, to use the military force

440 Alexander Hamilton

by that act directed to be called forth, he shall, forth
with, and previous thereto, by proclamation, com
mand the insurgents to disperse and retire peaceably
to their respective abodes, within a limited time."
But does this affirm, does it necessarily even imply,
that they, after the dispersion and retiring, are not to
be used for the purpose for which they are authorized
to be called forth, that is, "to cause the laws to be
duly executed," to countenance by their presence,
and, in case of further resistance, to protect and sup
port by their strength, the respective civil officers
in the execution of their several duties, whether for
bringing delinquents to punishment, or otherwise for
giving effect to the laws ? May not the injunction of
this section be regarded as a merely humane and
prudent precaution, to distinguish, previous to the
actual application of force, a hasty tumult from a
deliberate insurrection? to give an opportunity for
those who may be accidentally or inadvertently
mingled in a tumult or disorderly rising, to separate
and withdraw from those who are designedly and
deliberately actors? to prevent, if possible, bloodshed
in a conflict of arms, and, if this cannot be done, to
render the necessity of it palpable, by a premonition
to the insurgents to disperse and go home? And are
not all these objects compatible with the further
employment of the militia for the ulterior purpose
of causing the laws to be executed in the way which
has been mentioned? If they present a rational end
for the proviso, without defeating the main design
of the antecedent provision, it is clear they ought
to limit the sense of the former, and exclude a con-

Hamilton to Washington 441

struction which must make the principal provision
nugatory.

Do not the rules of law and reason unite in declar
ing that the different parts of a statute shall be so
construed, as, if possible, to consist with each other;
that a proviso ought not to be understood or allowed
to operate in a sense tending to defeat the principal
clause ; and that an implication (if, indeed, there be
any such implication as is supposed in the present
case) ought not to overrule an express provision,
especially at the sacrifice of the manifest general intent
of a law, which, in the present case, undoubtedly is,
that the militia shall be called forth " to cause the laws
to be duly executed ' ' ?

Though not very material to the merit of the argu
ment, it may be remarked, that the proviso which
forms the third section, contemplates merely the case
of insurrection. If the combinations described in the
second section may be less than insurrection, then
the proviso is not commensurate with the whole case
contained in the second section, which would be an
additional circumstance to prove that it cannot work
an effect which shall be a substitute for the main
purpose of the first section.

I have the honor to be, with perfect respect, sir,
your excellency's most obedient servant.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON

PHILADELPHIA, September 19, 1794.

SIR: — Upon full reflection I entertain an opinion
that it is advisable for me, on public grounds,

442 Alexander Hamilton

considering the connection between the immediate
ostensible cause of the insurrection in the western
country and my department, to go out upon the
expedition against the insurgents.

In a government like ours it cannot but have a
good effect for the person who is understood to be
the adviser or proposer of a measure, which involves
danger to his fellow-citizens, to partake in that
danger ; while not to do it might have a bad effect. I
therefore request your permission for the purpose.

My intention would be not to leave this till about
the close of the month, so as to reach one of the
columns at its ultimate point of rendezvous. In the
meantime, I take it for granted General Knox will
arrive, and the arrangements which will be made
will leave the Treasury Department in a situation to
suffer no embarrassment by my absence; which,
if it be thought necessary, may terminate about or
shortly after the meeting of Congress.

With perfect respect and the truest attachment, I
have, etc.

PROCLAMATION

September 25, 1794.

By the President of the United States of America

A PROCLAMATION

Whereas, from a hope that the combinations
against the Constitution and the laws of the United
States, in certain of the western counties of Pennsyl-

Proclamation 443

vania, would yield to time and reflection, I thought it
sufficient, in the first instance, rather to take measures
for calling forth the militia than immediately to
embody them ; but the moment is now come when the
overtures of forgiveness, with no other condition
than a submission to law, have been only partially
accepted; when every form of conciliation, not in
consistent with the being of government, has been
adopted without effect; when the well-disposed in
those counties are unable by their influence and
example to reclaim the wicked from their fury, and
are compelled to associate in their own defence;
when the proffered lenity has been perversely misin
terpreted into an apprehension that the citizens will
march with reluctance; when the opportunity of
examining the serious consequences of a treasonable
opposition has been employed in propagating princi
ples of anarchy, endeavoring, through emissaries, to
alienate the friends of order from its support, and
inviting its enemies to perpetrate similar acts of in
surrection; when it is manifest that violence would
continue to be exercised upon every attempt to en
force the laws; when, therefore, government is set at
defiance, the contest being whether a small portion of
the United States shall dictate to the whole Union,
and at the expense of those who desire peace indulge
a desperate ambition. Now, therefore, I, George
Washington, President of the United States, in obedi
ence to that high and irresistible duty consigned to
me by the Constitution, "to take care that the laws
be faithfully executed," deploring that the American
name should be sullied by the outrages of citizens on

444 Alexander Hamilton

their own government; commiserating such as re
main obstinate from delusion; but resolved, in per
fect reliance on that gracious Providence which so
signally displays its goodness towards this country,
to reduce the refractory to a due subordination to the
law, do hereby declare and make known that, with a
satisfaction which can be equalled only by the merits
of the militia summoned into service from the States
of New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Maryland, and Vir
ginia, I have received intelligence of their patriotic
alacrity in obeying the call of the present, though
painful, yet commanding necessity; that a force,
which according to every reasonable expectation is
adequate to the exigency, is already in motion to the
scene of disaffection ; that those who have confided,
or shall confide in the protection of government,
shall meet full succor under the standard and from
the arms of the United States; that those who, hav
ing offended against the law, have since entitled
themselves to indemnity, will be treated with the
most liberal good faith, if they shall not have for
feited their claim by any subsequent conduct, and
that instructions are given accordingly. And I do,
moreover, exhort all individuals, officers, and bodies
of men, to contemplate with abhorrence the measures
leading directly or indirectly to those crimes which
produce this resort to military coercion ; to check, in
their respective spheres, the efforts of misguided or
designing men to substitute their misrepresentations
in the place of truth, and their discontents in the
place of stable government ; and to call to mind that,
as the people of the United States have been per-

Hamilton to Lee 445

mitted, under the Divine favor, in perfect freedom,
after solemn deliberation and in an enlightened age,
to elect their own government, so will their gratitude
for this inestimable blessing be best distinguished by
firm exertions to maintain the Constitution and the
laws. And, lastly, I again warn all persons whom
soever and wheresoever, not to abet, aid, or comfort
the insurgents aforesaid, as they will answer the con
trary at their peril ; and I do also require all officers
and other citizens, according to their several duties,
as far as may be in their power, to bring under the
cognizance of the law all offenders in the premises.

In testimony whereof I have caused the seal of the
United States of America to be affixed to these
presents, and signed the same with my hand.

[L. S.] Done at the city of Philadelphia, the twenty-
fifth day of September, one thousand seven
hundred and ninety-four, of the independence
of the United States of America the nineteenth

GEORGE WASHINGTON.
By the President,

EDMUND RANDOLPH.

HAMILTON TO LEE

BEDFORD, October 20, 1794.

SIR: — I have it in special instruction from the
President of the United States, now at this place, to
convey to you the following instructions for the
general direction of your conduct in the command of
the militia army, with which you are charged.

446 Alexander Hamilton

The objects for which the militia have been called
forth are:

i st. To suppress the combinations which exist in
some of the western counties in Pennsylvania, in
opposition to the laws laying duties upon spirits
distilled within the United States, and upon stills.

2d. To cause the laws to be executed.

These objects are to be effected in two ways:

1. By military force.

2 . By judiciary process and other civil proceedings.
The objects of the military force are twofold:

1. To overcome any armed opposition which may
exist.

2. To countenance and support the civil officers in
the means of executing the laws.

With a view to the first of these two objects, you
will proceed, as speedily as may be, with the army
under your command, into the insurgent counties, to
attack and, as far as shall be in your power, subdue
all persons whom you may find in arms in opposition
to the laws above mentioned. You will march your
army in two columns, from the places where they
are now assembled, by the most convenient routes,
having regard to the nature of the roads, the con
venience of supply, and the facility of co-operation
and union; and bearing in mind that you ought to
act, till the contrary shall be fully developed, on the
general principle of having to contend with the whole
force of the counties of Fayette, Westmoreland,
Washington, and Alleghany, and of that part of
Bedford which lies west of the town of Bedford ; and
that you are to put as little as possible to hazard.

Hamilton to Lee 447

The approximation, therefore, of your columns is to
be sought, and the subdivision of them, so as to place
the parts out of mutual supporting distance, to be
avoided as far as local circumstances will permit.
Parkinson's Ferry appears to be a proper point
towards which to direct the march of the columns for
the purpose of ulterior measures.

When arrived within the insurgent country, if an
armed opposition appear, it may be proper to publish
a proclamation, inviting all good citizens, friends of
the Constitution and laws, to join the standard of the
United States. If no armed opposition exist, it may
still be proper to publish a proclamation, exhorting
to a peaceable and dutiful demeanor, and giving
assurances of performing, with good faith and liber
ality, whatsoever may have been promised by the
commissioners to those who have complied with the
conditions prescribed by them, and who have not for
feited their title by subsequent misconduct.

Of those persons in arms, if any, whom you may
make prisoners, leaders, including all persons in com
mand, are to be delivered up to the civil magistrate ;
the rest to be disarmed, admonished, and sent home
(except such as may have been particularly violent,
and also influential), causing their own recognizance
for their good behavior to be taken, in the cases in
which it may be deemed expedient.

With a view to the second point, namely, "the
countenance and support of the civil officers in the
means of executing the laws," you will make such
dispositions as shall appear proper to countenance
and protect, and, if necessary, and required by them,

448 Alexander Hamilton

to support and aid the civil officers in the execution
of their respective duties ; for bringing offenders and
delinquents to justice ; for seizing the stills of delin
quent distillers, as far as the same shall be deemed
eligible by the supervisor of the revenue, or chief
officer of inspection ; and also for conveying to places
of safe custody such persons as may be apprehended
and not admitted to bail.

The objects of judiciary process, and other civil
proceedings, will be :

1. To bring offenders to justice.

2. To enforce penalties on delinquent distillers by
suit!

3. To enforce the penalty of forfeiture on the same
persons, by the seizure of their stills and spirits.

The better to effect these purposes, the judge of
the district, Richard Peters, Esquire, and the attorney
of the district, William Rawle, Esquire, accompany
the army.

You are aware that the judge cannot be controlled
in his functions; but I count on his disposition to
co-operate in such a general plan as shall appear to
you consistent with the policy of the case. But your
method of giving a direction to legal proceedings,
according to your general plan, will be by instruction
to the district attorney.

He ought particularly to be instructed (with due
regard to time and circumstances): ist. To procure
to be arrested all influential actors in riots and un
lawful assemblies relating to the insurrection, and
combinations to resist the laws, or having for object
to abet that insurrection and those combinations, and

Hamilton to Lee 449

who shall not have complied with the terms offered by
the commissioners, or manifested their repentance in
some other way which you may deem satisfactory.
2d. To cause process to issue for enforcing penalties
on delinquent distillers. 3d. To cause offenders
who may be arrested, to be conveyed to jails where
there will be no danger of rescue: those for misde
meanors, to the jails of York and Lancaster; those
for capital offences, to the jail of Philadelphia, as
more secure than the others. 4th. To prosecute
indictable offences in the courts of the United States;
those for penalties on delinquents, under the laws
before mentioned, in the courts of Pennsylvania.

As a guide in the case, the district attorney has
with him a list of the persons who have availed them
selves of the offers of the commissioners on the day
appointed.

The seizure of stills is the province of the supervisor
and other officers of inspection. It is difficult to chalk
out the precise line concerning it. There are opposite
considerations which will require to be nicely bal
anced, and which must be judged of by those officers
on the spot. It may be found useful to confine the
seizures to stills of the most leading and refractory
distillers. It may be advisable to extend them far
in the most refractory county.

When the insurrection is subdued, and the requi
site means have been put in execution to secure
obedience to the laws, so as to render it proper for the
army to retire (an event which you will accelerate as
much as shall be consistent with the object), you will
endeavor to make an arrangement for detaching such

VOL. VI. — 28.

45° Alexander Hamilton

a force as you deem adequate, to be stationed within
the disaffected country, in such a manner as best to
afford protection to well-disposed citizens and to
the officers of the revenue, and to repress, by their
presence, the spirit of riot and opposition to the laws.

But before you withdraw the army, you will prom
ise, on behalf of the President, a general pardon to all
such as shall not have been arrested, with such excep
tions as you shall deem proper. The promise must
be so guarded as not to affect pecuniary claims under
the revenue laws. In this measure, it is advisable
there should be a co-operation with the Governor of
Pennsylvania.

On the return of the army you will adopt some con
venient and certain arrangement for restoring to the
public magazines, the arms, accoutrements, military
stores, tents, and other articles of camp equipage and
intrenching tools, which have been furnished, and
shall not have been consumed or lost.

You are to exert yourselves by all possible means to
preserve discipline among the troops, particularly a
scrupulous regard to the rights of persons and prop
erty, and to a respect for the authority of the civil
magistrate; taking especial care to inculcate and
cause to be observed this principle: that the duties
of the army are confined to the attacking and sub
duing of armed opponents of the laws, and to the
supporting and aiding of the civil officers in the
execution of their functions.

It has been settled that the Governor of Pennsyl
vania will be second, the Governor of New Jersey
third in command, and that the troops of the several

Hamilton to Washington 451

States in line, on the march and upon detachment,
are to be posted according to the rule which prevailed
in the army during the late war — namely, in moving
towards the sea-board, the most southern troops will
take the right ; in moving westward, the most north
ern will take the right.

These general instructions, however, are to be con
sidered as liable to such alterations and deviations in
the detail, as from local and other causes may be found
necessary, the better to effect the main object upon
the general principles which have been indicated.

With great respect, I have the honor to be, sir,
Your obedient servant,

ALEXANDER HAMILTON.

To Major-General LEE.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON

BERLIN, 3<i day's march, October 25, 1794,
7 o'clock in the evening.

SIR: — We arrived here this afternoon. A very
heavy rain has rendered the march extremely ardu
ous and distressing; but we find here much better
shelter than was foreseen. Our baggage and stores
are just beginning to arrive. The Jersey line and
brigade of cavalry took the right-hand road, about
five miles back.

To-morrow we shall continue our march, and I
hope that we shall conform to the general arrange
ment, though we must shorten to-morrow's march,
and lengthen that of the day following.

The troops have shown all the patience that could

45 2 Alexander Hamilton

have been expected. In short, I perceive nothing
amiss.

Bradford and Fulton, it is said, are gone off. By
tracing time, it is not probable they were at all in
fluenced by the arrests of Husbands and Phelson.

With the highest respect, and truest attachment, I
have the honor to be, etc.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON

BERLIN, October 26, 1794.

SIR: — The very late arrival of the wagons, the in
jury to a number of them, and the dispersed situa
tion of the troops, render it impracticable to leave
this place to-day, as was intended; but the baggage
and stores go forward, and to-morrow the troops
must move. I apprehend no material derangement
of the general plan. An express has been de
spatched to Governor Lee, advising him of the state
of things here.

Nothing from the western country.

With the greatest respect and attachment, etc.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON

JONES' MILL, October 29, 1794.

SIR: — The light corps, with the Jersey infantry
and brigade of cavalry, are at Indian Creek, in Leg-
noier Valley, where they continue till this division
gets up, which will be this evening, as the march will
commence in an hour. This division had, I believe,
the worst road, and was, besides, encumbered with
all the spare stores, which has thrown it a day's

Hamilton to Washington 453

march behind the other. But by a letter received
yesterday from Governor Lee, it appears that the
right wing is fully in measure with the left. All is
essentially well with both wings, and the troops con
tinue to show as much good humor as could possibly
have been expected.

The meeting at Parkinson's Ferry ended, we are
told, in a new appointment of commissioners to de
precate the advance of the army, and in new expres
sions of pacific intentions. But there is nothing
which can occasion a question about the propriety of
the army's proceeding to its ultimate destination.
No appearances whatever of opposition occur.

You desired that a table of the routes of the left
wing might be sent you. None was left with any
officer of this wing.

With the truest respect and attachment,

I have the honor to be, sir,

Your obd't serv't, etc.

P. S. — It is hoped that the original papers have
been forwarded, as the list furnished from the Sec
retary of State's office would be a deceptive guide.
Memoranda of the Attorney-General, brought by
this express, will greatly aid, perhaps sufficiently;
but the originals would be best.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON

CAMP, i$ miles beyond Cherry's Mill,
October 31, 1794.

SIR: — The New Jersey infantry and brigade of
cavalry are at this place. The Pennsylvania in-

454 Alexander Hamilton

fantry will be here this evening. The light corps
is advanced about two miles. No official account
since that heretofore communicated has come from
the left wing. But a person who came from Union-
town, yesterday, informs that Morgan, with the
advance, was there; the main body about twenty
miles behind. I propose in about an hour to set out
for Uniontown.

All announces trepidation and submission. The
new commissioners have been with Governor Mifflin,
charged with new declarations by townships, bat
talions of militia, etc., of a disposition to obey the
laws. The impression is certainly for the present
strong, but it will be stronger and more permanent
by what is to follow. It does not appear that any
great number have fled.

With the truest respect and attachment, I have
the honor to be, etc.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON

CHERRY'S MILL, November 3, 1794.

SIR: — I have returned to this place, from Union-
town. A letter from Governor Lee, which goes with
this, probably informs you of the plan of future
operations; but, lest it should not, I will briefly state
it. The right wing is to take a position with its
left towards Budd's Ferry, and its right towards
Greensburgh. The left wing is to be posted be
tween the Youghiogheny and Monongahela, with its
left towards the latter, and its right towards the
former. Morgan, with his command, including the

Hamilton to Washington 455

whole of the light corps, and perhaps a part of the
brigade of cavalry, will go into Washington County.
It is not unlikely that, in the course of the business,
a part of the troops will take a circuit by Pittsburgh ;
for the more places they can appear in, without loss
of time, the better.

In adopting this plan, the circumstance of much
delay in crossing and recrossing waters has weighed
powerfully; and the quiescent state of the country
renders the plan entirely safe. Boats, however,
will be collected on both waters, to facilitate mutual
communication and support.

I received the letter you were so good as to write
me, on the road, with those that accompanied it.

The rainy weather continues, with short intervals
of clear. The left wing has suffered from sickness,
but the right has been and continues remarkably
healthy. The troops also continue to behave well.
A court-martial sits to-day, to try one or two riotous
fellows, and one or two marauders. The appoint
ment of it has checked the licentious corps.

With the truest respect and attachment,

I have the honor to be, etc.

P. S. — Not many fugitives from justice as yet.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON

HEAD-QUARTERS, ROSHAVEN TOWNSHIP,
November 8, 1794.

SIR: — Morgan, with the whole of the light troops,
has crossed into Washington County. Dispositions

456 Alexander Hamilton

of different corps are making to strike at once into
the most disaffected scenes.

It appears evident, that to wait for preliminary
investigations to apprehend the guilty upon process,
would defeat the object, and produce delay beyond
the patience of the troops, or the time allowed by
the season for operation. With the advice of the
district attorney, the Commander-in-Chief has con
cluded to take hold of all who are worth the trouble
in a more summary way — that is, by the military
arm, and then to deliver them over to the disposi
tion of the judiciary. In the meantime, all possible
means are using to obtain evidence, and accom
plices will be turned against the others.

This step is directed by that principle of common
law that every man may of right apprehend a traitor.

I hope good objects will be found notwithstanding
many have gone off. It is proved that Breckenridge
did not subscribe till after the day, and that he has
been the worst of all scoundrels. The only question
is how far the candor of the government, owing to
the use made of him by the commissioners, might be
compromised.

The Commander-in-Chief is taking measures, with
a good prospect of success, to engage a competent
corps to be stationed in the country — a regiment of
infantry and four troops of horse. The plan is to
engage them for nine months, but a suit of clothes
must be allowed.

Being not very well, I am obliged to be brief.

With the truest respect and attachment, I have
the honor to be, sir, etc.

Hamilton to Washington 457

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON

ROSHAVEN TOWNSHIP, November n, 1794.

SIR: — I have the honor of your note of the 5th
instant.

To-morrow the measures for apprehending per
sons and seizing stills will be carried into effect. I
hope there will be found characters fit for examples,
and who can be made so. Colonel Hamilton, sheriff,
is now at our quarters — come to make a voluntary
surrender of himself. It is not yet certain how
much can be proved against him; but otherwise he
is a very fit subject.

I observe what Mr. Bache is about. But I am
the more indifferent to it, as experience has proved
to me (however it may be in ways which I could not
allege in my justification), that my presence in this
quarter was in several respects not useless. And it
is long since I have learned to hold popular opinion
of no value. I hope to derive from the esteem of the
discerning, and an internal consciousness of zealous
endeavors for the public good, the reward of those
endeavors.

I propose, if no urgent reason to the contrary
occurs, to leave this country for Philadelphia about
the 1 5th instant, and I shall lose no time in reaching
it. Meanwhile I trust the business of my depart
ment will suffer no injury from my absence.

Before I go I will try to see that a good arrange
ment is made with regard to arms, stores, etc.

With true respect and affectionate attachment, etc.

P. S. — Poor Lenox has been on the torture so

45 8 Alexander Hamilton

long, and has lately received such unpleasant ac
counts, that we have all advised him to return to
Philadelphia. The substitutes devised will guard
against injury to the service. Intelligence having
been received of some of the insurgents having em
bodied about Beaver Creek, a plan is laid provision
ally for giving them a stroke, the execution of which
will be speedily attempted, if nothing to the con
trary occurs.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON

TOWN OF WASHINGTON, November 15, 1794.

SIR: — I had the honor of writing to you three days
since by Mr. Vaughan. Nothing material has since
occurred, except that a number of persons have been
apprehended. Twenty of them are in confinement
at this place; others have not yet arrived. Several
of those in confinement are fit subjects for examples,
and it is probable from the evidence already col
lected, and what is expected, that enough for that
purpose will be proved. The most conspicuous of
these for character or crime, are understood to be
the Rev. John Corbly, Colonel Crawford, Colonel
John Hamilton, Thomas Sedgwick, David Lock,
John Munn, John Laughery.

The evidence has not yet fixed the situation of
Colonel Hamilton.

A warrant has been sent after Colonel Gaddis, of
Fayette, another very fit subject; but, from the
lapse of time, I fear he has escaped.

The bad spirit is evidently not subdued. Informa-

Hamilton to Washington 459

tion is just received that within the last three days
a pole has been erected about sixteen and a half
miles from this place, on the road to Muddy Creek;
measures are taken on the subject.

But it is more and more apparent, that for some
considerable time to come a military force in this
country is indispensable. I presume the temporary
one meditated will be accomplished.

To-morrow I leave this place for Pittsburgh. If
nothing extraordinary happens, I shall leave that
place for Philadelphia on the ipth. By that time
every thing will have taken its shape.

With true respect and affectionate attachment, I
have the honor to be, etc.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON

PITTSBURGH, November 17, 1794.

SIR: — I wrote to you two days since by express
from Washington. The judiciary with myself ar
rived here last evening. The list of prisoners has
been very considerably increased, probably to the
amount of one hundred and fifty, but it is not yet
so digested as to be forwarded. Governor Lee just
informs me, that he has received a letter from
Marietta, advising him of the apprehending of John
HolcrofT, the reputed Tom the Tinker, and one
Wright, a notorious offender.

Subsequent intelligence shows that there is no
regular assemblage of the fugitives where it is sup
posed. There are only small vagrant parties in that
quarter, affording no point of attack.

460 Alexander Hamilton

Every thing is urging on for the return of the
troops. The engagement of a corps to remain here
goes on, it is said, well.

With perfect respect and true attachment, I have
the honor to be, etc.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON

PITTSBURGH, November 19, 1794,

7 o'clock in the morning.

SIR: — I wrote you the day before yesterday, by
express. Nothing material remains to be said. The
army is, generally, in motion homeward — the Vir
ginia line, by way of Morgantown, to Winchester,
etc. ; the Maryland line, by way of Uniontown, to
Williamsport, etc. ; the Pennsylvania and New Jer
sey, by the old Pennsylvania route, to Bedford. The
judiciary is industrious in prosecuting the examina
tion of prisoners — among whom there is a sufficient
number of proper ones for examples, and with suf
ficient evidence. Col. Gaddis has been brought in.

With perfect respect and true attachment, I have
the honor, etc.

P. S. — In five minutes I set out for Philadelphia.

MILITARY PAPERS
MILITARY PAPERS

MILITARY PEACE ESTABLISHMENT f

1783-

BEFORE any plan can, with propriety, be deter
mined or a military peace establishment, it is
necessary to ascertain what powers exist, for that
purpose, in the Confederation.

In the fifth clause of the ninth article, the United
States, in Congress assembled, are empowered (with
out any mention of peace or war) "to build and
equip a navy, to agree upon the number of land
forces, and to make requisitions from each State
for its quota, in proportion to the number of white
inhabitants in each State; which requisition shall
be binding; and thereupon, the Legislature of each
State shall appoint the regimental officers, raise the
men, and clothe, arm, and equip them, in a soldier
like manner, at the expense of the United States;
and the officers and men, so clothed, armed, and
equipped, shall march to the place appointed, and
within the time agreed on by the United States in
Congress assembled.

By the fourth clause in the same article, the

1 A report to the Congress of the Confederation, with a plan not likely

to be adopted, as indeed it was not.
464 Alexander Hamilton

United States are empowered " to appoint all officers
of the land forces in the service of the United States,
excepting regimental officers; to appoint all officers
of the naval forces; and to commission all officers
whatever, in the service of the United States, making
rules for the government and regulation of the said
land and naval forces, and directing their operations. ' '

By the fourth clause of the sixth article, it is de
clared, that " no vessels of war shall be kept up by
any State in time of peace, except such number
only as shall be deemed necessary by the United
States, in Congress assembled, for the defence of
such State or its trade ; nor shall any body of forces
be kept up by any State, in time of peace, except
such number only as in the judgment of the United
States, in Congress assembled, shall be deemed
requisite to garrison the forts necessary for the
defence of such State."

The committee apprehend, that the terms of the
last clause, being rather permissive than directory,
do not interfere with the positive power vested in
the United States by the preceding clauses ; and that
they have a discretion in the choice of the mode of
providing for the general safety in time of peace as
well as in time of war.

If this interpretation is just, the committee are of
opinion there are conclusive reasons in favor of a
continental, in preference to separate State estab
lishments; and that, at all events, there must be
some continental establishment.

Firstly. — There are objects which cannot fall
within the purview of separate State establishments:

Military Peace Establishment 465

posts within districts, the jurisdiction and property
of which are covered by opposite and interfering
claims, the possession of which for the security of the
western country is of great importance, and for
which provision cannot with propriety be made by
any particular State; a tract of territory ceded to
the United States by the late treaty with Great
Britain, which is not within the original claims of
any of the States, the safety of which must depend
on continental provisions; the navigation of the
Mississippi, in which all the States are more or less
interested, and the security of which ought to be
provided for by their joint forces, as well naval as
land; the fisheries, the rights respecting which are
in no particular States, but in the Union at large,
and therefore call for the protection of the Union;
the general commerce of the United States, the
rights of which, founded upon the laws of nations
and the treaties of the United States with foreign
countries, also claim the joint protection of the Con
federacy, and cannot, with propriety, be left to the
care of State establishments. A distinction that, in
time of war it is to be protected by the Union, in
time of peace by each State, would involve, be
sides other inconveniences, this capital one: That
the United States, when a Federal navy should be
come necessary to assert the Federal rights, would be
obliged to begin to create, at the moment they would
have occasion to employ, a fleet.

Secondly. — The fortifications to be established for
the security of the States ought to be constructed
with relation to each other on some general and

VOL. VI. — 30.

466 Alexander Hamilton

well-digested plan; and the provisions for their de
fence should be made on the same principles. This
is equally important in the double view of safety and
economy. If this is not done under the direction of
the United States, each State following a disjointed
and partial plan, it will be found that the posts will
have no mutual dependence or support; that they
will be improperly distributed, and more numerous
than is necessary, as well as less efficacious. Hence
they will be more easily reduced; and there will
be a greater expense, both in the construction and
defence.

Thirdly. — It happens that from local circum
stances particular States, if left to take care of their
own defence, would be in possession of the chief part
of the standing forces and of the principal fortified
places of the Union; a circumstance inconvenient
on various accounts. It tends to impose a heavy
exclusive burthen on them in a matter the benefit of
which will be immediately shared by their neigh
bors, and, ultimately, by the Union in general. It
trusts the care of the safety of the whole to a part,
which will naturally be unwilling, as well as unable,
to make such effectual provisions at its particular
expense as the common welfare requires. A single
State, from its local situation, will, in a great degree,
keep the keys of the United States. A considerable
force in the hands of a few States may have an
unfriendly aspect on the mutual confidence and
harmony which ought carefully to be maintained
between the whole.

Fourthly. — It is probable that a continental pro-

Military Peace Establishment 467

vision of the forces, which will be necessary to be
kept up, will be made upon a more systematic and
economical plan than a provision by the States
separately; especially as it will be of great import
ance that, as soon as the situation of affairs will
permit, public manufactories of arms, powder, etc.,
should be established; and a part of the troops,
employed in this way, will furnish those necessary
articles to the United Sates, and defray a consider
able part of the expense of supporting themselves.

Fifthly. — There must be a corps of artillery and
engineers, which, being a scientific corps, and
requiring institutions for the instruction and forma
tion of the officers, cannot exist upon separate estab
lishments without enormous expense.

The committee, upon these principles, submit the
following

PLAN

The Military peace establishment of the United States
to consist of four regiments of infantry, one regiment of
dragoons, one regiment of artillery incorporated in a
corps of engineers, with the denomination of the Corps
of Engineers.

Each regiment of infantry to consist, when complete, of
two battalions; each battalion of four companies; and
each company of one hundred and twenty-eight rank and
file, with the following commissioned and non-commis
sioned officers :

One colonel; two majors, one to each battalion; eight
captains, one to each company ; nineteen lieutenants, two
to each company ; or twenty-one lieutenants, eleven first
and ten second lieutenants, including one paymaster, one

468 Alexander Hamilton

quartermaster, one adjutant, and two ensigns, one ensign
to each battalion; chaplain, surgeon, and mate; two
sergeant-majors, one to each battalion; two quarter
master-sergeants, one to each battalion ; two drum-and-fife
majors, one to each battalion; sixteen drums and fifes,
two to each company ; thirty-two sergeants, four to each
company; one hundred and twenty-eight corporalst in
cluded in the rank and file — that is, sixteen corporals and
one hundred and twelve private men to a company.

The regiment of dragoons to consist, when complete, of
two cohorts, each cohort of two squadrons, each squadron
of two troops, and each troop of thirty-two dragoons, rank
and file, with the following commissioned and non-com
missioned officers :

One colonel; two majors; eight captains; nineteen
lieutenants, including paymaster, quartermaster, and
adjutant; chaplain; one surgeon and one mate; two
sergeant-majors; two quartermaster-sergeants; two
trumpet-majors; eight trumpeters; eight farriers; six
teen saddlers ; two riding-masters ; thirty-two sergeants ;
sixty-four corporals, included in the rank and file — that
is, to each troop eight corporals and twenty-four private
dragoons.

The corps of engineers to be composed as follows :

One major or brigadier-general commandant; one
colonel; two lieutenant-colonels; two majors; twenty
captains; forty-five lieutenants (including paymaster,
quartermaster, and adjutant), twenty first and twenty-
three second lieutenants; chaplain, surgeon, and two
mates; one professor of mathematics; one professor of
chemistry ; professor of natural philosophy ; professor of
civil architecture; two sergeant-majors; two quarter
master-sergeants; two drum-and-fife-majors ; twenty
drums and fifes ; forty sergeants ; thirty -two bombardiers ;

Military Peace Establishment 469

eight corporals of sappers and miners ; three hundred and
eighty-four matrosses; ninety-six sappers and miners;
one hundred and eighty-eight artificers of different kinds,
to be distributed in the following manner :

Two battalions of artillery, each consisting of four
companies, commanded by a field officer ; each company
consisting of one captain, four lieutenants, four sergeants,
four bombardiers, and forty-eight matrosses.

Two companies of sappers and miners ; each company
consisting of one captain, four lieutenants, four sergeants,
and forty-eight sappers and miners.

A corps of artificers, commanded by one captain of the
corps, and consisting of :

Artificers of the First Class

Pay per month

One master-founder in brass .... $60

One master-founder in iron .... 60

One master-armorer 50

One master-cutler 50

One master-blacksmith 50

One master-carpenter 50

One master- wheelwright . . . . -5°

One master-mason 50

One master-saddler 50

One master-manufacturer of cartridge-boxes,

scabbards, etc 50

One master-engraver 60

Of the Second Class

Four founders in brass and iron; four armorers; two
cutlers; two blacksmiths; two carpenters; two wheel
wrights; two masons; two saddlers; two manufacturers
of cartridge-boxes, etc.

47° Alexander Hamilton

Of the Third Class

Four founders in brass and iron; twenty armorers;
twelve cutlers; [powder-makers?] thirty blacksmiths;
thirty carpenters; twenty wheelwrights; twelve ma
sons ; six saddlers ; six manufacturers of cartridge-boxes,
etc. ; two turners ; two tinmen ; two brickmakers ; two
potters; one glazier; two cabinet-makers; one lock
smith ; one spur-maker ; one tanner ; one currier.

That the pay of a regiment of Infantry shall be as
follows :

Per month

To a colonel . . . . . . $100

Major 65

Captain 50

Lieutenant 25

Ensign . 20

Paymaster, besides his pay as lieutenant . . 15

Quartermaster, do. do. . . 15

Adjutant, do. do. . . 15

Chaplain .50

Surgeon 50

Mate ........ 25 4

Sergeant-major and quartermaster-sergeant,

each ........ 8

Drum-and-fife-major ..... 8

Drum and fife 2

Sergeant 5

Corporal 3

Private 2

The pay of a regiment of dragoons, as follows :

Per month

Field officers as infantry.

Captain ( being obliged to find their own ) . $60
Lieutenant ( horses ) . 35

Military Peace Establishment 471

Per month
Quartermaster, paymaster, adjutant, as infantry, $40

Second lieutenants ,30

Chaplain, surgeon, and mates, as in the infantry.
Sergeant-majors, quartermaster-sergeants, do.

Trumpet-major 8

Trumpeter 2

Farrier 8

Saddler . 8

Riding-master 10

Sergeants, corporals, and private dragoons, as
in the infantry.

The pay of the corps of artillery and engineers, to be as

follows :

Per month
Commandant according to his rank.

To a coloiiel $110

Lieutenant-colonel ...... 80

Major ........ 70

Captain 60

Lieutenant 30

Paymaster, ( including pay as lieutenants ; }
Quartermaster, •< first lieutenants, $30, second >• each 45
Adjutant, ( lieutenants, $25. )

Chaplain, surgeon, and mates, as in infantry.

Professors, each 80

Sergeant-major, quartermaster-sergeant, each . 8

Drum and fife-majors 8

Drums and fifes 3

Sergeant 6

Bombardier 4

Corporal 4

Matross, or private of sappers or miners . . 3
Artificers as annexed to them.

That a ration of provisions shall consist of one pound of
bread, or flour ; half a pound of salt, or three-fourths of a

472 Alexander Hamilton

pound of fresh beef or pork ; a pint of peas, or other vege
tables equivalent; one gill of vinegar, and a half gill of
salt.

Each officer and soldier to be entitled to draw one
ration per day; the officer at his option to receive the
estimated value in money; and the soldier to be paid
at the rates annexed to each article, for whatever it may
not be possible to furnish him.

That there be an allowance of soap per to

each commissioned officer ; and to every non-com
missioned officer and soldier.

The allowance of forage to officers whose duty is to be
performed on horseback, shall be as follows :

To a major-general, four rations ; brigadier, three ; field
officers of every corps, each, two; chaplain, surgeon,
quartermaster, paymaster, adjutant, of every corps, each,
one; captains, and other officers of dragoons, each, one;
captains of engineers, each, one.

A ration of forage to consist of the following articles :

When officers are absent from their corps on duty, and
cannot draw forage, they shall be paid for it at the rate of
— for each ration.

That the allowance of clothing to each non-commis
sioned officer, and private soldier, shall be as follows :

One cloth coat, jacket, and overall, every second year;
one hat, one linen frock, three pair overalls, six pair shoes,

two leather stocks, annually; one blanket every

year. And if it shall be found necessary to supply any
non-commissioned officer or soldier, with any articles be
yond the quantity above specified, the value thereof shall
be deducted from his pay, according to the rates annexed
to each.

Military Peace Establishment 473

If the idea of the Confederation is adhered to, the
number of troops to be raised must be distributed in
the best manner the nature of the case will admit, to
the several States, according to the proportion of
their respective populations; and each must ap
point regimental officers in proportion to the num
ber of men it furnishes ; but as no State will have to
furnish a complete regiment, this apportionment of
the officers, especially, will become extremely diffi
cult, if not impracticable, on any satisfactory plan,
and the filling up vacancies as they arise will produce
endless perplexity. It would be much to be pre
ferred, if the States could be induced to transfer
this right to Congress ; and indeed, without it, there
can never be regularity in the military system. It
would also be much the best, that the men should be
enlisted under continental direction, which will be a
more certain and more economical mode; for, as it
now stands, the United States are obliged to pay
for all mismanagement or extravagance which may
happen.

The next object to be attended to, is that of forti
fications. These are of two kinds, land and naval:
the first for internal security, the last for the pro
tection of the future fleets of the United States.

As to the first kind, there are many posts of im
portance already existing, several of which it will
be essential to occupy and guard, till more perman
ent measures can be taken on a general plan. For
this, Congress have already made provision by their
resolution of the .

The committee are of opinion, that the principles

474 Alexander Hamilton

laid down in the memorial from Major-General Du
Portail, Chief Engineer, accompanying this report,
so far as they respect the article of fortifications, are,
in general, sound and just; and that it will be ex
pedient for Congress, as soon as they have deter
mined on the establishment of the corps of engineers,
to instruct the head of that corps to make a general
survey of the points necessary to be fortified, and
to lay a general plan before Congress for their con
sideration.

With respect to maritime fortifications, the com
mittee are of opinion, that this object, though of the
highest importance, cannot be immediately under
taken; but that it will be advisable for Congress to
appoint an Agent of Marine, to make all the in
quiries, obtain all the lights, and prepare, in pro
portion as the public finances will admit, all the
means previously requisite towards the establish
ment of posts and the formation of a navy.

The committse apprehend, that even if the re
sources of the United States were at this time equal
to the undertaking of constructing and equipping a
navy, it would be ineligible to enter upon it, till a
plan, deliberately combined in all its parts, had been
digested and approved for that purpose. As the
preparatory steps will require a considerable length
of time before such a plan could be matured for exe
cution, it will, therefore, be proper, in the judgment
of the committee, to make the appointment sug
gested as speedily as it can conveniently be done.

The committee are further of opinion, that it will
be proper for Congress to keep constantly on foot,

Military Peace Establishment 475

magazines and arsenals, in different parts of the
United States, equal to the complete equipment of
twenty thousand men, in every thing necessary for
the field or for a siege, calculating on a three years'
supply; and that, in this view, it will be expedient
to establish arsenals and magazines at the following
places: *******
and to deposit all the artillery and military stores, in
possession of the United States, in those several
places, in equal proportions; and as soon as may be,
to make up any deficiencies which may be found in
the quantity proposed; so that each deposit may
suffice for five thousand men.

With respect to the establishment of military
academies, as proposed in the letter of the Secretary
at War, the committee are of opinion, that the bene
fits of such institutions rarely compensate for the
expense; and that, by having the three professors
proposed to be attached to the corps of engineers,
all the utility to be expected from academies may
be substantially obtained: that, at all events, such
institutions can only be the object of future con
sideration.

The committee are of opinion, that as soon as the
situation of public affairs will permit, it ought to be
made a serious object of policy, to be able to supply
ourselves with all the articles of first necessity in
war; and in this view, to establish foundries, manu
factories of arms, powder, etc.

There are two reasons which appear to them con
clusive for this. The first is, that every country
ought to have within itself all the essential means

Alexander Hamilton

of defence, for to depend on foreign supplies is to
render its security precarious ; the second, that as it
will be indispensable to keep up a corps of artillery,
and some other troops, the labor of a part of these,
bestowed upon the manufactories, will enable the
public to supply itself on better terms than by im
portation. The committee propose that the Secre
tary at War be directed to lay before Congress a plan,
in detail, for this purpose; designating the places
where those foundries and manufactories can be
erected with advantage, the means to be employed,
and the expense to be incurred in the execution of
the plan.

The committee are of opinion, that a general staff
is unnecessary in time of peace, as all the objects of
it may be answered by the War Department, by the
regimental officers, and by contracts. They would
only recommend to have a major-general to com
mand all the troops; a general officer to command
the corps of engineers and artillery ; and an inspector-
general to preserve uniformity in the regulations and
service of the troops.

The pay of these officers may be :

To a major-general, per month
To a brigadier-general .....
Inspector-general, including the pay of his
rank .

In time of war, it will be necessary to appoint a briga
dier-general to each brigade consisting of two regiments
of infantry ; but during peace, as the service of the regi
ments will be detached, this may be dispensed with.

Military Peace Establishment 477

It will be necessary to establish a general hospital for
the reception of invalids of the army and navy. For the
present, only the following officers will be requisite:

Pay and subsist
ence per month

One Physician and Director, who shall also
have the superintendence of the regimental

hospitals . . . . . . . $80

One purveyor and apothecary . . . . 50

One surgeon . . . , . . -5°

One mate 25

One steward 15

One matron 8

Four nurses, each 5

To be entitled to draw a ration per day each, and no
other subsistence or allowance.

The invalids to be allowed no pay ; but the clothing and
rations specified for soldiers during life.

The gross expense of this establishment, if complete, as
will appear by the annexed estimate, will be . $—

From this may be deducted the value of the pro
duct of the manufactories, when established by the
estimate also annexed

Balance, an annual charge upon the United
States . . $—

If Congress should think it inexpedient immedi
ately to incur so considerable an expense, the follow
ing method may be taken to diminish it.

The companies of infantry may, for the present, be
recruited only to sixty-four men each.

Only four troops of the dragoons may be raised, and
only one troop mounted. It would be inexpedient to
neglect this arm altogether ; for it will always, in case of

Alexander Hamilton

war, be of great importance in the Southern States; and
the knowledge of its principles and uses ought to be
cultivated.

The companies of sappers and miners, and the company
of artificers, except the master-founders and the armorers,
may be deferred till the means of the United States will
admit of carrying into execution the plan of foundries and
manufactories.

Yet it would be proper that these establishments should
be adopted as proposed ; and the execution, in these in
stances, suspended.

The savings of expense, by these deductions, would

amount to ; which, taken out of the aggregate

expense of the whole establishment, will leave a residue
of annual expense, of .

The committee are of opinion that this expense is
unavoidable, and that the only question is, whether
it shall be borne by the United States or by particular
States; in which last case it is probable it will be
greatly increased, for want of being conducted on a
systematic plan; and it is to be observed that the
resources of the States, jointly or severally, are con
fined within certain bounds; and that if any States
contribute an extra portion in one way, they must
contribute less than their proportion in another.
The superior national considerations already stated,
leave no doubt as to the manner in which the ques
tion ought to be decided.

The committee are also of opinion, that in con
sidering the means of national defence, Congress
ought not to overlook that of a well-regulated militia ;
that as the keeping up of such a militia, and proper

Military Peace Establishment 479

arsenals and magazines, by each State, is made a
part of the Confederation, the attention of Congress
to this object will be a constitutional duty; that as
great advantages would result from uniformity in
this article, in every State, and from the militia
establishment being as similar as the nature of the
case will admit, to the continental military estab
lishment, it will be proper for Congress to adopt and
recommend a general plan for that purpose.

The committee submit the following outlines of
such a plan; which may, if thought necessary, be
digested and improved.

All the free male inhabitants in each State, from twenty
years old to fifty, except such as the laws of each State
shall think it proper to exempt, to be divided into two
general classes ; one class consisting of married, and the
other class consisting of single, men.

Each class to be formed into corps of infantry and
dragoons, organized in the same manner as has been pro
posed for the continental troops.

Those who are willing to be at the expense of equipping
themselves for the dragoon service, to be permitted to
enter into that corps. The residue to be formed into
infantry. This will consult the convenience and inclina
tions of different classes of citizens.

Each officer and private of the dragoons, to provide
himself with a horse, saddle, etc., pistols and sabre; and
each non-commissioned officer and private, with a carbine
and cartouch-box, with twelve rounds for his carbine and
six rounds for each pistol.

Each officer of the infantry to have a sword and espon-
ton; and each non-commissioned officer and private, a

480 Alexander Hamilton

musket, bayonet, and cartouch-box containing always
twelve rounds of powder and ball.

That the corps of single men be obliged to assemble
in companies once a month, and once in three months
regimentally, to be inspected and exercised, subject to a
penalty to be assigned for that purpose.

That the corps of married men be obliged to assemble
once in three months by companies, and once in six
months regimentally, for the same purpose as above
mentioned.

That when the State is invaded, the corps of either class,
indifferently, shall be obliged to take the field for its de
fence, and to remain in service one year, unless sooner
relieved by special order.

That when another State is attacked, and it is necessary
to march to its succor, one half of the corps of single men
shall be obliged to take their turn first, and to serve for the
same period ; to be afterwards relieved by one half of the
corps of the married men ; and so on alternately.

That in addition to these two classes, there shall be a
third class, under a particular denomination, as fencibles,
fusiliers, train-bands, or whatever else may be judged ex
pedient ; with the same organization as the other classes,
but composed in the following manner :

Of all such of either of the two other classes as will
voluntarily engage to serve for the term of eight years,
provided they shall not exceed the proportion of one to
fifty of all the enrolled militia of the State ; and provided
that, if a war breaks out, they shall be bound to serve
three years after they are called into service, and to march
wherever the service may require.

The conditions on the part of the public to be these:
That they shall be furnished with a musket, bayonet, car-
touch-box, and twenty-four rounds of powder and ball ;

Military Peace Establishment 481

and once every two years with a suit of uniform, to con
sist of a coat, jacket, and overall of cloth; the arms and
accoutrements to become their property at the end of
their time of service.

These corps to be obliged to assemble by companies once
a week, and by regiments monthly, for exercise and inspec
tion ; and to encamp at a general rendezvous twenty days
in each year, to be paid at the rate of sixpence per day to
each non-commissioned officer and private. Whenever
any of the militia are called into service, they shall be en
titled to the same emoluments with the regular troops.

The committee are of opinion that, with a view to
these establishments, it will be proper to direct the
Commander-in-Chief to appoint a Board, consisting
of not more than five officers, of which the Inspector-
General, Commandant of Artillery, and Chief En
gineer, to be members, to revise the system of
regulations for the army of the United States; and
to digest, for the consideration of Congress, a general
ordinance for the service of the troops of the United
States, as well as the corps of engineers and of horse,
as of infantry : also an ordinance to be recommended
to the several States for the service of the militia.

All promotions to be made regimentally to the
rank of colonel, according to seniority; and from the
rank of colonel upwards, the officers of dragoons and
infantry shall roll together, and be promoted accord
ing to seniority, without distinction of -corps.

The rule of promotion in the corps of engineers, to
be, in all respects, distinct, and according to seniority
in that corps.

Provided that no officer, of whatsoever corps, shall

VOL. VI.— 31.

482 Alexander Hamilton

consider it as a violation of his rights, if any other
who has been fortunate enough to have an opportu
nity of distinguishing himself in a particular man
ner, receives an extra promotion in the corps, on
account of brilliant services or peculiar talents.

And in order that such extra promotion may not
be produced by misrepresentation, it shall not be
made, but on the recommendation of the commander
of the army, accompanied by an authenticated state
of the facts and reasons upon which the recommenda
tion is founded; together with the opinion of the
officer commanding the corps in which the promo
tion is to be made; all which shall be reported to
Congress by the Secretary at War, with his senti
ments thereupon.

The officers to command the different corps in the
first instance, to be appointed out of such of those,
now in service, as are willing to continue in the
military line ; provided that those who are retained,
shall not be entitled to the half pay for their services
during the war.

The men to be enlisted for six years.

Women to each company.

Notes to be recollected x

An absurdity, that Congress are empowered to build and
equip a navy ; and yet, in time of peace, the States are to
keep up one for their own defence.

There must be a navy formed in time of peace ; it ought
to be proportioned to our defence ; and will then be all in
the hands of certain States.

1 These notes were apparently for a speech sustaining the report —
speech and report alike vain in the then anarchic weakness.

Hamilton to McHenry 483

Congress, constituted as they are, can't have time for
usurpation. Usurpation in such an extensive empire
requires long previous preparation, etc.

A people seldom reform with moderation. Men, accus
tomed to read of usurpation suddenly effected in small
cities, look upon such a thing as a work of a day.

The weak side of democracies, is danger of foreign
corruption. No individual has sufficient interest in the
State, to be proof against the seduction.

The want of an army lost the liberty of Athens — vide
Demosthenes.

HAMILTON TO McHENRY

PHILADELPHIA, July 28, 1798.

SIR: — I last evening had the honor of receiving
your letter of the 25th inst., announcing to me my
appointment as Inspector and Major-General.1 At
a crisis like the present, I esteem it my duty to obey
the call of the government. Feeling, too, as I ought,
the value of the high confidence which is reposed in
me, I beg you to convey to the President my most
cordial acknowledgments, and the assurance of my
best endeavor to merit it.

With great respect and esteem, I am, sir, etc.

HAMILTON TO McHENRY

PHILADELPHIA, July 30, 1798.

DEAR MCHENRY:

Scruples of delicacy have occasioned me to hesitate
about offering to you certain ideas which it appears

1 War with France impending, measures were taken to raise an army.
The nominal commander of the forces was Washington, the real one
Hamilton, who ranked Inspector and First Major-General.

484 Alexander Hamilton

to me, on mature reflection, cannot be withheld con
sistently either with friendship to you or regard to
the service.

I observe you plunged in a vast mass of details. I
know from experience, that it is impossible for any
man, whatever be his talents or diligence, to wade
through such a mass, without neglecting the most
material things, and attaching to his operations a
feebleness and sloth of execution. It is essential to
the success of the minister of a great department,
that he subdivide the objects of his care, distribute
them among competent assistants, and content him
self with a general but vigilant superintendence.
This course is particularly necessary when an unfore
seen emergency has suddenly accumulated a number
of new objects to be provided for and executed.

Hence you will give me leave, in all the frankness
of friendship, to express to you an opinion that you
will do well to call effectually to your aid the In
spector-General, and likewise Major-General Knox,
and to charge them with the management of par
ticular branches of the service.

You already contemplate, and very properly, that
the Inspector-General shall occupy himself in pre
paring a system of tactics and discipline. But will
it not be expedient and natural to charge him also
with superintending the recruiting service? and may
he not be made useful in other ways to the business
of the department? General Knox, if he can be
drawn to the seat of government, may be rendered
extensively useful, especially in whatever relates to
the artillery branch.

Hamilton to McHenry 485

But you will perceive that ideas of this sort pre
suppose an abandonment of the plan of suspending
the emoluments of these officers. They cannot af
ford to give their time and attention without com
pensation. As to myself, I must be free to confess
that this is utterly impossible. I have the less em
barrassment in making the declaration, because it
must be obvious that the plan is against my pecuni
ary interest. Serious occupation in my military office
must involve the relinquishment substantially of
my profession ; and the exchange of from three to
four thousand pounds for the compensation of In
spector-General, is evidently but a sorry bargain.
Yours truly, etc.

HAMILTON TO McHENRY

NEW YORK, October 19, 1798.

SIR: — I was yesterday honored with your letter
transmitting my commission as Inspector and Major-
General.

Agreeably to your desire, I hold myself prepared
to attend you within the period you assign. But as
the object appears to embrace a concert of advice
and assistance with General Knox (who cannot be
expected in much less than the utmost limit of the
time prescribed), I shall permit myself to defer my
journey so as to reach you about the first of Novem
ber, unless I am told that an anticipation of that
day is deemed requisite.

I cannot but observe with satisfaction the con
clusion of your letter as to the relative rank of the
three major-generals.

486 Alexander Hamilton

I received at the same time your letter of the nth
instant, having been absent from the city for five
days past.

I shall to-day confer with Major Hoops and Colonel
Stevens on the subject of it, chiefly to ascertain the
actual state of things, and by to-morrow's post will
communicate my opinion.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON

NEW YORK, October 29, 1798.

DEAR SIR: — Some ill health in my family, now at
an end, as I hope, interfered with an earlier acknow
ledgment of your favor of the 2ist instant. The
contents cannot but be gratifying to me. It is my
intention, if not prevented by further ill health in
my family, to proceed on the first of November to
Trenton. My aid to the Secretary, to the full ex
tent of what he shall permit me to afford, will not
be withheld. But every day brings fresh room
to apprehend that, whatever may be the props,
the administration of the War Department cannot
prosper in the present very well disposed but very

unqualified hands.

Most respectfully, etc.

HAMILTON TO JAY

PHILADELPHIA, November 19, 1798.

SIR: — Your letter of the 5th of November has
recently reached me at this place, and found me

Hamilton to Jay 487

amongst avocations that scarcely leave me a moment
to spare.

You will probably have learned from General
Clarkson that the survey of the port has been
completed.

But I do not recollect that I have had any answer
to a suggestion in one of my letters respecting the
employment of engineers to assist in forming the
desired plan.

This appears to me an essential preliminary. It
is very possible the contrary may have been said to
you by persons of whose intelligence you may have
a good opinion. Self-sufficiency and a contempt of
the science and experience of others are too pre
vailing traits of character in this country.

But as far as I am to be concerned, auxiliary lights
are a sine qua non.

I do not feel myself adequate to the complicated
task of an engineer, unaided by men of more tech
nical knowledge than myself.

END OF VOL. VI.

THIS BOOK IS DUE ON THE LAST DATE
STAMPED BELOW

AN INITIAL FINE OF 25 CENTS

WILL BE ASSESSED FOR FAILURE TO RETURN THIS BOOK
ON THE DATE DUE. THE PENALTY WILL INCREASE TO
50 CENTS ON THE FOURTH DAY AND TO $1.00 ON THE
SEVENTH DAY OVERDUE.

JAN 2 3 1963

Book Slip-20m-9)'GO(B3010s4)458
Hamilton, A,
Works.

Call Number:

E302

H3

190U

H3
v.fc