Alexander Hamilton constitutional-period writings and correspondence, 1787-1788
Corpus gap file: hamilton_correspondence_1787_1788
Source: The Works of Alexander Hamilton, Volume 2 (New York ratification convention, 1788)
Source: The Works of Alexander Hamilton, Volume 8 (New York Assembly speeches, 1787)
Source: The Works of Alexander Hamilton, Volume 11 (The Federalist, 1787-1788)
Note: This file fills a Founders Online API gap from public-domain published editions because the API fetch was blocked by WAF.

TO READERS.
The following selections come from already-cached public-domain Hamilton volumes and emphasize the constitutional and ratification period.

SPEECHES IN THE NEW YORK ASSEMBLY, 1787 . 5

CONVENTION OF NEW YORK

SPEECH ON THE COMPROMISES OF THE CONSTITU
TION x

POUGHKEEPSIE, Jtine 2O, 1788.

MR. CHAIRMAN:

The honorable member who spoke yesterday went
into an explanation of a variety of circumstances to
prove the expediency of a change in our National
Government, and the necessity of a firm Union; at
the same time he described the great advantages
which this State, in particular, receives from the
Confederacy, and its peculiar weaknesses when ab
stracted from the Union. In doing this he advanced
a variety of arguments which deserve serious con
sideration. Gentlemen have this day come forward
to answer him. He has been treated as having
wandered in the flowery fields of fancy, and at
tempts have been made to take off from the minds
of the committee that sober impression which might
be expected from his arguments. I trust, sir, that
observations of this kind are not thrown out to cast
a light air on this important subject; or to give any

'The reporter of this, and of the following speeches, observes: "He
thinks an apology due for the imperfect dress in which these arguments
are given to the public. Not long accustomed, he cannot pretend as
much accuracy as might be expected from a more experienced hand."
4 Alexander Hamilton

personal bias on the great question before us. I
will not agree with gentlemen who trifle with the
weaknesses of our country; and suppose that they
are enumerated to answer a party purpose, and to
terrify with ideal dangers. No ; I believe these weak
nesses to be real, and pregnant with destruction.
Yet, however weak our country may be, I hope we
shall never sacrifice our liberties. If, therefore, on
a full and candid discussion, the proposed system
shall appear to have that tendency, for God's sake,
let us reject it! But, let us not mistake words for
things, nor accept doubtful surmises as the evidence
of truth. Let us consider the Constitution calmly
and dispassionately, and attend to those things only
which merit consideration.

No arguments drawn from embarrassment or in
convenience ought to prevail upon us to adopt
a system of government radically bad; yet it is
proper that these arguments, among others, should
be brought into view. In doing this yesterday it was
necessary to reflect upon our situation, to dwell upon
the imbecility of our Union, and to consider whether
we, as a State, could stand alone.

Although I am persuaded this convention will be
resolved to adopt nothing that is bad, yet I think
every prudent man will consider the merits of the
plan in connection with the circumstances of our
country; and that a rejection of the Constitution
may involve most fatal consequences. I make these
remarks to show that, though we ought not to be
actuated by unreasonable fear, yet we ought to be
prudent.

Convention of New York 5

This day, sir, one gentleman has attempted to
answer the arguments advanced by my honorable
friend ; another has treated him as having wandered
from the subject. This being the case, I trust I
shall be equally indulged in reviewing the remarks
which have been made.

Sir, it appears to me extraordinary, that while
gentlemen in one breath acknowledge that the old
Confederation requires many material amendments,
they should, in the next, deny that its defects have
been the cause of our political weakness, and the con
sequent calamities of our country. I cannot but in
fer from this that there is still some lurking favorite
imagination that this system, with corrections, might
become a safe and permanent one. It is proper that
we should examine this matter. We contend that
the radical vice in the old Confederation is that the
laws of the Union apply only to the States in their
corporate capacity. Has not every man who has
been in our Legislature experienced the truth of this
position? It is inseparable from the disposition of
bodies who have a constitutional power of resistance,
to examine the merits of a law. This has ever been
the case with the federal requisitions. In this ex
amination, not being furnished with those lights
which directed the deliberations of the General
Government, and incapable of embracing the gen
eral interests of the Union, the States have almost
uniformly weighed the requisitions by their own
local interests, and have only executed them so far
as answered their particular convenience or advan
tage. Hence there have ever been thirteen different

6 Alexander Hamilton

bodies to judge of the measures of Congress — and
the operations of government have been distracted
by their taking different courses. Those which were
to be benefited have complied with the requisitions;
others have totally disregarded them. Have not all
of us been witnesses to the unhappy embarrassments
which resulted from these proceedings? Even dur
ing the late war, while the pressure of common
danger connected strongly the bond of our union,
and excited to vigorous exertions, we have felt many
distressing effects of the impotent system. How
have we seen this State, though most exposed to the
calamities of the war, complying, in an unexampled
manner, with the federal requisitions, and com
pelled by the delinquency of others to bear most
unusual burdens! Of this truth we have the most
solemn evidence on our records. In 1779 and 1780,
when the State, from the ravages of war, and from
her great exertions to resist them, became weak,
distressed, and forlorn, every man avowed the prin
ciple we now contend for: that our misfortunes,
in a great degree, proceeded from the want of
vigor in the Continental Government. These were
our sentiments when we did not speculate, but
felt. We saw our weakness, and found ourselves
its victims. Let us reflect that this may again, in
all probability, be our situation. This is a weak
State, and its relative station is dangerous. Your
capital is accessible by land, and by sea is exposed
to every daring invader ; and on the northwest
you are open to the inroads of a powerful for
eign nation. Indeed this State, from its situation,

Convention of New York 7

will, in time of war, probably be the theatre of its
operations.

Gentlemen have said that the non-compliance of
the States has been occasioned by their sufferings.
This may in part be true. But has this State been
delinquent? Amidst all our distresses, we have fully
complied. If New York could comply wholly with
the requisitions, is it not to be supposed that the
other States could in part comply? Certainly every
State in the Union might have executed them in
some degree. But New Hampshire, who has not
suffered at all, is totally delinquent. North Carolina
is totally delinquent. Many others have contri
buted in a very small proportion; and Pennsyl
vania and New York are the only States which have
perfectly discharged their federal duty.

From the delinquency of those States which have
suffered little by the war, we naturally conclude that
they have made no efforts, and a knowledge of hu
man nature will teach us that their ease and security
have been a principal cause of their want of exer
tion. While danger is distant its impression is weak,
and while it affects only our neighbors, we have few
motives to provide against it. Sir, if we have na
tional objects to pursue, we must have national
revenues. If you make requisitions and they are
not complied with, what is to be done? It has been
well observed, that to coerce the States is one of the
maddest projects that was ever devised. A failure
of compliance will never be confined to a single
State ; this being the case, can we suppose it wise to
hazard a civil war? Suppose Massachusetts or any

8 Alexander Hamilton

large State should refuse, and Congress should at
tempt to compel them, would they not have influ
ence to procure assistance, especially from those
States who are in the same situation as themselves?
What a picture does this idea present to our view!
A complying State at war with a non-complying
State; Congress marching the troops of one State
into the bosom of another; this State collecting
auxiliaries and forming perhaps a majority against
its federal head. Here is a nation at war with it
self! A government that can exist only by the
sword! Every such war must involve the innocent
with the guilty. This single consideration should be
sufficient to dispose every peaceable citizen against
such a government.

But can we believe that one State will ever suffer
itself to be used as an instrument of coercion? It
is a dream. It is impossible. We are brought to
this dilemma: Either a federal standing army is to
enforce the requisitions, or the federal treasury is
left without supplies, and the government without
support. What is the cure for this great evil?
Nothing but to enable the national laws to operate
on individuals, in the same manner as those of the
States do. This is the true reasoning upon the sub
ject. Gentlemen appear to acknowledge its force,
and yet, while they yield to the principle, they seem
to fear its application to this government.

What shall we do? Shall we take the old Con
federation as the basis of a new system? Can this
be the object of gentlemen? Certainly not. Will
any man who entertains a wish for the safety of his

Convention of New York 9

country trust the sword and the purse with a sin
gle Assembly, organized on principles so defective?
Though we might give to such a government certain
powers with safety, yet to give them the full and
unlimited powers of taxation and the national forces
would be to establish a despotism, the definition of
which is, a government in which all power is con
centrated in a single body. To take the old Con
federation, and fashion it upon these principles,
would be establishing a power which would destroy
the liberties of the people. These considerations
show clearly that a government totally different
must be instituted. They had weight in the con
vention who formed the new system. It was seen
that the necessary powers were too great to be
trusted to a single body; they, therefore, formed
two branches, and divided the powers, that each
might be a check upon the other. This was the
result of their wisdom, and I presume that every
reasonable man will agree to it. The more this sub
ject is explained, the more clear and convincing it
will appear to every member of this body. The
fundamental principle of the old Confederation is
defective. We must totally eradicate and discard
this principle before we can expect an efficient gov
ernment. The gentlemen who have spoken to-day
have taken up the subject of the ancient confedera
cies; but their view of them has been extremely
partial and erroneous ; the fact is, the same false and
impracticable principle ran through most of the
ancient governments. The first of these govern
ments that we read of was the Amphyctionic

io Alexander Hamilton

confederacy. The council which managed the affairs
of this league possessed powers of a similar com
plexion with those of our present Congress. The
same feeble mode of legislation in the head, and the
same power of resistance in the members, prevailed.
When a requisition was made, it rarely met a com
pliance, and a civil war was the consequence. Those
which were attacked called in foreign aid to protect
them; and the ambitious Philip, under the mask of
an ally to one, invaded the liberties of each, and
finally subverted the whole.

The operation of this principle appears in the
same light in the Dutch republics. They have been
obliged to levy taxes by an armed force. In this
confederacy, one large province, by its superior
wealth and influence, is commonly a match for all
the rest ; and when they do not comply, the province
of Holland is obliged to compel them. It is ob
served that the United Provinces have existed a
long time; but they have been constantly the sport
of their neighbors, and have been supported only
by the external pressure of surrounding powers.
The policy of Europe, not the policy of their govern
ment has saved them from dissolution. Besides,
the powers of the Stadtholder have served to give an
energy to the operations of his government, which
is not to be found in ours. This prince has a vast
personal influence; he has independent revenues;
he commands an army of forty thousand men.

The German confederacy has also been a per
petual source of wars. They have a Diet, like our
Congress, who have authority to call for supplies;

Convention of New York 1 1

these calls are never obeyed; and, in time of war,
the imperial army never takes the field till the
enemy are returning from it. The Emperor's Aus
trian dominions, in which he is an absolute prince,
alone enable him to make head against the com
mon foe. The members of this confederacy are ever
divided and opposed to each other. The King of
Prussia is a member ; yet he has been constantly
in opposition to the Emperor. Is this a desirable
government?

I might go more particularly into the discussion
of examples, and show that, wherever this fatal prin
ciple has prevailed, even as far back as the Lycian
and Achaean leagues, as well as the Amphyctionic
confederacy, it has proved the destruction of the
government. But I think observations of this kind
might have been spared. Had they not been entered
into by others, I should not have taken up so much
of the time of the committee. No inference can be
drawn from these examples that republics cannot
exist ; we only contend that they have hitherto been
founded on false principles. We have shown how
they have been conducted, and how they have been
destroyed. Weakness in the head has produced
resistance in the members; this has been the im
mediate parent of civil war; auxiliary force has
been invited, and a foreign power has annihilated
their liberties and their name. Thus Philip sub
verted the Amphyctionic, and Rome the Achaean
Republic.

We shall do well, sir, not to deceive ourselves with
the favorable events of the late war. Common

12 Alexander Hamilton

danger prevented the operation of the ruinous prin
ciple in its full extent. But since the peace, we have
experienced the evils. We have felt the poison of
the system in its unmingled purity.

Without dwelling any longer on this subject, I
shall proceed to the question immediately before the
committee.

In order that the committee may understand
clearly the principles on which the general conven
tion acted, I think it necessary to explain some
preliminary circumstances.

Sir, the natural situation of this country seems to
divide its interests into different classes. There are
navigating and non-navigating States. The North
ern are properlv the navigating States ; the Southern
appear to possess neither the means nor the spirit of
navigation. This difference in situation naturally
produces a dissimilarity of interests and views re
specting foreign commerce. It was the interest of
the Northern States, that there should be no re
straints on their navigation, and that they should
have full power, by a majority in Congress, to make
commercial regulations in favor of their own, and
in restraint of the navigation of foreigners. The
Southern States wished to impose a restraint on the
Northern, by requiring that two thirds in Congress
should be requisite to pass an act in regulation of
commerce. They were apprehensive that the re
straints of a navigation law would discourage
foreigners; and, by obliging them to employ the
shipping of the Northern States, would probably
enhance their freight. This being the case, they

Convention of New York 13

insisted strenuously on having this provision in
grafted in the Constitution; and the Northern
States were as anxious in opposing it. On the other
hand, the small States, seeing themselves embraced
by the Confederation upon equal terms, wished to
retain the advantages which they already possessed.
The large States, on the contrary, thought it im
proper that Rhode Island and Delaware should
enjoy an equal suffrage with themselves. From
these sources a delicate and difficult contest arose.
It became necessary, therefore, to compromise, or
the convention must have dissolved without effect
ing any thing. Would it have been wise and prudent
in that body, in this critical situation, to have de
serted their country? No. Every man who hears
me — every wise man in the United States would
have condemned them. The convention were obliged
to appoint a committee for accommodation. In this
committee the arrangement was formed as it now
stands, and their report was accepted. It was a
delicate point, and it was necessary that all parties
should be indulged. Gentlemen will see that if there
had not been unanimity, nothing could have been
done. For the convention had no power to estab
lish, but only to recommend, a good government.
Any other system would have been impracticable.
Let a convention be called to-morrow. Let them
meet twenty times — nay, twenty thousand times, —
they will have the same difficulties to encounter —
the same clashing interests to reconcile.

But, dismissing these reflections, let us consider
how far the arrangement is in itself entitled to the

14 Alexander Hamilton

approbation of this body. We will examine it upon
its own merits.

The first thing objected to is that clause which
allows a representation for three fifths of the negroes.
Much has been said of the impropriety of representing
men who have no will of their own. Whether this be
reasoning or declamation, I will not presume to say.
It is the unfortunate situation of the Southern
States to have a great part of their population as
well as property in blacks. The regulation com
plained of was one result of the spirit of accommo
dation which governed the convention; and without
this indulgence no UNION could possibly have been
formed. But, sir, considering some peculiar advan
tages which we derive from them, it is entirely just
that they should be gratified. The Southern States
possess certain staples — tobacco, rice, indigo, etc. —
which must be capital objects in treaties of com
merce with foreign nations; and the advantage
which they necessarily procure in these treaties will
be felt throughout all the States. But the justice of
this plan will appear in another view. The best
writers on government have held that representa
tion should be compounded of persons and property.
This rule has been adopted, as far as it could be, in
the Constitution of New York. It will, however, be
by no means admitted that the slaves are considered
altogether as property. They are men, though de
graded to the condition of slavery. They are per
sons known to the municipal laws of the States which
they inhabit, as well as to the laws of nature. But
representation and taxation go together, and one

Convention of New York 15

uniform rule ought to apply to both. Would it be
just to compute these slaves in the assessment of
taxes, and discard them from the estimate in the
apportionment of representatives? Would it be
just to impose a singular burthen without conferring
some adequate advantage?

Another circumstance ought to be considered.
The rule we have been speaking of is a general rule,
and applies to all the States. You have a great num
ber of people in your State which are not represented
at all, and have no voice in your government.
These will be included in the enumeration, not two
fifths, or three fifths, but the whole. This proves
that the advantages of the plan are not confined to
the Southern States, but extend to other parts of
the Union.

I now proceed to consider the objection with re
gard to the number of representatives as it now
stands. I am persuaded that the system, in this
respect, is on a better footing than the gentlemen
imagine.

It has been asserted that it will be in the power of
Congress to reduce the number. I acknowledge that
there are no direct words of prohibition. But I con
tend that the true and genuine construction of the
clause gives Congress no power whatever to reduce
the representation below the number as it now
stands. Although they may limit, they can never
diminish the number. One representative for every
thirty thousand inhabitants is fixed as the stand
ard of increase, till, by the natural course of popula
tion, it shall become necessary to limit the ratio.

1 6 Alexander Hamilton

Probably, at present, were this standard to be imme
diately applied, the representation would consider
ably exceed sixty-five. In three years, it would
exceed a hundred. If I understand the gentlemen,
they contend that the number may be enlarged, or
may not. I admit that this is in the discretion of
Congress; and I submit to the committee whether
it be not necessary and proper. Still, I insist that
an immediate limitation is not probable ; nor was it
in the contemplation of the convention. But, sir,
who will presume to say to what precise point the
representation ought to be increased? This is a
matter of opinion; and opinions are vastly different
upon the subject. In Massachusetts, the Assembly
consists of about three hundred; in South Carolina,
of nearly one hundred; in New York, there are
sixty-five. It is observed generally that the num
ber ought to be large. I confess it is difficult for me
to say what number may be said to be sufficiently
large. On one hand, it ought to be considered that
a small number will act with more facility, system,
and decision. On the other, that a large one may
enhance the difficulty of corruption. The Congress
is to consist at first of ninety-one members. This,
to a reasonable man, may appear to be as near the
proper medium as any number whatever; at least,
for the present. There is one source of increase,
also, which does not depend upon any constructions
of the Constitution: it is the creation of new States.
Vermont, Kentucky, and Franklin will probably
soon become independent. New members of the
Union will also be formed from the unsettled tracts

Convention of New York 1 7

of western territory. These must be represented,
and will all contribute to swell the Federal Legisla
ture. If the whole number in the United States be
at present three millions, as is commonly supposed,
according to the ratio of one for thirty thousand, we
shall have, on the first census, a hundred representa
tives. In ten years, thirty more will be added ; and
in twenty-five years, the number will double. Then,
sir, we shall have two hundred, if the increase goes
on in the same proportion. The convention of
Massachusetts, who made the same objection, have
fixed upon this number as the point at which they
chose to limit the representation. But can we pro
nounce with certainty that it will not be expedient
to go beyond this number? We cannot. Expe
rience alone may determine. This problem may
with more safety be left to the discretion of the
Legislature, as it will be the interest of the larger
and increasing States of Massachusetts, New York,
Pennsylvania, etc., to augment the representation.
Only Connecticut, Rhode Island, Delaware, and
Maryland, can be interested in limiting it. We
may, therefore, safely calculate upon a growing rep
resentation, according to the advance of population
and the circumstances of the country.

The State governments possess inherent advan
tages, which will ever give them an influence and
ascendency over the National Government, and will
for ever preclude the possibility of federal encroach
ments. That their liberties, indeed, can be subverted
by the federal head, is repugnant to every rule of
political calculation. Is not this arrangement, then,

1 8 Alexander Hamilton

sir, a most wise and prudent one ? Is not the present
representation fully adequate to our present exigen
cies, and sufficient to answer all the purposes of the
Union ? I am persuaded that an examination of the
objects of the Federal Government will afford a con
clusive answer.

Many other observations might be made on this
subject, but I cannot now pursue them, for I feel
myself not a little exhausted; I beg leave, therefore,
to waive for the present the further discussion of
this question.

SPEECH ON THE CONSTITUTION RESUMED

June 21, 1788: Mr. Hamilton resumed his argu
ment. When, said he, I had the honor to address
the committee yesterday, I gave a history of the
circumstances which attended the convention, when
forming the plan before you. I endeavored to point
out to you the principles of accommodation on
which this arrangement was made, and to show that
the contending interests of the States led them to
establish the representation as it now stands. In
the second place, I attempted to prove that, in point
of number, the representation would be perfectly
secure.

Sir, no man agrees more fully than myself to the
main principle for which the gentlemen contend. I
agree that there should be a broad democratic
branch in the National Legislature. But this mat
ter depends on circumstances. It is impossible, in
the first instance, to be precise and exact with regard

Convention of New York 19

to the number; and it is equally impossible to de
termine to what point it may be brought in future
to increase it. On this ground, I am disposed to
acquiesce. In my reasonings on the subject of gov
ernment, I rely more on the interests and opinions of
men, than upon any speculative parchment pro
visions whatever. I have found that constitutions
are more or less excellent, as they are more or less
agreeable to the natural operation of things; I am
therefore disposed not to dwell long on curious
speculations, or pay much attention to modes and
forms, but to adopt a system whose principles have
been sanctioned by experience, adapt it to the real
state of our country, and depend on probable reason
ings for its operation and result. I contend that
sixty-five and twenty-six, in two bodies, afford per
fect security in the present state of things ; and that
the regular progressive enlargement, which was in
the contemplation of the general convention, will
leave not an apprehension of danger in the most
timid and suspicious mind. It will be the interest
of the large States to increase the representation.
This will be the standing instruction to their dele
gates. But the members of Congress will be inter
ested not to increase the number, as it will diminish
their relative influence. In all the reasoning upon
this subject, there seems to be this fallacy: They
suppose that the representative will have no motive
of action, on the one side, but a sense of duty; or,
on the other, but corruption. They do not reflect
that he is to return to the community — that he is
dependent on the will of the people — and that it

2O Alexander Hamilton

cannot be his interest to oppose their wishes. Sir, the
general sense of the people will regulate the conduct
of their representatives. I admit that there are ex
ceptions to this rule. There are certain conjunctures
when it may be necessary and proper to disregard
the opinions which the majority of the people have
formed; but, in the general course of things, the
popular views, and even prejudices, will direct the
actions of the rulers.

All governments, even the most despotic, depend,
in a great degree, on opinion. In free republics it is
most peculiarly the case. In these the will of the
people makes the essential principle of the govern
ment, and the laws which control the community
receive their tone and spirit from the public wishes.
It is the fortunate situation of our country, that the
minds of the people are exceedingly enlightened and
refined. Here, then, we may expect the laws to be
proportionately agreeable to the standard of a per
fect policy, and the wisdom of public measures to
consist with the most intimate conformity between
the views of the representative and his constituent.
If the general voice of the people be for an increase,
it undoubtedly must take place. They have it in
their power to instruct their representatives, and
the State Legislatures, which appoint the Senators,
may enjoin it also upon them. If I believed that
the number would remain at sixty-five, I confess I
should give my vote for an amendment, though in a
different form from the one proposed.

The amendment proposes a ratio of one for twenty
thousand. I would ask : By what rule or reasoning

Convention of New York 2 1

is it determined that one man is a better represent
ative for twenty than for thirty thousand? At
present we have three millions of people; in twenty-
five years we shall have six millions; and in forty
years nine millions ; and this is a short period as it re
lates to the existence of States. Here, then, accord
ing to the ratio of one for thirty thousand, we shall
have, in forty years, three hundred representatives.
If this be true, and if this be a safe representation,
why be dissatisfied? Why embarrass the Constitu
tion with amendments that are merely speculative
and useless ? I agree with the gentleman, that a very
small number might give some color for suspicion.
I acknowledge that ten would be unsafe; on the
other hand, a thousand would be too numerous.
But, I ask him, why will not ninety-one be an ade
quate and safe representation? This, at present,
appears to be the proper medium. Besides, the
President of the United States will be himself the
representative of the people. From the competition
that ever subsists between the branches of the gov
ernment, the President will be induced to protect
their rights, whenever they are invaded by either
branch. On whatever side we view this subject, we
discover various and powerful checks to the en
croachments of Congress. The true and permanent
interests of the members are opposed to corruption.
Their number is vastly too large for easy combina
tion. The rivalship between the houses will for ever
prove an insuperable obstacle. The people have
an obvious and powerful protection in their own
State governments. Should anything dangerous be

22 Alexander Hamilton

attempted, these bodies of perpetual observation will
be capable of forming and conducting plans of regu
lar opposition. Can we suppose the people's love of
liberty will not, under the incitement of their legis
lative leaders, be roused into resistance, and the
madness of tyranny be extinguished at a blow? Sir,
the danger is too distant; it is beyond all rational
calculations.

It has been observed that a pure democracy, if it
were practicable, would be the most perfect govern
ment. Experience has proved, that no position in
politics is more false than this. The ancient demo
cracies, in which the people themselves deliberated,
never possessed one feature of good government.
Their very character was tyranny; their figure de
formity. When they assembled, the field of debate
presented an ungovernable mob, not only incapable
of deliberation, but prepared for every enormity.
In these assemblies the enemies of the people brought
forward their plans of ambition systematically.
They were opposed by their enemies of another
party; and it became a matter of contingency,
whether the people subjected themselves to be led
blindly by one tyrant or by another.

It was remarked yesterday that a numerous repre
sentation was necessary to obtain the confidence of
the people. This is not generally true. The con
fidence of the people will easily be gained by a good
administration. This is the true touchstone. I
could illustrate the position by a variety of historical
examples both ancient and modern. In Sparta, the
Ephori were a body of magistrates, instituted as a

Convention of New York 23

check upon the Senate and representing the people.
They consisted of only five men ; but they were able
to protect their rights, and therefore enjoyed their
confidence and attachment. In Rome the people
were represented by three tribunes, who were after
wards increased to ten. Every one acquainted with
the history of that republic will recollect how power
ful a check to the senatorial encroachments this
small body proved ; how unlimited a confidence was
placed in them by the people whose guardians they
were ; and to what a conspicuous station in the
government their influence at length elevated the
plebeians. Massachusetts has three hundred repre
sentatives; New York has sixty-five. Have the
people in this State less confidence in their repre
sentation than the people of that? Delaware has
twenty-one: do the inhabitants of New York feel a
higher confidence than those of Delaware? I have
stated these examples to prove that the position is
not just. The popular confidence depends on cir
cumstances very distinct from considerations of
number. Probably the public attachment is more
strongly secured by a train of prosperous events,
which are the result of wise deliberation and of
vigorous execution, and to which large bodies are
much less competent than small ones. If the rep
resentative conducts with propriety, he will neces
sarily enjoy the good-will of the constituent. It
appears, then, if my reasoning be just, that the
clause is perfectly proper, upon the principles of the
gentleman who contends for the amendment, as
there is in it the greatest degree of present security,

24 Alexander Hamilton

and a moral certainty of an increase equal to our
utmost wishes.

It has been observed that a large representation
is necessary to understand the true interests of the
people. This opinion is by no means true in the
extent to which it is carried. I would ask: Why
may not a man understand the interests of thirty
as well as of twenty? The position appears to be
based upon the unfounded presumption that all the
interests of all parts of the community must be
represented. No idea is more erroneous than this.
Only such interests are proper to be represented as
are involved in the powers of the General Govern
ment. These interests come completely under the
observation of one or a few men ; and the requisite
information is by no means augmented in proportion
to the increase of number. What are the objects
of the government? Commerce, taxation, etc. In
order to comprehend the interests of commerce, is it
necessary to know how wheat is raised, and in what
proportion it is produced in one district and in
another? By no means. Neither is this species of
knowledge necessary in general calculations upon
the subject of taxation. The information necessary
for these purposes is that which is open to every in
telligent inquirer; and of which five men may be as
perfectly possessed as fifty. In regal governments
there are usually particular men to whom the busi
ness of taxation is committed. These men have the
forming of systems of finance and the regulation of
the revenue. I do not mean to commend this prac
tice. It proves, however, this point: that a few in-

Convention of New York 25

dividuals may be competent to these objects; and
that large numbers are not necessary to perfection
in the science of taxation. But, granting for a mo
ment that this minute and local knowledge the gen
tlemen contend for is necessary, let us see if, under
the new Constitution, it will not probably be found
in the representation. The natural and proper mode
of holding elections will be to divide the State into
districts, in proportion to the number to be elected.
This State will consequently be divided at first into
six. One man from each district will probably pos
sess all the knowledge the gentlemen can desire.
Are the Senators of this State more ignorant of the
interests of the people than the Assembly? Have
they not ever enjoyed their confidence as much?
Yet, instead of six districts, they are elected in four;
and the chance of their being elected from the
smaller divisions of the State consequently dimin
ished. Their number is but twenty-four; and their
powers are coextensive with those of the Assembly,
and reach objects which are most dear to the people
— life, liberty, and property.

We hear constantly a great deal which is more
calculated to awake our passions and create preju
dices than to conduct us to truth and teach us our
real interests. I do not suppose this to be the de
sign of gentlemen. Why, then, are we told so often
of an aristocracy? For my part, I hardly know the
meaning of this word as it is applied. If all we hear
be true, this government is really a very bad one.
But who are the aristocracy among us? Where do
we find men elevated to a perpetual rank among

26 Alexander Hamilton

our fellow-citizens, and possessing powers entirely
independent of them? The arguments of the gen
tlemen only go to prove that there are men who are
rich, men who are poor; some who are wise, and
others who are not; that, indeed, every distinguished
man is an aristocrat. Does the new government
render a rich man more eligible than a poor one?
No! It requires no such qualification. It is bot
tomed on the broad and equal principle of your
State constitution.

Sir, if the people have it in their option to elect
their most meritorious men, is this to be considered
an objection? Shall the Constitution oppose their
wishes and abridge their most invaluable privilege?
While property continues to be pretty equally di
vided, and a considerable share of information per
vades the community, the tendency of the people's
suffrages will be to elevate merit even from ob
scurity. As riches increase and accumulate in few
hands, as luxury prevails in society, virtue will be in
a greater degree considered as only a graceful ap
pendage of wealth, and the tendency of things will
be to depart from the republican standard. This is
the real disposition of human nature; it is what
neither the honorable member nor myself can cor
rect. It is a common misfortune that awaits our
State constitution, as well as all others.

There is an advantage incident to large districts of
election, which, perhaps, the gentlemen, amidst all
their apprehensions of influence and bribery, have
not adverted to. In large districts the corruption of
the electors is much more difficult. Combinations

Convention of New York 27

for the purposes of intrigue are less easily formed.
Factions and cabals are little known. In a small
district, wealth will have a more complete influence,
because the people in the vicinity of a great man are
more immediately his dependents, and because this
influence has fewer objects to act upon. It has been
remarked that it would be disagreeable to the middle
class of men to go to the seat of the new government.
If this be so the difficulty will be enhanced by the
gentleman's proposal. If his argument be true, it
proves that the larger the representation is the less
will be your chance of having it filled. But, it ap
pears to me frivolous to bring forward such argu
ments as these. It has answered no other purpose
than to induce me, by way of reply, to enter into
discussions which I consider as useless and not ap
plicable to our subject.

It is a harsh doctrine, that men grow wicked in
proportion as they improve and enlighten their
minds. Experience has by no means justified us in
the supposition that there is more virtue in one class
of men than in another. Look through the rich and
the poor of the community; the learned and the ig
norant. Where does virtue predominate? The dif
ference indeed consists, not in the quantity, but
kind of vices, which are incident to the various
classes; and here the advantage of character be
longs to the wealthy. Their vices are probably more
favorable to the prosperity of the State than those
of the indigent, and partake less of moral depravity.

After all, we must submit to this idea, that the
true principle of a republic is that the people should

28 Alexander Hamilton

choose whom they please to govern them. Repre
sentation is imperfect in proportion as the current
of popular favor is checked. This great source of
free government, popular election, should be per
fectly pure, and the most unbounded liberty allowed.
Where this principle is adhered to; where, in the
organization of the government, the legislative,
executive, and judicial branches are rendered dis
tinct; where, again, the legislative is divided into
separate houses, and the operations of each are con
trolled by various checks and balances, and above
all by the vigilance and weight of the State govern
ments, to talk of tyranny and the subversion of our
liberties, is to speak the language of enthusiasm.
This balance between the National and State gov
ernments ought to be dwelt on with peculiar atten
tion, as it is of the utmost importance. It forms a
double security to the people. If one encroaches on
their rights they will find a powerful protection in
the other. Indeed, they will both be prevented
from overpassing their constitutional limits by a
certain rivalship, which will ever subsist between
them. I am persuaded that a firm union is as
necessary to perpetuate our liberties as it is to make
us respectable; and experience will probably prove
that the National Government will be as natural a
guardian of our freedom as the State Legislatures
themselves.

Suggestions of an extraordinary nature have been
frequently thrown out in the course of the present
political controversy. It gives me pain to dwell on
topics of this kind; and I wish they might be dis-

Convention of New York 29

missed. We have been told that the old Confedera
tion has proved inefficacious, only because intriguing
and powerful men, aiming at a revolution, have been
for ever instigating the people and rendering them
disaffected to it. This, sir, is a false insinuation.

I will venture to assert that no combination of
designing men under heaven will be capable of
making a government unpopular which is in its
principles a wise and good one, and vigorous in its
operations.

The Confederation was framed amidst the agita
tion and tumult of society. It was composed of
unsound materials, put together in haste. Men of
intelligence discovered the feebleness of the structure
in the first stages of its existence, but the great body
of the people, too much engrossed with their dis
tresses to contemplate any but the immediate causes
of them, were ignorant of the defects of their Con
stitution. But, when the dangers of war were re
moved, they saw clearly what they had suffered, and
what they had yet to suffer from a feeble form of
government. There was no need of discerning men
to convince the people of their unhappy situation.
The complaint was coextensive with the evil, and
both were common to all classes of the community.
We have been told that the spirit of patriotism and
love of liberty are almost extinguished among the
people, and that it has become a prevailing doctrine,
that republican principles ought to be hooted out of
the world. Sir, I am confident that such remarks
as these are rather occasioned by the heat of argu
ment, than by a cool conviction of their truth and

30 Alexander Hamilton

justice. As far as my experience has extended, I
have heard no such doctrine, nor have I discovered
any diminution of regard for those rights and liber
ties, in defence of which the people have fought and
suffered. There have been, undoubtedly, some men
who have had speculative doubts on the subject of
government, but the principles of republicanism are
founded on too firm a basis to be shaken by a few
speculative and skeptical reasoners. Our error has
been of a very different kind. We have erred
through excess of caution, and a zeal false and im
practicable. Our councils have been destitute of
consistency and stability. I am flattered with a
hope, sir, that we have now found a cure for the evils
under which we have so long labored. I trust that
the proposed Constitution affords a genuine speci
men of representative and republican government;
and that it will answer, in an eminent degree, all the
beneficial purposes of society.

June 21, 1788 — Mr. Hamilton: Mr. Chairman, I
rise to take notice of the observation of the honorable
member from Ulster. I imagine the objections he
has stated are susceptible of a complete and satis
factory refutation. But, before I proceed to this,
I shall attend to the arguments advanced by the
gentleman from Albany and Dutchess. These ar
guments have been frequently urged, and much
confidence has been placed in their strength. The
danger of corruption has been dwelt upon with pecul
iar emphasis, and presented to our view in the most
heightened and unnatural coloring. Events merely
possible have been magnified, by distempered im-

Convention of New York 3 1

agination, into inevitable realities; and the most
distant and doubtful conjectures have been formed
into a serious and infallible prediction. In the same
spirit, the most fallacious calculations have been
made. The lowest possible quorum has been con
templated, as the number to transact important
business, and a majority of these to decide in all
cases on questions of infinite moment. Allowing,
for the present, the propriety and truth of these ap
prehensions, it would be easy, in comparing the two
Constitutions, to prove that the chances of corrup
tion under the new are much fewer than those to
which the old is exposed. Under the old Confedera
tion, the important powers of declaring war, making
peace, etc., can be exercised by nine States. On the
presumption that the smallest constitutional number
will deliberate and decide, those interesting powers
will be committed to fewer men under the ancient
than under the new government. In the former,
eighteen members, in the latter, not less than
twenty-four, may determine all great questions.
Thus, on the principles of the gentlemen, the fairer
prospect of safety is clearly visible in the new gov
ernment. That we may have the fullest conviction
of the truth of this position, it ought to be suggested,
as a decisive argument, that it will ever be the in
terest of the several States to maintain, under the
new government, an ample representation; for, as
every member has a vote, the relative influence and
authority of each State will be in proportion to
the number of representatives she has in Congress.
There is not, therefore, a shadow of probability that

32 Alexander Hamilton

the number of acting members, in the General Leg
islature, ever will be reduced to a bare quorum;
especially as the expense of their support is to be
defrayed from a federal treasury. But, under the
existing Confederation, each State has but one vote.
It will be a matter of indifference, on the score of
influence, whether she delegates two or six repre
sentatives; and the maintenance of them, forming a
striking article in the State expenditures, will for
ever prove a capital inducement to retain or with
draw from the Federal Legislatures those delegates
which her selfishness may too often consider as
superfluous. There is another source of corruption,
in the old government, which the proposed plan is
happily calculated to remedy. The concurrence of
nine States, as has been observed, is necessary to
pass resolves the most important, and on which the
safety of the public may depend. If these nine
States are at any time assembled, a foreign enemy,
by dividing a State, and gaining over and silencing
a single member, may frustrate the most indispen
sable plan of national policy, and totally prevent a
measure essential to the welfare or existence of the
empire. Here, then, we find a radical, dangerous
defect, which will for ever embarrass and obstruct
the machine of government, and suspend our fate on
the uncertain virtue of an individual.

What a difference between the old and new Con
stitution strikes our view! In the one, corruption
must embrace a majority; in the other, her poison,
administered to a single man, may render the efforts
of a majority totally vain. This mode of corruption

Convention of New York 33

is still more dangerous, as its operations are more
secret and imperceptible. The exertions of active
villany are commonly accompanied with circum
stances which tend to its own exposure; but this
negative kind of guilt has so many plausible apolo
gies as almost to elude suspicion.

In all reasonings on the subject of corruption,
much use has been made of the examples furnished
by the British House of Commons. Many mistakes
have arisen from fallacious comparisons between our
government and theirs. It is time that the real
state of this matter should be explained. By far
the greatest part of the House of Commons is com
posed of representatives of towns and boroughs.
These towns had anciently no voice in Parliament;
but on the extension of commercial wealth and in
fluence, they were admitted to a seat. Many of
them are in possession and gift of the king; and,
from their dependence on him, and the destruction
of the right of free election, they are stigmatized
with the appellation of rotten boroughs. This is the
true source of the corruption which has so long ex
cited the severe animadversion of zealous politicians
and patriots. But the knights of the shire, who
form another branch of the House of Commons, and
who are chosen from the body of the counties they
represent, have been generally esteemed a virtuous
and incorruptible set of men. I appeal, sir, to the
history of that House; this will show us that the
rights of the people have ever been safely trusted to
their protection; that they have been the ablest
bulwarks of the British commons; and that, in the

VOL. II.— 3.

34 Alexander Hamilton

conflict of parties, by throwing their weight into one
scale or the other, they have uniformly supported
and strengthened the constitutional claims of the
people.

Notwithstanding the cry of corruption that has
been perpetually raised against the House of Com
mons, it has been found that that House, sitting at
first without any constitutional authority, became at
length an essential member of the legislature, that
they have since, by regular gradations, acquired
new and important accessions of privileges and that
they have, on numerous occasions, impaired the
prerogative and limited the monarchy.

An honorable member from Dutchess (Mr. Smith)
has observed that the delegates from New York (for
example) can have very little information of the
local circumstances of Georgia or South Carolina,
except from the representatives of those States ; and
on this ground insists upon the expediency of an en
largement of the representation; since, otherwise,
the majority must rely too much on the information
of a few. In order to determine whether there is
any weight in this reasoning, let us consider the
powers of the National Government, and compare
them with the objects of State legislation. The
powers of the new government are general, and cal
culated to embrace the aggregate interests of the
Union, and the general interest of each State, so
far as it stands in relation to the whole. The
object of the State governments is to provide for
their internal interests, as unconnected with the
United States, and as composed of minute parts or

Convention of New York 35

districts. A particular knowledge, therefore, of the
local circumstances of any State, as they may vary
in different districts, is unnecessary for the federal
representative. As he is not to represent the in
terests or local wants of the county of Dutchess or
Montgomery, neither is it necessary that he should
be acquainted with their particular resources. But
in the State governments, as the laws regard the
interest of the people, in all their various minute
divisions, it is necessary that the smallest interests
should be represented. Taking these distinctions
into view, I think it must appear evident that one
discerning and intelligent man will be as capable of
understanding and representing the general interests
of a State as twenty; because one man can be as
fully acquainted with the general state of the com
merce, manufactures, population, production, and
common resources of a State, which are the proper
objects of federal legislation. It is presumed that
few men originally possess a complete knowledge of
the circumstances of other States. They must rely,
therefore, on the information to be collected from
the representatives of those States. And if the
above reasoning be just, it appears evident, I im
agine, that this reliance will be as secure as can be
desired. Sir, in my experience of public affairs, I
have constantly remarked, in the conduct of the
members of Congress, a strong and uniform attach
ment to the interests of their own State.

These interests have on many occasions been ad
hered to with an undue and illiberal pertinacity, and
have too often been preferred to the welfare of the

36 Alexander Hamilton

Union. This attachment has given birth to an un
accommodating spirit of party, which has frequently
embarrassed the best measures. It is by no means,
however, an object of surprise. The early connec
tions we have formed, the habits and prejudices in
which we have been bred, fix our affections so
strongly, that no future objects of association can
easily eradicate them. This, together with the en
tire and immediate dependence the representative
feels on his constituent, will generally incline him to
prefer the particular before the public good. The
subject on which this argument of a small repre
sentation has been most plausibly used, is taxation.
As to internal taxation, in which the difficulty prin
cipally rests, it is not probable that any general
regulation will originate in the National Legisla
ture. If Congress, in times of great danger and
distress, should be driven to this resource, they will
undoubtedly adopt such measures as are most con
formable to the laws and customs of each State.
They will take up your own codes, and consult your
own systems. This is a source of information which
cannot mislead, and which will be equally accessible
to every member. It will teach them the most cer
tain, safe, and expeditious mode of laying and col
lecting taxes in each State. They will appoint the
officers of revenue agreeably to the spirit of your
particular establishments, or they will make use of
their own. Sir, the most powerful obstacle to the
members of Congress betraying the interests of their
constituents, is the State Legislatures themselves,
who will be standing bodies of observation, possess-

Convention of New York 37

ing the confidence of the people, jealous of federal
encroachments, and armed with every power to
check the first essays of treachery. They will in
stitute regular modes of inquiry. The complicated
domestic attachments which subsist between State
legislators and their electors, will ever make them
vigilant guardians of the people's rights. Pos
sessed of the means and the disposition of resistance,
the spirit of opposition will be easily communicated
to the people, and, under the conduct of an au
thorized body of leaders, will act with weight and
system. Thus it appears that the very struc
ture of the Confederacy affords the surest preven
tives from error, and the most powerful checks to
misconduct.

Sir, there is something in an argument that has
been urged, which, if it proves any thing, concludes
against all union and all governments; it goes to
prove that no powers should be entrusted to any
body of men, because they may be abused. This is
an argument of possibility and chance — one that
would render useless all reasonings upon the prob
able operation of things, and defeat the established
principles of natural and moral causes. It is a
species of reasoning sometimes used to excite popular
jealousies, but is generally discarded by wise and
discerning men. I do not suppose that the honor
able member who advanced the idea had any such
design. He undoubtedly would not wish to extend
arguments to the destruction of union or govern
ment; but this, sir, is its real tendency. It has been
asserted that the interests, habits, and manners of

38 Alexander Hamilton

the thirteen States are different; and hence it is
inferred that no general free government can suit
them. This diversity of habits, etc., has been a
favorite theme with those who are disposed for a
division of our empire, and, like many other popu
lar objections, seems to be founded on fallacy. I
acknowledge that the local interests of the States
are in some degree various, and that there is some
difference in the manners and habits. But this I
will presume to affirm, that from New Hampshire to
Georgia the people of America are as uniform in their
interests and manners as those of any established in
Europe. This diversity, to the eye of a speculatist,
may afford some marks of characteristic discrimina
tion, but cannot form an impediment to the regular
operation of those general powers which the Con
stitution gives to the united government. Were the
laws of the Union to new-model the internal police
of any State; were they to alter, or abrogate at a
blow, the whole of its civil and criminal institutions ;
were they to penetrate the recesses of domestic life,
and control, in all respects, the private conduct of
individuals, — there might be more force in the ob
jections; and the same Constitution, which was
happily calculated for one State, might sacrifice the
welfare of another. Though the difference of inter
ests may create some difficulty, and apparent par
tiality, in the first operations of government, yet the
same spirit of accommodation, which produced the
plan under discussion, would be exercised in lessen
ing the weight of unequal burdens. Add to this
that, tinder the regular and gentle influence of gen-

Convention of New York 39

eral laws, these varying interests will be constantly
assimilating, till they embrace each other and as
sume the same complexion. — Elliot's Debates, vol. ii.

June 21, 1788. — Mr. Hamilton: I only rise to ob
serve that the gentleman has misunderstood me.
What I meant to express was this : that if we argued
from possibilities only, — if we reasoned from chances,
or an ungovernable propensity to evil, instead of
taking into view the control which the nature of
things, or the form of the Constitution, provided, —
the argument would lead us to withdraw all con
fidence from our fellow-citizens, and discard the
chimerical idea of government. This is a true deduc
tion from such reasoning. — Elliot's Debates, vol. ii.

June 21, 1788. — Mr. Hamilton: It is not my de
sign, Mr. Chairman, to extend this debate by any
new arguments on the general subject. I have de
livered my sentiments so fully on what has been ad
vanced by the gentleman this morning, that any
further reasoning from me will be easily dispensed
with. I only rise to state a fact with respect to the
motives which operated in the General Convention.
I had the honor to state to the committee the diver
sity of interests which prevailed between the navi
gating and non-navigating, the large and the small,
States, and the influence which those States had
upon the conduct of each. It is true, a difference did
take place between the large and the small States,
the latter insisting on equal advantages in the House
of Representatives. Some private business calling
me to New York, I left the Convention for a few
days; on my return, I found a plan reported by the

40 Alexander Hamilton

committee of details ; and soon after, a motion was
made to increase the number of representatives.
On this occasion, the members rose from one side
and the other, and declared that the plan reported
was entirely a work of accommodation, and that to
make any alterations in it would destroy the Con
stitution. I discovered that several of the States,
particularly New Hampshire, Connecticut, and New
Jersey, thought it would be difficult to send a great
number of delegates from the extremes of the con
tinent to the national government; they appre
hended their constituents would be displeased with
a very expensive government; and they considered
it as a formidable objection. After some debate on
this motion, it was withdrawn. Many of the facts
stated by the gentleman and myself are not sub
stantially different. The truth is, the plan, in all
its parts, was a plan of accommodation. — Elliot's
Debates, vol. ii.

SPEECH ON THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

June 24, 1788. — I am persuaded that I, in my
turn, shall be indulged in addressing the committee.
We all, with equal sincerity, profess to be anxious
for the establishment of a republican government,
on a safe and solid basis. It is the object of the
wishes of every honest man in the United States;
and I presume I shall not be disbelieved when I de
clare, that it is an object, of all others, the nearest
and most dear to my own heart. The means of
accomplishing this great purpose become the most

Convention of New York 41

important study which can interest mankind. It is
our duty to examine all those means with peculiar
attention, and to choose the best and most effectual.
It is our duty to draw from nature, from reason,
from examples, the justest principles of policy, and
to pursue and apply them in the formation of our
government. We should contemplate and compare
the systems which, in the examination, come under
our view; distinguish with a careful eye the defects
and excellencies of each, and discarding the former,
incorporate the latter, as far as circumstances will
admit, into our Constitution. If we pursue a differ
ent course, and neglect this duty, we shall probably
disappoint the expectations of our country and of
the world.

In the commencement of a revolution, which re
ceived its birth from the usurpations of tyranny,
nothing was more natural than that the public mind
should be influenced by an extreme spirit of jealousy.
To resist these encroachments, and to nourish this
spirit, was the great object of all our public and
private institutions. The zeal for liberty became
predominant and excessive. In forming our Con
federation, this passion alone seemed to actuate us,
and we appear to have had no other view than to
secure ourselves from despotism. The object cer
tainly was a valuable one, and deserved our utmost
attention. But there is another object, equally im
portant, and which our enthusiasm rendered us
little capable of regarding. I mean a principle of
strength and stability in the organization of our
government, and of vigor in its operations. This

42 Alexander Hamilton

purpose could never be accomplished but by the
establishment of some select body, formed peculiarly
on this principle. There are few positions more
demonstrable than that there should be in every re
public some permanent body, to correct the preju
dices, check the intemperate passions, and regulate
the fluctuations of a popular assembly. It is evident
that a body instituted for these purposes must be so
formed as to exclude as much as possible from its
own character those infirmities and that mutability
which it is designed to remedy. It is, therefore,
necessary that it should be small, that it should
hold its authority during a considerable period, and
that it should have such an independence in the
exercise of its powers, as will divest it, as much as
possible, of local prejudices. It should be so formed
as to be the centre of political knowledge ; to pursue
always a steady line of conduct, and to reduce every
irregular propensity to system. Without this estab
lishment we may make experiments without end,
but shall never have an efficient government.

It is an unquestionable truth, that the body of
the people in every country desire sincerely its pros
perity. But it is equally unquestionable that they
do not possess the discernment and stability neces
sary for systematic government. To deny that they
are frequently led into the grossest errors, by misin
formation and passion, would be a flattery which
their own good sense must despise. That branch of
administration, especially, which involves our po
litical relation with foreign states, a community will
ever be incompetent to. These truths are not often

Convention of New York 43

held up in public assemblies; but they cannot be
unknown to any who hear me. From these prin
ciples, it follows that there ought to be two distinct
bodies in our government : one which shall be imme
diately constituted by and peculiarly represent the
people, and possess all the popular features; another
formed upon the principles and for the purposes
before explained. Such considerations as these in
duced the convention who formed your State con
stitution to institute a Senate upon the present plan.
The history of ancient and modern republics had
taught them that many of the evils which those
republics suffered arose from the want of a certain
balance, and that mutual control indispensable to a
wise administration. They were convinced that
popular assemblies are frequently misguided by ig
norance, by sudden impulses, and the intrigues of
ambitious men; and that some firm barrier against
these operations was necessary. They, therefore,
instituted your Senate; and the benefits we have
experienced have fully justified their conceptions.

What is the tendency of the proposed amend
ment? To take away the stability of government,
by depriving the Senate of its permanency. To
make this body subject to the same weakness and
prejudices which are incident to popular assemblies,
and which it was instituted to correct; to destroy
the balance between them. The amendment will
render the Senator a slave to all the capricious hu
mors among the people. It will probably be here
suggested that the Legislatures, not the people, are
to have the power of recall. Without attempting to

44 Alexander Hamilton

prove that the Legislatures must be, in a great degree,
the image of the multitude in respect to federal
affairs, and that the same prejudices and factions
will prevail, I insist that, in whatever body the
power of recall is vested, the senator will perpetually
feel himself in such a state of vassalage and depend
ence that he never can possess that firmness which
is necessary to the discharge of his great duty to the
Union.

Gentlemen in their reasoning have placed the in
terests of the several States and those of the United
States in contrast. This is not a fair view of the
subject. They must necessarily be involved in each
other. What we apprehend is, that some sinister
prejudice, or some prevailing passion, may assume
the form of a genuine interest. The influence of
these is as powerful as the most permanent convic
tion of the public good, and against this influence
we ought to provide. The local interest of a State
ought in every case to give way to the interests of
the Union. For when a sacrifice of one or the other
is necessary, the former becomes only an apparent,
partial interest, and should yield, on the principle
that the smaller good ought never to oppose the
greater one. When you assemble from your several
counties in the Legislature, were every member to be
guided only by the apparent interest of his county,
government would be impracticable. There must
be a perpetual accommodation and sacrifice of local
advantage to general expediency. But the spirit of
a more popular assembly would rarely be actuated
by this important principle. It is, therefore, abso-

Convention of New York 45

lutely necessary that the Senate should be so formed
as to be unbiassed by false conceptions of the real
interests, or undue attachment to the apparent good
of their several States.

Gentlemen indulge too many unreasonable appre
hensions of danger to the State governments. They
seem to suppose that the moment you put men into
the national council, they become corrupt and ty
rannical, and lose all their affection for their fellow-
citizens. But can we imagine that the Senators will
ever be so insensible of their own advantage as to
sacrifice the genuine interest of their constituents?
The State governments are essentially necessary to
the form and spirit of the general system. As long,
therefore, as Congress have a full conviction of this
necessity, they must, even upon principles purely
national, have as firm an attachment to the one as
to the other. This conviction can never leave them
unless they become madmen. While the Constitu
tion continues to be read, and its principles known,
the States must, by every rational man, be con
sidered as essential component parts of the Union;
and therefore the idea of sacrificing the former to
the latter is totally inadmissible.

The objectors do not revert to the natural strength
and resources of the State governments, which will
ever give them an important superiority over the
General Government. If we compare the nature
of their different powers, or the means of popular
influence which each possesses, we shall find the ad
vantage entirely on the side of the States. This
consideration, important as it is, seems to have been

46 Alexander Hamilton

little attended to. The aggregate number of repre
sentatives throughout the States may be two thou
sand. Their personal influence will therefore be
proportionably more extensive than that of one
or two hundred men in Congress. The State estab
lishments of civil and military officers of every
description, infinitely surpassing in number any cor
responding establishments in the General Govern
ment, will create such an extent and complication of
attachments as will ever secure the predilection and
support of the people. Whenever, therefore, Con
gress shall meditate any infringement of the State
Constitutions, the great body of the people will natur
ally take part with their domestic representatives.
Can the General Government withstand such a united
opposition? Will the people suffer themselves to be
stripped of their privileges? Will they suffer their
Legislatures to be reduced to a shadow and a name?
The idea is shocking to common-sense.

From the circumstances already explained, and
many others which might be mentioned, results a
complicated, irresistible check, which must ever
support the existence and importance of the State
governments. The danger, if any exists, flows from
an opposite source. The probable evil is that the
General Government will be too dependent on the
State Legislatures, too much governed by their pre
judices, and too obsequious to their humors; that
the States, with every power in their hands, will
make encroachments on the national authority till
the Union is weakened and dissolved.

Every member must have been struck with an

Convention of New York 47

observation of a gentleman from Albany. Do what
you will, he says, local prejudices and opinions
will go into the government. What! shall we then
form a Constitution to cherish and strengthen these
prejudices ? Shall we confirm the distemper instead
of remedying it? It is undeniable that there must
be a control somewhere. Either the general interest
is to control the particular interests, or the contrary.
If the former, then certainly the government ought
to be so framed as to render the power of control
efficient to all intents and purposes; if the latter, a
striking absurdity follows. The controlling powers
must be as numerous as the varying interests, and
the operations of government must therefore cease.
For the moment you accommodate these differing
interests, which is the only way to set the govern
ment in motion, you establish a general controlling
power. Thus, whatever constitutional provisions
are made to the contrary, every government will be
at last driven to the necessity of subjecting the par
tial to the universal interest. The gentlemen ought
always, in their reasoning, to distinguish between
the real, genuine good of a State, and the opinions
and prejudices which may prevail respecting it.
The latter may be opposed to the general good, and
consequently ought to be sacrificed ; the former is so
involved in it that it never can be sacrificed. Sir,
the main design of the convention, in forming the
Senate, was to prevent fluctuations and cabals.
With this view they made that body small, and to
exist for a considerable period. Have they carried
this design too far ? The Senators are to serve six

48 Alexander Hamilton

years. This is only two years longer than the Sen
ators of this State hold their places. One third of
the members are to go out every two years; and in
six the whole body may be changed. Prior to the
Revolution, the representatives in the several colo
nies were elected for different periods; for three
years, for seven years, etc. Were those bodies ever
considered as incapable of representing the people,
or as too independent of them? There is one cir
cumstance which will have a tendency to increase
the dependence of the Senators on the States, in
proportion to the duration of their appointments.
As the State Legislatures are in continual fluctua
tion, the Senator will have more attachments to
form, and consequently a greater difficulty of main
taining his place, than one of shorter duration. He
will therefore be more cautious and industrious to
suit his conduct to the wishes of his constituents.

When you take a view of all the circumstances
which have been recited, you will certainly see that
the Senators will constantly look up to the State
governments with an eye of dependence and affec
tion. If they are ambitious to continue in office,
they will make every prudent arrangement for this
purpose, and whatever may be their private senti
ments of politics, they will be convinced that the
surest means of obtaining a reelection will be a uni
form attachment to the interests of their several
States.

In support of this amendment it has been
observed that the power of recall, under the old
government, has never been exercised. There is no

Convention of New York 49

reasoning from this. The experience of a few years,
tinder peculiar circumstances, can afford no probable
security that it never will be carried into execution
with unhappy effects. A seat in Congress has been
less an object of ambition; and the arts of intrigue,
consequently, have been less practised. Indeed, it
has been difficult to find men who were willing to
suffer the mortifications to which so feeble a govern
ment and so dependent a station exposed them.

Sir, if you consider but a moment the purposes
for which the Senate was instituted, and the nature
of the business which they are to transact, you will
see the necessity of giving them duration. They,
together with the President, are to manage all our
concerns with foreign nations. They must under
stand all their interests and their political systems.
This knowledge is not soon acquired, — but a very
small part is gained in the closet. Is it desirable
that new and unqualified members should be con
tinually thrown into that body? When public bod
ies are engaged in the exercise of general powers,
you cannot judge of the propriety of their conduct,
but from the result of their systems. They may be
forming plans which require time and diligence to
bring to maturity. It is necessary, therefore, that
they should have a considerable and fixed duration,
that they may make their calculations accordingly.
If they are to be perpetually fluctuating, they can
never have that responsibility which is so important
in republican governments. In bodies subject to
frequent changes great political plans must be con
ducted by members in succession; a single Assembly

VOL. II.- 4.

50 Alexander Hamilton

can have but a partial agency in them, and conse
quently cannot be answerable for the final event.
Considering the Senate, therefore, with a view to
responsibility, duration is a very interesting and
essential quality. There is another view in which
duration in the Senate appears necessary; a govern
ment changeable in its policy must soon lose its
sense of national character and forfeit the respect of
foreigners. Senators will not be solicitous for the
reputation of public measures in which they have
had but a temporary concern, and will feel lightly
the burthen of public disapprobation in proportion
to the number of those who partake of the censure.
Our political rivals will ever consider our most able
counsels as evidence of deficient wisdom, and will
be little apprehensive of our arriving at any exalted
station in the scale of power. Such are the internal
and external disadvantages which would result from
the principle contended for. Were it admitted, I
am firmly persuaded, sir, that prejudices would
govern the public deliberations, and passions rage in
the counsels of the Union. If it were necessary, I
could illustrate my subject by historical facts. I
could travel through an extensive field of detail, and
demonstrate that wherever the fatal principle of the
head suffering the control of the members has oper
ated, it has proved a fruitful source of commotions
and disorder.

This is the first fair opportunity that has been
offered of deliberately correcting the errors in gov
ernment. Instability has been a prominent and
very defective feature in most republican systems.

Convention of New York 5 1

It is the first to be seen and the last to be lamented
by a philosophical inquirer. It has operated most
banefully in our infant republics. It is necessary
that we apply an immediate remedy, and eradicate
the poisonous principle from our government. If
this be not done, we shall feel, and posterity will be
convulsed by, a painful malady.

June 25th. — Mr. Hamilton: Mr. Chairman, in de
bates of this kind, it is extremely easy, on either side,
to say a great number of plausible things. It is to
be acknowledged that there is even a certain degree
of truth in the reasonings on both sides. In this
situation, it is the province of judgment and good
sense to determine their force and application, and
how far the arguments advanced on one side are
balanced by those on the other. The ingenious
dress in which both appear renders it a difficult task
to make this decision, and the mind is frequently
unable to come to a safe and solid conclusion. On
the present question, some of the principles on each
side are admitted, and the conclusions from them
denied, while other principles, with their inferences,
are rejected altogether. It is the business of the
committee to seek the truth in this labyrinth of
argument. There are two objects in forming sys
tems of government — safety for the people, and
energy in the administration. When these objects
are united, the certain tendency of the system will
be to the public welfare. If the latter object be
neglected, the people's security will be as certainly
sacrificed as by disregarding the former. Good
constitutions are formed upon a comparison of the

52 Alexander Hamilton

liberty of the individual with the strength of govern
ment. If the tone of either be too high, the other
will be weakened too much. It is the happiest pos
sible mode of conciliating these objects, to institute
one branch peculiarly endowed with sensibility,
another with knowledge and firmness. Through
the opposition and mutual control of these bodies,
the government will reach, in its operations, the per
fect balance between liberty and power. The argu
ments of the gentlemen chiefly apply to the former
branch of the House of Representatives, If they
will calmly consider the different nature of the two
branches, they will see that the reasoning which
justly applies to the representative House will go to
destroy the essential qualities of the Senate. If the
former is calculated perfectly upon the principles of
caution, why should you impose the same principles
upon the latter, which is designed for a different
operation? Gentlemen, while they discover a lauda
ble anxiety for the safety of the people, do not attend
to the important distinction I have drawn. We
have it constantly held up to us, that, as it is our
chief duty to guard against tyranny, it is our policy
to form all branches of government for this purpose.
Sir, it is a truth sufficiently illustrated by expe
rience, that when the people act by their representa
tives they are commonly irresistible. The gentleman
admits the position, that stability is essential to
the government, and yet enforces principles which,
if true, ought to banish stability from the system.
The gentleman observes, that there is a fallacy in
my reasoning, and informs us that the Legislatures

Convention of New York 53

of the States, not the people, are to appoint the
Senators. Does he reflect that they are the imme
diate agents of the people, that they are so con
stituted as to feel all their prejudices and passions,
and to be governed, in a great degree, by their mis
apprehensions? Experience must have taught him
the truth of this. Look through their history : what
factions have arisen from the most trifling causes!
What intrigues have been practised for the most il
liberal purposes! Is not the State of Rhode Island,
at this moment, struggling under difficulties and
distresses, for having been led blindly by the spirit
of the multitude? What is her Legislature but the
picture of a mob? In this State, we have a Senate,
possessed of the proper qualities of a permanent
body. Virginia, Maryland, and a few other States
are in the same situation. The rest are either gov
erned by a single democratic Assembly, or have a
Senate constituted entirely upon democratic prin
ciples. These have been more or less embroiled in
factions, and have generally been the image and
echo of the multitude. It is difficult to reason on
this point, without touching on certain delicate
chords. I could refer you to periods and conjunc
tures when the people have been governed by im
proper passions, and led by factious and designing
men. I could show that the same passions have
infected their representatives. Let us beware that
we do not make the State Legislatures a vehicle in
which the evil humors may be conveyed into the
national system. To prevent this, it is necessary
that the Senate should be so formed, as in some

54 Alexander Hamilton

measure to check the State governments, and pre
clude the communication of the false impressions
which they receive from the people. It has been
often repeated, that the Legislatures of the States
can have only a partial and confined view of national
affairs; that they can form no proper estimate of
great objects which are not in the sphere of their
interests. The observation of the gentleman, there
fore, cannot take off the force of the argument.

Sir, the Senators will constantly be attended with
a reflection that their future existence is absolutely
in the power of the States. Will not this form a
powerful check? It is a reflection which applies
closely to their feelings and interests ; and no candid
man who thinks deliberately will deny that it would
be alone a sufficient check. The Legislatures are
to provide the mode of electing the President, and
must have a great influence over the electors. In
deed, they convey their influence through a thousand
channels into the General Government. Gentlemen
have endeavored to show that there will be no clash
ing of local and general interests ; they do not seem
to have considered the subject. We have, in this
State, a duty of sixpence per pound on salt, and it
operates lightly and with advantage; but such a
duty would be very burdensome to some of the
States. If Congress should, at any time, find it con
venient to impose a salt tax, would it not be op
posed by the Eastern States? Being themselves
incapable of feeling the necessity of the measure,
they could only feel its apparent injustice. Would
it be wise to give the New England States a power

Convention of New York 55

to defeat this measure, by recalling their Senators
who may be engaged for it ? I beg the gentleman
once more to attend to the distinction between
the real and apparent interests of the States. I
admit that the aggregate of individuals constitute
the government; yet every State is not the govern
ment. Sir, in our State Legislatures, a compro
mise is frequently necessary between the interests
of counties; the same must happen in the General
Government, between States. In this, the few must
yield to the many; or in other words, the particular
must be sacrificed to the general interest. If the
members of Congress are too dependent on the State
Legislatures, they will be eternally forming secret
combinations from local views. This is reasoning
from the plainest principles. Their interest is in
terwoven with their dependence, arid they will neces
sarily yield to the impression of their situation.
Those who have been in Congress have seen these
operations. The first question has been, how will
such a measure affect my constituents, and, conse
quently, how will the part I take affect my reelec
tion? This consideration may in some degree be
proper; but to be dependent from day to day, and
to have the idea perpetually present, would be the
source of numerous evils. Six years, sir, is a period
short enough for a proper degree of dependence.

Let us consider the peculiar state of this body,
and see under what impressions they will act. One
third of them are to go out at the end of two years,
two thirds at four years, and the whole at six years.
When one year is elapsed, there are a number who

56 Alexander Hamilton

are to hold their places for one year, others for three,
and others for five years. Thus there will not only
be a constant and frequent change of members, but
there will be some whose office is near the point of
expiration, and who, from this circumstance, will
have a lively sense of their dependence. The bien
nial change of members is an excellent invention for
increasing the difficulty of combination. Any scheme
of usurpation will lose, every two years, a number
of its oldest advocates, and their places will be sup
plied by an equal number of new, unaccommodating,
and virtuous men. When two principles are equally
important, we ought, if possible, to reconcile them,
and sacrifice neither. We think that safety and per
manency in this government are completely recon
cilable. The State governments will have, from the
causes I have described, a sufficient influence over
the Senate, without the check for which the gentle
men contend. It has been remarked that there is an
inconsistency in our admitting that the equal vote
in the Senate was given to secure the rights of the
States, and at the same time holding up the idea
that their interests should be sacrificed to those of
the Union. But the committee certainly perceive
the distinction between the rights of a State and its
interests. The rights of a State are defined by the
Constitution, and cannot be invaded without a viola
tion of it ; but the interests of a State have no connec
tion with the Constitution, and may be, in a thousand
instances, constitutionally sacrificed. A uniform
tax is perfectly constitutional; and yet it may oper
ate oppressively upon certain members of the Union.

Convention of New York 57

The gentlemen are afraid that the State governments
will be abolished. But, sir, their existence does not
depend upon the laws of the United States. Con
gress can no more abolish the State governments
than they can dissolve the Union. The whole Con
stitution is repugnant to it, and yet the gentlemen
would introduce an additional useless provision
against it. It is proper that the influence of the
States should prevail to a certain extent. But shall
the individual States be the judges how far? Shall
an unlimited power be left to determine in their
favor? The gentlemen go into the extreme; in
stead of a wise government, they would form a fan
tastical Utopia. But, sir, while they give it a
plausible, popular shape, they would render it im
practicable.

Much has been said about factions. As far as
my observation has extended, factions in Congress
have arisen from attachment to State prejudices.
We are attempting by this Constitution to abolish
factions and to unite all parties for the general wel
fare. That a man should have the power, in private
life, of recalling his agent, is proper; because, in the
business in which he is engaged, he has no other ob
ject but to gain the approbation of his principal. Is
this the case with the Senator? Is he simply the
agent of the State? No. He is an agent for the
Union, and he is bound to perform services necessary
to the good of the whole, though his State should
condemn them. Sir, in contending for a rotation,
the gentlemen carry their zeal beyond all reasonable
bounds. I am convinced that no government,

58 Alexander Hamilton

founded on this feeble principle, can operate well;
I believe, also, that we shall be singular in this pro
posal. We have not felt the embarrassments re
sulting from rotation that other States have; and
we hardly know the strength of their objection to
it. There is no probability that we shall ever per
suade a majority of the States to agree to this amend
ment. The gentlemen deceive themselves; the
amendment would defeat their own design. When
a man knows he must quit his station, let his merit
be what it may, he will turn his attention chiefly to
his own emolument; nay, he will feel temptations,
which few other situations furnish, to perpetuate his
power by unconstitutional usurpations. Men will
pursue their interests. It is as easy to change hu
man nature as to oppose the strong current of selfish
passions. A wise legislator will gently divert the
channel, and direct it, if possible, to the public good.
It has been observed, that it is not possible there
should be in a State only two men qualified for Sena
tors. But, sir, the question is not, whether there
may be no more than two men; but whether, in
certain emergencies, you could find two equal to
those whom the amendment would discard. Im
portant negotiations, or other business to which they
shall be most competent, may employ them at the
moment of their removal. These things often hap
pen. The difficulty of obtaining men capable of
conducting the affairs of a nation in dangerous times,
is much more serious than the gentlemen imagine.
As to corruption, sir, admitting, in the President, a
disposition to corrupt, what are the instruments of

Convention of New York 59

bribery? It is said he will have in his disposal a
great number of offices. But how many offices are
there, for which a man would relinquish senatorial
dignity? There may be some in the judicial, and
some in other principal departments. But there
are few whose respectability can, in any measure,
balance that of the office of Senator. Men who
have been in the Senate once, and who have a reason
able hope of a reelection, will not be easily bought
by offices. This reasoning shows that a rotation
would be productive of many disadvantages ; under
particular circumstances, it might be extremely in
convenient, if not fatal to the prosperity of our
country. — Elliot's Debates, vol. ii.

June 27, 1788. — Mr. Hamilton: This is one of
those subjects on which objections very naturally
arise, and assume the most plausible shape. Its
address is to the passions, and its first impressions
create a prejudice before cool examination has an
opportunity for exertion. It is more easy for the
human mind to calculate the evils than the advan
tages of a measure; and vastly more natural to ap
prehend the danger than to see the necessity of
giving powers to our rulers. Hence, I may justly
expect that those who hear me will place less confi
dence in those arguments which oppose, than in
those which favor, their prepossessions.

After all our doubts, our suspicions, and specula
tions on the subject of government, we must return
at last to the important truth, that when we have
formed a Constitution upon free principles, when
we have given a proper balance to the different

60 Alexander Hamilton

branches of administration, and fixed representa
tion upon pure and equal principles, we may with
safety furnish it with all the powers necessary to
answer in the most ample manner the purposes of
government. The great desiderata are a free repre
sentation and mutual checks. When these are ob
tained, all our apprehensions of the extent of powers
are unjust and imaginary. What is the struc
ture of this Constitution? One branch of the
Legislature is to be elected by the people — by the
same people who chose your State representatives.
Its members are to hold their office two years, and
then return to their constituents. Here the people
govern. Here they act by their immediate repre
sentatives. You have also a Senate, constituted by
your State Legislatures, by men in whom you place
the highest confidence, and forming another repre
sentative branch. Then, again, you have an Execu
tive Magistrate, created by a form of election which
meets universal admiration. In the form of this
government, and in the mode of legislation, you find
all the checks which the greatest politicians and the
best writers have ever conceived. What more can
reasonable men desire? Is there any one branch in
which the whole legislative and executive powers are
lodged? No. The legislative authority is lodged in
three distinct branches, properly balanced. The ex
ecutive authority is divided between two branches,
and the judicial is still reserved for an independent
body, who hold their office during good behavior.
This organization is so complex, so skilfully con
trived, that it is next to impossible that an impolitic

Convention of New York 61

or wicked measure should pass the great scrutiny
with success. Now, what do gentlemen mean by
coming forward and declaiming against this govern
ment? Why do they say we ought to limit its
powers, to disable it, and to destroy its capacity of
blessing the people? Has philosophy suggested —
has experience taught — that such a government
ought not to be trusted with everything necessary
for the good of society? When you have divided
and nicely balanced the departments of government,
when you have strongly connected the virtue of
your rulers with their interest, when, in short, you
have rendered your system as perfect as human
forms can be, you must place confidence, you must
give power.

We have heard a great deal of the sword and the
purse. It is said our liberties are in danger if both
are possessed by Congress. Let us see what is the
true meaning of this maxim, which has been so much
used and so little understood. It is, that you shall
not place these powers in either the Legislative or
Executive, singly; neither one nor the other shall
have both ; because this would destroy that division
of powers on which political liberty is founded, and
would furnish one body with all the means of tyranny.
But when the purse is lodged in one branch, and the
sword in another, there can be no danger. All gov
ernments have possessed these powers. They would
be monsters without them, and incapable of exertion.
What is your State government? Does not your
Legislature command what money it pleases ? Does
not your Executive execute the laws without re-

62 Alexander Hamilton

straint? These distinctions between the purse and
the sword have no application to the system, but
only to its separate branches. When we reason about
the great interests of a great people, it is high time
that we dismiss our prejudices and banish declama
tion.

In order to induce us to consider the powers given
by this Constitution as dangerous, in order to render
plausible an attempt to take away the life and spirit
of the most important power in government, the
gentleman complains that we shall not have a true
and safe representation. I have asked him what a
safe representation is, and he has given no satis
factory answer. The Assembly of New York has
been mentioned as a proper standard. But if we
apply this standard to the General Government, our
Congress will become a mere mob, exposed to every
irregular impulse, and subject to every breeze of
faction. Can such a system afford security? Can
you have confidence in such a body? The idea of
taking the ratio of representation in a small society
for the ratio of a great one, is a fallacy which ought
to be exposed. It is impossible to ascertain to what
point our representation will increase. It may vary
from one to two, three, or four hundred. It depends
upon the progress of population. Suppose it to rest
at two hundred; is not this number sufficient to
secure it against corruption? Human nature must
be a much more weak and despicable thing than I
apprehend it to be, if two hundred of our fellow-
citizens can be corrupted in two years. But suppose
they are corrupted; can they, in two years, accom-

Convention of New York 63

plish their designs? Can they form a combination,
and even lay a foundation for a system of tyranny,
in so short a period? It is far from my intention to
wound the feelings of any gentleman; but I must,
in this most interesting discussion, speak of things
as they are, and hold up opinions in the light in which
they ought to appear; and I maintain that all that
has been said of corruption, of the purse and the
sword, and of the danger of giving powers, is not
supported by principle or fact; that it is mere ver
biage and idle declamation. The true principle of
government is this — make the system complete in
its structure; give a perfect proportion and balance
to its parts, and the powers you give it will never
affect your security. The question, then, of the
division of powers between the General and State
governments, is a question of convenience. It be
comes a prudential inquiry, what powers are proper
to be reserved to the latter, and this immediately
involves another inquiry into the proper objects of
the two governments. This is the criterion by
which we shall determine the just distribution of
powers.

The great leading objects of the Federal Govern
ment, in which revenue is concerned, are to main
tain domestic peace, and provide for the common
defence. In these are comprehended the regulation
of commerce — that is, the whole system of foreign
intercourse, the support of armies and navies, and
of the civil administration. It is useless to go into
detail. Every one knows that the objects of the
General Government are numerous, extensive, and

64 Alexander Hamilton

important. Every one must acknowledge the neces
sity of giving powers, in all respects, and in every
degree, equal to these objects. This principle as
sented to, let us inquire what are the objects of the
State governments. Have they to provide against
foreign invasion ? Have they to maintain fleets and
armies? Have they any concern in the regulation
of commerce, the procuring alliances, or forming
treaties of peace? No. Their objects are merely
civil and domestic, to support the legislative estab
lishment, and to provide for the administration of
the laws. Let any one compare the expense of sup
porting the civil list in a State, with the expense of
providing for the defence of the Union. The differ
ence is almost beyond calculation^ The experience
of Great Britain will throw some light on this sub
ject. In that kingdom, the ordinary expenses of
peace to those of war are as one to fourteen. But
there they have a monarch, with his splendid court,
and an enormous civil establishment, with which we
have nothing in this country to compare. If, in
Great Britain, the expenses of war and peace are so
disproportioned, how wide will be their disparity in
the United States! How infinitely wider between
the General Government and that of each individual
State! Where ought the great resources to be
lodged? Every rational man will give an imme
diate answer. To what extent shall these resources
be possessed? Reason says, As far as possible exi
gencies can require; that is, without limitation. A
constitution cannot set bounds to a nation's wants;
it ought not therefore to set bounds to its resources.

Convention of New York 65

Unexpected visitations, long and ruinous wars, may
demand all the possible abilities of the country.
Shall not our government have power to call these
abilities into action? The contingencies of society
are not reducible to calculations; they cannot be
fixed or bounded, even in imagination. Will you
limit the means of your defence when you cannot
ascertain the force or extent of the invasion? Even
in ordinary wars, a government is frequently obliged
to call for supplies, to the temporary oppression of
the people.

If we adopt the idea of exclusive revenues, we
shall be obliged to fix some distinguishing line which
neither government shall overpass. The incon
veniences of this measure must appear evident on
the slightest examination. The resources appro
priated to one may dimmish or fail, while those of
the other may increase beyond the wants of govern
ment. One may be destitute of revenues, while the
other shall possess an unnecessary abundance; and
the Constitution will be an eternal barrier to a
mutual intercourse and relief. In this case will
the individual States stand on so good a ground as
if the objects of taxation were left free and open to
the embrace of both the governments ? Possibly, in
the advancement of commerce, the imposts may in
crease to such a degree as to render direct taxation
unnecessary; these resources, then, as the Constitu
tion stands, may be occasionally relinquished to the
States. But on the gentleman's idea of prescribing
exclusive limits, and precluding all reciprocal com
munication, this would be entirely improper. The

VOL. II.— 5.

66 Alexander Hamilton

laws of the States must not touch the appropriated
resources of the United States whatever may be
their wants. Would it not be of more advantage to
the States to have a concurrent jurisdiction extend
ing to all the sources of revenue, than to be confined
to such a small resource as, on calculation of the ob
jects of the two governments, should appear to be
their due proportion? Certainly, you cannot hesi
tate on this question. The gentleman's plan would
also have a further ill effect; it would tend to dis
solve the connection and correspondence of the two
governments, to estrange them from each other,
and to destroy that mutual dependence which forms
the essence of union.

A number of arguments have been advanced by
an honorable member from New York, which, to
every unclouded mind, must carry conviction. He
has stated that in sudden emergencies it may be
necessary to borrow; and that it is impossible to
borrow unless you have funds to pledge for the pay
ment of your debts. Limiting the powers of govern
ment to certain resources, is rendering the funds
precarious; and obliging the government to ask, in
stead of empowering it to command, is to destroy
all confidence and credit. If the power of taxing is
restricted, the consequence is, that on the breaking
out of a war you must divert the funds appropriated
to the payment of debts, to answer immediate ex
igencies. Thus, you violate your engagements at the
very time you increase the burthen of them. Be
sides, sound policy condemns the practice of accu
mulating debts. A government, to act with energy,

Convention of New York 67

should have the possession of all its revenues to
answer present purposes. The principle for which
I contend is recognized in all its extent by our old
Constitution. Congress is authorized to raise troops,
to call for supplies without limitation, and to borrow
money to any amount. It is true, they must use
the form of recommendations and requisitions ; but
the States are bound, by the solemn ties of honor, of
justice, of religion, to comply without reserve.

Mr. Chairman: It has been advanced as a prin
ciple, that no government but a despotism can exist
in a very extensive country. This is a melancholy
consideration indeed. If it were founded on truth,
we ought to dismiss the idea of a republican govern
ment, even for the State of New York. This idea has
been taken from a celebrated writer, who, by being
misunderstood, has been the occasion of frequent
fallacies in our reasoning on political subjects. But
the position has been misapprehended; and its ap
plication is entirely false and unwarrantable. It
relates only to democracies, where the whole body
of the people meet to transact business, and where
representation is unknown. Such were a number of
ancient and some modern independent cities. Men
who read without attention have taken these maxims
respecting the extent of country, and, contrary to
their proper meaning, have applied them to republics
in general. This application is wrong in respect to
all representative governments, but especially in
relation to a Confederacy of States, in which the
supreme Legislature has only general powers and
the civil and domestic concerns of the people are

68 Alexander Hamilton

regulated by the laws of the several States. This
distinction being kept in view, all the difficulty will
vanish, and we may easily conceive that the people
of a large country may be represented as truly as
those of a small one. An assembly constituted for
general purposes may be fully competent to every
federal regulation, without being too numerous for
deliberate conduct. If the State governments were
to be abolished, the question would wear a different
face; but this idea is inadmissible. They are ab
solutely necessary to the system. Their existence
must form a leading principle in the most perfect
Constitution we could form. I insist that it never
can be the interest or desire of the National Legis
lature to destroy the State governments. It can
derive no advantage from such an event; but, on
the contrary, would lose an indispensable support, a
necessary aid in executing the laws and conveying
the influence of government to the doors of the
people. The Union is dependent on the will of the
State governments for its Chief Magistrate, and for
its Senate. The blow aimed at the members must
give a fatal wound to the head, and the destruction
of the States must be at once a political suicide.
Can the National Government be guilty of this mad
ness? What inducements, what temptations, can
they have? Will they attach new honors to their
station; will they increase the national strength;
will they multiply the national resources; will they
make themselves more respectable, in the view of
foreign nations, or of their fellow-citizens, by robbing
the States of their constitutional privileges ? But im-

Convention of New York 69

agine for a moment, that a political frenzy should
seize the government. Suppose they should make
the attempt. Certainly it would be for ever imprac
ticable. This has been sufficiently demonstrated by
reason and experience. It has been proved, that the
members of republics have been, and ever will be,
stronger than the head. Let us attend to one gen
eral historical example. In the ancient feudal gov
ernments of Europe there was in the first place a
monarch ; subordinate to him a body of nobles ; and
subject to these, the vassals or the whole body of
the people. The authority of the kings was limited,
and that of the barons considerably independent. A
great part of the early wars in Europe were contests
between the king and his nobility. In these contests,
the latter possessed many advantages, derived from
their influence, and the immediate command they had
over the people, and they generally prevailed. The
history of the feudal wars exhibits little more than a
series of successful encroachments on the preroga
tives of monarchy. Here is one great proof of the su
periority which the members in limited governments
possess over their head. As long as the barons en
joyed the confidence and attachment of the people,
they had the strength of the country on their side,
and were irresistible. I may be told that in some
instances the barons were overcome. But how did
this happen? They took advantage of the depres
sion of the royal authority and the establishment
of their own power, to oppress and tyrannize over
their vassals. As commerce enlarged, and as wealth
and civilization increased, the people began to feel

70 Alexander Hamilton

their own weight and consequence; they grew tired
of their oppressions ; united their strength with that
of the prince ; and threw off the yoke of aristocracy.
These very instances prove what I contend for.
They prove that in whatever direction the popular
weight leans, the current of power will flow. Wher
ever the popular attachments be, there will rest the
political superiority. Sir, can it be supposed that
the State governments will become the oppressors
of the people? Will they forget their affections?
Will they combine to destroy the liberties and hap
piness of their fellow-citizens, for the sole purpose
of involving themselves in ruin? God forbid! The
idea is shocking ! It outrages every feeling of human
ity, and every dictate of common-sense!

There are certain social principles in human na
ture, from which we may draw the most solid con
clusions with respect to the conduct of individuals
and of communities. We love our families more
than our neighbors; we love our neighbors more
than our countrymen in general. The human affec
tions, like the solar heat, lose their intensity as they
depart from the centre ; and become languid in pro
portion to the expansion of the circle on which they
act. On these principles, the attachment of the
individual will be first and for ever secured by the
State governments. They will be a mutual pro
tection and support. Another source of influence
which has already been pointed out, is the various
official connections in the States. Gentlemen en
deavor to evade the force of this, by saying that
these offices will be insignificant. This is by no

Convention of New York 71

means true. The State officers will ever be impor
tant, because they are necessary and useful. Their
powers are such as are extremely interesting to the
people, such as affect their property, their liberty,
and life. What is more important than the admin
istration of justice, and the execution of the civil and
criminal laws? Can the State governments become
insignificant, while they have the power of raising
money independently and without control? If they
are really useful, — if they are calculated to promote
the essential interests of the people, they must have
their confidence and support. The States can never
lose their powers till the whole people of America are
robbed of their liberties. These must go together;
they must support each other, or meet one common
fate. On the gentleman's principles we may safely
trust the State governments, though we have no
means of resisting them, but we cannot confide in
the National Government, though we have an
effectual constitutional guard against every en
croachment. This is the essence of their argument,
and it is false and fallacious beyond conception.

With regard to the jurisdiction of the two govern
ments, I shall certainly admit that the Constitution
ought not to be so formed as to prevent the States
providing for their own existence; and I maintain
that it is so formed that their power of providing for
themselves is sufficiently established. This is con
ceded by one gentleman, and in the next breath the
concession is retracted. He says Congress have but
one exclusive right in taxation, that of duties on im
ports. Certainly, then, their other powers are only

72 Alexander Hamilton

concurrent. But, to take off the force of this ob
vious conclusion, he immediately says that if the
laws of the United States are supreme, those of the
States must be subordinate, because there cannot be
two supremes. This is curious sophistry. That two
supreme powers cannot act together is false. They
are inconsistent only when they are aimed at each
other, or at one indivisible object. The laws of the
United States are supreme as to all their proper
constitutional objects. The laws of the States are
supreme in the same way. These supreme laws may
act on different objects without clashing, or they may
operate on different parts of the same common object
with perfect harmony. Suppose both governments
should lay a tax of a penny on a certain article.
Has not each an independent and uncontrollable
power to collect its own tax? The meaning of the
axiom, that there cannot be two supremes, is simply
this : two powers cannot be supreme over each other.
This meaning is entirely perverted by the gentlemen.
But, it is said, disputes between collectors are to be
referred to the federal courts. This is again wander
ing in the field of conjecture. But suppose the fact
certain. Is it not to be presumed that they will ex
press the true meaning of the Constitution and the
laws? Will they not be bound to consider the con
current jurisdiction; to declare that both the taxes
shall have equal operation; that both the powers,
in that respect, are sovereign and coextensive? If
they transgress their duty we are to hope that
they will be punished. Sir, we cannot reason from
probabilities alone. When we leave common-sense,

Convention of New York 73

and give ourselves up to conjecture, there can be no
certainty, no security in our reasonings.

I imagine I have stated to the committee abun
dant reasons to prove the entire safety of the State
governments and of the people. I would go into a
more minute consideration of the nature of the con
current jurisdiction, and of the operation of the laws
in relation to revenue ; but at present I feel too much
indisposed to proceed. I shall, with the leave of
the committee, improve another opportunity of ex
pressing to them more fully my ideas on this point.
I wish the committee to remember, that the Con
stitution under examination is framed upon truly
republican principles, and that, as it is expressly de
signed to provide for the common protection and
the general welfare of the United States, it must be
utterly repugnant to this Constitution to subvert the
State governments or oppress the people.

June 28, 1788. — Mr. Hamilton: Mr. Chairman, in
the course of these debates it has been suggested
that the State of New York has sustained peculiar
misfortune from the mode of raising revenue by re
quisitions. I believe we shall now be able to prove
that this State, in the course of the late Revolution,
suffered the extremes of distress on account of this
delusive system. To establish these facts, I shall beg
leave to introduce a series of official papers and re
solutions of this State as evidence of the sentiments
of the people during the most melancholy periods
of war. I shall request the secretary to read these
papers, in the order in which I point them out. —
Elliot's Debates, ii.

74 Alexander Hamilton

June 28, 1788. — Mr. Hamilton [In reply to Mr.
Smith, who had claimed the right to explain the
papers produced, which involved Clinton in certain
inconsistencies]: We shall make the same reserva
tion. By the indisputable construction of these
resolutions, we shall prove that this State was once
on the verge of destruction, for want of an energetic
government. To this point we shall confine our
selves. — Elliot's Debates, ii.

June 28, 1788. — Mr. Hamilton: The honorable
gentleman from Ulster J has given a turn to the in
troduction of those papers which was never in our
contemplation. He seems to insinuate that they
were brought forward with a view of showing an in
consistency in the conduct of some gentlemen; per
haps of himself. Sir, the exhibition of them had a
very different object. It was to prove that this
State once experienced hardships and distresses to
an astonishing degree for want of the assistance of
the other States. It was to show the evils we suf
fered since, as well as before, the establishment of
the Confederation, from being compelled to support
the burthen of the war ; that requisitions have been
unable to call forth the resources of the country;
that requisitions have been the cause of a principal
part of our calamities; that the system is defective
and rotten, and ought for ever to be banished from
our government. It was necessary — with deference
to the honorable gentleman — to bring forward these
important proofs of our argument without consult
ing the feelings of any man. That the human pas-

1 Gov. Clinton.

Convention of New York 75

sions should flow from one extreme to another, I
allow, is natural. Hence the mad project of creat
ing a dictator. But it is equally true that this
project was never ripened into a deliberate and
extensive design. When I heard of it, it met my
instant disapprobation. The honorable gentleman's
opposition, too, is known and applauded. But why
bring these things into remembrance? Why affect
to compare this temporary effusion with the seri
ous sentiments our fellow-citizens entertained of the
national weakness? The gentleman has made a dec
laration of his wishes for a strong Federal Govern
ment. I hope this is the wish of all. But why has
he not given us his ideas of the nature of this govern
ment, which is the object of his wishes? Why does
he not describe it? We have proposed a system
which we supposed would answer the purposes of
strength and safety. The gentleman objects to it
without pointing out the grounds on which his ob
jections are founded, or showing us a better form.
These general surmises never lead to the discovery
of the truth. It is to be desired that the gentleman
would explain particularly the errors in this system,
and furnish us with their proper remedies. The
committee remember that a grant of an impost to
the United States for twenty-five years was requested
by Congress. Though it was a very small addition of
power to the Federal Government, it was opposed
in this State without any reasons being offered. The
dissent of New York and Rhode Island frustrated a
most important measure. The gentleman says he
was for granting the impost ; yet he acknowledges he

76 Alexander Hamilton

could not agree to the mode recommended. But it
is well known that Congress had declared that they
could not receive the accession of the States upon
any other plan than that proposed. In such cases,
propositions for altering the plan amounted to a
positive rejection. At this time, sir, we were told it
was dangerous to grant powers to Congress ; did this
general argument indicate a disposition to grant the
impost in any shape? I should myself have been
averse to the granting of very extensive powers ; but
the impost was justly considered as the only means
of supporting the Union. We did not then contem
plate a fundamental change in government. From
my sense of the gentlemen's integrity, I am bound
to believe they are attached to a strong, united gov
ernment ; and yet I find it difficult to draw this con
clusion from their conduct or their reasonings.

Sir, with respect to the subject of revenue, which
was debated yesterday, it was asserted that, in all
matters of taxation, except in the article of imposts,
the united and individual States had a concurrent
jurisdiction; that the State governments had an
independent authority to draw revenues from every
source but one. The truth of these positions will
appear on a slight investigation. I maintain that
the word supreme imports no more than this — that
the Constitution and laws made in pursuance there
of cannot be controlled or defeated by any other
law. The acts of the United States, therefore, will
be absolutely obligatory as to all the proper ob
jects and powers of the General Government. The
States, as well as individuals, are bound by these

Convention of New York 77

laws; but the laws of Congress are restricted to
a certain sphere, and when they depart from this
sphere, they are no longer supreme or binding. In
the same manner the States have certain independ
ent powers, in which their laws are supreme; for ex
ample, in making and executing laws concerning the
punishment of certain crimes, such as murder, theft,
etc., the States cannot be controlled. With respect
to certain other objects, the powers of the two gov
ernments are concurrent yet supreme. I instanced
yesterday a tax on a specific article. Both might
lay the tax; both might collect it without clashing
or interference. If the individual should be unable
to pay both, the first seizer would hold the property.
Here the laws are not in the way of each other; they
are independent and supreme. The case is like that
of two creditors: each has a distinct demand; the
debtor is held equally for the payment of both.
Their suits are independent; and if the debtor can
not pay both, he who takes the first step secures the
debt. The individual is precisely in the same situa
tion, whether he pays such a sum to one, or to two.
No more will be required of him to supply the public
wants than he has ability to afford. That the States
have an undoubted right to lay taxes in all cases
in which they are not prohibited, is a position
founded on the obvious and important principle in
confederated governments, that whatever is not ex
pressly given to the federal head is reserved to the
members. The truth of this principle must strike
every intelligent mind. In the first formation of
government, by the association of individuals, every

78 Alexander Hamilton

power of the community is delegated, because the
government is to extend to every possible object;
nothing is reserved but the inalienable rights of man
kind : but when a number of these societies unite for
certain purposes, the rule is different, and from the
plainest reason they have already delegated their
sovereignty and their powers to their several gov
ernments; and these cannot be recalled and given
to another without an express act. I submit to the
committee whether this reasoning is not conclusive.
Unless, therefore, we find that the powers of taxa
tion are exclusively granted, we must conclude that
there remains a concurrent authority. Let us, then,
inquire if the Constitution gives such exclusive pow
ers to the General Government. Sir, there is not a
syllable in it that favors this idea; not a word im
porting an exclusive grant, except in the article of
imposts. I am supported in my general position
by this very exception. If the States are pro
hibited from laying duties on imports, the implica
tion is clear. Now, what proportion will the duties
on imports bear to the other ordinary resources of
the country? We may now say one third; but this
will not be the case long. As our manufactures in
crease, foreign importations must lessen. Here are
two thirds, at least, of the resources of our country
open to the State governments. Can it be imag
ined, then, that the States will lose their existence
or importance for want of revenues? The pro
priety of Congress possessing an exclusive power
over the impost appears from the necessity of their
having a considerable portion of our resources to

Convention of New York 79

pledge as a fund for the reduction of the debts of the
United States. When you have given a power of
taxation to the General Government, none of the
States individually will be holden for the discharge
of the Federal obligations ; the burden will be on the
Union.

The gentleman says that the operation of the
taxes will exclude the States on this ground — that
the demands of the community are always equal to
its resources; that Congress will find a use for all
the money the people can pay. This observation, if
designed as a general rule, is in every view unjust.
Does he suppose the General Government will want
all the money the people can furnish, and also that
the State governments will want all the money the
people can furnish? What contradiction is this!
But if the maxim be true, how does the wealth of the
country ever increase? How are the people enabled
to accumulate fortunes? Do the burdens regularly
augment as its inhabitants grow prosperous and
happy? But if, indeed, all the resources are re
quired for the protection of the people, it follows
that the protecting power should have access to
them. The only difficulty lies in the want of re
sources. If they are adequate, the operation will be
easy; if they are not, taxation must be restrained.
Will this be the fate of the State taxes alone? Cer
tainly not. The people will say, No. What will be
the conduct of the national rulers? The considera
tion will not be, that our imposing the tax will de
stroy the States, for this cannot be effected; but
that it will distress the people whom we represent,

8o Alexander Hamilton

and whose protectors we are. It is unjust to sup
pose they will be altogether destitute of virtue and
prudence; it is unfair to presume that the repre
sentatives of the people will be disposed to tyrannize
in one government more than in another. If we are
convinced that the National Legislature will pursue
a system of measures unfavorable to the interests of
the people, we ought to have no general government
at all. But if we unite, it will be for the accom
plishment of great purposes; these demand great
resources and great powers. There are certain ex
tensive and uniform objects of revenue which the
United States will improve, and to which if possible
they will confine themselves. Those objects which
are more limited, and in respect to which the cir
cumstances of the State differ, will be reserved for
their use; a great variety of articles will be in this
last class of objects, to which only the State laws
will properly apply. To ascertain this division of ob
jects is the proper business of legislation; it would
be absurd to fix it in the Constitution, both because
it would be too extensive and intricate, and because
alteration of circumstances must render a change of
the division indispensable.

Constitutions should consist only of general pro
visions; the reason is that they must necessarily be
permanent, and that they cannot calculate for the
possible change of things. I know that the States
must have their resources; but I contend that it
would be improper to point them out, particularly
in the Constitution. Sir, it has been said that a poll
tax is a tyrannical tax; but the Legislature of this

Convention of New York 81

State can lay it whenever they please. Does, then,
our Constitution authorize tyranny? I am as much
opposed to capitation as any man. Yet who can
deny that there may exist certain circumstances
which will render this tax necessary? In the course
of a war it may be necessary to lay hold of every
resource; and for a certain period the people may
submit to it. But on removal of the danger, or
return of peace, the general sense of the commun
ity would abolish it. The United Netherlands were
obliged, on an emergency, to give up one twentieth
of their property to the government. It has been
said that it will be impossible to exercise this power
of taxation. If it cannot be exercised why be
alarmed? But the gentlemen say that the difficulty
of executing it with moderation will necessarily
drive the government into despotic measures. Here,
again, they are in the old track of jealousy and con
jecture. Whenever the people feel the hand of des
potism, they will not regard forms and parchments.
But the gentlemen's premises are as false as their
conclusion. No one reason can be offered why the
exercise of the power should be impracticable. No
one difficulty can be pointed out which will not
apply to our State governments. Congress will have
every means of knowledge that any Legislature
can have. From general observations, and from
the revenue systems of the several States, they will
derive information as to the most eligible modes of
taxation. If a land tax is the object, cannot Con
gress procure as perfect a valuation as any other
assembly? Can they not have all the necessary

VOL. II.— 6.

82 Alexander Hamilton

officers for assessment and collections? Where is
the difficulty? Where is the evil? They never can
oppress a particular State by an unequal imposition,
because the Constitution has provided a fixed ratio,
a uniform rule, by which this must be regulated.
The system will be founded upon the most easy and
equal principles — to draw as much as possible from
direct taxation, to lay the principal burdens on the
wealthy, etc. Even ambitious and unscrupulous
men will form their system so as to draw forth the
resources of the country in the most favorable and
gentle methods, because such will ever be the most
productive. They never can hope for success by
adopting those arbitrary modes which have been
used in some of the States. A gentleman yesterday
passed many encomiums on the character and opera
tions of the State governments. The question has
not been, whether their laws have produced happy
or unhappy effects. The character of our Con
federation is the subject of our controversy. But
the gentleman concludes too hastily. In many of
the States, government has not had a salutary op
eration. Not only Rhode Island, but several others,
have been guilty of indiscretions and misconduct —
of acts which have produced misfortunes and dis
honor. I grant that the government of New York
has operated well, and I ascribe it to the influence
of those excellent principles in which the proposed
Constitution and our own are so congenial.

We are sensible that private credit is much lower
in some States than it is in ours. What is the cause
of this? Why is it, at the present period, so low,

Convention of New York 83

even in this State? Why is the value of our land
depreciated? It is said that there is a scarcity of
money in the community. I do not believe this
scarcity to be so great as represented. It may not
appear; it may be retained by its holders; but
nothing more than stability and confidence in the
government is requisite to draw it into circulation.
It is acknowledged that the General Government
has not answered its purposes. Why? We attrib
ute it to the defects of the revenue system. But
the gentlemen say, the requisitions have not been
obeyed, because the States were impoverished.
This is a kind of reasoning that astonishes me.
The records of this State — the records of Congress
— prove that, during the war, New York had the
best reason to complain of non-compliance of the
other States. I appeal to the gentleman. Have
the States who have suffered least contributed most ?
No, sir; the fact is directly the reverse. This con
sideration is sufficient entirely to refute the gentle
man's reasoning. Requisitions will ever be attended
with the same effects. This depends on principles
of human nature that are as infallible as any mathe
matical calculations. States will contribute, or not,
according to their circumstances or interests. They
will all be inclined to throw off their burdens of gov
ernment upon their neighbors. These positions have
been so fully illustrated and proved in former stages
of this debate, that nothing need be added. Un
answerable experience — stubborn facts — have sup
ported and fixed them. Sir, to what situation is
our Congress now reduced? It is notorious that

84 Alexander Hamilton

with the most difficulty they maintain their ordi
nary officers, and support the mere form of a Fed
eral government. How do we stand with respect to
foreign nations? It is a fact that should strike us
with shame, that we are obliged to borrow money in
order to pay the interest of our debts. It is a fact
that these debts are every day accumulating by com
pound interest. This, sir, will one day endanger the
peace of our country, and expose us to vicissitudes
the most alarming. Such is the character of requi
sitions — such the melancholy, dangerous, condition
to which they have reduced us. Now, sir, after this
full and fair experiment, with what countenance do
gentlemen come forward to recommend the ruinous
principle, and make it the basis of a new govern
ment? Why do they affect to cherish this political
demon, and present it once more to our embraces?
The gentleman observed, that we cannot, even in a
single State, collect the whole of a tax; some coun
ties will necessarily be deficient. In the same man
ner, says he, some States will be delinquent. If this
reasoning were just, I should expect to see the States
pay, like the counties, in proportion to their ability*
which is not the fact. I shall proceed now more
particularly to the proposition before the committee.
This clearly admits that the unlimited power of tax
ation, which I have been contending for, is proper.
It declares that, after the States have refused to
comply with the requisitions, the General Govern
ment may enforce its demands. While the gentle
man's proposition and principle admit this in its
fullest latitude, the whole course of the States is

Convention of New York 85

against it. The mode they point out would involve
many inconveniences against which they would wish
to guard. Suppose the gentleman's scheme should
be adopted; would not all the resources of the
country be equally in the power of Congress? The
States can have but one opportunity of refusal.
After having passed through the empty ceremony
of a requisition, the General Government can en
force all its demands without limitation or resistance.
The States will either comply or they will not. If
they comply, they are bound to collect the whole of
the tax from the citizens. The people must pay it.
What, then, will be the disadvantage of its being
levied and collected by Congress, in the first in
stance? It has been proved, as far as probabilities
can go, that the Federal Government will, in gen
eral, take the laws of the several States as its rule,
and pursue those measures to which the people are
most accustomed. But if the States do not comply,
what is the consequence? If the power of a com
pulsion be a misfortune to the State, they must now
suffer it without opposition or complaint. I shall
show, too, that they must feel it in an aggrava
ted degree. It may frequently happen that, though
the States formally comply with the requisitions,
the avails will not be fully realized by Congress ; the
States may be dilatory in the collection and pay
ment, and may form excuses for not paying the
whole. There may also be partial compliances,
which will subject the Union to inconveniences.
Congress, therefore, in laying the tax, will calculate
for these losses and inconveniences. They will

86 Alexander Hamilton

make allowances for the delays and delinquencies
of the States, and apportion their burdens accord
ingly. They will be induced to demand more than
their actual wants. In these circumstances the
requisitions will be made upon calculations in some
measure arbitrary. Upon the constitutional plan
the only inquiry will be: How much is actually
wanted? and how much can the object bear, or the
people pay? On the gentleman's scheme it will be:
What will be the probable deficiencies of the States ?
for we must increase our demands in proportion,
whatever the public wants may be, or whatever may
be the abilities of the people. Now, suppose the
requisition is totally rejected ; it must be levied upon
the citizens without reserve. This will be like in
flicting a penalty upon the States. It will place
them in the light of criminals. Will they suffer this ?
Will Congress presume so far ? If the States solemnly
declare they will not comply, does not this imply a
determination not to permit the exercise of the
coercive power? The gentlemen cannot escape the
dilemma into which their own reasoning leads them.
If the States comply, the people must be taxed; if
they do not comply, the people must equally be
taxed. The burden in either case will be the same —
the difficulty of collecting the same. Sir, if these
operations are merely harmless and indifferent, why
play the ridiculous farce? If they are inconvenient,
why subject us to their evils? It is infinitely more
eligible to lay a tax originally, which will have uni
form effects throughout the Union, which will op
erate equally and silently. The United States will

Convention of New York 87

then be able to ascertain their resources, and to act
with vigor and decision. All hostility between the
governments will be prevented. The people will
contribute regularly and gradually for the support
of the government, and all odious, retrospective in
quiries will be precluded. But the ill effects of the
gentleman's plan do not terminate here. Our own
State will suffer peculiar disadvantages from the
measure. One provision in the amendment is, that
no direct taxes shall be laid till after the impost and
excise shall be found insufficient for public exigen
cies; and that no excise shall be laid on articles
of the growth or manufacture of the United States.
Sir, the favorable maritime situation of this State,
and our large and valuable tracts of unsettled land,
will ever lead us to commerce and agriculture as our
proper objects. Unconfmed, and tempted by the
prospect of easy subsistence and independence, our
citizens, as the country populates, will retreat back,
and cultivate the western parts of our State. Our
population, though extensive, will never be crowded ;
and consequently we shall remain an importing and
agricultural State. Now, what will be the operation
of the proposed plan? The General Government,
restrained by the Constitution from a free applica
tion to other resources, will push imposts to an ex
treme. Will excessive impositions on our commerce
be favorable to the policy of this State? Will they
not directly oppose our interests? Similar will be
the operation of the other clause of the amendment,
relative to excise. Our neighbors, not possessed of
our advantages for commerce and agriculture, will

88 Alexander Hamilton

become manufacturers; their property will, in a
great measure, be vested in the commodities of then-
own productions, but a small proportion will be in
trade or in lands. Thus, on the gentleman's scheme,
they will be almost free from burthens, while we
shall be loaded with them. Does not the partiality
of this strike every one? Can gentlemen who are
laboring for the interest of their State, seriously
bring forward such propositions? It is the interest
of New York that those articles should be taxed, in
the production of which the other States exceed us.
If we are not a manufacturing people, excises on
manufactures will ever be for our advantage. This
position is indisputable. Sir, I agree that it is not
good policy to lay excises to any considerable
amount, while our manufactures are in their in
fancy; but are they always to be so? In some of
the States they already begin to make considerable
progress. In Connecticut, such encouragement is
given as will soon distinguish that State. Even at
the present period, there is one article from which a
revenue may very properly be drawn: I speak of
ardent spirits. New England manufactures more
than a hundred gallons to our one; consequently,
an excise on spirits at the still-head would make
those States contribute in a vastly greater propor
tion than ourselves. In every view, excises on do
mestic manufacture would benefit New York. But
the gentleman would defeat the advantages of our
situation, by drawing upon us all the burdens of
government. The nature of our Union requires that
we should give up our State impost. The amend-

Convention of New York 89

ment would forfeit every other advantage. This
part of the Constitution should not be touched.
The excises were designed as a recompense to the
importing States for relinquishing their imposts.
Why, then, should we reject the benefits conferred
upon us? Why should we run blindly against our
own interest?

Sir, I shall no further enlarge on this argument;
my exertions have already exhausted me. I have
persevered from an anxious desire to give the com
mittee the most complete conception of this subject.
I fear, however, that I have not been so successful
as to bestow upon it that full and clear light of
which it is susceptible. I shall conclude with a few
remarks by way of an apology. I am apprehensive,
sir, that, in the warmth of my feelings, I may have
uttered expressions which were too vehement. If
such has been my language it was from the habit of
using strong phrases to express my ideas ; and, above
all, from the interesting nature of the subject. I
have ever condemned those cold, unfeeling hearts,
which no object can animate. I condemn those in
different mortals, who either never form opinions,
or never make them known. I confess, sir, that on
no subject has my breast been filled with stronger
emotions or more anxious concern. If any thing
has escaped me, which may be construed into a per
sonal reflection, I beg the gentlemen, once for all, to
be assured that I have no design to wound the feel
ings of any one who is opposed to me. While I am
making these observations, I cannot but take notice
of some expressions which have fallen in the course

90 Alexander Hamilton

of the debate. It has been said that ingenious men
may say ingenious things, and that those who are
interested in raising the few upon the ruins of the
many, may give to every cause an appearance of
justice. I know not whether these insinuations
allude to the characters of any who are present, or
to any of the reasonings of the House. I presume
that the gentlemen would not ungenerously impute
such motives to those who differ from themselves.
I declare I know not any set of men who are to
derive peculiar advantages from this Constitution.
Were any permanent honors or emoluments to be
secured to the families of those who have been active
in this cause, there might be some grounds for sus
picion. But what reasonable man, for the precarious
enjoyment of rank and power, would establish a sys
tem which would reduce his nearest friends and his
posterity to slavery and ruin? If the gentlemen
reckon me amongst the obnoxious few, if they im
agine that I contemplate with ambitious eye the
immediate honors of the government, yet let them
consider that I have my friends, my family, my
children, to whom ties of nature and of habit have
attached me. If, to-day, I am among the favored
few, my children, to-morrow, may be among the
oppressed; these dear pledges of my patriotism may,
at a future day, be suffering the severe distresses to
which my ambition has reduced them. The changes
in the human condition are uncertain and frequent;
many, on whom fortune has bestowed her favors, may
trace their family to a more unprosperous station;
and many, who are now in obscurity, may look back

Convention of New York 91

upon the affluence and exalted rank of their ances
tors. But I will no longer trespass on your indul
gence. I have troubled the committee with these
observations, to show that it cannot be the wish of
any reasonable man to establish a government un
friendly to the liberties of the people. Gentlemen
ought not, then, to presume that the advocates of
this Constitution are influenced by ambitious views.
The suspicion, sir, is unjust; the charge is unchar
itable.1 — Elliot's Debates, ii.

BRIEF OF ARGUMENT ON THE CONSTITUTION OF THE
UNITED STATES
A I. A republic, a word used in various senses.

Has been applied to aristocracies and mon
archies.

1. To Rome, under the kings.

2. To Sparta, though a Senate for life.

3. To Carthage, though the same.

4. To United Netherlands, though Stadt-

holder, hereditary nobles.

5. To Poland, though aristocracy and mon

archy.

6. To Great Britain, though monarchy,

1 In the edition of 1851, portions only are given of Hamilton's
speeches in the New York Convention. The gaps have been filled here
from Elliot's Debates, and the complete series is given in exact ac
cordance with the official report.

92 Alexander Hamilton

II. Again, great confusion about the words democ
racy, aristocracy, monarchy.

1. a. Democracy defined by some, Rousseau,

etc., a government exercised by the col'
lective body of the people.
b. Delegation of their power has been made
the criterion of aristocracy.

2. Aristocracy has been used to designate

governments.

a. Where an independent few possessed

sovereignty.

b. Where the representatives of the

people possessed it.
3. Monarchy, where sovereignty in the hands

of a single man.

ElPGeneral idea — Independent in his situation ; in any
other sense would apply to State of New York.

III. Democracy in my sense, where the whole power of

the government in the people.

1. Whether exercised by themselves, or

2. By their representatives, chosen by them either

mediately or immediately and legally ac
countable to them.

IV. Aristocracy, where whole sovereignty is per

manently in the hands of a few for life or
hereditary.
V. Monarchy, where the whole sovereignty is in the

hands of one man for life or hereditary.
VI. Mixed government, where these three principles

unite.

B I. Consequence, the proposed government a repre
sentative democracy.

1. House of Representatives directly chosen by

the people for two years.

2. Senate indirectly chosen by them for six years.

Convention of New York 93

3. President indirectly chosen by them for four

years.

t^T" Thus legislative and executive representatives of
the people.

4. Judicial power, representatives of the people

indirectly chosen during good behavior.

5. All officers indirect choice of the people.
|3F~ Constitution revocable and alterable by the people.

C I. This representative democracy as far as is con
sistent with its genius has all the features of
good government. These features are:

1. An immediate and operative representation of

the people, which is found in the House of
Representatives .

2. Stability and wisdom, which is found in the

Senate.

3. A vigorous executive, which is found in the

President.

4. An independent judicial, which is found in the

Supreme Court, etc.

KSIF0 A separation of the essential powers of govern
ment. Ascertain the sense of the maxim:
One department must not wholly possess the
powers of another.
= Montesquieu.
= British Government.

II. Departments of power must be separated, yet so
as to check each other.

1. Legislative.

2. Legislative executive.

3. Judicial legislative.

4. Legislative judicial.

IST3 All this done in the proposed Constitution.

i. Legislative in the Congress, yet checked by
negative of the executive.

94 Alexander Hamilton

2. Executive in the President, yet checked by

impeachment of Congress.

3. Judicial check upon legislative, or interpreta

tion of laws.

4. And checked by legislative through impeach

ment.
D I. Can such a government apply to so extensive a

territory?

II. Despotic government for a large country to be
examined.

Review

I. Full House of Representatives chosen every second

year, etc.

II. Senate for six years by Legislatures.
Rotation every two years.
Probable increase.

III. Executive manner of appointment.

Compensation .
Negotiation of treaties.
Nomination of officers.

IV. Judicial power. Constitution of judges.

Extent of powers.
Inferior courts.
Trial by jury.
Criminal cases.

Powers

I. To provide revenue for the common defence.
II. To regulate commerce.

III. To declare war.

IV. To raise and support armies.
V. Admission of new States.

VI. Disposal of property.

Convention of New York 95

Miscellaneous Advantages

I. To prohibit importation of slaves prior to 1808.
II. Account to be rendered of expenditure of moneys.

III. No State shall emit bills of credit under ex-post-

f acto law, or law impairing the obligation of con
tracts, or grant title of nobility.

IV. Definition of treason.

V. Guaranty of republican governments.

DRAFT OF PROPOSED RATIFICATION OF THE CONSTI
TUTION OF THE UNITED STATES, WITH
SPECIFIED AMENDMENTS.1

We, the delegates of the people of the State of
New York in Convention assembled, having maturely
considered the Constitution for the United States,
agreed to on the iyth day of September, in the
year 1787, at Philadelphia, in the commonwealth
of Pennsylvania, by the Convention then and there
convened, and having also seriously and deliber
ately considered the present situation of the United
States, and being convinced that it is advisable to
adopt the said Constitution, do declare and make
known, in the name and behalf of the people afore
said, that the powers granted in and by the said
Constitution, being derived from the people of the
United States, may be resumed by them whenever
they shall judge it necessary to their happiness; that

1 This draft by Hamilton was not accepted, but a brief circular-
letter, which was much more unfavorable to the new scheme, was
adopted and published.

96 Alexander Hamilton

every power not granted thereby remains either
to them or their respective State governments, to
whom they may have delegated the same; that
therefore no right of any kind, either of the people
of the respective States or of the said governments,
can be cancelled, abridged, restrained, or modified by
Congress, or by any officer or department of the
United States, except in conformity to the powers
given by the said Constitution, that among other
essential rights, the liberty of conscience and of the
press cannot be cancelled or abridged by any au
thority of the United States.

With these impressions, with a firm reliance on
the blessing of Providence upon a government
framed under circumstances which afford a new and
instructive example of wisdom and moderation to
mankind; with an entire conviction that it will be
more prudent to rely, for whatever amendments
may be desirable in the said Constitution, on the
mode therein prescribed, than either to embarrass
the Union or hazard dissensions in any part of the
community by pursuing a different course, and with
a full confidence that the amendments which shall
have been proposed will receive an early and mature
consideration, and that such of them as may in any
degree tend to the real security and permanent
advantage of the people, will be adopted: We,
the said delegates, in the name and behalf of the
PEOPLE of this State, Do, by these presents, assent
to and RATIFY the Constitution aforesaid, hereby
announcing to all those whom it may concern,
that the said Constitution is binding upon the said

Convention of New York 97

people according to an authentic copy hereunto
annexed.

And to the end that the sense of the people of
this State may be manifested touching certain parts
of the said Constitution, concerning which doubts
have been raised, we, the delegates aforesaid, in the
name and behalf of the people aforesaid, do, by these
presents, further declare and make known that,
according to the true intent and meaning of the
said Constitution, Congress ought not to interpose
in the regulation of the times, places, and manner of
holding elections for Senators and Representatives,
except only in such cases in which the Legislatures
of the respective States, or any of them, may neg
lect, refuse, or be unable to make provision, or for
the purpose of appointing a uniform time for the
election of Representatives; and that the Legisla
ture of any State may, at its discretion, lay out such
State into convenient districts for the election of
Representatives, and may apportion its Represen
tatives to and among such districts. And also that,
except as to duties on imports and exports — in the
Post-office, and duties of tonnage, the United States
and the States respectively have concurrent and co
equal authority to lay and collect all taxes whatever;
and therefore that neither of them can, in any wise,
contravene, control, or annul the operation or execu
tion of any law of the other for the imposition or col
lection of any tax, except as aforesaid. And also that
there must be once in every four years an election of
the President and Vice-President, so that no other
officer who may be appointed by Congress to act as

VOL. II.— 7.

98 Alexander Hamilton

President in case of the removal, death, resignation,
or inability of the President and Vice- President, can
in any case continue to act beyond the termination
of the period for which the last President and Vice-
President were elected; and also that the judicial
power of the United States, in cases in which a State
may be a party, does not extend to criminal pros
ecutions, or to any suit by private persons against a
State; and that the appellate jurisdiction of the
Supreme Court cannot authorize a second trial of
any suit in any criminal case whatever, or a second
trial of any suit determinable in the course of the
common law by a jury, and which shall have been so
determined in the original cause. And lastly, that
the process of presentment and indictment by a grand
jury ought to be observed in every prosecution for any
crime, as a necessary preliminary to the trial thereof.

And in order that the foregoing declarations and
Constitution may be recognized and inviolably ob
served in the administration of the government of
the United States, this Convention, in the name and
behalf of the people aforesaid, do hereby enjoin upon
the Senators and Representatives of this State in the
Congress to procure, as soon as may be after the
meeting of Congress, a declaratory act in conformity
to these presents.

We would also agree to recommend the following
amendments to the Constitution:

I. That there shall be one Representative for
every 30,000, according to the enumeration or census
mentioned in the Constitution, until the whole
number of Representatives amounts to two hundred;

Convention of New York 99

after which that number shall be continued or in
creased, but not diminished, as Congress shall direct,
and according to such ratio as Congress shall fix in
conformity to the rule prescribed for the apportion
ment of Representatives and direct taxes.

II. Tliat the court for the trial of impeachments
shall consist of the Senate, the judges of the Supreme
Court of the United States, and the first or senior
judge for the time being, of the highest court of gen
eral and ordinary common-law jurisdiction in each
State. That Congress shall, by standing laws, desig
nate the courts in the respective States answering
this description, and in States having no courts
exactly answering this description, shall designate
some other court, preferring such, if any there be,
whose judge or judges may hold their places during
good behavior, — provided that not more than one
judge shall come from one State. That Congress be
authorized to pass laws for compensating the said
judges, and for compelling their attendance, and
that a majority at least of the said judges shall be
requisite to constituting said court. That no per
son impeached shall sit as a member thereof. That
each member shall, previous to the entering upon
any trial, take an oath or affirmation honestly and
impartially to hear and determine the cause; and
that of the members present shall be neces
sary for a conviction.

III. That the authority given to the Executives
of the States to fill the vacancies of Senators be abol
ished; and that such vacancies be filled by the re
spective Legislatures.

TOO Alexander Hamilton

IV. That the compensation for the Senators and
Representatives be ascertained by standing laws;
and that no alteration of the existing rate of com
pensation shall operate for the benefit of the Repre
sentatives until after a subsequent election shall
have been had.

V. That no appropriation of money in time of peace
for the support of an army shall be by less than two-
thirds of the Representatives and Senators present.

VI. That the Executive shall not take the actual
command in the field of an army without the pre
vious direction of Congress.

VII. That each State shall have power to provide
for organizing, arming, and disciplining its militia,
when no provision for that purpose shall have been
made by Congress, and until such provision shall
have been made that the militia shall never be sub
jected to martial law, but in time of war, rebellion,
or insurrection.

VIII. That the Journals of Congress shall be pub
lished at least once a year, with exception of such
parts relating to treaties or military operations as in
the judgment of either House shall require secrecy.

IX. That the judicial power of the United States
shall extend to no controversy respecting land,
unless it relate to claims of territory or jurisdic
tion between States, or to claims of land between
individuals, or between States and individuals,
under grants of different States.

X. That no judge of the Supreme Court shall hold
any other office under the United States or any of
them.

ADDRESSES
ADDRESSES

NEW YORK, February 18, 1789.

To the Supervisors of ike City of Albany, in the

County of Albany.

GENTLEMEN: — The last Tuesday of April next
being the day appointed by law for the election of
a governor for the ensuing three years, the great
importance of making a wise choice in the present
peculiar situation of our local and national affairs

1 The Constitution having been ratified by the necessary number of
States, the Federalists everywhere made the utmost efforts to elect
Senators and Congressmen who were favorable to the new scheme.
Nowhere was their task more difficult than in New York. The contest
in the Convention had been very severe, and the ratification had been
carried only by sheer force of argument and outside pressure. The
head and front of the opposition was Governor Clinton, a man with a
very great personal following, of strong will and much ability. Ham
ilton threw himself into the conflict with his usual zeal. He travelled
through the State, and published the address given above; and, not
content with this, he sought to break down Clinton and defeat his re
election. With this object he published a second address and the
letters of " H. G.," which follow, and which are a sustained attack upon
the Governor's whole course and attitude. Clinton was re-elected by
a majority of less than 500, but his power was fatally crippled, and the
opposition was demoralized as Hamilton desired. The Federalists on
their side obtained four out of the six Congressmen, and subsequently
the two Senators. These addresses and the letters of "H. G." are not
of course constitutional arguments, but they are an important part of
the work which Hamilton did for the Constitution, and complete his
labors for a new system of national government, which began under
the tents of the revolutionary army, and ended with the inauguration
of Washington.
104 Alexander Hamilton

appears to have made a deep impression on the
minds of considerate men in the different parts of
the State.

On the eleventh instant, a numerous meeting of
respectable inhabitants was held in this city to con
sult on what was best to be done in relation to that
object, and we have been advised that similar meet
ings have been held in some other counties.

The meeting in this city were unanimous in the
result of their deliberations, and we, the subscribers,
were appointed a committee to correspond with our
fellow-citizens in the other counties upon the sub
ject, in order that a mutual communication of sen
timents might promote mutual confidence, and a
happy concert in such a choice, as a dispassionate
attention to the good of the community, divested
of all particular attachments or dislikes, should be
found to recommend.

The people of this State are the sovereigns of it,
and being now called upon by their constitution to
appoint a Chief Magistrate, it cannot but be useful
that so high an act of sovereignty should be preceded
by an interchange of ideas and sentiments, especially
at so critical a juncture as the present; for at no
period can it be more necessary to take care that our
affairs be committed to the management of disin
terested, discreet, and temperate rulers, than at a
period when the heats of party are to be assuaged,
discordant opinions reconciled, and all the incon
veniences attending changes in national govern
ment provided against.

As this State is only part of a larger community,

Addresses 105

as its prosperity must therefore materially depend
on its maintaining its due weight in the national
scale, on its being charged with only its due propor
tion of public burdens, and on its deriving from the
General Government its due share of favor and pro
tection, it is evidently of the greatest moment that
the people should be united and circumspect, and
their rulers should be men who will neither be
seduced by interest nor impelled by passion into
designs or measures which may justly forfeit the
confidence or friendship of the other members of
the great national society.

On this ground it is highly necessary that the
Chief Magistrate of the State should be free from all
temptation wantonly to perplex or embarrass the
National Government, — whether that temptation
should arise from a preference of partial confeder
acies, from a spirit of competition with the national
rulers for personal pre-eminence, from an impa
tience of the restraints of national authority, from
the fear of a diminution of power and emoluments,
from resentment or mortification proceeding from
disappointment, or from any other cause whatsoever.
For all attempts to perplex and embarrass, would not
only tend to prevent the government from doing the
good they may meditate, but would also expose this
State to the distrust and ill-will of the others.

It is also of no inconsiderable consequence, in the
same view, that the governor of the State should be of
a disposition to pay those decent attentions, and prac
tise that becoming republican hospitality, which the
persons who administer the National Government,

106 Alexander Hamilton

and distinguished strangers in public character,
whom the affairs of the nation call to reside in
our capital, have a right to expect. The dignity as
well as the interests of the State require this, and
ample provision is constantly made for it by the
liberal salary and perquisites annexed to the office.
A contrary conduct cannot fail to create disgust and
contempt; and to draw not merely upon the magis
trate himself, but, in some measure, upon the State,
imputations not a little mortifying to a people long
celebrated for their hospitality, and who uniformly
enable their executive representative to maintain
their character in this respect. For it can never be
presumed to be their intention to attach such con
siderable emoluments to the office merely for the sake
of enriching its possessor.1

Many considerations might be detailed to show
the important light in which our political annexa
tion as a member of the Union ought to be viewed,
and to demonstrate how much the regulation of
our trade, the repossession of our frontier posts, and
various other important interests may be affected
by our having much or little influence in the Con
federacy. But this would lead to a discussion too
long for the occasion, and, to reflecting men, would
be unnecessary. Hence, however, this inference is
to be drawn, that we cannot be too careful of keep
ing power and opportunity from those whom we
have reason to believe may be predisposed to em
ploy them in a manner calculated to alienate the
friendship and confidence of our sister States.

1 In allusion to Clinton's wealth and parismony.

Addresses 107

As to the domestic situation of the State, it ap
peared to the meeting to be such as to admonish us
to use great circumspection in the choice of a Gov
ernor. The council of appointment is so powerful
an engine in the hands of a governor, for perpetuat
ing himself in office, that his conduct in it cannot be
regarded with too watchful an eye; because it is
evident, that an artful man may, in the course of ten
or twelve years, so fasten himself to the office, by
means of this engine, as to become too indifferent
to the opinion and control of the people, and per
haps immovable by the efforts of the virtuous and
independent. Extremely free from blame, therefore,
and from all suspicion of undue attachment to place
or to profit, and very satisfactory to the community
at large, ought to be the administration of a gov
ernor, to render it prudent in the people to leave so
powerful an engine in his hands for a long succession
of years.

As, on the one hand, in this council of appoint
ment, the governor will, for the most part, have a
preponderating influence, so, on the other, that in
fluence will generally be exerted according to the
views and wishes of the man. If he wishes to pro
mote the public good, and to acquire fame and
popularity by acting as the governor of the State,
and not as the governor of a party, then merit in
every situation will be cherished and employed. If,
on the contrary, offices are to be the price of obe
dience, and men are to enjoy his favor no longer
than they consent to be his tools, merit will be neg
lected, and the State must suffer by having the

io8 Alexander Hamilton

public business, in too many instances, intrusted to
improper hands.

In addition to the parties which have too long
existed in the State, on personal and particular
grounds, it must be lamented that the new Constitu
tion for the government of the United States has
divided the community on a more extensive scale,
and has occasioned animosities which have not yet
ceased to operate. On that great question very
honest men took opposite sides ; and those who were
not honest assisted in "troubling the waters."

But certainly it is now high time that those par
ties should subside; and should, for the sake of the
public good, unite; agreeing in these two points,
that all should join in supporting the Constitution
established by the people of the United States, and
that all should join in obtaining a reconsideration of
the parts which have been the subject of objection,
in order that every reasonable and safe endeavor
may be used to give universal satisfaction, to re
move the apprehensions entertained by the honest
opponents of the system, and to provide, if upon
cool and deliberate examination any be found requi
site, such additional securities to the liberties of the
people as shall be compatible with the salutary and
necessary energy of an efficient National Govern
ment. To such a compromise, it is essential that
the unhappy divisions which now exist among us
should be buried. And to this end it is equally es
sential that our first magistrate should be a man
of moderation, sincerely disposed to heal, not to
widen, those divisions; to promote conciliation, not

Addresses 109

dissension ; to allay, not to excite, the fermentations
of party spirit ; and to restore that cordial good- will
and mutual confidence which ought to exist among
a people bound to each other by all the ties which
connect members of the same society.

It is seriously to be deplored that dissension
reigns in the most important departments of the
State, and as dissensions among brethren, so de
structive to the happiness of families, are often ap
peased by parental influence and prudence, so there
is good reason to flatter ourselves that a Chief Magis
trate, sincerely desirous of re-establishing concord,
may without much difficulty effect it, especially if
he should owe his exaltation to the votes of both the
contending parties.

Reflections of this nature had their full weight in
forming the opinion of the meeting which appointed
us, not only as to the necessity of choosing some
other person than the present governor, but as to
the man whom it would be desirable to substitute.

As we are aware that the warm partisans of men
in office are apt to represent every attempt to change
them as a species of personal injury, we think it
necessary to remark in this place, that at the ex
piration of his three years the Constitution will
return the present Chief Magistrate to the mass of
the people. The question is not, therefore, whether
he shall be put out, but whether he shall be put in.
As no man has a right to office, or re-election, in
virtue of long possession, no man, of course, can have
a right to complain if the people do not think it
proper to continue to be governed by him.

no Alexander Hamilton

In the consideration of the character most proper
to be held up at the ensuing election, some difficul
ties occurred. Our fellow-citizens in some parts of
the State had proposed Judge Yates, others had
been advocates of the Lieutenant-Governor, and
others for Chief- Justice Morris. It is well known
that the inhabitants of this city are, with few ex
ceptions, strongly attached to the New Constitution,
and have been remarkably unanimous and active in
its support. It is also well known that Lieutenant-
Governor Cortland, and Chief- Justice Morris, whom
we respect and esteem, were zealous advocates for
the same cause. Had it been agreed to support
either of them for the office of governor, there would
have been reason to fear that the measure would
have been imputed to party, and not to a desire of
relieving our country from the evils they experience
from the heats of party. It appeared, therefore, most
advisable to elect some man of the opposite party in
whose integrity, patriotism, and temper confidence
might be placed, however little his political opinions
on the question lately agitated might be approved
by those who were assembled upon the occasion.

Among the persons of this description, there were
circumstances which led to a decision in favor of
Judge Yates. And we flatter ourselves that this
decision, to those who are acquainted with the situa
tion of the State, will be most likely to appear well
founded. It is certain that as a man and a judge he
is generally esteemed. And though his opposition
to the New Constitution was such as his friends can
not but disapprove, yet, since the period of its adop-

Addresses 1 1 1

tion, his conduct has been tempered with a degree
of moderation, and regard to peace and decorum,
which entitle him to credit; and seem to point him
out as a man likely to compose the differences of
the State, and to unite its citizens in the harmonious
pursuit of their common and genuine interest.

Of this at least we feel confident, that he has no
personal revenge to gratify, no opponents to oppress,
no partisans to provide for, nor any promises for
personal purposes to be performed at the public ex
pense. On the contrary, we trust he will be found to
be a man who looks with an equal eye on his fellow-
citizens, and who will be more ambitious of leaving
a good name than a good estate to his posterity.

For these, and for other reasons, which considera
tions of decorum induce us to pass over in silence,
the meeting was unanimously of opinion that it
would be advisable to try Judge Yates as our gover
nor for the next three years. They were persuaded
that the State could not lose by the experiment, and
entertained strong hopes that much good would re
dound to it from his administration.

We shall be happy to find that the same reasons,
and that regard for the public weal, which has at all
times distinguished their conduct, may induce the
Lieutenant-Governor and Chief- Justice Morris to
forbear a competition which can evidently, under
the existing circumstances, answer no good purpose;
and that they, and their particular friends, do
generously join with their fellow-citizens of every
place and party, in promoting the election of Mr.
Yates, as the only candidate likely to succeed, whose

ii2 Alexander Hamilton

character affords a prospect that he will, under
Providence, be instrumental in preserving and ad
vancing the dignity and interests of the people, and
in restoring to them the blessings of union and cor
diality at home and respect abroad.

It will give us great pleasure to learn the senti
ments of your county on this important subject, and
to know that they coincide with those which we
entertain, and which we have every reason to be
lieve, correspond with the general sense of the people
of this city and county. We acknowledge that we
feel a very serious anxiety for the issue; and that,
from the most mature reflection, we regard a change
in the person of the Chief Magistrate, as a matter of
high importance to the tranquillity and prosperity
of the State. Nor can we forbear, as brethren and
fellow-citizens, earnestly to exhort the inhabitants
of your county to weigh well the importance of the
opportunity which the approaching election presents
to them, and to resolve to exercise their right of
suffrage, in that unbiassed and independent manner,
which becomes a free and enlightened people. We
shall only add, that it is manifestly essential to en
sure success to the attempt, that all those who con
cur in the expediency of a change should zealously
unite in the support of the same candidate.
I have the honor to be,
Gentlemen,

Your obedient servant,
By order of the committee,

ALEXANDER HAMILTON,

Chairman.

Addresses 113

To the Independent and Patriotic Electors of the State
of New York.1

In our last address we mentioned to you our in
tention of offering some remarks upon that which
has been lately published by the committee ap
pointed to promote the re-election of our present
Governor. This we shall now do; and we flatter
ourselves that what we shall say will meet with your
candid and serious attention. Respect for our
selves, as well as for you, will prevent our imitating
the spirit of invective and uncandid speculation
which abounds in that performance. Acting, as we
trust we do, from reason, not from passion, we shall
continue to address ourselves to the reason, not to
the passions, of our fellow-citizens.

The writers of the address in question set out with
describing to us the long services of the present
Governor — his meritorious administration during
the late war, his good conduct in preserving peace
and order within the southern district, after its
evacuation by the British forces.

We feel no inclination to detract from the merit
of the Governor's services during the war, nor shall
we examine whether they have been overrated or
not. We are ready to acknowledge that they were

1 This address, which has never before been included in any edition of
Hamilton's works, I owe to the kindness of Mr. Henry A. Homes, State
Librarian of New York. The Clintonian Committee published an ad
dress on March 9, 1789, and this, as will be seen from the opening
sentences, is in answer to the attacks of the Governor's friends. This
second address, unknown until discovered by Mr. Homes, is reprinted
from a probably unique copy of the original broadside or pamphlet in
the State Library at Albany.

VOL. II. — 8.

ii4 Alexander Hamilton

considerable, and that they entitled him to the
esteem of his country.

With regard to the credit given to him for the
order preserved in this part of the State after the
peace, we shall only observe that at the most critical
period, the management of affairs was in the hands
of the council appointed for the temporary govern
ment of the southern district, in which the Governor
had no greater agency than any other individual
member.

But, admitting all that can be asked in either of
these respects, it surely will not follow that we ought
therefore to consent to be perpetually governed by
the same man, however exceptionable his subse
quent conduct may have been. If he has departed
from the principles by which he may have been once
actuated; if he has quitted the pursuit of the public
good for that of a selfish and interested policy ; if he
has betrayed a stronger attachment to his own power,
influence, and advantage than to the dignity, re
spectability, and prosperity of the people ; if, instead
of being the impartial head of the State, he has be
come the zealous head of a party in it; if, instead
of acting as the appeaser and calmer, he has in any
instance acted as the fomenter, of dissension; if he
has at any time contributed to sacrificing the inter
ests of the State by encouraging the obstinacy and
intemperance of party conflicts; — in either of these
suppositions, the merit of his early administration
will be a very insufficient recommendation to the
future choice of the community.

How far imputations of this kind may be applic-

Addresses 115

able to the conduct of the Governor for some years
past, we forbear particularly to discuss. It is cer
tain, however, that a very large proportion of the
community are now, on different accounts, greatly
dissatisfied with his administration, and that many
more entertain serious doubts and apprehensions.
The presumption is, that this has not happened with
out cause. Moderate and discreet men of all parties
will at least agree that the existence of such a state
of things, from whatever source it may proceed, is
a real evil which calls for some effectual remedy.
When discontents with the head of the State have
taken possession of a large part of the people, and
have been produced by causes which render them
likely to last, they form in republican governments
a powerful reason for a change, as perhaps the only
means of securing or re-establishing confidence in
the government. When those discontents are im
mediately connected with the party divisions which
exist in the State, such a change will generally be
found essential to the restoration of harmony among
the citizens (a blessing which cannot be too highly
prized nor too anxiously promoted).

That the spirit of party has attained an alarming
and pernicious height in the State, must be apparent
to all dispassionate observers. It has been con
clusively witnessed in the last session of the Legis
lature. Which of the parties was right, which
wrong, would be an endless discussion. But it can
not admit of a doubt that the interests of the State
have suffered in the contest;1 and there is too much

1 Our representatives in Congress are not yet ascertained, and we

no Alexander Hamilton

probability that they will continue to suffer from
the same spirit, until there is at the head of the
State a man who en joys the good- will of both parties,
and is disposed to temper and heal their mutual
irritations.

On the subject of the parties which exist in the
State, much is said in the address under considera
tion. Some of the observations contained in it are
just, but we do not conceive apply to the case ; others
of them appear to us altogether fallacious.

It is just, for instance, that difference of opinion,
on a great political question occasionally arising in a
community, does not constitute what is understood
by spirit of party. Men, in such cases, ought to take
their sides according to their convictions, though
they should be cautious not to suffer their zeal to
hurry them into irrational extremes.

But when the Governor is objected to as the head
of a party, we presume it is not on account of the
side he took in the question concerning the new Con
stitution. It is true, indeed, that the friends of that
Constitution are of opinion that circumstances have
attended the Governor's conduct in relation to it,
before it appeared, after it appeared, and before its
adoption, and even since its adoption, which savor
of prejudice and intemperance, and subject him to
suspicions derogatory to his prudence and patriot
ism. But the objection to him as the head of a
party reaches much further back than the new Con
stitution. Discerning men, soon after the peace,
perceived that he had formed a close connection

have no senators appointed.

Addresses 117

with a particular set of characters, in whose public
and private views he was continually embarked.

It is asked, What could have been his object in
thus devoting himself to a party? The answer is
plain: to keep himself in place — to perpetuate him
self in the enjoyment of the power and profit of the
office he holds.

But it is asked again, Why, if that was his wish,
did he not connect himself with the wealthy and the
great ? These, it is pretended, would have been better
instruments of a scheme of personal aggrandizement.

Such a suggestion has scarcely the merit of plausi
bility. It is well known that large property is an
object of jealousy in republics, and that those who
possess it seldom enjoy extensive popularity. The
Governor was aware that he would have risked the
loss rather than have promoted the continuance of
that which he possessed, by connecting himself with
men of that class; and that his purpose could be
better answered by an opposite course. Besides,
from men who would suppose their pretensions not
inferior to his, he would be more likely to experience
competition and contradiction. The history of re
publics affords more examples of individuals arriv
ing at dangerous pre-eminence, by a policy similar
to that which has been pursued by the Governor,
than in any other mode.

It is asserted, in order to excite prejudice, that the
opposition to the Governor arises from the wealthy
and the great. We believe it to be true that the
principal part of the men of the most considerable
property in the State are of opinion that a change is

n8 Alexander Hamilton

necessary. But we believe it to be not less true
that the same opinion embraces a large proportion
of all other classes of the community. Will it follow
that it must be wrong because men of property con
cur in it ? Are they less interested than other people
in good government? Do they advocate one of their
number for his successor? Judge Yates certainly
does not fall under that description. What motive,
then, can they have, besides the public good, for
giving him their support and suffrages?

It has been said that Judge Yates is only made
use of on account of his popularity, as an instrument
to displace Governor Clinton, in order that at a
future election some one of the great families may be
introduced. Let this surmise be candidly consid
ered. It is admitted that Judge Yates is now a
popular character; and it will not be doubted that
he is a man of sense and integrity. If he conducts
himself with propriety, it is not to be imagined that,
with the addition of the influence which will natur
ally flow from the possession of the office, he will be
less able, at the end of three years, to maintain his
ground against any partial combinations which may
have been formed against him, than he now is to
succeed against the accumulated weight of a twelve-
years ' administration. Nothing, therefore, can be
more far-fetched or strained than the supposition
that such a design, as is mentioned, is entertained.
It is evidently a mere artifice to destroy the effect of
Judge Yates* general good character on the minds
of his fellow-citizens, and to divert his friends from
exerting themselves in his behalf.

Addresses 1 19

The cry against men of property has been carried
to an extreme by the friends of the Governor, which
ought to alarm the considerate of every class. There
is no stronger sign of combinations unfriendly to the
general good, than when the partisans of those in
power raise an indiscriminate cry against men of
property. It argues sinister designs, which it is
feared may be counteracted, by those whose situa
tion renders them most likely to be independent.
Such a cry is neither just nor wise. Not just, be
cause no man ought to be hated for being either rich
or poor. Providence has distributed its bounties in
the manner best adapted to the general order and
happiness. Not wise, because it tends to alienate
those who are endeavored to be made odious, from
the government under which they live, and to in
cline them to favor changes in the hope of bettering
their condition; and because, in the second place,
by destroying the confidence of the body of the
people in men of property, it makes a co-operation
between them for the defence of their common privi
leges and interests more difficult, and consequently
renders it more easy for aspiring men, in possession
of power, to prosecute schemes of personal aggrandize
ment and usurpation. These observations, we are con
fident, will strike the good sense of our fellow citizens.

Many of our most considerate citizens have long
been of opinion that the Governor has possessed an
undue and dangerous influence. In our first ad
dress we intimated the means by which such an in
fluence might be acquired, through the medium of
the council of appointment.

120 Alexander Hamilton

To this it is answered that the council of ap
pointment consists of four members of the Senate
annually chosen by the Assembly, and that it is im
probable the Governor should be able materially to
influence appointments made by a council so con
stituted. This we take to be the substance of the
answer. Let us see if it be a satisfactory one.

It is to be remembered that though the council is
constituted as stated, the Governor is a standing
member of it, and in case of equal division has a cast
ing vote. It is likewise to be attended to that he
has constantly claimed the right of previous nomina
tion , and we are greatly misinformed if he has not
extensively practised upon that pretension. The ex
ercise of such a power places the choice essentially
on the Governor. If he is first to name the man who
may be appointed, none can be appointed who are
not agreeable to him. It is true the council may
negative his nomination, but even this will require
a majority; for if equally divided he can turn the
scale in favor of his own nomination. If the person
proposed be rejected by a majority, still it is in his
power to propose another of his own liking, and to
repeat this as often as he pleases, till an appointment
is made in some degree conformable to his wishes.
We do not presume that the practice has been an
swerable to the full extent of the principle. The
power of previous nomination has been long since
called in question, and it is probable that it has been
found expedient to exercise it with caution, and
oftentimes even to forbear the use of it. But in the
general course of things it is presumable that the

Addresses 121

operation of that pretension has given the Governor
a prevailing influence in appointments.

But independent of the power of previous nomi
nation, the mere circumstance of being a standing
member of so small a council with a casting vote must
give a man of tolerable address a preponderating
weight in its arrangements, and consequently an
extensive influence from the distribution of offices.
Those who are in pursuit of them will naturally look
up to him as one who must at all events have an
agency in the business. Even the members of the
council will be apt to gratify him to obtain his con
currence at the time and upon future occasions in
appointments in which themselves personally or
their friends are or may be interested. There are,
besides, various expedients which an artful man
may employ to carry his points in such a council.
Times and places of meeting may be so managed as
to exclude from attendance those whose presence
may not be desired. There is room to suppose that
the present Governor has not been inattentive to
these advantages, and that he has even gone so far
as to avoid making appointments, in the usual
course, by a council disagreeable to him, in order to
have them made by one more at his devotion.

Public opinion, we apprehend, corresponds with
this reasoning concerning the Governor's influ
ence in appointments. Those who are in quest of
office generally think themselves sure of success,
if they have reason to believe they have secured
his co-operation.

The considerations which have been stated are,

122 Alexander Hamilton

we think, sufficient to show that the council of ap
pointment is such an engine as we have before re
presented it to be, and that the conclusions which
have been drawn from it are natural and pertinent.

Whether an improper or excessive influence has
in fact been derived from the use of that engine,
those who have been attentive to the progress of
public affairs must decide for themselves. Appear
ances must be carefully consulted, and if there are
instances in which members of the Legislature have
been seen to change one party or system disagreeable
to the Governor, for another party or system agree
able to him, and if that change of conduct has been
observed to be speedily followed by the reception of
lucrative appointments, the conclusion from such a
fact would be irresistible.

The argument which is used against the supposi
tion of such an argument can have no weight. It
is said that such a supposition is a reproach to our
representatives which ought to excite indignation.
This is one of those arguments — if it may be called
an argument — which proves too much, and is capa
ble of being used at all times and under all circum
stances. If it amounts to any thing it amounts to
this, that it ought never to be supposed that our
representatives can be improperly influenced; a po
sition contrary to experience and human nature,
and calculated to destroy that watchfulness in the
people over the conduct of their representatives,
which is an indispensable security of republican
government.

We have too good an opinion of the virtue of our

Addresses 123

countrymen to believe that any large proportion of
those who may in any case have united in the views
of the Governor have been under a sinister influence ;
but we think it very supposable that a few may have
been in this situation, and that these few, by their
advice and example, may have operated upon others
so as to place a majority on the side where it might
not otherwise have been.

In making these observations, our great object is
to show that such an influence as is apprehended
may be supposed consistently with probability and
the usual progress of things. The reality of its exist
ence, as we have already remarked, must be judged
of from circumstances. If there are appearances
which render it probable, the rules of republican
caution will admonish us to seek a change. A very
respectable part of the community are of opinion
that the length of time for which the present Gover
nor has been in office is alone a sufficient reason for
his removal. This, however, is a sentiment which
this committee have never expressed. The idea con
tained in our first address is, that considering the
means of influence derived to our executive, from
the nature of our council of appointment, the admin
istration of a governor ought to be free from blame, and
from all suspicion of undue attachment to place or to
profit, and very satisfactory to the community at large,
to render it prudent in the people to leave so powerful
an engine in his hands for a long succession of years.
In this sentiment, we doubt not, we shall be joined
by every prudent and independent citizen.

How far, however, some of the gentlemen who

124 Alexander Hamilton

combat the position that long continuance in office is
of itself a sufficient reason, in republican govern
ments, for a change of men are consistent with them
selves, requires some explanation. Mr. Melancthon
Smith, one of the committee in the convention of
this State objected to the constitution of the Presi
dent of the United States, on account of the want
of the principle of rotation, or, in other words, be
cause he, like the governor of this State, may be
re-elected as often as the people think proper, and
proposed or advocated an amendment to alter that
circumstance, which was adopted by our State con
vention. The great argument was the danger in re
publics of trusting power too long in the same hands.
It will be difficult to show that the spirit of this
objection does not operate against the re-election of
a man who in this State has held the reins of govern
ment for near twelve years. It might even, with
great force, be urged that it is more wise to observe
the principle of rotation in practice, than to make it
one of the fundamentals of a constitution. For
though it might be imprudent to deprive the people
of the liberty of making use of a man, in particular
emergencies, when his services might happen to be
essential, it may be very prudent in them to make
changes from time to time, when no public exigencies
call for particular men, merely to guard against the
danger of a too long continuance in office.

In our first address we intimated the ill effects of
the want of decent republican hospitality towards
the members of Congress, and other public charac
ters whom the affairs of the government call to reside

Addresses 125

in this city. This has been answered by describing
in strong terms the evils of extravagance and dis
sipation. It is asked whether it would be agreeable
to the citizens of this State to see the principal magis
trate constantly engaged in a scene of dissipation
and luxury. We answer, most certainly not. We
should be as ready to reprobate this conduct as the
contrary extreme. But is there no medium between
extravagance and parsimony? Cannot a chief magis
trate observe the requisite attentions of hospitabil-
ity without running into riot or intemperance, or
exceeding the bounds of decent frugality and orderly
living? Is it not even his duty to attend to the
former as well as to the latter? Must not the sup
position that it is so have been one of the induce
ments of the Legislature in annexing to the office
the liberal emoluments which have been constantly
annexed to it? Can we believe that our representa
tives would have been so lavish of the money of their
constituents as they must have been if that was not
a motive?

It is with reluctance we dwell upon this subject,
but the friends of the Governor, by pressing his
apology too far, have made it necessary. The charge
against him in this respect is not, that he has been
frugal, but that he has been penurious; not that he
has paid a reasonable regard to a comfortable pro
vision for his family, but that he has applied the
greatest part of his public allowance to the ac
cumulation of a large fortune, neglecting what was
due to the decorum and dignity of his station.

It is, we conceive, impossible to join with his

126 Alexander Hamilton

friends in ascribing his conduct, in this respect, to
the laudable motive they assign, the desire of setting
an example of moderation and frugality. If he
had been actuated by such a motive, why has he
been always ready to accept such liberal allowances
of the public money? Why did he never say to the
Legislature: "I wish to ease the burthens of the
people. I find by experience that you have been
more bountiful than is requisite to the decent and
proper support of the office. Let my salary be re
trenched/'1 Such we think would have been the
language and conduct of patriotic moderation; but
the disposition to receive much and spend little, be
speaks the predominancy of a passion which cer
tainly is no ornament in a public character.

As to the quantity of the property which may
have been amassed by the Governor, during his ad
ministration, this is a subject which we should have
left untouched, were it not for some observations in
the address which seem to require notice. Whether
the intimations, of fraudulent or indirect practices
in that gentleman, which have appeared in the pub
lic prints, have really been serious accusations of
imprudent adversaries, or fictitious charges brought
by the friends of the Governor, for the sake of re
futing them, and having it believed that he has been
ill treated, we will not undertake to decide. But
thus much we shall say, that the supposition of such
practices has no share in the motives which, in our

1 His friends give him credit for the reduction of his salary the last
session; but if he had any share in the business, it cannot be considered
as very meritorious at the eve of an election at which he knew he
would be strongly opposed.

Addresses 127

estimation, render his re-election inadvisable. And
though we do not agree in the opinion that the idea
of his being possessed of a large fortune is ground
less, yet we should not impute blame to him on that
account, in any other view than as he may be justly
chargeable with penury in the manner of acquiring
it, and with disingenuity in the attempts to conceal
it. It is undeniable, that he has received from the
State what may be deemed a handsome fortune, in
a few accumulated payments,1 and that he has made
several profitable speculations in land. Some of
these are publicly known, and others of them, we
have good grounds to believe, are covered under
the names of third persons.

The address under consideration contains, many
observations on the Governor's conduct and views in
relation to the Constitution of the United States.
To examine the justice or propriety of them would
involve a discussion into which we cannot think it
expedient to enter. After all that could be said,
the judgment of every man would be regulated very
much by previous opinions, and by a recurrence to
facts. These are the only satisfactory standard to
which we can resort. Professions or assertions will

1 On a settlement of his accounts some time in the year 1782, there
was a balance in his favor of upwards of 8,000 pounds. This sum he
retained out of monies borrowed by him on the public account about
that period, or some time in the year subsequent. His salary since
that period has amounted to about 9,000 pounds, and there can be no
doubt, from the manner of his living, that considerably more than one
half of this has been saved. The mere interest of 8,000 pounds, for
six years, is 3,920 pounds, so that taking it for granted the Governor
has not left his money idle, and excluding the idea of extraordinary
increase in land speculations, we have here data for supposing a fortune
of not much short of 20,000 pounds.

128 Alexander Hamilton

never countervail, in any reasonable mind, the evi
dence which arises from them.

We must, however, observe that, in our opinion,
the friends to amendments, of whatever party, will
do well to join in support of Judge Yates. That
gentleman, by having the confidence of both par
ties in this State, will be more likely to have the
confidence of the United States, than one who is
supposed by many of the most intelligent friends of
the Constitution among us to desire its entire sub
version. And it must be evident, that as far as the
governor of a State can contribute to the attainment
of amendments in the National Constitution, the
man who is most likely to have the confidence and
good-will of the Union will be the most likely to
effect it.

In our first address we advanced the sentiment,
that all should join " in the support of the Constitu
tion established by the people of the United States,
and that all should join in the reconsideration of the
parts which have been the subject of objection.'*
On this point we are charged with inconsistency,
and it is asserted, that there is every reason to be
lieve that the principal opponents of the Governor
do not wish to see any amendments to the Constitu
tion, and are averse to a reconsideration of it. As
far as we are concerned, we affirm that the charge is
destitute of truth, and we defy those who make it,
to produce any thing like proof of its being well
founded.

It is true that on the occasion of the election of a
representative of this district in Congress, we most

Addresses 1 29

of us contended for the propriety of choosing a per
son attached to the Constitution; but this certainly
has nothing to do with a disinclination to amend
ments or to a reconsideration of the system, nor
will it in any candid mind appear to militate against
the sincerity of the desire, which we profess to have,
of reconciliation and union between the different
parties in the State. It was not to be doubted, that
in other parts of this State every effort would be
made by those who opposed the Constitution, to
choose for representatives men of sentiments similar
to their own, and it could not reasonably be ex
pected, under such circumstances, that its friends in
a friendly district would not be equally strenuous
for representatives of their own sentiments. Could
it be expected that we should abandon the distinc
tions which actually exist, previous to a foundation
being laid for a reciprocal renunciation of them?
This is the desirable object at which we and our
fellow-citizens now aim.

Nor can a better proof be given of it than in the
disposition manifested to support a man of political
opinions different from those generally entertained
by them and by us. And we strongly flatter our
selves that the desirable end in contemplation will
be attained by the co-operation of all those through
out the State who wish to see the spirit of faction
and dissension extinguished.

We forbear any further comment on the address
of our opponents. We trust that nothing they
have offered, which has the semblance of argument,
remains unattended to, and we do not choose to

VOL. II.— 9.

130 Alexander Hamilton

pursue them into any other field. We trust that all
the considerate, disinterested, and independent, all
the sincere lovers of peace and harmony, all those who
are unwilling to sacrifice the good of the State to the
aggrandizement or advantage of an individual, will
heartily unite in the endeavor to appease the dis
tractions of the community. It is evident that a
large proportion of it is, in all probability, irrecon
cilably dissatisfied with the administration of the
present Chief Magistrate. There can, therefore, be
no rational hope of future union or concord under
his auspices. And we boldly appeal to the breast
of every good citizen, and ask what inducement
there can be to support the re-election of Governor
Clinton, which ought to stand, even for an instant,
in competition with the blessings of union and
concord.

By order of the Committee,

ALEXANDER HAMILTON,

Chairman.

THE FEDERALIST. No. I

(HAMILTON)

To the People of the State of New York:

After an unequivocal experience of the inefficiency
of the subsisting federal government, you are called
upon to deliberate on a new Constitution for the
United States of America. The subject speaks its
own importance ; comprehending in its consequences
nothing less than the existence of the UNION, the
safety and welfare of the parts of which it is com
posed, the fate of an empire in many respects the
most interesting in the world. It has been fre
quently remarked that it seems to have been
reserved to the people of this country, by their con
duct and example, to decide the important question,
whether societies of men are really capable or not
of establishing good government from reflection
and choice, or whether they are forever destined to
depend for their political constitutions on accident
and force. If there be any truth in the remark, the
crisis at which we are arrived may with propriety
be regarded as the era in which that decision is to
be made; and a wrong election of the part we shall
4 Alexander Hamilton

act may, in this view, deserve to be considered as
the general misfortune of mankind.

This idea will add the inducements of philanthropy
to those of patriotism, to heighten the solicitude
which all considerate and good men must feel for the
event. Happy will it be if our choice should be
directed by a 'judicious estimate of our true interests,
unperplexed and unbiassed by considerations not
connected with the public good. But this is a thing
more ardently to be wished than seriously to be ex
pected. The plan offered to our deliberations affects
too many particular interests, innovates upon too
many local institutions, not to involve in its discus
sion a variety of objects foreign to its merits, and
of views, passions and prejudices little favorable to
the discovery of truth.

Among the most formidable of the obstacles which
the new Constitution will have to encounter may
readily be distinguished the obvious interest of a
certain class of men in every State to resist all
changes which may hazard a diminution of the
power, emolument, and consequence of the offices
they hold under the State establishments; and
the perverted ambition of another class of men,
who will either hope to aggrandize themselves by
the confusions of their country, or will flatter
themselves with fairer prospects of elevation from
the subdivision of the empire into several partial
confederacies than from its union under one gov
ernment.

It is not, however, my design to dwell upon ob
servations of this nature. I am well aware that it

The Federalist 5

would be disingenuous to resolve indiscriminately
the opposition of any set of men (merely because
their situations might subject them to suspicion)
into interested or ambitious views. Candor will
oblige us to admit that even such men may be actu
ated by upright intentions; and it cannot be doubted
that much of the opposition which has made its
appearance, or may hereafter make its appear
ance, will spring from sources, blameless at least,
if not respectable — the honest errors of minds led
astray by preconceived jealousies and fears. So
numerous indeed and so powerful are the causes
which serve to give a false bias to the judgment, that
we, upon many occasions, see wise and good men on
the wrong as well as on the right side of questions of
the first magnitude to society. This circumstance,
if duly attended to, would furnish a lesson of modera
tion to those who are ever so much persuaded of
their being in the right in any controversy. And a
further reason for caution, in this respect, might be
drawn from the reflection that we are not always
sure that those who advocate the truth are influenced
by purer principles than their antagonists. Ambi
tion, avarice, personal animosity, party opposition,
and many other motives not more laudable than
these, are apt to operate as well upon those who
support as those who oppose the right side of a
question. Were there not even these inducements
to moderation, nothing could be more ill-judged than
that intolerant spirit which has, at all times, char
acterized political parties. For in politics, as in
religion, it is equally absurd to aim at making

6 Alexander Hamilton

proselytes by fire and sword. Heresies in either can
rarely be cured by persecution.

And yet, however just these sentiments will be
allowed to be, we have already sufficient indications
that it will happen in this as in all former cases of
great national discussion. A torrent of angry and
malignant passions will be let loose. To judge from
the conduct of the opposite parties, we shall be led
to conclude that they will mutually hope to evince
the justness of their opinions, and to increase the
number of their converts by the loudness of their
declamations and the bitterness of their invectives.
An enlightened zeal for the energy and efficiency of
government will be stigmatized as the offspring of a
temper fond of despotic power and hostile to the
principles of liberty. An over-scrupulous jealousy
of danger to the rights of the people, which is more
commonly the fault of the head than of the heart,
will be represented as mere pretence and artifice,
the stale bait for popularity at the expense of the
public good. It will be forgotten, on the one hand,
that jealousy is the usual concomitant of love, and
that the noble enthusiasm of liberty is apt to be in
fected with a spirit of narrow and illiberal distrust.
On the other hand, it will be equally forgotten that
the vigor of government is essential to the security
of liberty; that, in the contemplation of a sound and
well-informed judgment, their interest can never
be separated; and that a dangerous ambition more
often lurks behind the specious mask of zeal for
the rights of the people than under the forbidding
appearance of zeal for the firmness and efficiency

The Federalist 7

of government. History will teach us that the
former has been found a much more certain road
to the introduction of despotism than the latter,
and that of those men who have overturned the
liberties of republics, the greatest number have
begun their career by paying an obsequious court
to the people; commencing demagogues, and ending
tyrants.

In the course of the preceding observations, I have
had an eye, my fellow-citizens, to putting you upon
your guard against all attempts, from whatever
quarter, to influence your decision in a matter of
the utmost moment to your welfare, by any impres
sions other than those which may result from the
evidence of truth. You will, no doubt, at the same
time, have collected from the general scope of them,
that they proceed from a source not unfriendly to the
new Constitution. Yes, my countrymen, I own to
you that, after having given it an attentive con
sideration, I am clearly of opinion it is your interest
to adopt it. I am convinced that this is the safest
course for your liberty, your dignity, and your
happiness. I affect not reserves which I do not feel.
I will not amuse you with an appearance of delibera
tion when I have decided. I frankly acknowledge
to you my convictions, and I will freely lay before
you the reasons on which they are founded. The
consciousness of good intentions disdains ambiguity.
I shall not, however, multiply professions on this
head. My motives must remain in the depository
of my own breast. My arguments will be open to
all, and may be judged of by all. They shall at

8 Alexander Hamilton

least be offered in a spirit which will not disgrace the
cause of truth.

I propose, in a series of papers, to discuss the fol
lowing interesting particulars: — The utility of the
UNION to your political prosperity — The insuffi
ciency of the present Confederation to preserve that
Union — The necessity of a government at least equally
energetic with the one proposed, to the attainment of
this object — The conformity of the proposed Constitu
tion to the true principles of republican government —
Its analogy to your own State constitution — and lastly,
The additional security which its adoption will afford
to the preservation of that species of government, to
liberty, and to property.

In the progress of this discussion I shall endeavor
to give a satisfactory answer to all the objections
which shall have made their appearance, that may
seem to have any claim to your attention.

It may perhaps be thought superfluous to offer
arguments to prove the utility of the UNION, a
point, no doubt, deeply engraved on the hearts of
the great body of the people in every State, and one,
which it may be imagined, has no adversaries. But
the fact is, that we already hear it whispered in the
private circles of those who oppose the new Con
stitution, that the thirteen States are of too great
extent for any general system, and that we must of
necessity resort to separate confederacies of distinct
portions of the whole.1 This doctrine will, in all prob-

1 The same idea, tracing the arguments to their consequences, is
held out in several of the late publications against the new Constitu
tion. — PUBLIUS.

The Federalist 9

ability, be gradually propagated, till it has votaries
enough to countenance an open avowal of it. For
nothing can be more evident, to those who are able to
take an enlarged view of the subject, than the alter
native of an adoption of the new Constitution or a
dismemberment of the Union. It will therefore be
of use to begin by examining the advantages of that
Union, the certain evils, and the probable dangers,
to which every State will be exposed from its disso
lution. This shall accordingly constitute the sub
ject of my next address.

PUBLIUS.

For the Independent Journal
THE FEDERALIST. No. II

(JAY)

To the People of the State of New York:

When the people of America reflect that they are
now called upon to decide a question, which, in its
consequences, must prove one of the most important
that ever engaged their attention, the propriety of
their taking a very comprehensive, as well as a very
serious, view of it, will be evident.

Nothing is more certain than the indispensable
necessity of government, and it is equally undeniable,
that whenever and however it is instituted, the
people must cede to it some of their natural rights,
in order to vest it with requisite powers. It is well
worthy of consideration therefore, whether it would
conduce more to the interest of the people of America

io Alexander Hamilton

that they should, to all general purposes, be one
nation, under one federal government, or that they
should divide themselves into separate confedera
cies, and give to the head of each the same kind of
powers which they are advised to place in one na
tional government.

It has until lately been a received and uncon-
tradicted opinion, that the prosperity of the people
of America depended on their continuing firmly
united, and the wishes, prayers, and efforts of our
best and wisest citizens have been constantly directed
to that object. But politicians now appear, who
insist that this opinion is erroneous, and that instead
of looking for safety and happiness in union, we
ought to seek it in a division of the States into
distinct confederacies or sovereignties. However
extraordinary this new doctrine may appear, it nev
ertheless has its advocates; and certain characters
who were much opposed to it formerly, are at
present of the number. Whatever may be the argu
ments or inducements which have wrought this
change in the sentiments and declarations of these
gentlemen, it certainly would not be wise in the
people at large to adopt these new political tenets
without being fully convinced that they are founded
in truth and sound policy.

It has often given me pleasure to observe, that in
dependent America was not composed of detached
and distant territories, but that one connected, fer
tile, wide-spreading country was the portion of our
western sons of liberty. Providence has in a par
ticular manner blessed it with a variety of soils

The Federalist n

and productions, and watered it with innumerable
streams, for the delight and accommodation of its
inhabitants. A succession of navigable waters forms
a kind of chain round its borders, as if to bind it to
gether; while the most noble rivers in the world,
running at convenient distances, present them with
highways for the easy communication of friendly
aids, and the mutual transportation and exchange
of their various commodities.

With equal pleasure I have as often taken notice,
that Providence has been pleased to give this one
connected country to one united people — a people
descended from the same ancestors, speaking the
same language, professing the same religion, at
tached to the same principles of government, very
similar in their manners and customs, and who, by
their joint counsels, arms, and efforts, fighting side
by side throughout a long and bloody war, have
nobly established general liberty and independence.

This country and this people seem to have been
made for each other, and it appears as if it was the
design of Providence, that an inheritance so proper
and convenient for a band of brethren, united to
each other by the strongest ties, should never be
split into a number of unsocial, jealous, and alien
sovereignties.

Similar sentiments have hitherto prevailed among
all orders and denominations of men among us. To
all general purposes we have uniformly been one
people; each individual citizen everywhere enjoy
ing the same national rights, privileges, and protec
tion. As a nation we have made peace and war ; as a

12 Alexander Hamilton

nation we have vanquished our common enemies ; as a
nation we have formed alliances, and made treaties,
and entered into various compacts and conventions
with foreign states.

A strong sense of the value and blessings of union
induced the people, at a very early period, to insti
tute a federal government to preserve and perpetuate
it. They formed it almost as soon as they had a
political existence ; nay, at a time when their habita
tions were in flames, when many of their citizens were
bleeding, and when the progress of hostility and
desolation left little room for those calm and ma
ture inquiries and reflections which must ever pre
cede the formation of a wise and well-balanced
government for a free people. It is not to be won
dered at, that a government instituted in times so
inauspicious, should on experiment be found greatly
deficient and inadequate to the purpose it was in
tended to answer.

This intelligent people perceived and regretted
these defects. Still continuing no less attached to
union than enamored of liberty, they observed the
danger which immediately threatened the former
and more remotely the latter; and being persuaded
that ample security for both could only be found in
a national government more wisely framed, they, as
with one voice, convened the late convention at
Philadelphia, to take that important subject under
consideration.

This convention, composed of men who possessed
the confidence of the people, and many of whom
had become highly distinguished by their patriotism,

The Federalist 13

virtue, and wisdom, in times which tried the minds
and hearts of men, undertook the arduous task. In
the mild season of peace, with minds unoccupied by
other subjects, they passed many months in cool,
uninterrupted, and daily consultation; and finally,
without having been awed by power, or influenced
by any passions except love for their country,
they presented and recommended to the people the
plan produced by their joint and very unanimous
councils.

Admit, for so is the fact, that this plan is only
recommended, not imposed, yet let it be remembered
that it is neither recommended to blind approbation,
nor to blind reprobation; but to that sedate and
candid consideration which the magnitude and im
portance of the subject demand, and which it cer
tainly ought to receive. But this (as was remarked
in the foregoing number of this paper) is more to be
wished than expected, that it may be so considered
and examined. Experience on a former occasion
teaches us not to be too sanguine in such hopes. It
is not yet forgotten that well-grounded apprehensions
of imminent danger induced the people of America
to form the memorable Congress of 1774. That
body recommended certain measures to their con
stituents, and the event proved their wisdom; yet
it is fresh in our memories how soon the press began
to teem with pamphlets and weekly papers against
those very measures. Not only many of the officers
of government, who obeyed the dictates of personal
interest, but others, from a mistaken estimate of
consequences, or the undue influence of former

14 Alexander Hamilton

attachments, or whose ambition aimed at objects
which did not correspond with the public good, were
indefatigable in their efforts to persuade the people
to reject the advice of that patriotic Congress.
Many, indeed, were deceived and deluded, but the
great majority of the people reasoned and decided
judiciously; and happy they are in reflecting that
they did so.

They considered that the Congress was composed
of many wise and experienced men. That, being
convened from different parts of the country, they
brought with them, and communicated to each other
a variety of useful information. That, in the course
of the time they passed together in inquiring into
and discussing the true interests of their country,
they must have acquired very accurate knowledge
on that head. That they were individually inter
ested in the public liberty and prosperity, and there
fore that it was not less their inclination than their
duty to recommend only such measures as, after the
most mature deliberation, they really thought pru
dent and advisable.

These and similar considerations then induced the
people to rely greatly on the judgment and integrity
of the Congress; and they took their advice, not
withstanding the various arts and endeavors used
to deter them from it. But if the people at large
had reason to confide in the men of that Congress,
few of whom had been fully tried or generally known,
still greater reason have they now to respect the
judgment and advice of the convention, for it is well
known that some of the most distinguished members

The Federalist 15

of that Congress, who have been since tried and
justly approved for patriotism and abilities, and
who have grown old in acquiring political informa
tion, were also members of this convention and
carried into it their accumulated knowledge and
experience.

It is worthy of remark that not only the first, but
every succeeding Congress, as well as the late con
vention, have invariably joined with the people in
thinking that the prosperity of America depended
on its Union. To preserve and perpetuate it was
the great object of the people in forming that con
vention, and it is also the great object of the plan
which the convention has advised them to adopt.
With what propriety, therefore, or for what good
purposes, are attempts at this particular period
made by some men to depreciate the importance of
the Union? Or why is it suggested that three or
four confederacies would be better than one? I am
persuaded in my own mind that the people have
always thought right on this subject, and that their
universal and uniform attachment to the cause of
the Union rests on great and weighty reasons, which
I shall endeavor to develop and explain in some
ensuing papers. They who promote the idea of
substituting a number of distinct confederacies in
the room of the plan of the convention, seem clearly
to foresee that the rejection of it would put the
continuance of the Union in the utmost jeopardy.
That certainly would be the case, and I sincerely
wish that it may be as clearly foreseen by every good
citizen, that whenever the dissolution of the Union

1 6 Alexander Hamilton

arrives, America will have reason to exclaim, in the
words of the poet: " FAREWELL! A LONG FAREWELL
TO ALL MY GREATNESS."

PUBLIUS.

For the Independent Journal
THE FEDERALIST. No. Ill

(JAY)

To the People of the State of New York:

It is not a new observation that the people of any
country (if, like the Americans, intelligent and well-
informed) seldom adopt and steadily persevere for
many years in an erroneous opinion respecting their
interests. That consideration naturally tends to
create great respect for the high opinion which the
people of America have so long and uniformly en
tertained of the importance of their continuing
firmly united under one federal government, vested
with sufficient powers for all general and national
purposes.

The more attentively I consider and investigate
the reasons which appear to have given birth to this
opinion, the more I become convinced that they are
cogent and conclusive.

Among the many objects to which a wise and free
people find it necessary to direct their attention, that
of providing for their safety seems to be the first.
The safety of the people doubtless has relation to a
great variety of circumstances and considerations,

The Federalist 17

and consequently affords great latitude to those who
wish to define it precisely and comprehensively.

At present I mean only to consider it as it re
spects security for the preservation of peace and
tranquillity, as well as against dangers from foreign
arms and influence, as from dangers of the like kind
arising from domestic causes. As the former of
these comes first in order, it is proper it should be
the first discussed. Let us therefore proceed to
examine whether the people are not right in their
opinion that a cordial Union, under an efficient
national government, affords them the best security
that can be devised against hostilities from abroad.

The number of wars which have happened or will
happen in the world will always be found to be in
proportion to the number and weight of the causes,
whether real or pretended, which provoke or invite
them. If this remark be just, it becomes useful to
inquire whether so many just causes of war are
likely to be given by United America as by disunited
America; for if it should turn out that United
America will probably give the fewest, then it will
follow that in this respect the Union tends most to
preserve the people in a state of peace with other
nations.

The just causes of war, for the most part, arise
either from violations of treaties or from direct
violence. America has already formed treaties with
no less than six foreign nations, and all of them,
except Prussia, are maritime, and therefore able to
annoy and injure us. She has also extensive com
merce with Portugal, Spain, and Britain, and, with

VOL. XI.— 2.

1 8 Alexander Hamilton

respect to the two latter, has, in addition, the cir
cumstance of neighborhood to attend to.

It is of high importance to the peace of America
that she observe the laws of nations towards all
these powers, and to me it appears evident that
this will be more perfectly and punctually done by
one national government than it could be either by
thirteen separate States or by three or four distinct
confederacies.

Because when once an efficient national govern
ment is established, the best men in the country will
not only consent to serve, but also will generally be
appointed to manage it; for, although town or
country, or other contracted influence, may place
men in State assemblies, or senates, or courts of jus
tice, or executive departments, yet more general and
extensive reputation for talents and other qualifica
tions will be necessary to recommend men to offices
under the national government, — especially as it
will have the widest field for choice, and never ex
perience that want of proper persons which is not
uncommon in some of the States. Hence, it will
result that the administration, the political counsels,
and the judicial decisions of the national govern
ment will be more wise, systematical, and judicious
than those of individual States, and consequently
more satisfactory with respect to other nations, as
well as more safe with respect to us.

Because, under the national government, treaties
and articles of treaties, as well as the laws of nations,
will always be expounded in one sense and executed
in the same manner, — whereas adjudications on the

The Federalist 19

same points and questions, in thirteen States, or in
three or four confederacies, will not always accord
or be consistent; and that, as well from the variety
of independent courts and judges appointed by
different and independent governments, as from the
different local laws and interests which may affect
and influence them. The wisdom of the convention,
in committing such questions to the jurisdiction and
judgment of courts appointed by and responsible
only to one national government, cannot be too
much commended.

Because the prospect of present loss or advantage
may often tempt the governing party in one or two
States to swerve from good faith and justice; but
those temptations, not reaching the other States, and
consequently having little or no influence on the
national government, the temptation will be fruit
less, and good faith and justice be preserved. The
case of the treaty of peace with Britain adds great
weight to this reasoning.

Because, even if the governing party in a State
should be disposed to resist such temptations, yet,
as such temptations may, and commonly do, result
from circumstances peculiar to the State, and may
affect a great number of the inhabitants, the gov
erning party may not always be able, if willing, to
prevent the injustice meditated, or to punish the ag
gressors. But the national government, not being
affected by those local circumstances, will neither
be induced to commit the wrong themselves, nor
want power or inclination to prevent or punish its
commission by others.

2O Alexander Hamilton

So far, therefore, as either designed or accidental
violations of treaties and the laws of nations afford
just causes of war, they are less to be apprehended
under one general government than under several
lesser ones, and in that respect the former most
favors the safety of the people.

As to those just causes of war which proceed from
direct and unlawful violence, it appears equally
clear to me that one good national government
affords vastly more security against dangers of that
sort than can be derived from any other quarter.

Because such violences are more frequently caused
by the passions and interests of a part than of the
whole; of one or two States than of the Union. Not
a single Indian war has yet been occasioned by ag
gressions of the present federal government, feeble
as it is; but there are several instances of Indian
hostilities having been provoked by the improper
conduct of individual States, who, either unable
or unwilling to restrain or punish offences, have
given occasion to the slaughter of many innocent
inhabitants.

The neighborhood of Spanish and British terri
tories, bordering on some States and not on others,
naturally confines the causes of quarrel more imme
diately to the borderers. The bordering States, if
any, will be those who, under the impulse of sudden
irritation, and a quick sense of apparent interest or
injury, will be most likely, by direct violence, to
excite war with these nations; and nothing can so
effectually obviate that danger as a national govern
ment, whose wisdom and prudence will not be di-

The Federalist 21

minished by the passions which actuate the parties
immediately interested.

But not only fewer just causes of war will be given
by the national government, but it will also be more
in their power to accommodate and settle them
amicably. They will be more temperate and cool,
and in that respect, as well as in others, will be more
in capacity to act advisedly than the offending State.
The pride of states, as well as of men, naturally dis
poses them to justify all their actions, and opposes
their acknowledging, correcting, or repairing their
errors and offences. The national government, in
such cases, will not be affected by this pride, but
will proceed with moderation and candor to con
sider and decide on the means most proper to ex
tricate them from the difficulties which threaten
them.

Besides, it is well known that acknowledgments,
explanations, and compensations are often accepted
as satisfactory from a strong united nation, which
would be rejected as unsatisfactory if offered by a
State or confederacy of little consideration or power.

In the year 1685, the state of Genoa having of
fended Louis XIV., endeavored to appease him. He
demanded that they should send their Doge, or
chief magistrate, accompanied by four of their sena
tors, to France, to ask his pardon and receive his
terms. They were obliged to submit to it for the
sake of peace. Would he on any occasion either
have demanded or have received the like humilia
tion from Spain, or Britain, or any other powerful
nation? PUBLIUS.

22 Alexander Hamilton

For the Independent Journal

THE FEDERALIST. No. IV

(JAY)

To the People of the State of New York:

My last paper assigned several reasons why the
safety of the people would be best secured by union
against the danger it may be exposed to by just
causes of war given to other nations; and those
reasons show that such causes would not only be
more rarely given, but would also be more easily
accommodated, by a national government than
either by the State governments or the proposed
little confederacies.

But the safety of the people of America against
dangers from foreign force depends not only on their
forbearing to give just causes of war to other nations,
but also on their placing and continuing themselves
in such a situation as not to invite hostility or insult ;
for it need not be observed that there are pretended
as well as just causes of war.

It is too true, however disgraceful it may be to
human nature, that nations in general will make
war whenever they have a prospect of getting any
thing by it ; nay, absolute monarchs will often make
war when their nations are to get nothing by it, but
for purposes and objects merely personal, such as
a thirst for military glory, revenge for personal af
fronts, ambition, or private compacts to aggrandize
or support their particular families or partisans.
These and a variety of other motives, which affect
only the mind of the sovereign, often lead him to

The Federalist 23

engage in wars not sanctified by justice or the voice
and interests of his people. But, independent of
these inducements to war, which are more prevalent
in absolute monarchies, but which well deserve our
attention, there are others which affect nations as
often as kings; and some of them will on examina
tion be found to grow out of our relative situation
and circumstances.

With France and with Britain we are rivals in the
fisheries, and can supply their markets cheaper than
they can themselves, notwithstanding any efforts to
prevent it by bounties on their own or duties on
foreign fish.

With them and with most other European nations
we are rivals in navigation and the carrying trade;
and we shall deceive ourselves if we suppose that
any of them will rejoice to see it flourish ; for, as our
carrying trade cannot increase without in some de
gree diminishing theirs, it is more their interest, and
will be more their policy, to restrain than to promote
it.

In the trade to China and India, we interfere with
more than one nation, inasmuch as it enables us to
partake in advantages which they had in a manner
monopolized, and as we thereby supply ourselves
with commodities which we used to purchase from
them.

The extension of our own commerce in our own
vessels cannot give pleasure to any nations who pos
sess territories on or near this continent, because the
cheapness and excellence of our productions, added
to the circumstance of vicinity, and the enterprise

24 Alexander Hamilton

and address of our merchants and navigators, will
give us a greater share in the advantages which
those territories afford, than consists with the wishes
or policy of their respective sovereigns.

Spain thinks it convenient to shut the Mississippi
against us on the one side, and Britain excludes us
from the Saint Lawrence on the other; nor will
either of them permit the other waters which are
between them and us to become the means of mu
tual intercourse and traffic.

From these and such like considerations, which
might, if consistent with prudence, be more ampli
fied and detailed, it is easy to see that jealousies and
uneasinesses may gradually slide into the minds and
cabinets of other nations, and that we are not to
expect that they should regard our advancement in
union, in power and consequence by land and by
sea, with an eye of indifference and composure.

The people of America are aware that inducements
to war may arise out of these circumstances, as well
as from others not so obvious at present, and that
whenever such inducements may find fit time and
opportunity for operation, pretences to color and
justify them will not be wanting. Wisely, there
fore, do they consider union and a good national
government as necessary to put and keep them in
such a situation as, instead of inviting war, will tend
to repress and discourage it. That situation con
sists in the best possible state of defence, and neces
sarily depends on the government, the arms, and
the resources of the country.

As the safety of the whole is the interest of the

The Federalist 25

whole, and cannot be provided for without govern
ment, either one or more or many, let us inquire
whether one good government is not, relative to the
object in question, more competent than any other
given number whatever.

One government can collect and avail itself of the
talents and experience of the ablest men, in whatever
part of the Union they may be found. It can move
on uniform principles of policy. It can harmonize,
assimilate, and protect the several parts and mem
bers, and extend the benefit of its foresight and pre
cautions to each. In the formation of treaties, it
will regard the interest of the whole, and the par
ticular interests of the parts as connected with that
of the whole. It can apply the resources and power
of the whole to the defence of any particular part,
and that more easily and expeditiously than State
governments or separate confederacies can possibly
do, for want of concert and unity of system. It can
place the militia under one plan of discipline, and,
by putting their officers in a proper line of subordi
nation to the Chief Magistrate, will, as it were, con
solidate them into one corps, and thereby render
them more efficient than if divided into thirteen or
into three or four distinct independent companies.

What would the militia of Britain be if the Eng
lish militia obeyed the government of England, if
the Scotch militia obeyed the government of Scot
land, and if the Welsh militia obeyed the government
of Wales? Suppose an invasion; would those three
governments (if they agreed at all) be able, with all
their respective forces, to operate against the enemy

26 Alexander Hamilton

so effectually as the single government of Great
Britain would?

We have heard much of the fleets of Britain, and
the time may come, if we are wise, when the fleets
of America may engage attention. But if one na
tional government had not so regulated the naviga
tion of Britain as to make it a nursery for seamen —
if one national government had not called forth all
the national means and materials for forming fleets,
their prowess and their thunder would never have
been celebrated. Let England have its navigation
and fleet — let Scotland have its navigation and fleet
— let Wales have its navigation and fleet — let Ire
land have its navigation and fleet — let those four of
the constituent parts of the British empire be under
four independent governments, and it is easy to per
ceive how soon they would each dwindle into com
parative insignificance.

Apply these facts to our own case. Leave Amer
ica divided into thirteen or, if you please, into three
or four independent governments — what armies
could they raise and pay — what fleets could they
ever hope to have? If one was attacked, would the
others fly to its succor, and spend their blood and
money in its defence? Would there be no danger
of their being flattered into neutrality by its spe
cious promises, or seduced by a too great fondness
for peace to decline hazarding their tranquillity and
present safety for the sake of neighbors, of whom
perhaps they have been jealous, and whose import
ance they are content to see diminished. Although
such conduct would not be wise, it would, neverthe-

The Federalist 27

less, be natural. The history of the states of Greece,
and of other countries, abounds with such instances,
and it is not improbable that what has so often
happened would, under similar circumstances, hap
pen again.

But admit that they might be willing to help the
invaded State or confederacy. How, and when,
and in what proportion shall aids of men and money
be afforded? Who shall command the allied ar
mies, and from which of them shall he receive his
orders? Who shall settle the terms of peace, and in
case of disputes what umpire shall decide between
them and compel acquiescence? Various difficulties
and inconveniences would be inseparable from such
a situation ; whereas one government, watching over
the general and common interests, and combining
and directing the powers and resources of the whole,
would be free from all these embarrassments, and
conduce far more to the safety of the people.

But whatever may be our situation, whether
firmly united under one national government, or
split into a number of confederacies, certain it is,
that foreign nations will know and view it exactly
as it is; and they will act towards us accordingly.
If they see that our national government is efficient
and well administered, our trade prudently regulated,
our militia properly organized and disciplined, our
resources and finances discreetly managed, our credit
re-established, our people free, contented, and united,
they will be much more disposed to cultivate our
friendship than provoke our resentment. If, on
the other hand, they find us either destitute of an

28 Alexander Hamilton

effectual government (each State doing right or wrong,
as to its rulers may seem convenient), or split into
three or four independent and probably discordant
republics or confederacies, one inclining to Britain,
another to France, and a third to Spain, and perhaps
played off against each other by the three, what a
poor, pitiful figure will America make in their eyes!
How liable would she become not only to their con
tempt, but to their outrage; and how soon would
dear-bought experience proclaim that when a people
or family so divide, it never fails to be against them
selves.

PUBLIUS.

For the Independent Journal

WHE FEDERALIST. No. V

(JAY)

To the People of the State of New York:

Queen Anne, in her letter of the ist July, 1706,
to the Scotch Parliament, makes some observations
on the importance of the Union then forming be
tween England and Scotland, which merit our atten
tion. I shall present the public with one or two
extracts from it: " An entire and perfect union will
be the solid foundation of lasting peace: It will se
cure your religion, liberty, and property; remove the
animosities amongst yourselves, and the jealousies
and differences betwixt our two kingdoms. It must
increase your strength, riches, and trade ; and by
this union the whole island, being joined in affection

The Federalist 29

and free from all apprehensions of different interest,
will be enabled to resist all its enemies." " We most
earnestly recommend to you calmness and unanim
ity in this great and weighty affair, that the union
may be brought to a happy conclusion, being the
only effectual way to secure our present and future
happiness, and disappoint the designs of our and
your enemies, who will doubtless, on this occasion,
use their utmost endeavors to prevent or delay this
union"

It was remarked in the preceding paper, that
weakness and divisions at home would invite dan
gers from abroad ; and that nothing would tend
more to secure us from them than union, strength,
and good government within ourselves. This sub
ject is copious and cannot easily be exhausted.

The history of Great Britain is the one with which
we are in general the best acquainted, and it gives
us many useful lessons. We may profit by their ex
perience without paying the price which it cost them.
Although it seems obvious to common sense that the
people of such an island should be but one nation,
yet we find that they were for ages divided into
three, and that those three were almost constantly
embroiled in quarrels and wars with one another.
Notwithstanding their true interest with respect to
the continental nations was really the same, yet by
the arts and policy and practices of those nations,
their mutual jealousies were perpetually kept in
flamed, and for a long series of years they were far
more inconvenient and troublesome than they were
useful and assisting to each other.

3O Alexander Hamilton

Should the people of America divide themselves
into three or four nations, would not the same thing
happen? Would not similar jealousies arise, and be
in like manner cherished? Instead of their being
" joined in affection" and free from all apprehension
of different " interests," envy and jealousy would
soon extinguish confidence and affection, and the
partial interests of each confederacy, instead of the
general interests of all America, would be the only
objects of their policy and pursuits. Hence, like
most other bordering nations, they would always be
either involved in disputes and war, or live in the
constant apprehension of them.

The most sanguine advocates for three or four
confederacies cannot reasonably suppose that they
would long remain exactly on an equal footing in
point of strength, even if it was possible to form
them so at first; but, admitting that to be practica
ble, yet what human contrivance can secure the
continuance of such equality? Independent of
those local circumstances which tend to beget and
increase power in one part and to impede its pro
gress in another, we must advert to the effects of
that superior policy and good management which
would probably distinguish the government of one
above the rest, and by which their relative equality
in strength and consideration would be destroyed.
For it cannot be presumed that the same degree of
sound policy, prudence, and foresight would uni
formly be observed by each of these confederacies
for a long succession of years.

Whenever, and from whatever causes, it might

The Federalist 31

happen, and happen it would, that any one of these
nations or confederacies should rise on the scale
of political importance much above the degree of
her neighbors, that moment would those neighbors
behold her with envy and with fear. Both those
passions would lead them to countenance, if not to
promote, whatever might promise to diminish her
importance; and would also restrain them from
measures calculated to advance or even to secure
her prosperity. Much time would not be necessary
to enable her to discern these unfriendly dispositions.
She would soon begin, not only to lose confidence in
her neighbors, but also to feel a disposition equally
unfavorable to them. Distrust naturally creates
distrust, and by nothing is good- will and kind con
duct more speedily changed than by invidious jeal
ousies and uncandid imputations, whether expressed
or implied.

The North is generally the region of strength, and
many local circumstances render it probable that the
most Northern of the proposed confederacies would,
at a period not very distant, be unquestionably more
formidable than any of the others. No sooner
would this become evident than the Northern Hive
would excite the same ideas and sensations in the
more southern parts of America which it formerly
did in the southern parts of Europe. Nor does it
appear to be a rash conjecture that its young swarms
might often be tempted to gather honey in the more
blooming fields and milder air of their luxurious and
more delicate neighbors.

They who well consider the history of similar

32 Alexander Hamilton

divisions and confederacies will find abundant
reason to apprehend that those in contemplation
would in no other sense be neighbors than as they
would be borderers ; that they would neither love
nor trust one another, but on the contrary would be
a prey to discord, jealousy, and mutual injuries; in
short, that they would place us exactly in the situa
tions in which some nations doubtless wish to see us,
viz., formidable only to each other.

From these considerations it appears that those
gentlemen are greatly mistaken who suppose that
alliances offensive and defensive might be formed
between these confederacies, and would produce
that combination and union of wills, of arms, and of
resources, which would be necessary to put and keep
them in a formidable state of defence against foreign
enemies.

When did the independent states, into which
Britain and Spain were formerly divided, combine
in such alliance, or unite their forces against a for
eign enemy? The proposed confederacies will be
distinct nations. Each of them would have its com
merce with foreigners to regulate by distinct treat
ies; and as their productions and commodities are
different and proper for different markets, so would
those treaties be essentially different. Different
commercial concerns must create different interests,
and of course different degrees of political attach
ment to and connection with different foreign na
tions. Hence it might and probably would happen
that the foreign nation with whom the Southern con
federacy might be at war would be the one with

The Federalist 33

whom the Northern confederacy would be the most
desirous of preserving peace and friendship. An
alliance so contrary to their immediate interest
would not therefore be easy to form, nor, if formed,
would it be observed and fulfilled with perfect good
faith.

Nay, it is far more probable that in America, as
in Europe, neighboring nations, acting under the
impulse of opposite interests and unfriendly pas
sions, would frequently be found taking different
sides. Considering our distance from Europe, it
would be more natural for these confederacies to
apprehend danger from one another than from dis
tant nations, and therefore that each of them should
be more desirous to guard against the others by the
aid of foreign alliances, than to guard against foreign
dangers by alliances between themselves. And here
let us not forget how much more easy it is to receive
foreign fleets into our ports, and foreign armies into
our country, than it is to persuade or compel them
to depart. How many conquests did the Romans
and others make in the character of allies, and what
innovations did they under the same character in
troduce into the governments of those whom they
pretended to protect.

Let candid men judge, then, whether the division
of America into any given number of independent
sovereignties would tend to secure us against the
hostilities and improper interference of foreign
nations.

PUBLIUS.

VOL. XI.— 3.

34 Alexander Hamilton

For the Independent Journal

THE FEDERALIST. No. VI

(HAMILTON)

To the People of the State of New York:

The three last numbers of this paper have been
dedicated to an enumeration of the dangers to which
we should be exposed, in a state of disunion, from
the arms and arts of foreign nations. I shall now
proceed to delineate dangers of a different and, per
haps, still more alarming kind — those which will
in all probability flow from dissensions between the
States themselves, and from domestic factions and
convulsions. These have been already in some
instances slightly anticipated; but they deserve a
more particular and more full investigation.

A man must be far gone in Utopian speculations
who can seriously doubt that, if these States should
either be wholly disunited, or only united in partial
confederacies, the subdivisions into which they
might be thrown would have frequent and violent
contests with each other. To presume a want of
motives for such contests as an argument against
their existence, would be to forget that men are
ambitious, vindictive, and rapacious. To look for
a continuation of harmony between a number of in
dependent, unconnected sovereignties in the same
neighborhood, would be to disregard the uniform
course of human events, and to set at defiance the
accumulated experience of ages.

The causes of hostility among nations are innu
merable. There are some which have a general and

The Federalist 35

almost constant operation upon the collective bodies
of society. Of this description are the love of power
or the desire of pre-eminence and dominion — the
jealousy of power, or the desire of equality and
safety. There are others which have a more cir
cumscribed though an equally operative influence
within their spheres. Such are the rivalships and
competitions of commerce between commercial na
tions. And there are others, not less numerous than
either of the former, which take their origin entirely
in private passions ; in the attachments, enmities,
interests, hopes, and fears of leading individuals in
the communities of which they are members. Men
of this class, whether the favorites of a king or of a
people, have in too many instances abused the con
fidence they possessed; and assuming the pretext of
some public motive, have not scrupled to sacrifice
the national tranquillity to personal advantage or
personal gratification.

The celebrated Pericles, in compliance with the
resentment of a prostitute,1 at the expense of much
of the blood and treasure of his countrymen, at
tacked, vanquished, and destroyed the city of the
Samnians. The same man, stimulated by private
pique against the Megarensians* another nation of
Greece, or to avoid a prosecution with which he was
threatened as an accomplice in a supposed theft of
the statuary Phidias,3 or to get rid of the accusations
prepared to be brought against him for dissipating

1 Aspasia, vide Plutarch's Life of Pericles. — PUBLIUS.
3 Ibid. — PUBLIUS.
3 Ibid. — PUBLIUS.

36 Alexander Hamilton

the funds of the state in the purchase of popularity,1
or from a combination of all these causes, was the
primitive author of that famous and fatal war, dis
tinguished in the Grecian annals by the name of the
Peloponnesian war ; which, after various vicissitudes,
intermissions, and renewals, terminated in the ruin
of the Athenian commonwealth.

The ambitious cardinal, who was prime minister
to Henry VIII., permitting his vanity to aspire to
the triple crown,2 entertained hopes of succeeding in
the acquisition of that splendid prize by the influence
of the Emperor Charles V. To secure the favor and
interest of this enterprising and powerful monarch,
he precipitated England into a war with France,
contrary to the plainest dictates of policy, and at
the hazard of the safety and independence, as well
of the kingdom over which he presided by his coun
sels, as of Europe in general. For if there ever was
a sovereign who bid fair to realize the project of uni
versal monarchy, it was the Emperor Charles V., of
whose intrigues Wolsey was at once the instrument
and the dupe.

The influence which the bigotry of one female,3
the petulance of another,4 and the cabals of a third,5
had in the contemporary policy, ferments, and paci
fications, of a considerable part of Europe, are topics

1 Plutarch's Life of Pericles. Phidias was supposed to have stolen
some public gold, with the connivance of Pericles, for the embellish
ment of the statue of Minerva. — PUBLIUS.

2 Worn by the popes. — PUBLIUS.

3 Madame de Maintenon. — PUBLIUS.

4 Duchess of Marlborough. — PUBLIUS.

5 Madame de Pompadour. — PUBLIUS.

The Federalist 37

that have been too often descanted upon not to be
generally known.

To multiply examples of the agency of personal
considerations in the production of great national
events, either foreign or domestic, according to their
direction, would be an unnecessary waste of time.
Those who have but a superficial acquaintance with
the sources from which they are to be drawn, will
themselves recollect a variety of instances; and
those who have a tolerable knowledge of human
nature will not stand in need of such lights, to form
their opinion either of the reality or extent of that
agency. Perhaps, however, a reference, tending to
illustrate the general principle, may with propriety
be made to a case which has lately happened among
ourselves. If Shays had not been a desperate debtor,
it is much to be doubted whether Massachusetts
would have been plunged into a civil war.

But notwithstanding the concurring testimony of
experience, in this particular, there are still to be
found visionary or designing men, who stand ready to
advocate the paradox of perpetual peace between the
States, though dismembered and alienated from each
other. The genius of republics (say they) is pacific;
the spirit of commerce has a tendency to soften the
manners of men, and to extinguish those inflammable
humors which have so often kindled into wars. Com
mercial republics, like ours, will never be disposed to
waste themselves in ruinous contentions with each
other. They will be governed by mutual interest, and
will cultivate a spirit of mutual amity and concord.

Is it not (we may ask these projectors in politics)

38 Alexander Hamilton

the true interest of all nations to cultivate the same
benevolent and philosophic spirit? If this be their
true interest, have they in fact pursued it? Has it
not, on the contrary, invariably been found that
momentary passions, and immediate interests, have
a more active and imperious control over human
conduct than general or remote considerations of
policy, utility, or justice? Have republics in prac
tice been less addicted to war than monarchies?
Are not the former administered by men as well as
the latter? Are there not aversions, predilections,
rivalships, and desires of unjust acquisitions, that
affect nations as well as kings? Are not popular as
semblies frequently subject to the impulses of rage,
resentment, jealousy, avarice, and of other irregular
and violent propensities? Is it not well known that
their determinations are often governed by a few in
dividuals in whom they place confidence, and are, of
course, liable to be tinctured by the passions and
views of those individuals? Has commerce hitherto
done any thing more than change the objects of war?
Is not the love of wealth as domineering and enter
prising a passion as that of power or glory? Have
there not been as many wars founded upon com
mercial motives since that has become the prevailing
system of nations, as were before occasioned by the
cupidity of territory or dominion? Has not the
spirit of commerce, in many instances, administered
new incentives to the appetite, both for the one and
for the other? Let experience, the least fallible
guide of human opinions, be appealed to for an an
swer to these inquiries.

The Federalist 39

Sparta, Athens, Rome, and Carthage were all re
publics; two of them, Athens and Carthage, of the
commercial kind. Yet were they as often engaged
in wars, offensive and defensive, as the neighboring
monarchies of the same times. Sparta was little
better than a well-regulated camp; and Rome was
never sated of carnage and conquest.

Carthage, though a commercial republic, was the
aggressor in the very war that ended in her destruc
tion. Hannibal had carried her arms into the heart
of Italy and to the gates of Rome, before Scipio, in
turn, gave him an overthrow in the territories of
Carthage, and made a conquest of the common
wealth.

Venice, in later times, figured more than once in
wars of ambition, till, becoming an object to the
other Italian states, Pope Julius II. found means to
accomplish that formidable league,1 which gave a
deadly blow to the power and pride of this haughty
republic.

The provinces of Holland, till they were over
whelmed in debts and taxes, took a leading and con
spicuous part in the wars of Europe. They had
furious contests with England for the dominion of
the sea, and were among the most persevering and
most implacable of the opponents of Louis XIV.

In the government of Britain the representa
tives of the people compose one branch of the na
tional legislature. Commerce has been for ages the

1 The League of Cambray, comprehending the Emperor, the King of
France, the King of Aragon, and most of the Italian princes and states.
— PUBLIUS.

40 Alexander Hamilton

predominant pursuit of that country. Few nations,
nevertheless, have been more frequently engaged in
war; and the wars in which that kingdom has been
engaged have, in numerous instances, proceeded
from the people.

There have been, if I may so express it, almost as
many popular as royal wars. The cries of the nation
and the importunities of their representatives have,
upon various occasions, dragged their monarchs into
War, or continued them in it, contrary to their in
clinations, and sometimes contrary to the real in
terests of the state. In that memorable struggle for
superiority between the rival houses of Austria and
Bourbon, which so long kept Europe in a flame, it
is well known that the antipathies of the English
against the French, seconding the ambition, or
rather the avarice, of a favorite leader,1 protracted
the war beyond the limits marked out by sound
policy, and for a considerable time in opposition to
the views of the court.

The wars of these two last-mentioned nations have
in a great measure grown out of commercial con
siderations, — the desire of supplanting and the fear
of being supplanted, either in particular branches
of traffic or in the general advantages of trade and
navigation.2

1 The Duke of Marlborough. — PUBLIUS.

2 In the text said to have been revised by Hamilton and Madison,
and adopted by Mr. J. C. Hamilton, the following additional sentences
occur at this point: "and sometimes even the more culpable desire
of sharing in the commerce of other nations without their consent.
iFhe last war but two between Britain and Spain sprang from the at
tempts of the English merchants to prosecute an illicit trade with the

The Federalist 4*

From this summary of what has taken place in
other countries, whose situations have borne the
nearest resemblance to our own, what reason can
we have to confide in those reveries which would
seduce us into an expectation of peace and cordiality
between the members of the present confederacy,
in a state of separation? Have we not already seen
enough of the fallacy and extravagance of those idle
theories which have amused us with promises of an
exemption from the imperfections, weaknesses, and
evils incident to society in every shape? Is it not
time to awake from the deceitful dream of a golden
age, and to adopt as a practical maxim for the di
rection of our political conduct that we, as well as
the other inhabitants of the globe, are yet remote
from the happy empire of perfect wisdom and perfect
virtue?

Let the point of extreme depression to which our
national dignity and credit have sunk, let the incon
veniences felt everywhere from a lax and ill ad
ministration of government, let the revolt of a part

Spanish main. These unjustifiable practices on their part produced
severity on the part of the Spaniards towards the subjects of Great
Britain which were not more justifiable, because they exceeded the
bounds of a just retaliation and were chargeable with inhumanity and
cruelty. Many of the English who were taken on the Spanish coast
were sent to dig in the mines of Potosi; and by the usual progress
of a spirit of resentment, the innocent were, after a while, confounded
with the guilty in indiscriminate punishment. The complaints of the
merchants kindled a violent flame throughout the nation, which soon
after broke out in the House of Commons, and was communicated
from that body to the ministry. Letters of reprisal were granted,
and a war ensued, which in its consequences overthrew all the alliances
that but twenty years before had been formed with sanguine expecta
tions of the most beneficial fruits."

42 Alexander Hamilton

of the State of North Carolina, the late menacing
disturbances in Pennsylvania, and the actual in
surrections and rebellions in Massachusetts, de
clare !

So far is the general sense of mankind from cor
responding with the tenets of those who endeavor
to lull asleep our apprehensions of discord and hos
tility between the States, in the event of disunion,
that it has from long observation of the progress of
society become a sort of axiom in politics, that vi
cinity, or nearness of situation, constitutes nations
natural enemies. An intelligent writer expresses
himself on this subject to this effect: " NEIGHBOR
ING NATIONS [says he] are naturally enemies of each
other, unless their common weakness forces them to
league in a CONFEDERATIVE REPUBLIC, and their con
stitution prevents the differences that neighborhood
occasions, extinguishing that secret jealousy which
disposes all states to aggrandize themselves at the ex
pense of their neighbors."1 This passage, at the
same time, points out the EVIL and suggests the

REMEDY.

PUBLIUS.

For the Independent Journal

THE FEDERALIST. No. VII

(HAMILTON)

To the People of the State of New York:

It is sometimes asked, with an air of seeming tri
umph, what inducements could the States have, if

xVide Principes des Negotiations par I'AbbS de Mably. — PUBLIUS.

The Federalist 43

disunited, to make war upon each other? It would
be a full answer to this question to say — precisely
the same inducements which have, at different times,
deluged in blood all the nations in the world. But,
unfortunately for us, the question admits of a more
particular answer. There are causes of differences
within our immediate contemplation, of the tend
ency of which, even under the restraints of a federal
constitution, we have had sufficient experience to
enable us to form a judgment of what might be ex
pected if those restraints were removed.

Territorial disputes have at all times been found
one of the most fertile sources of hostility among
nations. Perhaps the greatest proportion of wars
that have desolated the earth have sprung from this
origin. This cause would exist among us in full
force. We have a vast tract of unsettled territory
within the boundaries of the United States. There
still are discordant and undecided claims between
several of them, and the dissolution of the Union
would lay a foundation for similar claims between
them all. It is well known that they have heretofore
had serious and animated discussion concerning the
rights to the lands which were ungranted at the time
of the Revolution, and which usually went under the
name of crown lands. The States within the limits
of whose colonial governments they were comprised
have claimed them as their property, the others have
contended that the rights of the crown in this article
devolved upon the Union; especially as to all that
part of the Western territory which, either by actual
possession, or through the submission of the Indian

44 Alexander Hamilton

proprietors, was subjected to the jurisdiction of the
king of Great Britain, till it was relinquished in the
treaty of peace. This, it has been said, was at all
events an acquisition to the Confederacy by com
pact with a foreign power. It has been the prudent
policy of Congress to appease this controversy, by
prevailing upon the States to make cessions to the
United States for the benefit of the whole. This has
been so far accomplished as, under a continuation of
the Union, to afford a decided prospect of an ami
cable termination of the dispute. A dismemberment
of the Confederacy, however, would revive this dis
pute, and would create others on the same subject.
At present, a large part of the vacant Western terri
tory is, by cession at least, if not by any anterior
right, the common property of the Union. If that
were at an end, the States which made the cession,
on a principle of federal compromise, would be apt,
when the motive of the grant had ceased, to reclaim
the lands as a reversion. The other States would
no doubt insist on a proportion, by right of repre
sentation. Their argument would be, that a grant,
once made, could not be revoked; and that the jus
tice of participating in territory acquired or secured
by the joint efforts of the Confederacy, remained un-
diminished. If, contrary to probability, it should
be admitted by all the States, that each had a right
to a share of this common stock, there would still be
a difficulty to be surmounted, as to a proper rule of
apportionment. Different principles would be set up
by different States for this purpose; and as they
would affect the opposite interests of the parties, they

The Federalist 45

might not easily be susceptible of a pacific adjust
ment.

In the wide field of Western territory, therefore,
we perceive an ample theatre for hostile pretensions,
without any umpire or common judge to interpose
between the contending parties. To reason from the
past to the future, we shall have good ground to
apprehend, that the sword would sometimes be ap
pealed to as the arbiter of their differences. The cir
cumstances of the dispute between Connecticut and
Pennsylvania, respecting the land at Wyoming, ad
monish us not to be sanguine in expecting an easy
accommodation of such differences. The articles
of confederation obliged the parties to submit the
matter to the decision of a federal court. The sub
mission was made, and the court decided in favor
of Pennsylvania. But Connecticut gave strong in
dications of dissatisfaction with that determination;
nor did she appear to be entirely resigned to it, till,
by negotiation and management, something like an
equivalent was found for the loss she supposed her
self to have sustained. Nothing here said is intended
to convey the slightest censure on the conduct of
that State. She no doubt sincerely believed herself
to have been injured by the decision ; and States, like
individuals, acquiesce with great reluctance in deter
minations to their disadvantage.

Those who had an opportunity of seeing the in
side of the transactions which attended the progress
of the controversy between this State and the dis
trict of Vermont, can vouch the opposition we ex
perienced, as well from States not interested as from

46 Alexander Hamilton

those which were interested in the claim; and can
attest the danger to which the peace of the Con
federacy might have been exposed, had this State
attempted to assert its rights by force. Two mo
tives preponderated in that opposition: one, a
jealousy entertained of our future power; and the
other, the interest of certain individuals of influence
in the neighboring States, who had obtained grants
of lands under the actual government of that dis
trict. Even the States which brought forward
claims, in contradiction to ours, seemed more solici
tous to dismember this State, than to establish their
own pretensions. These were New Hampshire,
Massachusetts, and Connecticut. New Jersey and
Rhode Island, upon all occasions, discovered a warm
zeal for the independence of Vermont; and Mary
land, till alarmed by the appearance of a connection
between Canada and that State, entered deeply into
the same views. These being small States, saw
with an unfriendly eye the perspective of our grow
ing greatness. In a review of these transactions we
may trace some of the causes which would be likely
to embroil the States with each other, if it should be
their unpropitious destiny to become disunited.

The competitions of commerce would be another
fruitful source of contention. The States less favor
ably circumstanced would be desirous of escaping
from the disadvantages of local situation, and of
sharing in the advantages of their more fortunate
neighbors. Each State, or separate confederacy,
would pursue a system of commercial policy pecu
liar to itself. This would occasion distinctions,

The Federalist 47

preferences, and exclusions, which would beget dis
content. The habits of intercourse, on the basis of
equal privileges, to which we have been accustomed
since the earliest settlement of the country, would
give a keener edge to those causes of discontent than
they would naturally have independent of this cir
cumstance. We should be ready to denominate in
juries those things which were in reality the justifiable
acts of independent sovereignties consulting a distinct
interest. The spirit of enterprise, which character
izes the commercial part of America, has left no
occasion of displaying itself unimproved. It is not
at all probable that this unbridled spirit would pay
much respect to those regulations of trade by which
particular States might endeavor to secure exclusive
benefits to their own citizens. The infractions of
these regulations, on one side, the efforts to prevent
and repel them, on the other, would naturally lead
to outrages, and these to reprisals and wars.

The opportunities which some States would have
of rendering others tributary to them by commercial
regulations would be impatiently submitted to by
the tributary States. The relative situation of New
York, Connecticut, and New Jersey, would afford
an example of this kind. New York, from the neces
sities of revenue, must lay duties on her importations.
A great part of these duties must be paid by the in
habitants of the two other States in the capacity of
consumers of what we import. New York would
neither be willing nor able to forego this advantage.
Her citizens would not consent that a duty paid by
them should be remitted in favor of the citizens of

48 Alexander Hamilton

her neighbors; nor would it be practicable, if there
were not this impediment in the way, to distinguish
the customers in our own markets. Would Con
necticut and New Jersey long submit to be taxed by
New York for her exclusive benefit? Should we
be long permitted to remain in the quiet and undis
turbed enjoyment of a metropolis, from the posses
sion of which we derived an advantage so odious to
our neighbors, and, in their opinion, so oppressive?
Should we be able to preserve it against the incum
bent weight of Connecticut on the one side, and the
co-operating pressure of New Jersey on the other?
These are questions that temerity alone will answer
in the affirmative.

The public debt of the Union would be a further
cause of collision between the separate States or
confederacies. The apportionment, in the first in
stance, and the progressive extinguishment after
ward, would be alike productive of ill-humor and
animosity. How would it be possible to agree upon
a rule of apportionment satisfactory to all? There
is scarcely any that can be proposed which is entirely
free from real objections. These, as usual, would
be exaggerated by the adverse interest of the parties.
There are even dissimilar views among the States as
to the general principle of discharging the public
debt. Some of them, either less impressed with the
importance of national credit, or because their citi
zens have little, if any, immediate interest in the
question, feel an indifference, if not a repugnance,
to the payment of the domestic debt at any rate.
These would be inclined to magnify the difficulties

The Federalist 49

of a distribution. Others of them, a numerous body
of whose citizens are creditors to the public beyond
the proportion of the State in the total amount of
the national debt, would be strenuous for some
equitable and effective provision. The procrastina
tions of the former would excite the resentments of
the latter. The settlement of a rule would, in the
meantime, be postponed by real differences of opin
ion and affected delays. The citizens of the States in
terested would clamor ; foreign powers would urge for
the satisfaction of their just demands, and the peace
of the States would be hazarded to the double contin
gency of external invasion and internal contention.
Suppose the difficulties of agreeing upon a rule
surmounted, and the apportionment made. Still
there is great room to suppose that the rule agreed
upon would, upon experiment, be found to bear
harder upon some States than upon others. Those
which were sufferers by it would naturally seek for
a mitigation of the burden. The others would as
naturally be disinclined to a revision, which was
likely to end in an increase of their own incum-
brances. Their refusal would be too plausible a
pretext to the complaining States to withhold their
contributions, not to be embraced with avidity ; and
the non-compliance of these States with their en
gagements would be a ground of bitter discussion
and altercation. If even the rule adopted should
in practice justify the equality of its principle, still
delinquencies in payments on the part of some of the
States would result from a diversity of other causes —
the real deficiency of resources ; the mismanagement

VOL. XI.— 4.

50 Alexander Hamilton

of their finances; accidental disorders in the man
agement of the government; and, in addition to
the rest, the reluctance with which men commonly
part with money for purposes that have out-lived
the exigencies which produced them, and interfere
with the supply of immediate wants. Delinquen
cies, from whatever causes, would be productive
of complaints, recriminations, and quarrels. There
is, perhaps, nothing more likely to disturb the tran
quillity of nations than their being bound to mutual
contributions for any common object that does not
yield an equal and coincident benefit. For it is
an observation, as true as it is trite, that there is
nothing men differ so readily about as the payment
of money.

Laws in violation of private contracts, as they
amount to aggressions on the rights of those States
whose citizens are injured by them, may be con
sidered as another probable source of hostility. We
are not authorized to expect that a more liberal or
more equitable spirit would preside over the legisla
tions of the individual States hereafter, if unre
strained by any additional checks, than we have
heretofore seen in too many instances disgracing
their several codes. We have observed the dis
position to retaliation excited in Connecticut, in
consequence of the enormities perpetrated by the
Legislature of Rhode Island; and we reasonably
infer that, in similar cases under other circum
stances, a war, not of parchment, but of the sword,
would chastise such atrocious breaches of moral
obligation and social justice.

The Federalist 5*

The probability of incompatible alliances between
the different States or confederacies and different
foreign nations, and the effects of this situation upon
the peace of the whole, have been sufficiently un
folded in some preceding papers. From the view
they have exhibited of this part of the subject, this
conclusion is to be drawn, that America, if not con
nected at all, or only by the feeble tie of a simple
league, offensive and defensive, would, by the op
eration of such jarring alliances, be gradually en
tangled in all the pernicious labyrinths of European
politics and wars ; and by the destructive conten
tions of the parts into which she was divided, would
be likely to become a prey to the artifices and
machinations of powers equally the enemies of
them all. Divide et impera x must be the motto of
every nation that either hates or fears us.2

PUBLIUS.

From ike New York Packet, Tuesday, November 20, 1787

THE FEDERALIST. No. VIII

(HAMILTON)

To ike People of the State of New York:

Assuming it therefore as an established truth that
the several States, in case of disunion, or such com
binations of them as might happen to be formed out

1 Divide and command. — PUBLIUS.

3 In order that the whole subject of these papers may as soon as
possible be laid before the public, it is proposed to publish them four
times a week— on Tuesday in the New York Packet and on Thursday
in the Daily Advertiser. — PUBLIUS.

52 Alexander Hamilton

of the wreck of the general Confederacy, would be
subject to those vicissitudes of peace and war, of
friendship and enmity with each other, which have
fallen to the lot of all neighboring nations not united
under one government, let us enter into a concise
detail of some of the consequences that would attend
such a situation.

War between the States, in the first period of
their separate existence, would be accompanied with
much greater distresses than it commonly is in those
countries where regular military establishments have
long obtained. The disciplined armies always kept
on foot on the continent of Europe, though they bear
a malignant aspect to liberty and economy, have,
notwithstanding, been productive of the signal ad
vantage of rendering sudden conquests impractica
ble, and of preventing that rapid desolation which
used to mark the progress of war prior to their in
troduction. The art of fortification has contributed
to the same ends. The nations of Europe are en
circled with chains of fortified places, which mu
tually obstruct invasion. Campaigns are wasted in
reducing two or three frontier garrisons, to gain ad
mittance into an enemy's country. Similar impedi
ments occur at every step, to exhaust the strength
and delay the progress of an invader. Formerly,
an invading army would penetrate into the heart of
a neighboring country almost as soon as intelligence
of its approach could be received; but now a com
paratively small force of disciplined troops, acting
on the defensive, with the aid of posts, is able to
impede, and finally to frustrate, the enterprises of

The Federalist 53

one much more considerable. The history of war, in
that quarter of the globe, is no longer a history of
nations subdued and empires overturned, but of
towns taken and retaken; of battles that decide
nothing; of retreats more beneficial than victories;
of much effort and little acquisition.

In this country the scene would be altogether
reversed. The jealousy of military establishments
would postpone them as long as possible. The want
of fortifications, leaving the frontiers of one State
open to another, would facilitate inroads. The
populous States would, with little difficulty, overrun
their less populous neighbors. Conquests would be
as easy to be made as difficult to be retained. War,
therefore, would be desultory and predatory. PLUN
DER and devastation ever march in the train of ir
regulars. The calamities of individuals would make
the principal figure in the events which would char
acterize our military exploits.

This picture is not too highly wrought; though, I
confess, it would not long remain a just one. Safety
from external danger is the most powerful director
of national conduct. Even the ardent love of liberty
will, after a time, give way to its dictates. The
violent destruction of life and property incident to
war, the continual effort and alarm attendant on a
state of continual danger, will compel nations the
most attached to liberty to resort for repose and
security to institutions which have a tendency to
destroy their civil and political rights. To be more
safe, they at length become willing to run the risk
of being less free.

54 Alexander Hamilton

The institutions chiefly alluded to are STANDING
ARMIES and the correspondent appendages of mili
tary establishments. Standing armies, it is said, are
not provided against in the new Constitution; and
it is therefore inferred that they may exist under it.1
Their existence, however, from the very terms of the
proposition, is, at most, problematical and uncertain.2
But standing armies, it may be replied, must inevit
ably result from a dissolution of the Confederacy.
Frequent war and constant apprehension, which
require a state of as constant preparation, will in
fallibly produce them. The weaker States or con
federacies would first have recourse to them, to put
themselves upon an equality with their more potent
neighbors. They would endeavor to supply the in
feriority of population and resources by a more regu
lar and effective system of defence, by disciplined
troops, and by fortifications. They would, at the
same time, be necessitated to strengthen the execu
tive arm of government, in doing which their con
stitutions would acquire a progressive direction
towards monarchy. It is of the nature of war to in
crease the executive at the expense of the legislative
authority.

The expedients which have been mentioned would
soon give the States or confederacies that made use

1 This objection will be fully examined in its proper place, and it
will be shown that the only natural precaution which could have been
taken on this subject has been taken; and a much better one than is
to be found in any constitution that has been heretofore framed in
America, most of which contain no guard at all on this subject. —
PUBLIUS.

2 In the revised text: "This inference, from the very form of the
proposition, is, at best, problematical and uncertain."

The Federalist 55

of them a superiority over their neighbors. Small
states, or states of less natural strength, under
vigorous governments, and with the assistance of
disciplined armies, have often triumphed over large
states, or states of greater natural strength, which
have been destitute of these advantages. Neither
the pride nor the safety of the more important
States or confederacies would permit them long to
submit to this mortifying and adventitious superior
ity. They would quickly resort to means similar to
those by which it had been effected, to reinstate
themselves in their lost pre-eminence. Thus we
should, in a little time, see established in every part
of this country the same engines of despotism which
have been the scourge of the Old World. This, at
least, would be the natural course of things; and our
reasonings will be the more likely to be just, in pro
portion as they are accommodated to this standard.

These are not vague inferences drawn from sup
posed or speculative defects in a Constitution, the
whole power of which is lodged in the hands of a
people, or their representatives and delegates, but
they are solid conclusions, drawn from the natural
and necessary progress of human affairs.

It may, perhaps, be asked, by way of objection to
this, why did not standing armies spring up out of
the contentions which so often distracted the ancient
republics of Greece? Different answers, equally sat
isfactory, may be given to this question. The in
dustrious habits of the people of the present day,
absorbed in the pursuits of gain, and devoted to
the improvements of agriculture and commerce, are

56 Alexander Hamilton

incompatible with the condition of a nation of soldiers,
which was the true condition of the people of those
republics. The means of revenue, which have been
so greatly multiplied by the increase of gold and sil
ver and of the arts of industry, and the science of
finance, which is the offspring of modern times, con
curring with the habits of nations, have produced
an entire revolution in the system of war, and have
rendered disciplined armies, distinct from the body
of the citizens, the inseparable companions of fre
quent hostility.

There is a wide difference, also, between military
establishments in a country seldom exposed by its
situation to internal invasions, and in one which is
often subject to them, and always apprehensive of
them. The rulers of the former can have no good
pretext, if they are even so inclined, to keep on foot
armies so numerous as must of necessity be main
tained in the latter. These armies being, in the first
case, rarely, if at all, called into activity for interior
defence, the people are in no danger of being broken
to military subordination. The laws are not ac
customed to relaxations, in favor of military exigen
cies; the civil state remains in full vigor, neither
corrupted, nor confounded with the principles or pro
pensities of the other state. The smallness of the
army renders the natural strength of the community
an over-match for it ; and the citizens, not habituated
to look up to the military power for protection, or to
submit to its oppressions, neither love nor fear the
soldiery; they view them with a spirit of jealous
acquiescence in a necessary evil, and stand ready

The Federalist 57

to resist a power which they suppose may be ex
erted to the prejudice of their rights. The army
under such circumstances may usefully aid the magis
trate to suppress a small faction, or an occasional
mob, or insurrection; but it will be unable to en
force encroachments against the united efforts of the
great body of the people.

In a country in the predicament last described,
the contrary of all this happens. The perpetual
menacings of danger oblige the government to be
always prepared to repel it; its armies must be nu
merous enough for instant defence. The continual
necessity for their services enhances the importance
of the soldier, and proportionably degrades the con
dition of the citizen. The military state becomes
elevated above the civil. The inhabitants of terri
tories, often the theatre of war, are unavoidably
subjected to frequent infringements on their rights,
which serve to weaken their sense of those rights;
and by degrees the people are brought to consider
the soldiery not only as their protectors, but as
their superiors. The transition from this disposition
to that of considering them masters, is neither re
mote nor difficult; but it is very difficult to prevail
upon a people under such impressions, to make a
bold or effectual resistance to usurpations sup
ported by the military power.

The kingdom of Great Britain falls within the
first description. An insular situation, and a power
ful marine, guarding it in a great measure against
the possibility of foreign invasion, supersede the
necessity of a numerous army within the kingdom.

5 8 Alexander Hamilton

A sufficient force to make head against a sudden
descent, till the militia could have time to rally and
embody, is all that has been deemed requisite. No
motive of national policy has demanded, nor would
public opinion have tolerated, a larger number of
troops upon its domestic establishment. There has
been, for a long time past, little room for the opera
tion of the other causes, which have been enumerated
as the consequences of internal war. This peculiar
felicity of situation has, in a great degree, contributed
to preserve the liberty which that country to this
day enjoys, in spite of the prevalent venality and
corruption. If, on the contrary, Britain had been
situated on the continent, and had been compelled,
as she would have been, by that situation, to make
her military establishments at home coextensive
with those of the other great powers of Europe, she,
like them, would in all probability be, at this day, a
victim to the absolute power of a single man. T is
possible, though not easy, that the people of that
island may be enslaved from other causes; but it
cannot be by the prowess of an army so inconsider
able as that which has been usually kept up within
the kingdom.

If we are wise enough to preserve the Union we
may for ages enjoy an advantage similar to that of
an insulated situation. Europe is at a great dis
tance from us. Her colonies in our vicinity will
be likely to continue too much disproportioned in
strength to be able to give us any dangerous annoy
ance. Extensive military establishments cannot, in
this position, be necessary to our security. But if

The Federalist 59

we should be disunited, and the integral parts should
either remain separated, or, which is most probable,
should be thrown together into two or three con
federacies, we should be, in a short course of time, in
the predicament of the continental powers of Eu
rope — our liberties would be a prey to the means of
defending ourselves against the ambition and jeal
ousy of each other.

This is an idea not superficial or futile, but solid
and weighty. It deserves the most serious and ma
ture consideration of every prudent and honest man
of whatever party. If such men will make a firm
and solemn pause, and meditate dispassionately on
the importance of this interesting idea; if they will
contemplate it in all its attitudes, and trace it to all
its consequences, they will not hesitate to part with
trivial objections to a Constitution, the rejection of
which would in all probability put a final period to
the Union. The airy phantoms that flit before the
distempered imaginations of some of its adversaries
would quickly give place to the more substantial
forms of dangers, real, certain, and formidable.

PUBLIUS.

For the Independent Journal

THE FEDERALIST. No. IX

(HAMILTON)

To the People of the State of New York:

A firm Union will be of the utmost moment to the
peace and liberty of the States, as a barrier against

60 Alexander Hamilton

domestic faction and insurrection. It is impossible
to read the history of the petty republics of Greece
and Italy without feeling sensations of horror and
disgust at the distractions with which they were
continually agitated, and at the rapid succession of
revolutions by which they were kept in a state of
perpetual vibration between the extremes of tyranny
and anarchy. If they exhibit occasional calms,
these only serve as short-lived contrasts to the
furious storms that are to succeed. If now and then
intervals of felicity open to view, we behold them
with a mixture of regret, arising from the reflection
that the pleasing scenes before us are soon to be
overwhelmed by the tempestuous waves of sedition
and party rage. If momentary rays of glory break
forth from the gloom, while they dazzle us with a
transient and fleeting brilliancy, they at the same
time admonish us to lament that the vices of govern
ment should pervert the direction and tarnish the
lustre of those bright talents and exalted endow
ments for which the favored soils that produced
them have been so justly celebrated.

From the disorders that disfigure the annals of
those republics the advocates of despotism have
drawn arguments, not only against the forms of
republican government, but against the very prin
ciples of civil liberty. They have decried all free
government as inconsistent with the order of society,
and have indulged themselves in malicious exulta
tion over its friends and partisans. Happily for
mankind, stupendous fabrics reared on the basis of
liberty, which have flourished for ages, have, in a few

The Federalist 61

glorious instances, refuted their gloomy sophisms.
And, I trust, America will be the broad and solid
foundation of other edifices, not less magnificent,
which will be equally permanent monuments of
their errors.

But it is not to be denied that the portraits they
have sketched of republican government were too
just copies of the originals from which they were
taken. If it had been found impracticable to have
devised models of a more perfect structure, the en
lightened friends to liberty would have been obliged
to abandon the cause of that species of government
as indefensible. The science of politics, however,
like most other sciences, has received great improve
ment. The efficacy of various principles is now well
understood, which were either not known at all, or
imperfectly known to the ancients. The regular
distribution of power into distinct departments; the
introduction of legislative balances and checks; the
institution of courts composed of judges holding
their offices during good behavior; the representa
tion of the people in the legislature by deputies of
their own election : these are wholly new discoveries,
or have made their principal progress towards per
fection in modern times. They are means, and pow
erful means, by which the excellences of republican
government may be retained and its imperfections
lessened or avoided. To this catalogue of circum
stances that tend to the amelioration of popular sys
tems of civil government, I shall venture, however
novel it may appear to some, to add one more, on a
principle which has been made the foundation of an

62 Alexander Hamilton

objection to the new Constitution; I mean the EN
LARGEMENT of the ORBIT within which such systems
are to revolve, either in respect to the dimensions of
a single State, or to the consolidation of several
smaller States into one great Confederacy. The
latter is that which immediately concerns the ob
ject under consideration. It will, however, be of
use to examine the principle in its application to
a single State, which shall be attended to in another
place.

The utility of a Confederacy, as well to suppress
faction and to guard the internal tranquillity of
States, as to increase their external force and secur
ity, is in reality not a new idea. It has been prac
tised upon in different countries and ages, and has
received the sanction of the most approved writers
on the subjects of politics. The opponents of the
plan proposed have, with great assiduity, cited and
circulated the observations of Montesquieu on the
necessity of a contracted territory for a republican
government. But they seem not to have been
apprised of the sentiments of that great man ex
pressed in another part of his work, nor to have ad
verted to the consequences of the principle to which
they subscribe with such ready acquiescence.

When Montesquieu recommends a small extent
for republics, the standards he had in view were of
dimensions far short of the limits of almost every
one of these States. Neither Virginia, Massachu
setts, Pennsylvania, New York, North Carolina, nor
Georgia can by any means be compared with the
models from which he reasoned and to which the

The Federalist 63

terms of his description apply. If we therefore take
his ideas on this point as the criterion of truth, we
shall be driven to the alternative either of tak
ing refuge at once in the arms of monarchy, or of
splitting ourselves into an infinity of little, jealous,
clashing, tumultuous commonwealths, the wretched
nurseries of unceasing discord, and the miserable
objects of universal pity or contempt. Some of the
writers who have come forward on the other side of
the question seem to have been aware of the dilemma ;
and have even been bold enough to hint at the divi
sion of the larger States as a desirable thing. Such
an infatuated policy, such a desperate expedient,
might, by the multiplication of petty offices, answer
the views of men who possess not qualifications to
extend their influence beyond the narrow circles of
personal intrigue, but it could never promote the
greatness or happiness of the people of America.

Referring the examination of the principle itself
to another place, as has been already mentioned, it
will be sufficient to remark here that, in the sense of
the author who has been most emphatically quoted
upon the occasion, it would only dictate a reduction
of the SIZE of the more considerable MEMBERS of the
Union, but would not militate against their being all
comprehended in one confederate government. And
this is the true question, in the discussion of which
we are at present interested.

So far are the suggestions of Montesquieu from
standing in opposition to a general Union of the
States, that he explicitly treats of a CONFEDERATE
REPUBLIC as the expedient for extending the sphere

64 Alexander Hamilton

of popular government, and reconciling the advan
tages of monarchy with those of republicanism.

"It is very probable" (says he *) "that mankind
would have been obliged at length to live constantly
under the government of a single person, had they
not contrived a kind of constitution that has all the
internal advantages of a republican, together with
the external force of a monarchical, government. I
mean a CONFEDERATE REPUBLIC.

"This form of government is a convention by
which several smaller states agree to become members
of a larger one, which they intend to form. It is a
kind of assemblage of societies that constitute a new
one, capable of increasing, by means of new associa
tions, till they arrive to such a degree of power as to
be able to provide for the security of the united body.

"A republic of this kind, able to withstand an ex
ternal force, may support itself without any internal
corruptions. The form of this society prevents all
manner of inconveniences.

" If a single member should attempt to usurp the
supreme authority, he could not be supposed to have
an equal authority and credit in all the confederate
states. Were he to have too great influence over
one, this would alarm the rest. Were he to subdue
a part, that which would still remain free might op
pose him with forces independent of those which he
had usurped, and overpower him before he could be
settled in his usurpation.

" Should a popular insurrection happen in one of
the confederate states, the others are able to quell it.

1 Spirit of Laws, vol. i., book ix., chap. i. — PUBLIUS.

The Federalist 65

Should abuses creep into one part, they are reformed
by those that remain sound. The state may be de
stroyed on one side, and not on the other; the con
federacy may be dissolved, and the confederates
preserve their sovereignty.

" As this government is composed of small repub
lics, it enjoys the internal happiness of each; and
with respect to its external situation, it is possessed,
by means of the association, of all the advantages of
large monarchies."

I have thought it proper to quote at length these
interesting passages, because they contain a luminous
abridgment of the principal arguments in favor of
the Union, and must effectually remove the false
impressions which a misapplication of other parts
of the work was calculated to make. They have, at
the same time, an intimate connection with the more
immediate design of this paper; which is, to illustrate
the tendency of the Union to repress domestic fac
tion and insurrection.

A distinction, more subtle than accurate, has been
raised between a confederacy and a consolidation of
the States. The essential characteristic of the first
is said to be, the restriction of its authority to the
members in their collective capacities, without reach
ing to the individuals of whom they are composed.
It is contended that the national council ought to
have no concern with any object of internal admin
istration. An exact equality of suffrage between
the members has also been insisted upon as a lead
ing feature of a confederate government. These
positions are, in the main, arbitrary; they are

VOL. XI.— 5.

66 Alexander Hamilton

supported neither by principle nor precedent. It has
indeed happened, that governments of this kind have
generally operated in the manner which the distinc
tion, taken notice of, supposes to be inherent in their
nature ; but there have been in most of them exten
sive exceptions to the practice, which serve to prove,
as far as example will go, that there is no absolute
rule on the subject. And it will be clearly shown,
in the course of this investigation, that as far as the
principle contended for has prevailed, it has been
the cause of incurable disorder and imbecility in the
government.

The definition of a confederate republic seems simply
to be "an assemblage of societies," or an association
of two or more states into one state. The extent,
modifications, and objects of the federal authority,
are mere matters of discretion. So long as the
separate organization of the members be not abol
ished; so long as it exists, by a constitutional ne
cessity, for local purposes; though it should be in
perfect subordination to the general authority of
the union, it would still be, in fact and in theory,
an association of states, or a confederacy. The
proposed Constitution, so far from implying an
abolition of the State governments, makes them
constituent parts of the national sovereignty, by al
lowing them a direct representation in the Senate, and
leaves in their possession certain exclusive and very
important portions of sovereign power. This fully
corresponds, in every rational import of the terms,
with the idea of a federal government.

In the Lycian confederacy, which consisted of

The Federalist 67

twenty-three CITIES or republics, the largest were en
titled to three votes in the COMMON COUNCIL, those of
the middle class to two, and the smallest to one. The
COMMON COUNCIL had the appointment of all the
judges and magistrates of the respective CITIES.
This was certainly the most delicate species of inter
ference in their internal administration ; for if there
be any thing that seems exclusively appropriated to
the local jurisdictions, it is the appointment of their
own officers. Yet Montesquieu, speaking of this
association, says: " Were I to give a model of an
excellent Confederate Republic, it would be that of
Lycia." Thus we perceive that the distinctions in
sisted upon were not within the contemplation of
this enlightened civilian; and we shall be led to con
clude, that they are the novel refinements of an erro
neous theory.

PUBLIUS.

From the New York Packet, Friday, November 23, 1787

THE FEDERALIST. No. X

(MADISON)

To the People of the State of New York:

Among the numerous advantages promised by a
well-constructed Union, none deserves to be more
accurately developed than its tendency to break and
control the violence of faction. The friend of popu
lar governments never finds himself so much alarmed
for their character and fate, as when he contem
plates their propensity to this dangerous vice. He

68 Alexander Hamilton

will not fail, therefore, to set a due value on any plan
which, without violating the principles to which he
is attached, provides a proper cure for it. The in
stability, injustice, and confusion introduced into
the public councils, have, in truth, been the mortal
diseases under which popular governments have
everywhere perished; as they continue to be the
favorite and fruitful topics from which the adver
saries to liberty derive their most specious declama
tions. The valuable improvements made by the
American constitutions on the popular models, both
ancient and modern, cannot certainly be too much
admired; but it would be an unwarrantable par
tiality, to contend that they have as effectually ob
viated the danger on this side, as was wished and
expected. Complaints are everywhere heard from
our most considerate and virtuous citizens, equally
the friends of public and private faith, and of public
and personal liberty, that our governments are too
unstable, that the public good is disregarded in the
conflicts of rival parties, and that measures are too
often decided, not according to the rules of justice
and the rights of the minor party, but by the supe
rior force of an interested and overbearing majority.
However anxiously we may wish that these com
plaints had no foundation, the evidence of known
facts will not permit us to deny that they are in some
degree true. It will be found, indeed, on a candid
review of our situation, that some of the distresses
under which we labor have been erroneously charged
on the operation of our governments ; but it will be
found, at the same time, that other causes will not

The Federalist 69

alone account for many of our heaviest misfortunes;
and, particularly, for that prevailing and increasing
distrust of public engagements, and alarm for private
rights, which are echoed from one end of the conti
nent to the other. These must be chiefly, if not
wholly, effects of the unsteadiness and injustice with
which a factious spirit has tainted our public ad
ministrations.

By a faction, I understand a number of citizens,
whether amounting to a majority or minority of the
whole, who are united and actuated by some com
mon impulse of passion, or of interest, adverse to
the rights of other citizens, or to the permanent and
aggregate interests of the community.

There are two methods of curing the mischiefs of
faction: the one, by removing its causes; the other,
by controlling its effects.

There are again two methods of removing the
causes of faction : the one, by destroying the liberty
which is essential to its existence; the other, by giv
ing to every citizen the same opinions, the same pas
sions, and the same interests.

It could never be more truly said than of the first
remedy, that it was worse than the disease. Liberty
is to faction what air is to fire, an aliment without
which it instantly expires. But it could not be less
folly to abolish liberty, which is essential to political
life, because it nourishes faction, than it would be to
wish the annihilation of air, which is essential to
animal life, because it imparts to fire its destructive
agency.

The second expedient is as impracticable as the

70 Alexander Hamilton

first would be unwise. As long as the reason of man
continues fallible, and he is at liberty to exercise it,
different opinions will be formed. As long as the
connection subsists between his reason and his self-
love, his opinions and his passions will have a recip
rocal influence on each other; and the former will
be objects to which the latter will attach themselves.
The diversity in the faculties of men, from which the
rights of property originate, is not less an insuperable
obstacle to a uniformity of interests. The protec
tion of these faculties is the first object of gov
ernment. From the protection of different and
unequal faculties of acquiring property, the posses
sion of different degrees and kinds of property imme
diately results; and from the influence of these on
the sentiments and views of the respective proprie
tors, ensues a division of the society into different
interests and parties.

The latent causes of faction are thus sown in the
nature of man ; and we see them everywhere brought
into different degrees of activity, according to the
different circumstances of civil society. A zeal for
different opinions concerning religion, concerning
government, and many other points, as well of spec
ulation as of practice; an attachment to different
leaders ambitiously contending for pre-eminence and
power; or to persons of other descriptions whose
fortunes have been interesting to the human pas
sions, have, in turn, divided mankind into parties,
inflamed them with mutual animosity, and rendered
them much more disposed to vex and oppress each
other than to co-operate for their common good.

The Federalist 71

So strong is this propensity of mankind to fall into
mutual animosities, that where no substantial occa
sion presents itself, the most frivolous and fanciful
distinctions have been sufficient to kindle their un
friendly passions and excite their most violent con
flicts. But the most common and durable source
of factions has been the various and unequal distri
bution of property. Those who hold and those who
are without property have ever formed distinct in
terests in society. Those who are creditors, and
those who are debtors, fall under a like discrimina
tion. A landed interest, a manufacturing interest, a
mercantile interest, a moneyed interest, with many
lesser interests, grow up of necessity in civilized
nations, and divide them into different classes, actu
ated by different sentiments and views. The regu
lation of these various and interfering interests
forms the principal task of modern legislation,
and involves the spirit of party and faction in
the necessary and ordinary operations of the gov
ernment.

No man is allowed to be a judge in his own cause,
because his interest would certainly bias his judg
ment, and, not improbably, corrupt his integrity.
With equal, nay with greater reason, a body of men
are unfit to be both judges and parties at the same
time ; yet what are many of the most important acts
of legislation, but so many judicial determinations,
not indeed concerning the rights of single persons,
but concerning the rights of large bodies of citizens?
And what are the different classes of legislators
but advocates and parties to the causes which they

72 Alexander Hamilton

determine? Is a law proposed concerning private
debts? It is a question to which the creditors are
parties on one side and the debtors on the other.
Justice ought to hold the balance between them.
Yet the parties are, and must be, themselves the
judges; and the most numerous party, or, in other
words, the most powerful faction must be expected
to prevail. Shall domestic manufactures be en
couraged, and in what degree, by restrictions on
foreign manufactures? are questions which would be
differently decided by the landed and the manu
facturing classes, and probably by neither with a
sole regard to justice and the public good. The ap
portionment of taxes on the various descriptions of
property is an act which seems to require the most
exact impartiality; yet there is, perhaps, no legisla
tive act in which greater opportunity and tempta
tion are given to a predominant party to trample
on the rules of justice. Every shilling with which
they overburden the inferior number, is a shilling
saved to their own pockets.

It is in vain to say that enlightened statesmen will
be able to adjust these clashing interests, and render
them all subservient to the public good. Enlight
ened statesmen will not always be at the helm.
Nor, in many cases, can such an adjustment be made
at all without taking into view indirect and remote
considerations, which will rarely prevail over the
immediate interest which one party may find in dis
regarding the rights of another or the good of the
whole.

The inference to which we are brought is, that the

The Federalist 73

causes of faction cannot be removed, and that relief
is only to be sought in the means of controlling its
effects.

If a faction consists of less than a majority, relief
is supplied by the republican principle, which enables
the majority to defeat its sinister views by regular
vote. It may clog the administration, it may con
vulse the society; but it will be unable to execute
and mask its violence under the forms of the Con
stitution. When a majority is included in a faction,
the form of popular government, on the other hand,
enables it to sacrifice to its ruling passion or interest
both the public good and the rights of other citizens.
To secure the public good and private rights against
the danger of such a faction, and at the same time
to preserve the spirit and the form of popular
government, is then the great object to which our
inquiries are directed. Let me add that it is the
great desideratum by which this form of government
can be rescued from the opprobrium under which it
has so long labored, and be recommended to the
esteem and adoption of mankind.

By what means is this object attainable? Evi
dently by one of two only. Either the existence of
the same passion or interest in a majority at the
same time must be prevented, or the majority, hav
ing such coexistent passion or interest, must be ren
dered, by their number and local situation, unable
to concert and carry into effect schemes of oppres
sion. If the impulse and the opportunity be suf
fered to coincide, we well know that neither moral
nor religious motives can be relied on as an adequate

74 Alexander Hamilton

control. They are not found to be such on the in
justice and violence of individuals, and lose their
efficacy in proportion to the number combined to
gether, that is, in proportion as their efficacy be
comes needful.

From this view of the subject it may be concluded
that a pure democracy, by which I mean a society
consisting of a small number of citizens, who assem
ble and administer the government in person, can
admit of no cure for the mischiefs of faction. A
common passion or interest will, in almost every
case, be felt by a majority of the whole; a communi
cation and concert result from the form of gov
ernment itself; and there is nothing to check the
inducements to sacrifice the weaker party or an ob
noxious individual. Hence it is that such demo
cracies have ever been spectacles of turbulence and
contention ; have ever been found incompatible with
personal security or the rights of property; and
have in general been as short in their lives as they
have been violent in their deaths. Theoretic poli
ticians, who have patronized this species of govern
ment, have erroneously supposed that by reducing
mankind to a perfect equality in their political
rights, they would, at the same time, be perfectly
equalized and assimilated in their possessions, their
opinions, and their passions.

A republic, by which I mean a government in
which the scheme of representation takes place,
opens a different prospect, and promises the cure for
which we are seeking. Let us examine the points
in which it varies from pure democracy, and we shall

The Federalist 75

comprehend both the nature of the cure and the
efficacy which it must derive from the Union.

The two great points of difference between a de
mocracy and a republic are: first, the delegation of
the government, in the latter, to a small number of
citizens elected by the rest; secondly, the greater
number of citizens, and greater sphere of country,
over which the latter may be extended.

The effect of the first difference is, on the one hand,
to refine and enlarge the public views, by passing
them through the medium of a chosen body of citi
zens, whose wisdom may best discern the true in
terest of their country, and whose patriotism and
love of justice will be least likely to sacrifice it to
temporary or partial considerations. Under such a
regulation, it may well happen that the public voice,
pronounced by the representatives of the people, will
be more consonant to the public good than if pro
nounced by the people themselves, convened for the
purpose. On the other hand, the effect may be
inverted. Men of factious tempers, of local preju
dices, or of sinister designs, may, by intrigue, by
corruption, or by other means, first obtain the
suffrages, and then betray the interests, of the
people. The question resulting is, whether small
or extensive republics are more favorable to the
election of proper guardians of the public weal; and
it is clearly decided in favor of the latter by two
obvious considerations:

In the first place, it is to be remarked that, how
ever small the republic may be, the representatives
must be raised to a certain number, in order to guard

76 Alexander Hamilton

against the cabals of a few; and that, however large
it may be, they must be limited to a certain number,
in order to guard against the confusion of a multi
tude. Hence, the number of representatives in the
two cases not being in proportion to that of the
two constituents, and being proportionally greater
in the small republic, it follows that, if the propor
tion of fit characters be not less in the large than in
the small republic, the former will present a greater
option, and consequently a greater probability of a
fit choice.

In the next place, as each representative will be
chosen by a greater number of citizens in the large
than in the small republic, it will be more difficult
for unworthy candidates to practise with success the
vicious arts by which elections are too often carried;
and the suffrages of the people being more free, will
be more likely to centre in men who possess the most
attractive merit and the most diffusive and estab
lished characters.

It must be confessed that in this, as in most other
cases, there is a mean, on both sides of which in
conveniences will be found to lie. By enlarging too
much the number of electors, you render the repre
sentative too little acquainted with all their local
circumstances and lesser interests; as by reducing it
too much, you render him unduly attached to these,
and too little fit to comprehend and pursue great
and national objects. The federal Constitution forms
a happy combination in this respect; the great and
aggregate interests being referred to the national,
the local and particular to the State legislatures.

The Federalist 77

The other point of difference is, the greater num
ber of citizens and extent of territory which may be
brought within the compass of republican than of
democratic government; and it is this circumstance
principally which renders factious combinations less
to be dreaded in the former than in the latter. The
smaller the society, the fewer probably will be the
distinct parties and interests composing it ; the fewer
the distinct parties and interests, the more fre
quently will a majority be found of the same party ;
and the smaller the number of individuals compos
ing a majority, and the smaller the compass within
which they are placed, the more easily will they
concert and execute their plans of oppression. Ex
tend the sphere, and you take in a greater variety of
parties and interests ; you make it less probable that
a majority of the whole will have a common motive
to invade the rights of other citizens; or if such a
common motive exists, it will be more difficult for
all who feel it to discover their own strength, and to
act in unison with each other. Besides other im
pediments, it may be remarked that, where there is
a consciousness of unjust or dishonorable purposes,
communication is always checked by distrust in
proportion to the number whose concurrence is
necessary.

Hence, it clearly appears, that the same advan
tage which a republic has over a democracy, in con
trolling the effects of faction, is enjoyed by a large
over a small republic, — is enjoyed by the Union over
the States composing it. Does the advantage con
sist in the substitution of representatives whose

78 Alexander Hamilton

enlightened views and virtuous sentiments render
them superior to local prejudices and to schemes of
injustice? It will not be denied that the representa
tion of the Union will be most likely to possess these
requisite endowments. Does it consist in the greater
security afforded by a greater variety of parties,
against the event of any one party being able to out
number and oppress the rest? In an equal degree
does the increased variety of parties comprised within
the Union, increase this security? Does it, in fine,
consist in the greater obstacles opposed to the con
cert and accomplishment of the secret wishes of an
unjust and interested majority? Here, again, the
extent of the Union gives it the most palpable ad
vantage.

The influence of factious leaders may kindle a
flame within their particular States, but will be un
able to spread a general conflagration through the
other States. A religious sect may degenerate into
a political faction in a part of the Confederacy; but
the variety of sects dispersed over the entire face
of it must secure the national councils against any
danger from that source. A rage for paper money,
for an abolition of debts, for an equal division of
property, or for any other improper or wicked pro
ject, will be less apt to pervade the whole body of
the Union than a particular member of it; in the
same proportion as such a malady is more likely to
taint a particular county or district, than an entire
State.

In the extent and proper structure of the Union,
therefore, we behold a republican remedy for the

The Federalist 79

diseases most incident to republican government.
And according to the degree of pleasure and pride
we feel in being republicans, ought to be our zeal in
cherishing the spirit and supporting the character of
Federalists.

PUBLIUS.

For the Independent Journal

THE FEDERALIST. No. XI

(HAMILTON)

To the People of the State of New York:

The importance of the Union, in a commercial
light, is one of those points about which there is
least room to entertain a difference of opinion, and
which has, in fact, commanded the most general as
sent of men who have any acquaintance with the
subject. This applies as well to our intercourse with
foreign countries as with each other.

There are appearances to authorize a supposition
that the adventurous spirit, which distinguishes the
commercial character of America, has already ex
cited uneasy sensations in several of the maritime
powers of Europe. They seem to be apprehensive
of our too great interference in that carrying trade,
which is the support of their navigation and the
foundation of their naval strength. Those of them
which have colonies in America look forward to
what this country is capable of becoming, with
painful solicitude. They foresee the dangers that
may threaten their American dominions from the

8o Alexander Hamilton

neighborhood of States, which have all the disposi
tions, and would possess all the means, requisite to
the creation of a powerful marine. Impressions of
this kind will naturally indicate the policy of foster
ing divisions among us, and of depriving us, as far
as possible, of an ACTIVE COMMERCE in our own bot
toms. This would answer the threefold purpose of
preventing our interference in their navigation, of
monopolizing the profits of our trade, and of clipping
the wings by which we might soar to a dangerous
greatness. Did not prudence forbid the detail, it
would not be difficult to trace, by facts, the workings
of this policy to the cabinets of ministers.

If we continue united, we may counteract a policy
so unfriendly to our prosperity in a variety of ways.
By prohibitory regulations, extending, at the same
time, throughout the States, we may oblige foreign
countries to bid against each other, for the privileges
of our markets. This assertion will not appear
chimerical to those who are able to appreciate the
importance of the markets of three millions of people
— increasing in rapid progression, for the most part
exclusively addicted to agriculture, and likely from
local circumstances to remain so — to any manufac
turing nation; and the immense difference there
would be to the trade and navigation of such a na
tion, between a direct communication in its own
ships, and an indirect conveyance of its products and
returns, to and from America, in the ships of another
country. Suppose, for instance, we had a govern
ment in America, capable of excluding Great Britain
(with whom we have at present no treaty of com-

The Federalist 81

merce) from all our ports ; what would be the prob
able operation of this step upon her politics ? Would
it not enable us to negotiate, with the fairest pros
pect of success, for commercial privileges of the most
valuable and extensive kind, in the dominions of that
kingdom? When these questions have been asked,
upon other occasions, they have received a plausible,
but not a solid or satisfactory answer. It has been
said that prohibitions on our part would produce no
change in the system of Britain, because she could
prosecute her trade with us through the medium of
the Dutch, who would be her immediate customers
and paymasters for those articles which were wanted
for the supply of our markets. But would not her
navigation be materially injured by the loss of the
important advantage of being her own carrier in
that trade? Would not the principal part of its
profits be intercepted by the Dutch, as a compensa
tion for their agency and risk? Would not the mere
circumstance of freight occasion a considerable de
duction? Would not so circuitous an intercourse
facilitate the competitions of other nations, by en
hancing the price of British commodities in our
markets, and by transferring to other hands the
management of this interesting branch of the British
commerce?

A mature consideration of the objects suggested
by these questions will justify a belief that the real
disadvantages to Britain from such a state of things,
conspiring with the prepossessions of a great part of
the nation in favor of the American trade, and of
the importunities of the West India islands, would

VOL. XI. — 6.

82 Alexander Hamilton

produce a relaxation in her present system, and would
let us into the enjoyment of privileges in the markets
of those islands and elsewhere, from which our trade
would derive the most substantial benefits. Such
a point gained from the British government, and
which could not be expected without an equivalent
in exemptions and immunities in our markets, would
be likely to have a correspondent effect on the con
duct of other nations, who would not be inclined to
see themselves altogether supplanted in our trade.

A further resource for influencing the conduct of
European nations toward us, in this respect, would
arise from the establishment of a federal navy.
There can be no doubt that the continuance of the
Union under an efficient government, would put it
in our power, at a period not very distant, to create
a navy which, if it could not vie with those of the
great maritime powers, would at least be of respect
able weight if thrown into the scale of either of two
contending parties. This would be more peculiarly
the case in relation to operations in the West Indies.
A few ships of the line, sent opportunely to the re
inforcement of either side, would often be sufficient
to decide the fate of a campaign, on the event of
which interests of the greatest magnitude were sus
pended. Our position is, in this respect, a most
commanding one. And if to this consideration we
add that of the usefulness of supplies from this
country, in the prosecution of military operations in
the West Indies, it will readily be perceived that a
situation so favorable would enable us to bargain
with great advantage for commercial privileges. A

The Federalist 83

price would be set not only upon our friendship, but
upon our neutrality. By a steady adherence to the
Union, we may hope, erelong, to become the arbiter
of Europe in America, and to be able to incline the
balance of European competitions in this part of the
world as our interest may dictate.

But in the reverse of this eligible situation, we
shall discover that the rivalships of the parts would
make them checks upon each other, and would frus
trate all the tempting advantages which nature has
kindly placed within our reach. In a state so in
significant our commerce would be a prey to the
wanton intermeddlings of all nations at war with
each other; who, having nothing to fear from us,
would with little scruple or remorse supply their
wants by depredations on our property as often as
it fell in their way. The rights of neutrality will
only be respected when they are defended by an
adequate power. A nation, despicable by its weak
ness, forfeits even the privilege of being neutral.

Under a vigorous national government, the nat
ural strength and resources of the country, directed
to a common interest, would baffle all the combina
tions of European jealousy to restrain our growth.
This situation would even take away the motive to
such combinations, by inducing an impracticability
of success. An active commerce, an extensive navi
gation, and a flourishing marine would then be
the offspring of moral and physical necessity. We
might defy the little arts of the little politicians to
control or vary the irresistible and unchangeable
course of nature.

84 Alexander Hamilton

But in a state of disunion, these combinations
might exist and might operate with success. It
would be in the power of the maritime nations,
availing themselves of our universal impotence, to
prescribe the conditions of our political existence;
and as they have a common interest in being our
carriers, and still more in preventing our becoming
theirs, they would in all probability combine to em
barrass our navigation in such a manner as would in
effect destroy it, and confine us to a PASSIVE COM
MERCE. We should then be compelled to content
ourselves with the first price of our commodities,
and to see the profits of our trade snatched from us
to enrich our enemies and persecutors. That un
equalled spirit of enterprise, which signalizes the
genius of the American merchants and navigators,
and which is in itself an inexhaustible mine of na
tional wealth, would be stifled and lost, and poverty
and disgrace would overspread a country which, with
wisdom, might make herself the admiration and envy
of the world.

There are rights of great moment to the trade of
America which are rights of the Union — I allude to
the fisheries, to the navigation of the Western lakes,
and to that of the Mississippi. The dissolution of
the Confederacy would give room for delicate ques
tions concerning the future existence of these rights;
which the interest of more powerful partners would
hardly fail to solve to our disadvantage. The dis
position of Spain with regard to the Mississippi needs
no comment. France and Britain are concerned
with us in the fisheries, and view them as of the ut-

The Federalist 85

most moment to their navigation. They, of course,
would hardly remain long indifferent to that decided
mastery, of which experience has shown us to be
possessed in this valuable branch of traffic, and by
which we are able to undersell those nations in their
own markets. What more natural than that they
should be disposed to exclude from the lists such
dangerous competitors?

This branch of trade ought not to be considered
as a partial benefit. All the navigating States may,
in different degrees, advantageously participate in
it, and under circumstances of a greater extension
of mercantile capital, would not be unlikely to do it.
As a nursery of seamen, it now is, or, when time
shall have more nearly assimilated the principles of
navigation in the several States, will become, a
universal resource. To the establishment of a navy,
it must be indispensable.

To this great national object, a NAVY, union will
contribute in various ways. Every institution will
grow and flourish in proportion to the quantity and
extent of the means concentred towards its forma
tion and support. A navy of the United States, as
it would embrace the resources of all, is an object
far less remote than a navy of any single State or
partial confederacy, which would only embrace the
resources of a single part. It happens, indeed, that
different portions of confederated America possess
each some peculiar advantage for this essential es
tablishment. The more southern States furnish in
greater abundance certain kinds of naval stores
— tar, pitch, and turpentine. Their wood for the

86 Alexander Hamilton

construction of ships is also of a more solid and lasting
texture. The difference in the duration of the ships
of which the navy might be composed, if chiefly con
structed of Southern wood, would be of signal im
portance, either in the view of naval strength or of
national economy. Some of the Southern and of
the Middle States yield a greater plenty of iron, and
of better quality. Seamen must chiefly be drawn
from the Northern hive. The necessity of naval
protection to external or maritime commerce does
not require a particular elucidation, no more than
the conduciveness of that species of commerce to the
prosperity of a navy.

An unrestrained intercourse between the States
themselves will advance the trade of each by an in
terchange of their respective productions, not only
for the supply of reciprocal wants at home, but for
exportation to foreign markets. The veins of com
merce in every part will be replenished, and will
acquire additional motion and vigor from a free cir
culation of the commodities of every part. Com
mercial enterprise will have much greater scope,
from the diversity in the productions of different
States. When the staple of one fails from a bad
harvest or unproductive crop, it can call to its aid
the staple of another. The variety, not less than
the value, of products for exportation contributes
to the activity of foreign commerce. It can be con
ducted upon much better terms with a large number
of materials of a given value than with a small num
ber of materials of the same value; arising from the
competitions of trade and from the fluctuations of

The Federalist 87

markets. Particular articles may be in great de
mand at certain periods, and unsalable at others;
but if there be a variety of articles, it can scarcely
happen that they should all be at one time in the
latter predicament, and on this account the opera
tions of the merchant would be less liable to 'any
considerable obstruction or stagnation. The specu
lative trader will at once perceive the force of these
observations, and will acknowledge that the aggre
gate balance of the commerce of the United States
would bid fair to be much more favorable than that
of the thirteen States without union or with partial
unions.

It may perhaps be replied to this, that whether the
States are united or disunited, there would still be
an intimate intercourse between them which would
answer the same ends; but this intercourse would be
fettered, interrupted, and narrowed by a multiplic
ity of causes, which in the course of these papers
have been amply detailed. A unity of commercial,
as well as political, interests, can only result from a
unity of government.

There are other points of view in which this sub
ject might be placed, of a striking and animating
kind. But they would lead us too far into the re
gions of futurity, and would involve topics not
proper for a newspaper discussion. I shall briefly
observe, that our situation invites and our interests
prompt us to aim at an ascendant in the system
of American affairs. The world may politically, as
well as geographically, be divided into four parts,
each having a distinct set of interests. Unhappily

88 Alexander Hamilton

for the other three, Europe, by her arms and by her
negotiations, by force and by fraud, has, in differ
ent degrees, extended her dominion over them all.
Africa, Asia, and America, have successively felt her
domination. The superiority she has long main
tained has tempted her to plume herself as the
Mistress of the World, and to consider the rest of
mankind as created for her benefit. Men admired as
profound philosophers have, in direct terms, attri
buted to her inhabitants a physical superiority, and
have gravely asserted that all animals, and with
them the human species, degenerate in America —
that even dogs cease to bark after having breathed
awhile in our atmosphere.1 Facts have too long
supported these arrogant pretensions of the Euro
peans. It belongs to us to vindicate the honor of
the human race, and to teach that assuming brother,
moderation. Union will enable us to do it. Dis
union will add another victim to his triumphs. Let
Americans disdain to be the instruments of European
greatness! Let the thirteen States, bound together
in a strict and indissoluble Union, concur in erecting
one great American system, superior to the control
of all transatlantic force or influence, and able to
dictate the terms of the connection between the old

and the new world!

PUBLIUS.

1 Recherches philosophiques sur les Amtricains. — PUBLIUS.

The Federalist 89

From the New York Packet, Tuesday, November 27, 1787

THE FEDERALIST. No. XII

(HAMILTON)

To the People of the State of New York:

The effects of Union upon the commercial prosper
ity of the States have been sufficiently delineated.
Its tendency to promote the interests of revenue will
be the subject of our present inquiry.

The prosperity of commerce is now perceived and
acknowledged by all enlightened statesmen to be the
most useful as well as the most productive source of
national wealth, and has accordingly become a pri
mary object of their political cares. By multiplying
the means of gratification, by promoting the intro
duction and circulation of the precious metals, those
darling objects of human avarice and enterprise, it
serves to vivify and invigorate the channels of in
dustry, and to make them flow with greater activity
and copiousness. The assiduous merchant, the la
borious husbandman, the active mechanic, and the
industrious manufacturer, — all orders of men, look
forward with eager expectation and growing alacrity
to this pleasing reward of their toils. The often-
agitated question between agriculture and com
merce has, from indubitable experience, received a
decision which has silenced the rivalship that once
subsisted between them, and has proved, to the satis
faction of their friends, that their interests are inti
mately blended and interwoven. It has been found
in various countries that, in proportion as com
merce has flourished, land has risen in value. And

90 Alexander Hamilton

how could it have happened otherwise? Could that
which procures a freer vent for the products of the
earth, which furnishes new incitements to the cul
tivation of land, which is the most powerful instru
ment in increasing the quantity of money in a state
— could that, in fine, which is the faithful handmaid
of labor and industry, in every shape, fail to augment
that article, which is the prolific parent of far the
greatest part of the objects upon which they are
exerted? It is astonishing that so simple a truth
should ever have had an adversary; and it is one,
among a multitude of proofs, how apt a spirit of ill-
informed jealousy, or of too great abstraction and
refinement, is to lead men astray from the plainest
truths of reason and conviction.

The ability of a country to pay taxes must always
be proportioned, in a great degree, to the quantity
of money in circulation, and to the celerity with
which it circulates. Commerce, contributing to
both these objects, must of necessity render the pay
ment of taxes easier, and facilitate the requisite sup
plies to the treasury. The hereditary dominions of
the Emperor of Germany contain a great extent of
fertile, cultivated, and populous territory, a large
proportion of which is situated in mild and luxuriant
climates. In some parts of this territory are to be
found the best gold and silver mines in Europe.
And yet, from the want of the fostering influence
of commerce, that monarch can boast but slender
revenues. He has several times been compelled to
owe obligations to the pecuniary succors of other
nations for the preservation of his essential inter-

The Federalist 91

ests, and is unable, upon the strength of his own re
sources, to sustain a long or continued war.

But it is not in this aspect of the subject alone
that Union will be seen to conduce to the purpose of
revenue. There are other points of view, in which
its influence will appear more immediate and deci
sive. It is evident from the state of the country,
from the habits of the people, from the experience
we have had on the point itself, that it is impractica
ble to raise any very considerable sums by direct
taxation. Tax laws have in vain been multiplied;
new methods to enforce the collection have in vain
been tried; the public expectation has been uni
formly disappointed, and the treasuries of the States
have remained empty. The popular system of ad
ministration inherent in the nature of popular gov
ernment, coinciding with the real scarcity of money
incident to a languid and mutilated state of trade,
has hitherto defeated every experiment for exten
sive collections, and has at length taught the different
legislatures the folly of attempting them.

No person acquainted with what happens in other
countries will be surprised at this circumstance. In
so opulent a nation as that of Britain, where direct
taxes from superior wealth must be much more
tolerable, and, from the vigor of the government,
much more practicable, than in America, far the
greatest part of the national revenue is derived from
taxes of the indirect kind, from imposts, and from
excises. Duties on imported articles form a large
branch of this latter description.

In America, it is evident that we must a long time

92 Alexander Hamilton

depend for the means of revenue chiefly on such duties.
In most parts of it, excises must be confined within
a narrow compass. The genius of the people will ill
brook the inquisitive and peremptory spirit of excise
laws. The pockets of the farmers, on the other hand,
will reluctantly yield but scanty supplies, in the un
welcome shape of impositions on their houses and
lands; and personal property is too precarious and
invisible a fund to be laid hold of in any other way
than by the imperceptible agency of taxes on con
sumption.

If these remarks have any foundation, that state
of things which will best enable us to improve and
extend so valuable a resource must be best adapted
to our political welfare. And it cannot admit of a
serious doubt, that this state of things must rest on
the basis of a general Union. As far as this would be
conducive to the interests of commerce, so far it must
tend to the extension of the revenue to be drawn from
that source. As far as it would contribute to ren
dering regulations for the collection of the duties
more simple and efficacious, so far it must serve to
answer the purposes of making the same rate of du
ties more productive, and of putting it into the power
of the government to increase the rate without
prejudice to trade.

The relative situation of these States; the number
of rivers with which they are intersected, and of bays
that wash their shores ; the facility of communication
in every direction; the affinity of language and man
ners; the familiar habits of intercourse; — all these
are circumstances that would conspire to render an

The Federalist 93

illicit trade between them a matter of little difficulty,
and would insure frequent evasions of the commer
cial regulations of each other. The separate States
or confederacies would be necessitated by mutual
jealousy to avoid the temptations to that kind of
trade by the lowness of their duties. The temper of
our governments, for a long time to come, would not
permit those rigorous precautions by which the
European nations guard the avenues into their re
spective countries, as well by land as by water ; and
which, even there, are found insufficient obstacles
to the adventurous stratagems of avarice.

In France, there is an army of patrols (as they are
called) constantly employed to secure their fiscal
regulations against the inroads of the dealers in con
traband trade. Mr. Neckar computes the number
of these patrols at upwards of twenty thousand.
This shows the immense difficulty in preventing that
species of traffic, where there is an inland communi
cation, and places in a strong light the disadvantages
with which the collection of duties in this country
would be encumbered, if by disunion the States
should be placed in a situation, with respect to each
other, resembling that of France with respect to
her neighbors. The arbitrary and vexatious powers
with which the patrols are necessarily armed, would
be intolerable in a free country.

If, on the contrary, there be but one government
pervading all the States, there will be, as to the prin
cipal part of our commerce, but ONE SIDE to guard —
the ATLANTIC COAST. Vessels arriving directly from
foreign countries, laden with valuable cargoes, would

94 Alexander Hamilton

rarely choose to hazard themselves to the complicated
and critical perils which would attend attempts to
unlade prior to their coming into port. They would
have to dread both the dangers of the coast, and of
detection, as well after as before their arrival at the
places of their final destination. An ordinary de
gree of vigilance would be competent to the preven
tion of any material infractions upon the rights of
the revenue. A few armed vessels, judiciously sta
tioned at the entrances of our ports, might at a
small expense be made useful sentinels of the laws.
And the government having the same interest to pro
vide against violations everywhere, the co-operation
of its measures in each State would have a powerful
tendency to render them effectual. Here also we
should preserve, by Union, an advantage which na
ture holds out to us, and which would be relin
quished by separation. The United States lie at a
great distance from Europe, and at a considerable
distance from all other places with which they would
have extensive connections of foreign trade. The
passage from them to us, in a few hours, or in a
single night, as between the coasts of France and
Britain, and of other neighboring nations, would be
impracticable. This is a prodigious security against
a direct contraband with foreign countries; but a
circuitous contraband to one State, through the
medium of another, would be both easy and safe.
The difference between a direct importation from
abroad, and an indirect importation through the
channel of a neighboring State, in small parcels, ac
cording to time and opportunity, with the additional

The Federalist 95

facilities of inland communication, must be palpable
to every man of discernment.

It is therefore evident, that one national govern
ment would be able, at much less expense, to ex
tend the duties on imports, beyond comparison,
further than would be practicable to the States sepa
rately, or to any partial confederacies. Hitherto, I
believe, it may safely be asserted, that these duties
have not upon an average exceeded in any State
three per cent. In France they are estimated to be
about fifteen per cent., and in Britain they exceed
this proportion.1 There seems to be nothing to
hinder their being increased in this country to at
least treble their present amount. The single ar
ticle of ardent spirits, under federal regulation,
might be made to furnish a considerable revenue.
Upon a ratio to the importation into this State, the
whole quantity imported into the United States
may be estimated at four millions of gallons; which,
at a shilling per gallon, would produce two hundred
thousand pounds. That article would well bear this
rate of duty; and if it should tend to diminish the
consumption of it, such an effect would be equally
favorable to the agriculture, to the economy, to the
morals, and to the health of the society. There is,
perhaps, nothing so much a subject of national ex
travagance as these spirits.

What will be the consequence, if we are not able
to avail ourselves of the resource in question in its full
extent? A nation cannot long exist without reve
nues. Destitute of this essential support, it must

1 If my memory be right they amount to twenty per cent. — PUBLIUS.

96 Alexander Hamilton

resign its independence, and sink into the degraded
condition of a province. This is an extremity to
which no government will of choice accede. Reve
nue, therefore, must be had at all events. In this
country, if the principal part be not drawn from
commerce, it must fall with oppressive weight upon
land. It has been already intimated that excises,
in their true signification, are too little in unison
with the feelings of the people, to admit of great use
being made of that mode of taxation; nor, indeed,
in the States where almost the sole employment is
agriculture, are the objects proper for excise suffi
ciently numerous to permit very ample collections
in that way. Personal estate (as has been before
remarked), from the difficulty in tracing it, cannot
be subjected to large contributions, by any other
means than by taxes on consumption. In populous
cities, it may be enough the subject of conjecture,
to occasion the oppression of individuals, without
much aggregate benefit to the State; but beyond
these circles, it must, in a great measure, escape the
eye and the hand of the tax-gatherer. As the neces
sities of the State, nevertheless, must be satisfied in
some mode or other, the defect of other resources
must throw the principal weight of public burdens on
the possessors of land. And as, on the other hand,
the wants of the government can never obtain an
adequate supply, unless all the sources of revenue are
open to its demands, the finances of the community,
under such embarrassments, cannot be put into a
situation consistent with its respectability or its se
curity. Thus we shall not even have the consola-

The Federalist 97

tions of a full treasury, to atone for the oppression of
that valuable class of the citizens who are employed
in the cultivation of the soil. But public and' pri
vate distress will keep pace with each other in
gloomy concert; and unite in deploring the infatua
tion of those counsels which led to disunion.

PUBLIUS.

For the Independent Journal

THE FEDERALIST. No. XIII

(HAMILTON)

To the People of the State of New York:

As connected with the subject of revenue, we
may with propriety consider that of economy. The
money saved from one object may be usefully ap
plied to another, and there will be so much the less
to be drawn from the pockets of the people. If the
States are united under one government, there will
be but one national civil list to support; if they are
divided into several confederacies, there will be as
many different national civil lists to be provided for
— and each of them, as to the principal departments,
coextensive with that which would be necessary for
a government of the whole. The entire separation
of the States into thirteen unconnected sovereignties
is a project too extravagant and too replete with
danger to have many advocates. The ideas of men
who speculate upon the dismemberment of the em
pire seem generally turned towards three confedera
cies — one consisting of the four Northern, another
of the four Middle, and a third of the five Southern

VOL. XI. — 7.

98 Alexander Hamilton

States. There is little probability that there would
be a greater number. According to this distribu
tion, each confederacy would comprise an extent of
territory larger than that of the kingdom of Great
Britain. No well-informed man will suppose that the
affairs of such a confederacy can be properly regu
lated by a government less comprehensive in its
organs or institutions than that which has been pro
posed by the convention. When the dimensions of
a State attain to a certain magnitude, it requires the
same energy of government and the same forms of
administration which are requisite in one of much
greater extent. This idea admits not of precise
demonstration, because there is no rule by which we
can measure the momentum of civil power necessary
to the government of any given number of individ
uals; but when we consider that the island of Brit
ain, nearly commensurate with each of the supposed
confederacies, contains about eight millions of peo
ple, and when we reflect upon the degree of authority
required to direct the passions of so large a society
to the public good, we shall see no reason to doubt
that the like portion of power would be sufficient to
perform the same task in a society far more numer
ous. Civil power, properly organized and exerted,
is capable of diffusing its force to a very great extent ;
and can, in a manner reproduce itself in every part
of a great empire by a judicious arrangement of sub
ordinate institutions.

The supposition that each confederacy into which
the States would be likely to be divided would re
quire a government not less comprehensive than the

The Federalist 99

one proposed, will be strengthened by another sup
position, more probable than that which presents us
with three confederacies as the alternative to a gen
eral Union. If we attend carefully to geographical
and commercial considerations, in conjunction with
the habits and prejudices of the different States, we
shall be led to conclude that in case of disunion they
will most naturally league themselves under two gov
ernments. The four Eastern States, from all the
causes that form the links of national sympathy and
connection, may with certainty be expected to
unite. New York, situated as she is, would never
be unwise enough to oppose a feeble and unsup
ported flank to the weight of that confederacy. There
are other obvious reasons that would facilitate her
accession to it. New Jersey is too small a State to
think of being a frontier, in opposition to this still
more powerful combination; nor do there appear
to be any obstacles to her admission into it. Even
Pennsylvania would have strong inducements to
join the Northern league. An active foreign com
merce, on the basis of her own navigation, is her true
policy, and coincides with the opinions and disposi
tions of her citizens. The more Southern States,
from various circumstances, may not think them
selves much interested in the encouragement of
navigation. They may prefer a system which would
give unlimited scope to all nations to be the carriers
as well as the purchasers of their commodities. Penn
sylvania may not choose to confound her interests in
a connection so adverse to her policy. As she must
at all events be a frontier, she may deem it most

ioo Alexander Hamilton

consistent with her safety to have her exposed side
turned towards the weaker power of the Southern,
rather than towards the stronger power of the
Northern, Confederacy. This would give her the
fairest chance to avoid being the Flanders of Amer
ica. Whatever may be the determination of Penn
sylvania, if the Northern Confederacy includes New
Jersey, there is no likelihood of more than one con
federacy to the south of that State.

Nothing can be more evident than that the thirteen
States will be able to support a national government
better than one half, or one third, or any number
less than the whole. This reflection must have great
weight in obviating that objection to the proposed
plan, which is founded on the principle of expense,
an objection, however, which, when we come to take
a nearer view of it, will appear in every light to stand
on mistaken ground.

If, in addition to the consideration of a plurality
of civil lists, we take into view the number of per
sons who must necessarily be employed to guard
the inland communication between the different con
federacies against illicit trade, and who in time will
infallibly spring up out of the necessities of revenue ;
and if we also take into view the military establish
ments which it has been shown would unavoidably
result from the jealousies and conflicts of the several
nations into which the States would be divided, we
shall clearly discover that a separation would be not
less injurious to the economy, than to the tranquil
lity, commerce, revenue, and liberty of every part.

PUBLIUS.

The Federalist 101

From the New York Packet, Friday, November 30, 1787

THE FEDERALIST. No. XIV

(MADISON)

To the People of the State of New York:

We have seen the necessity of the Union, as our
bulwark against foreign danger, as the conservator
of peace among ourselves, as the guardian of our
commerce and other common interests, as the only
substitute for those military establishments which
have subverted the liberties of the Old World, and
as the proper antidote for the diseases of faction,
which have proved fatal to other popular govern
ments, and of which alarming symptoms have been
betrayed by our own. All that remains, within this
branch of our inquiries, is to take notice of an objec
tion that may be drawn from the great extent of
country which the Union embraces. A few observa
tions on this subject will be the more proper, as it
is perceived that the adversaries of the new Con
stitution are availing themselves of the prevailing
prejudice with regard to the practicable sphere of
republican administration, in order to supply, by
imaginary difficulties, the want of those solid ob
jections which they endeavor in vain to find.

The error which limits republican government to
a narrow district has been unfolded and refuted in
preceding papers. I remark here only that it seems
to owe its rise and prevalence chiefly to the confound
ing of a republic with a democracy, applying to the
former reasonings drawn from the nature of the lat
ter. The true distinction between these forms was

iO2 Alexander Hamilton

also adverted to on a former occasion. It is, that in
a democracy, the people meet and exercise the gov
ernment in person ; in a republic, they assemble and
administer it by their representatives and agents. A
democracy, consequently, will be confined to a small
spot. A republic may be extended over a large
region.

To this accidental source of the error may be added
the artifice of some celebrated authors, whose wri
tings have had a great share in forming the mod
ern standard of political opinions. Being subjects
either of an absolute or limited monarchy, they have
endeavored to heighten the advantages, or palliate
the evils of those forms, by placing in comparison
the vices and defects of the republican, and by citing
as specimens of the latter the turbulent democracies
of ancient Greece and modern Italy. Under the
confusion of names, it has been an easy task to
transfer to a republic observations applicable to a
democracy only; and among others, the observa
tion that it can never be established but among a
small number of people, living within a small com
pass of territory.

Such a fallacy may have been the less perceived,
as most of the popular governments of antiquity
were of the democratic species; and even in modern
Europe, to which we owe the great principle of re
presentation, no example is seen of a government
wholly popular, and founded, at the same time,
wholly on that principle. If Europe has the merit
of discovering this great mechanical power in gov
ernment, by the simple agency of which the will of

The Federalist 103

the largest political body may be concentred, and its
force directed to any object which the public good
requires, America can claim the merit of making the
discovery the basis of unmixed and extensive re
publics. It is only to be lamented that any of her
citizens should wish to deprive her of the additional
merit of displaying its full efficacy in the establish
ment of the comprehensive system now under her
consideration.

As the natural limit of a democracy is that dis
tance from the central point which will just permit
the most remote citizens to assemble as often as
their public functions demand, and will include no
greater number than can join in those functions ; so
the natural limit of a republic is that distance from
the centre which will barely allow the representa
tives to meet as often as may be necessary for the
administration of public affairs. Can it be said that
the limits of the United States exceed this distance ?
It will not be said by those who recollect that the
Atlantic coast is the longest side of the Union, that
during the term of thirteen years, the representa
tives of the States have been almost continually
assembled, and that the members from the most
distant States are not chargeable with greater inter
missions of attendance than those from the States in
the neighborhood of Congress.

That we may form a juster estimate with regard to
this interesting subject, let us resort to the actual
dimensions of the Union. The limits, as fixed by
the treaty of peace, are: on the east the Atlantic, on
the south the latitude of thirty-one degrees, on the

IO4 Alexander Hamilton

west the Mississippi, and on the north an irregular
line running in some instances beyond the forty-
fifth degree, in others falling as low as the forty-
second. The southern shore of Lake Erie lies below
that latitude. Computing the distance between the
thirty-first and forty-fifth degrees, it amounts to
nine hundred and seventy -three common miles ; com
puting it from thirty-one to forty-two degrees, to
seven hundred and sixty-four miles and a half.
Taking the mean for the distance, the amount will
be eight hundred and sixty-eight miles and three
fourths. The mean distance from the Atlantic to
the Mississippi does not probably exceed seven hun
dred and fifty miles. On a comparison of this ex
tent with that of several countries in Europe, the
practicability of rendering our system commen
surate to it appears to be demonstrable. It is not a
great deal larger than Germany, where a diet repre
senting the whole empire is continually assembled;
or than Poland before the late dismemberment,
where another national diet was the depositary of
the supreme power. Passing by France and Spain,
we find that in Great Britain, inferior as it may be in
size, the representatives of the northern extremity
of the island have as far to travel to the national
council as will be required of those of the most re
mote parts of the Union.

Favorable asrthis view of the subject may be, some
observations remain which will place it in a light still
more satisfactory.

In the first place it is to be remembered that the
general government is not to be charged with the

The Federalist 105

whole power of making and administering laws. Its
jurisdiction is limited to certain enumerated objects,
which concern all the members of the republic, but
which are not to be attained by the separate provi
sions of any. The subordinate governments, which
can extend their care to all those other objects which
can be separately provided for, will retain their due
authority and activity. Were it proposed by the
plan of the Convention to abolish the governments
of the particular States, its adversaries would have
some ground for their objection; though it would
not be difficult to show that if they were abolished
the general government would be compelled, by the
principle of self-preservation, to reinstate them in
their proper jurisdiction.

A second observation to be made is that the im
mediate object of the federal Constitution is to
secure the union of the thirteen primitive States,
which we know to be practicable; and to add to
them such other States as may arise in their own
bosoms, or in their neighborhoods, which we cannot
doubt to be equally practicable. The arrangements
that may be necessary for those angles and fractions
of our territory which lie on our northwestern fron
tier, must be left to those whom further discoveries
and experience will render more equal to the task.

Let it be remarked, in the third place, that the in
tercourse throughout the Union will be facilitated
by new improvements. Roads will everywhere be
shortened, and kept in better order; accommoda
tions for travellers will be multiplied and meliorated;
an interior navigation on our eastern side will be

io6 Alexander Hamilton

opened throughout, or nearly throughout, the whole
extent of the thirteen States. The communication
between the Western and Atlantic districts, and
between different parts of each, will be rendered
more and more easy by those numerous canals with
which the beneficence of nature has intersected our
country, and which art finds it so little difficult to
connect and complete.

A fourth and still more important consideration is,
that as almost every State will, on one side or other,
be a frontier, and will thus find, in a regard to its
safety, an inducement to make some sacrifices for
the sake of the general protection; so the States
which lie at the greatest distance from the heart of
the Union, and which, of course, may partake least
of the ordinary circulation of its benefits, will be at
the same time immediately contiguous to foreign
nations, and will consequently stand, on particular
occasions, in greatest need of its strength and re
sources. It may be inconvenient for Georgia, or the
States forming our western or northeastern borders,
to send their representatives to the seat of govern
ment; but they would find it more so to struggle
alone against an invading enemy, or even to support
alone the whole expense of those precautions which
may be dictated by the neighborhood of continual
danger. If they should derive less benefit, there
fore, from the Union in some respects than the less
distant States, they will derive greater benefit from
it in other respects, and thus the proper equilibrium
will be maintained throughout.

I submit to you, my fellow-citizens, these con-

The Federalist 107

siderations, in full confidence that the good sense
which has so often marked your decisions will allow
them their due weight and effect; and that you will
never suffer difficulties, however formidable in ap
pearance, or however fashionable the error on which
they may be founded, to drive you into the gloomy
and perilous scene into which the advocates for dis
union would conduct you. Hearken not to the un
natural voice which tells you that the people of
America, knit together as they are by so many cords
of affection, can no longer live together as members of
the same family ; can no longer continue the mutual
guardians of their mutual happiness; can no longer
be fellow-citizens of one great, respectable, and
flourishing empire. Hearken not to the voice which
petulantly tells you that the form of government
recommended for your adoption is a novelty in the
political world; that it has never yet had a place
in the theories of the wildest projectors; that it
rashly attempts what it is impossible to accomplish.
No, my countrymen, shut your ears against this un
hallowed language. Shut your hearts against the
poison which it conveys; the kindred blood which
flows in the veins of American citizens, the mingled
blood which they have shed in defence of their
sacred rights, consecrate their Union, and excite
horror at the idea of their becoming aliens, rivals,
enemies. And if novelties are to be shunned, be
lieve me, the most alarming of all novelties, the most
wild of all projects, the most rash of all attempts, is
that of rending us in pieces, in order to preserve our
liberties and promote our happiness. But why is

io8 Alexander Hamilton

the experiment of an extended republic to be re
jected, merely because it may comprise what is new?
Is it not the glory of the people of America, that,
whilst they have paid a decent regard to the opinions
of former times and other nations, they have not
suffered a blind veneration for antiquity, for custom,
or for names, to overrule the suggestions of their
own good sense, the knowledge of their own situa
tion, and the lessons of their own experience? To
this manly spirit, posterity will be indebted for the
possession, and the world for the example, of the
numerous innovations displayed on the American
theatre, in favor of private rights and public happi
ness. Had no important step been taken by the
leaders of the Revolution for which a precedent
could not be discovered, no government established
of which an exact model did not present itself, the
people of the United States might, at this moment,
have been numbered among the melancholy victims
of misguided councils, must at best have been labor
ing under the weight of some of those forms which
have crushed the liberties of the rest of mankind.
Happily for America, happily, we trust, for the
whole human race, they pursued a new and more
noble course. They accomplished a revolution which
has no parallel in the annals of human society. They
reared the fabrics of governments which have no
model on the face of the globe. They formed the
design of a great Confederacy, which it is incumbent
on their successors to improve and perpetuate. If
their works betray imperfections, we wonder at the
fewness of them. If they erred most in the structure

The Federalist 109

of the Union, this was the work most difficult to be
executed; this is the work which has been new
modelled by the act of your convention, and it is
that act on which you are now to deliberate and to

decide.

PUBLIUS.

For the Independent Journal

THE FEDERALIST. No. XV

(HAMILTON)

To the People of the State of New York:

In the course of the preceding papers, I have en
deavored, my fellow-citizens, to place before you, in
a clear and convincing light, the importance of
Union to your political safety and happiness. I
have unfolded to you a complication of dangers to
which you would be exposed, should you permit
that sacred knot which binds the people of America
together to be severed or dissolved by ambition or
by avarice, by jealousy or by misrepresentation. In
the sequel of the inquiry through which I propose to
accompany you, the truths intended to be incul
cated will receive further confirmation from facts
and arguments hitherto unnoticed. If the road
over which you will still have to pass should in some
places appear to you tedious or irksome, you will re
collect that you are in quest of information on a
subject the most momentous which can engage the
attention of a free people, that the field through
which you have to travel is in itself spacious, and

no Alexander Hamilton

that the difficulties of the journey have been un
necessarily increased by the mazes with which soph
istry has beset the way. It will be my aim to remove
the obstacles from your progress in as compendious
a manner as it can be done, without sacrificing
utility to despatch.

In pursuance of the plan which I have laid down
for the discussion of the subject, the point next in
order to be examined is the "insufficiency of the
present Confederation to the preservation of the
Union/* It may perhaps be asked what need there
is of reasoning or proof to illustrate a position which
is not either controverted or doubted, to which the
understandings and feelings of all classes of men
assent and which in substance is admitted by the
opponents as well as by the friends of the new Con
stitution. It must in truth be acknowledged that,
however these may differ in other respects, they in
general appear to harmonize in this sentiment, at
least, that there are material imperfections in our na
tional system, and that something is necessary to be
done to rescue us from impending anarchy. The facts
that support this opinion are no longer objects of
speculation. They have forced themselves upon the
sensibility of the people at large, and have at length
extorted from those, whose mistaken policy has had
the principal share in precipitating the extremity at
which we are arrived, a reluctant confession of the
reality of those defects in the scheme of our federal
government, which have been long pointed out and
regretted by the intelligent friends of the Union.

We may indeed with propriety be said to have

The Federalist in

reached almost the last stage of national humiliation.
There is scarcely any thing that can wound the pride
or degrade the character of an independent nation
which we do not experience. Are there engage
ments to the performance of which we are held by
every tie respectable among men? These are the
subjects of constant and unblushing violation. Do
we owe debts to foreigners and to our own citizens
contracted in a time of imminent peril for the pre
servation of our political existence ? These remain
without any proper or satisfactory provision for
their discharge. Have we valuable territories and
important posts in the possession of a foreign power
which, by express stipulations, ought long since to
have been surrendered? These are still retained, to
the prejudice of our interests, not less than of our
rights. Are we in a condition to resent or to repel
the aggression? We have neither troops, nor treas
ury, nor government.1 Are we even in a condition
to remonstrate with dignity? The just imputations
on our own faith, in respect to the same treaty, ought
first to be removed. Are we entitled by nature and
compact to a free participation in the navigation of
the Mississippi? Spain excludes us from it. Is pub
lic credit an indispensable resource in time of public
danger? We seem to have abandoned its cause as
desperate and irretrievable. Is commerce of im
portance to national wealth? Ours is at the lowest
point of declension. Is respectability in the eyes of
foreign powers a safeguard against foreign encroach
ments? The imbecility of our government even

x "I mean for the Union." — PUBLIUS.

H2 Alexander Hamilton

forbids them to treat with us. Our ambassadors
abroad are the mere pageants of mimic sovereignty.
Is a violent and unnatural decrease in the value of
land a symptom of national distress? The price of
improved land in most parts of the country is much
lower than can be accounted for by the quantity of
waste land at market, and can only be fully ex
plained by that want of private and public con
fidence, which is so alarmingly prevalent among all
ranks, and which has a direct tendency to de
preciate property of every kind. Is private credit
the friend and patron of industry? That most use
ful kind which relates to borrowing and lending is
reduced within the narrowest limits, and this still
more from an opinion of insecurity than from the
scarcity of money. To shorten an enumeration of
particulars which can afford neither pleasure nor
instruction, it may in general be demanded, what
indication is there of national disorder, poverty, and
insignificance that could befall a community so pe
culiarly blessed with natural advantages as we are,
which does not form a part of the dark catalogue of
our public misfortunes?

This is the melancholy situation to which we have
been brought by those very maxims and counsels
which would now deter us from adopting the pro
posed Constitution; and which, not content with
having conducted us to the brink of a precipice, seem
resolved to plunge us into the abyss that awaits us
below. Here, my countrymen, impelled by every
motive that ought to influence an enlightened people,
let us make a firm stand for our safety, our tran-

The Federalist 113

quillity, our dignity, our reputation. Let us at last
break the fatal charm which has too long seduced us
from the paths of felicity and prosperity.

It is true, as has been before observed, that facts,
too stubborn to be resisted, have produced a species
of general assent to the abstract proposition that
there exist material defects in our national system;
but the usefulness of the concession, on the part of
the old adversaries of federal measures, is destroyed
by a strenuous opposition to a remedy, upon the
only principles that can give it a chance of success.
While they admit that the government of the United
States is destitute of energy, they contend against
conferring upon it those powers which are requisite
to supply that energy. They seem still to aim at
things repugnant and irreconcilable; at an aug
mentation of federal authority, without a diminu
tion of State authority ; at sovereignty in the Union,
and complete independence in the members. They
still, in fine, seem to cherish with blind devotion the
political monster of an imperium in imperio. This
renders a full display of the principal defects of the
Confederation necessary, in order to show that the
evils we experience do not proceed from minute or
partial imperfections, but from fundamental errors
in the structure of the building, which cannot be
amended otherwise than by an alteration in the first
principles and main pillars of the fabric.

The great and radical vice in the construction of
the existing Confederation is in the principle of
LEGISLATION for STATES or GOVERNMENTS,
in their CORPORATE or COLLECTIVE CAPA-

VOL. XI.— 8.

ii4 Alexander Hamilton

CITIES, and as contradistinguished from the IN
DIVIDUALS of which they consist. Though this
principle does not run through all the powers dele
gated to the Union, yet it pervades and governs
those on which the efficacy of the rest depends.
Except as to the rule of apportionment, the United
States has an indefinite discretion to make requisi
tions for men and money; but they have no au
thority to raise either, by regulations extending to
the individual citizens of America. The conse
quence of this is, that though in theory their
resolutions concerning those objects are laws, con
stitutionally binding on the members of the Union,
yet in practice they are mere recommendations which
the States observe or disregard at their option.

It is a singular instance of the capriciousness of
the human mind, that after all the admonitions we
have had from experience on this head, there should
still be found men who object to the new Constitu
tion, for deviating from a principle which has been
found the bane of the old, and which is in itself evi
dently incompatible with the idea of GOVERNMENT ; a
principle, in short, which, if it is to be executed at all,
must substitute the violent and sanguinary agency
of the sword to the mild influence of the magistracy.

There is nothing absurd or impracticable in the
idea of a league or alliance between independent na
tions for certain defined purposes precisely stated in
a treaty regulating all the details of time, place, cir
cumstance, and quantity; leaving nothing to future
discretion; and depending for its execution on the
good faith of the parties. Compacts of this kind

The Federalist 115

exist among all civilized nations, subject to the usual
vicissitudes of peace and war, of observance and non-
observance, as the interests or passions of the con
tracting powers dictate. In the early part of the
present century there was an epidemical rage in
Europe for this species of compacts, from which the
politicians of the times fondly hoped for benefits which
were never realized. With a view to establishing the
equilibrium of power and the peace of that part
of the world, all the resources of negotiation were
exhausted, and triple and quadruple alliances were
formed; but they were scarcely formed before they
were broken, giving an instructive but afflicting
lesson to mankind, how little dependence is to be
placed on treaties which have no other sanction
than the obligations of good faith, and which oppose
general considerations of peace and justice to the
impulse of any immediate interest or passion.

If the particular States in this country are dis
posed to stand in a similar relation to each other, and
to drop the project of a general DISCRETIONARY
SUPERINTENDENCE, the scheme would indeed be per
nicious, and would entail upon us all the mischiefs
which have been enumerated under the first head;
but it would have the merit of being, at least, con
sistent and practicable. Abandoning all views to
wards a confederate government, this would bring us
to a simple alliance offensive and defensive; and
would place us in a situation to be alternate friends
and enemies of each other, as our mutual jealousies
and rivalships, nourished by the intrigues of foreign
nations, should prescribe to us.

n6 Alexander Hamilton

But if we are unwilling to be placed in this perilous
situation; if we still will adhere to the design of a
national government, or, which is the same thing, of
a superintending power, under the direction of a com
mon council, we must resolve to incorporate into our
plan those ingredients which may be considered as
forming the characteristic difference between a
league and a government; we must extend the au
thority of the Union to the persons of the citizens,—
the only proper objects of government.

Government implies the power of making laws.
It is essential to the idea of a law, that it be attended
with a sanction; or, in other words, a penalty or
punishment for disobedience. If there be no pen
alty annexed to disobedience, the resolutions or
commands which pretend to be laws will, in fact,
amount to nothing more than advice or recommenda
tion. This penalty, whatever it may be, can only
be inflicted in two ways: by the agency of the courts
and ministers of justice, or by military force ; by the
COERCION of the magistracy, or by the COERCION of
arms. The first kind can evidently apply only to
men; the last kind must of necessity, be employed
against bodies politic, or communities, or States.
It is evident that there is no process of a court by
which the observance of the laws can, in the last
resort, be enforced. Sentences may be denounced
against them for violations of their duty; but these
sentences can only be carried into execution by the
sword. In an association where the general au
thority is confined to the collective bodies of the
communities that compose it, every breach of the

The Federalist 117

laws must involve a state of war; and military exe
cution must become the only instrument of civil
obedience. Such a state of things can certainly not
deserve the name of government, nor would any
prudent man choose to commit his happiness to it.
There was a time when we were told that breaches,
by the States, of the regulations of the federal au
thority were not to be expected; that a sense of
common interest would preside over the conduct of
the respective members, and would beget a full com
pliance with all the constitutional requisitions of the
Union. This language, at the present day, would
appear as wild as a great part of what we now hear
from the same quarter will be thought, when we
shall have received further lessons from that best
oracle of wisdom, experience. It at all times be
trayed an ignorance of the true springs by which
human conduct is actuated, and belied the original
inducements to the establishment of civil power.
Why has government been instituted at all? Be
cause the passions of men will not conform to the
dictates of reason and justice, without constraint.
Has it been found that bodies of men act with more
rectitude or greater disinterestedness than individ
uals? The contrary of this has been inferred by
all accurate observers of the conduct of mankind;
and the inference is founded upon obvious reasons.
Regard to reputation has a less active influence,
when the infamy of a bad action is to be divided
among a number, than when it is to fall singly upon
one. A spirit of faction, which is apt to mingle its
poison in the deliberations of all bodies of men, will

n8 Alexander Hamilton

often hurry the persons of whom they are composed
into improprieties and excesses, for which they would
blush in a private capacity.

In addition to all this, there is, in the nature of
sovereign power, an impatience of control, that dis
poses those who are invested with the exercise of it,
to look with an evil eye upon all external attempts to
restrain or direct its operations. From this spirit it
happens, that in every political association which is
formed upon the principle of uniting in a common
interest a number of lesser sovereignties, there will
be found a kind of eccentric tendency in the sub
ordinate or inferior orbs, by the operation of which
there will be a perpetual effort in each to fly off from
the common centre. This tendency is not difficult
to be accounted for. It has its origin in the love of
power. Power controlled or abridged is almost
always the rival and enemy of that power by which
it is controlled or abridged. This simple proposition
will teach us, how little reason there is to expect,
that the persons intrusted with the administration
of the affairs of the particular members of a con
federacy will at all times be ready, with perfect good-
humor, and an unbiassed regard to the public weal,
to execute the resolutions or decrees of the general
authority. The reverse of this results from the con
stitution of human nature.

If, therefore, the measures of the Confederacy
cannot be executed without the intervention of the
particular administrations, there will be little pro
spect of their being executed at all. The rulers of the
respective members, whether they have a constitu-

The Federalist 119

tional right to do it or not, will undertake to judge
of the propriety of the measures themselves. They
will consider the conformity of the thing proposed
or required to their immediate interests or aims;
the momentary conveniences or inconveniences that
would attend its adoption. All this will be done;
and in a spirit of interested and suspicious scrutiny,
without that knowledge of national circumstances
and reasons of state, which is essential to a right
judgment, and with that strong predilection in favor
of local objects, which can hardly fail to mislead the
decision. The same process must be repeated in
every member of which the body is constituted; and
the execution of the plans, framed by the councils of
the whole, will always fluctuate on the discretion
of the ill-informed and prejudiced opinion of every
part. Those who have been conversant in the pro
ceedings of popular assemblies; who have seen how
difficult it often is, where there is no exterior pres
sure of circumstances, to bring them to harmonious
resolutions on important points, will readily con
ceive how impossible it must be to induce a number
of such assemblies, deliberating at a distance from
each other, at different times, and under different
impressions, long to cooperate in the same views and
pursuits.

In our case, the concurrence of thirteen distinct
sovereign wills is requisite, under the Confederation,
to the complete execution of every important meas
ure that proceeds from the Union. It has happened
as was to have been foreseen. The measures of the
Union have not been executed; the delinquencies of

I2O Alexander Hamilton

the States have, step by step, matured themselves
to an extreme, which has, at length, arrested all the
wheels of the national government, and brought them
to an awful stand. Congress at this time scarcely
possess the means of keeping up the forms of ad
ministration, till the States can have time to agree
upon a more substantial substitute for the present
shadow of a federal government. Things did not
come to this desperate extremity at once. The
causes which have been specified produced at first
only unequal and disproportionate degrees of com
pliance with the requisitions of the Union. The
greater deficiencies of some States furnished the
pretext of example and the temptation of interest
to the complying, or to the least delinquent States.
Why should we do more in proportion than those
who are embarked with us in the same political voy
age? Why should we consent to bear more than
our proper share of the common burden? These
were suggestions which human selfishness could not
withstand, and which even speculative men, who
looked forward to remote consequences, could not,
without hesitation, combat. Each State, yielding
to the persuasive voice of immediate interest or
convenience, has successively withdrawn its sup
port, till the frail and tottering edifice seems ready
to fall upon our heads, and to crush us beneath its

ruins.

PUBLIUS.

The Federalist 121

From the New York Packet, Tuesday, December 4, 1787

THE FEDERALIST. No. XVI

(HAMILTON)

To the People of the State of New York:

The tendency of the principle of legislation for
States, or communities, in their political capacities,
as it has been exemplified by the experiment we
have made of it, is equally attested by the events
which have befallen all other governments of the
confederate kind, of which we have any account, in
exact proportion to its prevalence in those systems.
The confirmations of this fact will be worthy of a dis
tinct and particular examination. I shall content
myself with barely observing here, that of all the
confederacies of antiquity, which history has handed
down to us, the Lycian and Achaean leagues, as far
as there remain vestiges of them, appear to have
been most free from the fetters of that mistaken
principle, and were accordingly those which have
best deserved, and have most liberally received, the
applauding suffrages of political writers.

This exceptionable principle may, as truly as em
phatically, be styled the parent of anarchy: It has
been seen that delinquencies in the members of the
Union are its natural and necessary offspring; and
that whenever they happen, the only constitutional
remedy is force, and the immediate effect of the use
of it, civil war.

It remains to inquire how far so odious an engine
of government, in its application to us, would even
be capable of answering its end. If there should not

122 Alexander Hamilton

be a large army constantly at the disposal of the
national government it would either not be able to
employ force at all, or, when this could be done, it
would amount to a war between parts of the Con
federacy concerning the infractions of a league, in
which the strongest combination would be most
likely to prevail, whether it consisted of those who
supported or of those who resisted the general au
thority. It would rarely happen that the delin
quency to be redressed would be confined to a single
member, and if there were more than one who had
neglected their duty, similarity of situation would
induce them to unite for common defence. Inde
pendent of this motive of sympathy, if a large and
influential State should happen to be the aggressing
member, it would commonly have weight enough
with its neighbors to win over some of them as asso
ciates to its cause. Specious arguments of danger
to the common liberty could easily be contrived;
plausible excuses for the deficiencies of the party
could, without difficulty, be invented to alarm the
apprehensions, inflame the passions, and conciliate
the good-will, even of those States which were not
chargeable with any violation or omission of duty.
This would be the more likely to take place, as the
delinquencies of the larger members might be ex
pected sometimes to proceed from an ambitious pre
meditation in their rulers, with a view to getting rid
of all external control upon their designs of personal
aggrandizement , the better to effect which it is pre
sumable they would tamper beforehand with lead
ing individuals in the adjacent States. If associates

The Federalist 123

could not be found at home, recourse would be had
to the aid of foreign powers, who would seldom be
disinclined to encouraging the dissensions of a Con
federacy, from the firm union of which they had so
much to fear. When the sword is once drawn, the
passions of men observe no bounds of moderation.
The suggestions of wounded pride, the instigations
of irritated resentment, would be apt to carry the
States against which the arms of the Union were
exerted, to any extremes necessary to avenge the
affront or to avoid the disgrace of submission. The
first war of this kind would probably terminate in a
dissolution of the Union.

This may be considered as the violent death of the
Confederacy. Its more natural death is what we
now seem to be on the point of experiencing, if the
federal system be not speedily renovated in a more
substantial form. It is not probable, considering
the genius of this country, that the complying States
would often be inclined to support the authority of
the Union by engaging in a war against the non-
complying States. They would always be more
ready to pursue the milder course of putting them
selves upon an equal footing with the delinquent
members by an imitation of their example. And
the guilt of all would thus become the security of
all. Our past experience has exhibited the opera
tion of this spirit in its full light. There would, in
fact, be an insuperable difficulty in ascertaining
when force could with propriety be employed. In
the article of pecuniary contribution, which would
be the most usual source of delinquency, it would

124 Alexander Hamilton

often be impossible to decide whether it had pro
ceeded from disinclination or inability. The pre
tence of the latter would always be at hand. And
the case must be very flagrant in which its fallacy
could be detected with sufficient certainty to justify
the harsh expedient of compulsion. It is easy to
see that this problem alone, as often as it should
occur, would open a wide field for the exercise of
factious views, of partiality, and of oppression, in
the majority that happened to prevail in the na
tional council.

It seems to require no pains to prove that the
States ought not to prefer a national Constitution
which could only be kept in motion by the instru
mentality of a large army continually on foot to
execute the ordinary requisitions or decrees of the
government. And yet this is the plain alternative
involved by those who wish to deny it the power
of extending its operations to individuals. Such a
scheme, if practicable at all, would instantly degen
erate into a military despotism; but it will be found
in every light impracticable. The resources of the
Union would not be equal to the maintenance of an
army considerable enough to confine the larger
States within the limits of their duty; nor would
the means ever be furnished of forming such an
army in the first instance. Whoever considers the
populousness and strength of several of these States
singly at the present juncture, and looks forward to
what they will become, even at the distance of half
a century, will at once dismiss as idle and visionary
any scheme which aims at regulating their move-

The Federalist 125

ments by laws to operate upon them in their collect
ive capacities, and to be executed by a coercion
applicable to them in the same capacities. A pro
ject of this kind is little less romantic than the
monster-taming spirit which is attributed to the
fabulous heroes and demi-gods of antiquity.

Even in those confederacies which have been com
posed of members smaller than many of our counties,
the principle of legislation for sovereign States, sup
ported by military coercion, has never been found
effectual. It has rarely been attempted to be em
ployed, but against the weaker members; and in
most instances attempts to coerce the refractory and
disobedient have been the signals of bloody wars,
in which one half of the confederacy has displayed
its banners against the other half.

The result of these observations to an intelligent
mind must be clearly this, that if it be possible at
any rate to construct a federal government capable
of regulating the common concerns and preserving
the general tranquillity, it must be founded, as to
the objects committed to its care, upon the reverse
of the principle contended for by the opponents of
the proposed Constitution. It must carry its agency
to the persons of the citizens. It must stand in
need of no intermediate legislations; but must itself
be empowered to employ the arm of the ordinary
magistrate to execute its own resolutions. The
majesty of the national authority must be mani
fested through the medium of the courts of justice.
The government of the Union, like that of each
State, must be able to address itself immediately to

126 Alexander Hamilton

the hopes and fears of individuals; and to attract
to its support those passions which have the strong
est influence upon the human heart. It must, in
short, possess all the means, and have a right to
resort to all the methods, of executing the powers
with which it is intrusted, that are possessed and
exercised by the governments of the particular
States.

To this reasoning it may perhaps be objected, that
if any State should be disaffected to the authority
of the Union, it could at any time obstruct the exe
cution of its laws, and bring the matter to the same
issue of force, with the necessity of which the oppo
site scheme is reproached.

The plausibility of this objection will vanish the
moment we advert to the essential difference be
tween a mere NON-COMPLIANCE and a DIRECT and
ACTIVE RESISTANCE. If the interposition of the
State legislatures be necessary to give effect to a
measure of the Union, they have only NOT TO ACT,
or to ACT EVASIVELY, and the measure is defeated.
This neglect of duty may be disguised under affected
but unsubstantial provisions, so as not to appear,
and of course not to excite any alarm in the people
for the safety of the Constitution. The State lead
ers may even make a merit of their surreptitious
invasions of it on the ground of some temporary
convenience, exemption, or advantage.

But if the execution of the laws of the national
government should not require the intervention of
the State legislatures, if they were to pass into
immediate operation upon the citizens themselves,

The Federalist 127

the particular governments could not interrupt
their progress without an open and violent exertion
of an unconstitutional power. No omissions nor
evasions would answer the end. They would be
obliged to act, and in such a manner as would leave
no doubt that they had encroached on the national
rights. An experiment of this nature would always
be hazardous in the face of a constitution in any
degree competent to its own defence, and of a people
enlightened enough to distinguish between a legal
exercise and an illegal usurpation of authority. The
success of it would require not merely a factious
majority in the legislature, but the concurrence of
the courts of justice and of the body of the people.
If the judges were not embarked in a conspiracy
with the legislature, they would pronounce the
resolutions of such a majority to be contrary to the
supreme law of the land, unconstitutional, and void.
If the people were not tainted with the spirit of their
State representatives, they, as the natural guardians
of the Constitution, would throw their weight into
the national scale and give it a decided preponder-
ancy in the contest. Attempts of this kind would
not often be made with levity or rashness, because
they could seldom be made without danger to the
authors, unless in cases of a tyrannical exercise of
the federal authority.

If opposition to the national government should
arise from the disorderly conduct of refractory or
seditious individuals, it could be overcome by the
same means which are daily employed against the
same evil under the State governments. The magis-

128 Alexander Hamilton

tracy, being equally the ministers of the law of the
land, from whatever source it might emanate, would
doubtless be as ready to guard the national as the
local regulations from the inroads of private licen
tiousness. As to those partial commotions and in
surrections, which sometimes disquiet society, from
the intrigues of an inconsiderable faction, or from
sudden or occasional ill-humors that do not infect
the great body of the community, the general gov
ernment could command more extensive resources
for the suppression of disturbances of that kind
than would be in the power of any single member.
And as to those mortal feuds which, in certain con
junctures, spread a conflagration through a whole
nation, or through a very large proportion of it,
proceeding either from weighty causes of discontent
given by the government or from the contagion of
some violent popular paroxysm, they do not fall
within any ordinary rules of calculation. When
they happen, they commonly amount to revolutions
and dismemberments of empire. No form of govern
ment can always either avoid or control them. It
is in vain to hope to guard against events too mighty
for human foresight or precaution, and it would be
idle to object to a government because it could not
perform impossibilities.

PUBLIUS.

The Federalist 129

For the Independent Journal

THE FEDERALIST. No. XVII

(HAMILTON)

To the People of the State of New York:

An objection, of a nature different from that
which has been stated and answered, in my last
address, may perhaps be likewise urged against the
principle of legislation for the individual citizens of
America. It may be said that it would tend to
render the government of the Union too powerful,
and to enable it to absorb those residuary authori
ties, which it might be judged proper to leave with
the States for local purposes. Allowing the utmost
latitude to the love of power which any reasonable
man can require, I confess I am at a loss to discover
what temptation the persons intrusted with the ad
ministration of the general government could ever
feel to divest the States of the authorities of that
description. The regulation of the mere domestic
police of a State appears to me to hold out slender
allurements to ambition. Commerce, finance, ne
gotiation, and war seem to comprehend all the
objects which have charms for minds governed by
that passion; and all the powers necessary to those
objects ought, in the first instance, to be lodged
in the national depository. The administration of
private justice between the citizens of the same
State, the supervision of agriculture and of other
concerns of a similar nature, all those things, in
short, which are proper to be provided for by local
legislation, can never be desirable cares of a general

VOL. xi.— g.

130 Alexander Hamilton

jurisdiction. It is therefore improbable that there
should exist a disposition in the federal councils to
usurp the powers with which they are connected;
because the attempt to exercise those powers would
be as troublesome as it would be nugatory; and the
possession of them, for that reason, would contribute
nothing to the dignity, to the importance, or to the
splendor of the national government.

But let it be admitted, for argument's sake, that
mere wantonness and lust of domination would be
sufficient to beget that disposition; still it may be
safely affirmed, that the sense of the constituent body
of the national representatives, or, in other words,
the people of the several States, would control the
indulgence of so extravagant an appetite. It will
always be far more easy for the State governments
to encroach upon the national authorities, than for
the national government to encroach upon the State
authorities. The proof of this proposition turns
upon the greater degree of influence which the State
governments, if they administer their affairs with
uprightness and prudence, will generally possess
over the people; a circumstance which at the same
time teaches us that there is an inherent and in
trinsic weakness in all federal constitutions; and
that too much pains cannot be taken in their or
ganization, to give them all the force which is com
patible with the principles of liberty.

The superiority of influence in favor of the par
ticular governments would result partly from the
diffusive construction of the national government,
but chiefly from the nature of the objects to which

The Federalist 131

the attention of the State administrations would be
directed.

It is a known fact in human nature, that its affec
tions are commonly weak in proportion to the dis
tance or diffusiveness of the object. Upon the
same principle that a man is more attached to his
family than to his neighborhood, to his neighbor
hood than to the community at large, the people of
each State would be apt to feel a stronger bias
towards their local governments than towards the
government of the Union; unless the force of that
principle should be destroyed by a much better ad
ministration of the latter.

This strong propensity of the human heart would
find powerful auxiliaries in the objects of State
regulation.

The variety of more minute interests, which will
necessarily fall under the superintendence of the
local administrations, and which will form so many
rivulets of influence, running through every part of
the society, cannot be particularized, without in
volving a detail too tedious and uninteresting to
compensate for the instruction it might afford.

There is one transcendent advantage belonging
to the province of the State governments, which
alone suffices to place the matter in a clear and
satisfactory light, — I mean the ordinary adminis
tration of criminal and civil justice. This, of all
others, is the most powerful, most universal, and
most attractive source of popular obedience and
attachment. It is that which, being the immediate
and visible guardian of life and property, having its

132 Alexander Hamilton

benefits and its terrors in constant activity before
the public eye, regulating all those personal interests
and familiar concerns to which the sensibility of in
dividuals is more immediately awake, contributes,
more than any other circumstance, to impressing
upon the minds of the people, affection, esteem, and
reverence towards the government. This great
cement of society, which will diffuse itself almost
wholly through the channels of the particular gov
ernments, independent of all other causes of influ
ence, would insure them so decided an empire over
their respective citizens as to render them at all
times a complete counterpoise, and, not unfre-
quently, dangerous rivals to the power of the Union.

The operations of the national government, on the
other hand, falling less immediately under the ob
servation of the mass of the citizens, the benefits
derived from it will chiefly be perceived and at
tended to by speculative men. Relating to more
general interests, they will be less apt to come home
to the feelings of the people; and, in proportion,
less likely to inspire an habitual sense of obligation,
and an active sentiment of attachment.

The reasoning on this head has been abundantly
exemplified by the experience of all federal constitu
tions with which we are acquainted, and of all others
which have borne the least analogy to them.

Though the ancient feudal systems were not,
strictly speaking, confederacies, yet they partook of
the nature of that species of association. There was
a common head, chieftain, or sovereign, whose au
thority extended over the whole nation ; and a num-

The Federalist 133

her of subordinate vassals, or feudatories, who had
large portions of land allotted to them, and numer
ous trains of inferior vassals or retainers, who occu
pied and cultivated that land upon the tenure of
fealty or obedience to the persons of whom they
held it. Each principal vassal was a kind of sover
eign within his particular demesnes. The conse
quences of this situation were a continual opposition
to the authority of the sovereign, and frequent wars
between the great barons or chief feudatories them
selves. The power of the head of the nation was
commonly too weak, either to preserve the public
peace, or to protect the people against the oppres
sions of their immediate lords. This period of Euro
pean affairs is emphatically styled by historians, the
times of feudal anarchy.

When the sovereign happened to be a man of
vigorous and warlike temper and of superior abilities,
he would acquire a personal weight and influence,
which answered, for the time, the purposes of a more
regular authority. But in general, the power of the
barons triumphed over that of the prince; and in
many instances his dominion was entirely thrown
off, and the great fiefs were erected into independent
principalities or States. In those instances in which
the monarch finally prevailed over his vassals, his
success was chiefly owing to the tyranny of those
vassals over their dependents. The barons, or
nobles, equally the enemies of the sovereign and the
oppressors of the common people, were dreaded and
detested by both; till mutual danger and mutual
interest effected a union between them fatal to the

134 Alexander Hamilton

power of the aristocracy. Had the nobles, by a
conduct of clemency and justice, preserved the
fidelity and devotion of their retainers and followers,
the contests between them and the prince must
almost always have ended in their favor, and in the
abridgment or subversion of the royal authority.

This is not an assertion founded merely in specu
lation or conjecture. Among other illustrations of
its truth which might be cited, Scotland will furnish
a cogent example. The spirit of clanship which
was, at an early day, introduced into that kingdom,
uniting the nobles and their dependents by ties
equivalent to those of kindred, rendered the aris
tocracy a constant overmatch for the power of the
monarch, till the incorporation with England sub
dued its fierce and ungovernable spirit, and reduced
it within those rules of subordination which a more
rational and more energetic system of civil polity
had previously established in the latter kingdom.

The separate governments in a confederacy may
aptly be compared with the feudal baronies; with
this advantage in their favor, that from the reasons
already explained, they will generally possess the
confidence and good-will of the people, and with so
important a support, will be able effectually to op
pose all encroachments of the national government.
It will be well if they are not able to counteract its
legitimate and necessary authority. The points of
similitude consist in the rivalship of power, applic
able to both, and in the CONCENTRATION of large
portions of the strength of the community into par
ticular DEPOSITS, in one case at the disposal of indi-

The Federalist 135

viduals, in the other case at the disposal of political
bodies.

A concise review of the events that have attended
confederate governments will further illustrate this
important doctrine; an inattention to which has
been the great source of our political mistakes, and
has given our jealousy a direction to the wrong side.
This review shall form the subject of some ensuing
papers.

PUBLIUS.

For the Independent Journal

THE FEDERALIST. No. XVIII

(HAMILTON AND MADISON)

To the People of the State of New York:

Among the confederacies of antiquity, the most
considerable was that of the Grecian republics, asso
ciated under the Amphictyonic council. From the
best accounts transmitted of this celebrated institu
tion, it bore a very instructive analogy to the present
Confederation of the American States.

The members retained the character of inde
pendent and sovereign states, and had equal votes in
the federal council. This council had a general au
thority to propose and resolve whatever it judged
necessary for the common welfare of Greece; to de
clare and carry on war; to decide, in the last resort,
all controversies between the members; to fine the
aggressing party; to employ the whole force of the
confederacy against the disobedient; to admit new

136 Alexander Hamilton

members. The Amphictyons were the guardians of
religion, and of the immense riches belonging to the
temple of Delphos, where they had the right of juris
diction in controversies between the inhabitants and
those who came to consult the oracle. As a further
provision for the efficacy of the federal powers, they
took an oath mutually to defend and protect the
united cities, to punish the violators of this oath, and
to inflict vengeance on sacrilegious despoilers of the
temple.

In theory, and upon paper, this apparatus of
powers seems amply sufficient for all general pur
poses. In several material instances, they exceed
the powers enumerated in the articles of confedera
tion. The Amphictyons had in their hands the
superstition of the times, one of the principal en
gines by which government was then maintained;
they had a declared authority to use coercion against
refractory cities, and were bound by oath to exert
this authority on the necessary occasions.

Very different, nevertheless, was the experiment
from the theory. The powers, like those of the
present Congress, were administered by deputies
appointed wholly by the cities in their political
capacities; and exercised over them in the same
capacities. Hence the weakness, the disorders, and
finally the destruction of the confederacy. The
more powerful members, instead of being kept in awe
and subordination, tyrannized successively over all
the rest. Athens, as we learn from Demosthenes,
was the arbiter of Greece seventy-three years. The
Lacedaemonians next governed it twenty-nine years ;

The Federalist 137

at a subsequent period, after the battle of Leuctra,
the Thebans had their turn of domination.

It happened but too often, according to Plutarch,
that the deputies of the strongest cities awed and
corrupted those of the weaker; and that judgment
went in favor of the most powerful party.

Even in the midst of defensive and dangerous
wars with Persia and Macedon, the members never
acted in concert, and were, more or fewer of them,
eternally the dupes or the hirelings of the common
enemy. The intervals of foreign war were filled up
by domestic vicissitudes, convulsions, and carnage.

After the conclusion of the war with Xerxes, it
appears that the Lacedaemonians required that a
number of the cities should be turned out of the
confederacy for the unfaithful part they had acted.
The Athenians, finding that the Lacedaemonians
would lose fewer partisans by such a measure than
themselves, and would become masters of the public
deliberations, vigorously opposed and defeated the
attempt. This piece of history proves at once the
inefficiency of the union, the ambition and jealousy
of its most powerful members, and the dependent
and degraded condition of the rest. The smaller
members, though entitled by the theory of their
system to revolve in equal pride and majesty around
the common centre, had become, in fact, satellites
of the orbs of primary magnitude.

Had the Greeks, says the Abbe* Milot, been as
wise as they were courageous, they would have been
admonished by experience of the necessity of a
closer union, and would have availed themselves of

138 Alexander Hamilton

the peace which followed their success against the
Persian arms, to establish such a reformation. In
stead of this obvious policy, Athens and Sparta, in
flated with the victories and the glory they had
acquired, became first rivals and then enemies ; and
did each other infinitely more mischief than they
had suffered from Xerxes. Their mutual jealousies,
fears, hatreds, and injuries ended in the celebrated
Peloponnesian war; which itself ended in the ruin
and slavery of the Athenians who had begun it.

As a weak government, when not at war, is ever
agitated by internal dissensions, so these never fail
to bring on fresh calamities from abroad. The
Phocians having ploughed up some consecrated
ground belonging to the temple of Apollo, the
Amphictyonic council, according to the supersti
tion of the age, imposed a fine on the sacrilegious
offenders. The Phocians, being abetted by Athens
and Sparta, refused to submit to the decree. The
Thebans, with others of the cities, undertook to
maintain the authority of the Amphictyons, and to
avenge the violated god. The latter, being the
weaker party, invited the assistance of Philip of
Macedon, who had secretly fostered the contest.
Philip gladly seized the opportunity of executing the
designs he had long planned against the liberties
of Greece. By his intrigues and bribes he won
over to his interests the popular leaders of several
cities; by their influence and votes, gained ad
mission into the Amphictyonic council; and by his
arts and his arms, made himself master of the con
federacy.

The Federalist 139

Such were the consequences of the fallacious prin
ciple on which this interesting establishment was
founded. Had Greece, says a judicious observer on
her fate, been united by a stricter confederation,
and persevered in her union, she would never have
worn the chains of Macedon ; and might have proved
a barrier to the vast projects of Rome.

The Achaean league, as it is called, was another
society of Grecian republics, which supplies us with
valuable instruction.

The Union here was far more intimate, and its
organization much wiser, than in the preceding in
stance. It will accordingly appear, that though not
exempt from a similar catastrophe, it by no means
equally deserved it.

The cities composing this league retained their
municipal jurisdiction, appointed their own officers,
and enjoyed a perfect equality. The senate, in
which they were represented, had the sole and ex
clusive right of peace and war; of sending and
receiving ambassadors; of entering into treaties
and alliances; of appointing a chief magistrate or
praetor, as he was called, who commanded their
armies, and who, with the advice and consent of ten
of the senators, not only administered the govern
ment in the recess of the senate, but had a great
share in its deliberations, when assembled. Ac
cording to the primitive constitution, there were two
praetors associated in the administration; but on
trial a single one was preferred.

It appears that the cities had all the same laws
and customs, the same weights and measures, and

14° Alexander Hamilton

the same money. But how far this effect proceeded
from the authority of the federal council is left in
uncertainty. It is said only that the cities were in
a manner compelled to receive the same laws and
usages. When Lacedaemon was brought into the
league by Philopoemen, it was attended with an
abolition of the institutions and laws of Lycurgus,
and an adoption of those of the Achaeans. The
Amphictyonic confederacy, of which she had been
a member, left her in the full exercise of her govern
ment and her legislation. This circumstance alone
proves a very material difference in the genius of the
two systems.

It is much to be regretted that such imperfect
monuments remain of this curious political fabric.
Could its interior structure and regular operation be
ascertained, it is probable that more light would be
thrown by it on the science of federal government,
than by any of the like experiments with which we
are acquainted.

One important fact seems to be witnessed by all
the historians who take notice of Achaean affairs.
It is, that as well after the renovation of the league
by Aratus, as before its dissolution by the arts of
Macedon, there was infinitely more of moderation
and justice in the administration of its government,
and less of violence and sedition in the people, than
were to be found in any of the cities exercising
singly all the prerogatives of sovereignty. The Abbe
Mably, in his observations on Greece, says that the
popular government, which was so tempestuous else
where, caused no disorders in the members of the

The Federalist

Achaean republic, because it was there tempered by ike
general authority and laws of the confederacy.

We are not to conclude too hastily, however, that
faction did not, in a certain degree, agitate the par
ticular cities; much less that a due subordination
and harmony reigned in the general system. The
contrary is sufficiently displayed in the vicissitudes
and fate of the republic.

Whilst the Amphictyonic confederacy remained,
that of the Achaeans, which comprehended the less
important cities only, made little figure on the
theatre of Greece. When the former became a
victim to Macedon, the latter was spared by the
policy of Philip and Alexander. Under the succes
sors of these princes, however, a different policy
prevailed. The arts of division were practised
among the Achaeans. Each city was seduced into a
separate interest; the union was dissolved. Some
of the cities fell under the tyranny of Macedonian
garrisons; others under that of usurpers springing
out of their own confusions. Shame and oppression
erelong awakened their love of liberty. A few cities
reunited. Their example was followed by others,
as opportunities were found of cutting off their
tyrants. The league soon embraced almost the
whole Peloponnesus, Macedon saw its progress;
but was hindered by internal dissensions from stop
ping it. All Greece caught the enthusiasm and
seemed ready to unite in one confederacy, when the
jealousy and envy in Sparta and Athens, of the
rising glory of the Achaeans, threw a fatal damp on
the enterprise. The dread of the Macedonian power

Alexander Hamilton

induced the league to court the alliance of the kings
of Egypt and Syria, who, as successors of Alexander,
were rivals of the king of Macedon. This policy was
defeated by Cleomenes, king of Sparta, who was led
by his ambition to make an unprovoked attack on
his neighbors, the Achaeans, and who, as an enemy
to Macedon, had interest enough with the Egyptian
and Syrian princes to effect a breach of their en
gagements with the league. The Achaeans were now
reduced to the dilemma of submitting to Cleomenes,
or of supplicating the aid of Macedon, its former op
pressor. The latter expedient was adopted. The
contests of the Greeks always afforded a pleasing
opportunity to that powerful neighbor of inter
meddling in their affairs. A Macedonian army
quickly appeared. Cleomenes was vanquished. The
Achaeans soon experienced, as often happens, that
a victorious and powerful ally is but another name
for a master. All that their most abject compliances
could obtain from him was a toleration of the exer
cise of their laws. Philip, who was now on the
throne of Macedon, soon provoked by his tyrannies,
fresh combinations among the Greeks. The Achaeans,
though weakened by internal dissensions and by the
revolt of Messene, one of its members, being joined
by the ^Etolians and Athenians, erected the stand
ard of opposition. Finding themselves, though thus
supported, unequal to the undertaking, they once
more had recourse to the dangerous expedient of in
troducing the succor of foreign arms. The Romans,
to whom the invitation was made, eagerly embraced
it. Philip was conquered; Macedon subdued. A

The Federalist 143

new crisis ensued to the league. Dissensions broke
out among its members. These the Romans fos
tered. Callicrates and other popular leaders became
mercenary instruments for inveigling their country
men. The more effectually to nourish discord and
disorder the Romans had, to the astonishment of
those who confided in their sincerity, already pro
claimed universal liberty J throughout Greece. With
the same insidious views, they now seduced the
members from the league, by representing to their
pride the violation it committed on their sover
eignty. By these arts this union, the last hope of
Greece, the last hope of ancient liberty, was torn
into pieces; and such imbecility and distraction in
troduced, that the arms of Rome found little diffi
culty in completing the ruin which their arts had
commenced. The Achaeans were cut to pieces, and
Achaia loaded with chains, under which it is groan
ing at this hour.

I have thought it not superfluous to give the out
lines of this important portion of history ; both be
cause it teaches more than one lesson, and because,
as a supplement to the outlines of the Achaean con
stitution, it emphatically illustrates the tendency of
federal bodies rather to anarchy among the members,
than to tyranny in the head.

PUBLIUS.

1 This was but another name more specious for the independence
of the members on the federal head. — PUBLIUS.

144 Alexander Hamilton

For the Independent Journal

THE FEDERALIST. No. XIX

(HAMILTON AND MADISON)

To the People of the State of New York:

The examples of ancient confederacies, cited in my
last paper, have not exhausted the source of experi
mental instruction on this subject. There are exist
ing institutions, founded on a similar principle, which
merit particular consideration. The first which pre
sents itself is the Germanic body.

In the early ages of Christianity, Germany was
occupied by seven distinct nations, who had no
common chief. The Franks, one of the number,
having conquered the Gauls, established the king
dom which has taken its name from them. In the
ninth century Charlemagne, its warlike monarch,
carried his victorious arms in every direction; and
Germany became a part of his vast dominions. On
the dismemberment, which took place under his
sons, this part was erected into a separate and inde
pendent empire. Charlemagne and his immediate
descendants possessed the reality, as well as the en
signs and dignity of imperial power. But the prin
cipal vassals, whose fiefs had become hereditary, and
who composed the national diets which Charle
magne had not abolished, gradually threw off the
yoke and advanced to sovereign jurisdiction and in
dependence. The force of imperial sovereignty was
insufficient to restrain such powerful dependants;
or to preserve the unity and tranquillity of the em
pire. The most furious private wars, accompanied

The Federalist 145

with every species of calamity, were carried on be
tween the different princes and states. The im
perial authority, unable to maintain the public
order, declined by degrees till it was almost extinct
in the anarchy, which agitated the long interval be
tween the death of the last emperor of the Suabian,
and the accession of the first emperor of the Aus
trian lines. In the eleventh century the emperors
enjoyed full sovereignty: In the fifteenth they had
little more than the symbols and decorations of
power.

Out of this feudal system, which has itself many
of the important features of a confederacy, has grown
the federal system which constitutes the Germanic
empire. Its powers are vested in a diet representing
the component members of the confederacy; in the
emperor, who is the executive magistrate, with a
negative on the decrees of the diet; and in the im
perial chamber and the aulic council, two judiciary
tribunals having supreme jurisdiction in controver
sies which concern the empire, or which happen
among its members.

The diet possesses the general power of legislating
for the empire; of making war and peace ; contract
ing alliances ; assessing quotas of troops and money ;
constructing fortressess; regulating coin; admitting
new members; and subjecting disobedient members
to the ban of the empire, by which the party is de
graded from his sovereign rights and his possessions
forfeited. The members of the confederacy are ex
pressly restricted from entering into compacts preju
dicial to the empire; from imposing tolls and duties

VOL. XI. — TO.

146 Alexander Hamilton

on their mutual intercourse, without the consent of
the emperor and diet; from altering the value of
money; from doing injustice to one another; or
from affording assistance or retreat to disturbers of
the public peace. And the ban is denounced against
such as shall violate any of these restrictions. The
members of the diet, as such, are subject in all cases
to be judged by the emperor and diet, and in their
private capacities by the aulic council and imperial
chamber.

The prerogatives of the emperor are numerous.
The most important of them are : his exclusive right
to make propositions to the diet; to negative its
resolutions; to name ambassadors; to confer dig
nities and titles ; to fill vacant electorates; to found
universities; to grant privileges not injurious to the
states of the empire; to receive and apply the pub
lic revenues ; and generally to watch over the public
safety. In certain cases, the electors form a council
to him. In quality of emperor, he possesses no
territory within the empire, nor receives any revenue
for his support. But his revenue and dominions,
in other qualities, constitute him one of the most
powerful princes in Europe.

From such a parade of constitutional powers, in
the representatives and head of this confederacy, the
natural supposition would be, that it must form an
exception to the general character which belongs
to its kindred systems. Nothing would be further
from the reality. The fundamental principle on
which it rests, that the empire is a community of
sovereigns, that the diet is a representation of sov-

The Federalist H7

ereigns, and that the laws are addressed to sover
eigns, renders the empire a nerveless body, incapable
of regulating its own members, insecure against ex
ternal dangers, and agitated with unceasing fer
mentations in its own bowels.

The history of Germany is a history of wars be
tween the emperor and the princes and states; of
wars among the princes and states themselves; of
the licentiousness of the strong, and the oppression
of the weak; of foreign intrusions, and foreign in
trigues; of requisitions of men and money disre
garded, or partially complied with; of attempts to
enforce them, altogether abortive, or attended with
slaughter and desolation, involving the innocent
with the guilty; of general imbecility, confusion,
and misery.

In the sixteenth century, the emperor, with one
part of the empire on his side, was seen engaged
against the other princes and states. In one of the
conflicts, the emperor himself was put to flight, and
very near being made prisoner by the elector of
Saxony. The late king of Prussia was more than
once pitted against his imperial sovereign; and
commonly proved an overmatch for him. Con
troversies and wars among the members themselves
have been so common, that the German annals are
crowded with the bloody pages which describe them.
Previous to the peace of Westphalia, Germany was
desolated by a war of thirty years, in which the em
peror, with one half of the empire, was on one side,
and Sweden, with the other half, on the opposite
side. Peace was at length negotiated, and dictated

148 Alexander Hamilton

by foreign powers; and the articles of it, to which
foreign powers are parties, made a fundamental part
of the Germanic constitution.

If the nation happens, on any emergency, to be
more united by the necessity of self-defence, its
situation is still deplorable. Military preparations
must be preceded by so many tedious discussions,
arising from the jealousies, pride, separate views,
and clashing pretensions of sovereign bodies, that
before the diet can settle the arrangements, the
enemy are in the field ; and before the federal troops
are ready to take it, are retiring into winter quarters.

The small body of national troops, which has been
judged necessary in time of peace, is defectively kept
up, badly paid, infected with local prejudices, and
supported by irregular and disproportionate con
tributions to the treasury.

The impossibility of maintaining order and dis
pensing justice among these sovereign subjects, pro
duced the experiment of dividing the empire into
nine or ten circles or districts ; of giving them an in
terior organization, and of charging them with the
military execution of the laws against delinquent
and contumacious members. This experiment has
only served to demonstrate more fully the radical
vice of the constitution. Each circle is the miniature
picture of the deformities of this political monster.
They either fail to execute their commissions, or
they do it with all the devastation and carnage of
civil war. Sometimes whole circles are defaulters;
and then they increase the mischief which they were
instituted to remedy.

The Federalist 149

We may form some judgment of this scheme of
military coercion from a sample given by Thuanus.
In Donawerth, a free and imperial city of the circle
of Suabia, the Abbe de St. Croix enjoyed certain
immunities which had been reserved to him. In the
exercise of these, on some public occasions, outrages
were committed on him by the people of the city.
The consequence was that the city was put under
the ban of the empire, and the Duke of Bavaria,
though director of another circle, obtained an ap
pointment to enforce it. He soon appeared before
the city with a corps of ten thousand troops, and
finding it a fit occasion, as he had secretly intended
from the beginning, to revive an antiquated claim,
on the pretext that his ancestors had suffered the
place to be dismembered from his territory,1 he took
possession of it in his own name, disarmed, and pun
ished the inhabitants, and reannexed the city to his
domains.

It may be asked, perhaps, what has so long kept
this disjointed machine from falling entirely to
pieces? The answer is obvious: The weakness of
most of the members, who are unwilling to expose
themselves to the mercy of foreign powers; the
weakness of most of the principal members, com
pared with the formidable powers all around them;
the vast weight and influence which the emperor
derives from his separate and hereditary dominions;
and the interest he feels in preserving a system with

1 Pfeffel, Nouvel Abreg. Chronol. de I' Hist., etc., d'Allemagne, says
the pretext was to indemnify himself for the expense of the expedition.
— PUBLIUS.

15° Alexander Hamilton

which his family pride is connected, and which con
stitutes him the first prince in Europe ; — these causes
support a feeble and precarious Union; whilst the
repellent quality, incident to the nature of sover
eignty, and which time continually strengthens,
prevents any reform whatever, founded on a proper
consolidation. Nor is it to be imagined, if this ob
stacle could be surmounted, that the neighboring
powers would suffer a revolution to take place, which
would give to the empire the force and preeminence
to which it is entitled. Foreign nations have long
considered themselves as interested in the changes
made by events in this constitution; and have, on
various occasions, betrayed their policy of perpetu
ating its anarchy and weakness.

If more direct examples were wanting, Poland, as
a government over local sovereigns, might not im
properly be taken notice of. Nor could any proof
more striking be given of the calamities flowing from
such institutions. Equally unfit for self-govern
ment and self-defence, it has long been at the mercy
of its powerful neighbors; who have lately had the
mercy to disburden it of one third of its people and
territories.

The connection among the Swiss cantons scarcely
amounts to a confederacy; though it is some times
cited as an instance of the stability of such institu
tions.

They have no common treasury; no common
troops even in war; no common coin; no common
judicatory; nor any other common mark of sover
eignty.

The Federalist 151

They are kept together by the peculiarity of their
topographical position; by their individual weak
ness and insignificancy; by the fear of powerful
neighbors, to one of which they were formerly sub
ject; by the few sources of contention among a
people of such simple and homogeneous manners;
by their joint interest in their dependent possessions;
by the mutual aid they stand in need of, for sup
pressing insurrections and rebellions, an aid ex
pressly stipulated, and often required and afforded;
and by the necessity of some regular and permanent
provision for accommodating disputes among the
cantons. The provision is, that the parties at
variance shall each choose four judges out of the
neutral cantons, who, in case of disagreement,
choose an umpire. This tribunal, under an oath of
impartiality, pronounces definitive sentence, which all
the cantons are bound to enforce. The competency
of this regulation may be estimated by a clause in
their treaty of 1683, with Victor Amadeus of Savoy;
in which he obliges himself to interpose as mediator
in disputes between the cantons, and to employ force,
if necessary, against the contumacious party.

So far as the peculiarity of their case will admit of
comparison with that of the United States, it serves
to confirm the principle intended to be established.
Whatever efficacy the union may have had in ordi
nary cases, it appears that the moment a cause of
difference sprang up, capable of trying its strength,
it failed. The controversies on the subject of re
ligion, which in three instances have kindled violent
and bloody contests, may be said, in fact, to have

152 Alexander Hamilton

severed the league. The Protestant and Catholic
cantons have since had their separate diets, where
all the most important concerns are adjusted, and
which have left the general diet little other business
than to take care of the common bailages.

That separation had another consequence, which
merits attention. It produced opposite alliances
with foreign powers: of Berne, at the head of the
Protestant association, with the United Provinces;
and of Luzerne, at the head of the Catholic associa
tion, with France.

PUBLIUS.

From the New York Packet, Tuesday, December u, 1787

THE FEDERALIST. No. XX

(HAMILTON AND MADISON)

To the People of the State of New York:

The United Netherlands are a confederacy of re
publics, or rather of aristocracies of a very remark
able texture, yet confirming all the lessons derived
from those which we have already reviewed.

The union is composed of seven coequal and
sovereign states, and each state or province is a
composition of equal and independent cities. In all
important cases, not only the provinces but the cities
must be unanimous.

The sovereignty of the Union is represented by
the States-General, consisting usually of about fifty
deputies appointed by the provinces. They hold

The Federalist 153

their seats, some for life, some for six, three, and one
years ; from two provinces they continue in appoint
ment during pleasure.

The States-General have authority to enter into
treaties and alliances; to make war and peace; to
raise armies and equip fleets; to ascertain quotas
and demand contributions. In all these cases, how
ever, unanimity and the sanction of their constituents
are requisite. They have authority to appoint and
receive ambassadors; to execute treaties and alli
ances already formed; to provide for the collection
of duties on imports and exports; to regulate the
mint, with a saving to the provincial rights; to
govern as sovereigns the dependent territories. The
provinces are restrained, unless with the general
consent, from entering into foreign treaties; from
establishing imposts injurious to others, or charging
their neighbors with higher duties than their own
subjects. A council of state, a chamber of accounts,
with five colleges of admiralty, aid and fortify the
federal administration.

The executive magistrate of the union is the
stadtholder, who is now an hereditary prince. His
principal weight and influence in the republic are
derived from this independent title; from his great
patrimonial estates; from his family connections
with some of the chief potentates of Europe ;• and,
more than all, perhaps, from his being stadtholder in
the several provinces, as well as for the union; in
which provincial quality he has the appointment of
town magistrates under certain regulations, exe
cutes provincial decrees, presides when he pleases in

154 Alexander Hamilton

the provincial tribunals, and has throughout the
power of pardon.

As stadtholder of the union, he has, however,
considerable prerogatives.

In his political capacity he has authority to settle
disputes between the provinces, when other methods
fail; to assist at the deliberations of the States-
General, and at their particular conferences; to give
audiences to foreign ambassadors, and to keep agents
for his particular affairs at foreign courts.

In his military capacity he commands the federal
troops, provides for garrisons, and in general regu
lates military affairs; disposes of all appointments,
from colonels to ensigns, and of the governments and
posts of fortified towns.

In his marine capacity he is admiral-general, and
superintends and directs every thing relative to
naval forces and other naval affairs; presides in the
admiralties in person or by proxy; appoints lieu
tenant-admirals and other officers; and establishes
councils of war, whose sentences are not executed
till he approves them.

His revenue, exclusive of his private income,
amounts to three hundred thousand florins. The
standing army which he commands consists of about
forty thousand men.

Such is the nature of the celebrated Belgic con
federacy, as delineated on parchment. What are the
characters which practice has stamped upon it? Im
becility in the government ; discord among the prov
inces ; foreign influence and indignities : a precarious
existence in peace, and peculiar calamities from war.

The Federalist 155

It was long ago remarked by Grotius, that nothing
but the hatred of his countrymen to the house of
Austria kept them from being ruined by the vices of
their constitution.

The union of Utrecht, says another respectable
writer, reposes an authority in the States-General,
seemingly sufficient to secure harmony, but the
jealousy in each province renders the practice very
different from the theory.

The same instrument, says another, obliges each
province to levy certain contributions; but this
article never could, and probably never will, be exe
cuted; because the inland provinces, who have little
commerce, cannot pay an equal quota.

In matters of contribution, it is the practice to
waive the articles of the constitution. The danger
of delay obliges the consenting provinces to furnish
their quotas, without waiting for the others; and
then io obtain reimbursement from the others, by
deputations, which are frequent, or otherwise, as they
can. The great wealth and influence of the province
of Holland enable her to effect both these purposes.

It has more than once happened, that the de
ficiencies had to be ultimately collected at the point
of the bayonet ; a thing practicable, though dreadful,
in a confederacy where one of the members exceeds
in force all the rest, and where several of them are
too small to meditate resistance; but utterly im
practicable in one composed of members, several of
which are equal to each other in strength and re
sources, and equal singly to a vigorous and persever
ing defence.

156 Alexander Hamilton

Foreign ministers, says Sir William Temple, who
was himself a foreign minister, elude matters taken
ad referendum, by tampering with the provinces and
cities. In 1726, the treaty of Hanover was delayed
by these means a whole year. Instances of a like
nature are numerous and notorious.

In critical emergencies, the States-General are
often compelled to overleap their constitutional
bounds. In 1688, they concluded a treaty of them
selves at the risk of their heads. The treaty of
Westphalia, in 1648, by which their independence
wasi^ formally and finally recognized, was concluded
without the consent of Zealand. Even as recently
as the last treaty of peace with Great Britain, the
constitutional principle of unanimity was departed
from. A weak constitution must necessarily ter
minate in dissolution, for want of proper powers, or
the usurpation of powers requisite for the public
safety. Whether the usurpation, when once begun,
will stop at the salutary point, or go forward to the
dangerous extreme, must depend on the contingencies
of the moment. Tyranny has perhaps oftener grown
out of the assumptions of power, called for, on pressing
exigencies, by a defective constitution, than out of the
full exercise of the largest constitutional authorities.

Notwithstanding the calamities produced by the
stadtholdership, it has been supposed that without
his influence in the individual provinces, the causes
of anarchy manifest in the confederacy would long
ago have dissolved it. " Under such a government, "
says the Abbe Mably, " the Union could never have
subsisted, if the provinces had not a spring within

The Federalist 157

themselves, capable of quickening their tardiness,
and compelling them to the same way of thinking.
This spring is the stadtholder. " It is remarked by
Sir William Temple, "that in the intermissions of
the stadtholdership, Holland, by her riches and her
authority, which drew the others into a sort of de
pendence, supplied the place."

These are not the only circumstances which have
controlled the tendency to anarchy and dissolution.
The surrounding powers impose an absolute neces
sity of union to a certain degree, at the same time
that they nourish by their intrigues the constitu
tional vices which keep the republic in some degree
always at their mercy.

The true patriots have long bewailed the fatal
tendency of these vices, and have made no less than
four regular experiments by extraordinary assem
blies, convened for the special purpose, to apply a
remedy. As many times has their laudable zeal
found it impossible to unite ike public councils in re
forming the known, the acknowledged, the fatal evils
of the existing constitution. Let us pause, my
fellow-citizens, for one moment, over this melan
choly and monitory lesson of history; and with the
tear that drops for the calamities brought on man
kind by their adverse opinions and selfish passions,
let our gratitude mingle an ejaculation to Heaven,
for the propitious concord which has distinguished
the consultations for our political happiness.

A design was also conceived of establishing a
general tax to be administered by the federal au
thority. This also had its adversaries and failed.

158 Alexander Hamilton

This unhappy people seem to be now suffering
from popular convulsions, from dissensions among
the states, and from the actual invasion of foreign
arms, the crisis of their destiny. All nations have
their eyes fixed on the awful spectacle. The first
wish prompted by humanity is, that this severe
trial may issue in such a revolution of their govern
ment as will establish their union, and render it the
parent of tranquillity, freedom, and happiness: The
next, that the asylum under which, we trust, the
enjoyment of these blessings will speedily be secured
in this country, may receive and console them for
the catastrophe of their own.

I make no apology for having dwelt so long on
the contemplation of these federal precedents. Ex
perience is the oracle of truth; and where its re
sponses are unequivocal, they ought to be conclusive
and sacred. The important truth, which it un
equivocally pronounces in the present case, is that
a sovereignty over sovereigns, a government over
governments, a legislation for communities, as con
tradistinguished from individuals, as it is a solecism
in theory, so in practice it is subversive of the order
and ends of civil polity, by substituting violence in
place of law, or the destructive coercion of the sword
in place of the mild and salutary coercion of the
magistracy.

PUBLIUS.

The Federalist 159

For the Independent Journal

THE FEDERALIST. No. XXI

(HAMILTON)

To the People of the State of New York:

Having in the three last numbers taken a sum
mary review of the principal circumstances and
events which have depicted the genius and fate of
other confederate governments, I shall now proceed
in the enumeration of the most important of those
defects which have hitherto disappointed our hopes
from the system established among ourselves. To
form a safe and satisfactory judgment of the proper
remedy, it is absolutely necessary that we should be
well acquainted with the extent and malignity of
the disease.

The next most palpable defect of the subsisting
Confederation, is the total want of a SANCTION to its
laws. The United States, as now composed, have
no powers to exact obedience, or punish disobedience
to their resolutions, either by pecuniary mulcts, by a
suspension or divestiture of privileges, or by any
other constitutional mode. There is no express
delegation of authority to them to use force against
delinquent members; and if such a right should be
ascribed to the federal head, as resulting from the
nature of the social compact between the States, it
must be by inference and construction, in the face
of that part of the second article, by which it is de
clared, "that each State shall retain every power,
jurisdiction, and right, not expressly delegated to the
United States in Congress assembled." There is,

160 Alexander Hamilton

doubtless, a striking absurdity in supposing that a
right of this kind does not exist, but we are reduced
to the dilemma either of embracing that supposi
tion, preposterous as it may seem, or of contravening
or explaining away a provision, which has been of
late a repeated theme of the eulogies of those who
oppose the new Constitution ; and the want of which,
in that plan, has been the subject of much plausible
animadversion, and severe criticism. If we are un
willing to impair the force of this applauded provi
sion, we shall be obliged to conclude, that the United
States afford the extraordinary spectacle of a gov
ernment destitute even of the shadow of constitu
tional power to enforce the execution of its own
laws. It will appear, from the specimens which
have been cited, that the American Confederacy,
in this particular, stands discriminated from every
other institution of a similar kind, and exhibits a
new and unexampled phenomenon in the political
world.

The want of a mutual guaranty of the State gov
ernments is another capital imperfection in the fed
eral plan. There is nothing of this kind declared in
the articles that compose it; and to imply a tacit
guaranty from considerations of utility, would be a
still more flagrant departure from the clause which
has been mentioned, than to imply a tacit power of
coercion from the like considerations. The want of
a guaranty, though it might in its consequences en
danger the Union, does not so immediately attack
its existence as the want of a constitutional sanction
to its laws.

The Federalist 161

Without a guaranty the assistance to be derived
from the Union in repelling those domestic dangers
which may sometimes threaten the existence of the
State constitutions, must be renounced. Usurpa
tion may rear its crest in each State, and trample
upon the liberties of the people, while the national
government could legally do nothing more than be
hold its encroachments with indignation and regret.
A successful faction may erect a tyranny on the
ruins of order and law, while no succor could con
stitutionally be afforded by the Union to the friends
and supporters of the government. The tempestu
ous situation from which Massachusetts has scarcely
emerged, evinces that dangers of this kind are not
merely speculative. Who can determine what might
have been the issue of her late convulsions, if the
malcontents had been headed by a Caesar or by a
Cromwell? Who can predict what effect a despot
ism, established in Massachusetts, would have upon
the liberties of New Hampshire or Rhode Island, of
Connecticut or New York?

The inordinate pride of State importance has
suggested to some minds an objection to the prin
ciple of a guaranty in the federal government, as in
volving an officious interference in the domestic
concerns of the members. A scruple of this kind
would deprive us of one of the principal advantages
to be expected from union, and can only flow from a
misapprehension of the nature of the provision it
self. It could be no impediment to reforms of the
State constitutions by a majority of the people in a
legal and peaceable mode. This right would remain

VOL. XI— II.

1 62 Alexander Hamilton

undiminished. The guaranty could only operate
against changes to be effected by violence. Towards
the preventions of calamities of this kind, too many
checks cannot be provided. The peace of society
and the stability of government depend absolutely
on the efficacy of the precautions adopted on this
head. Where the whole power of the government
is in the hands of the people, there is the less pre
tence for the use of violent remedies in partial or
occasional distempers of the State. The natural
cure for an ill-administration, in a popular or re
presentative constitution, is a change of men. A
guaranty by the national authority would be as
much levelled against the usurpations of rulers as
against the ferments and outrages of faction and
sedition in the community.

The principle of regulating the contributions of
the States to the common treasury by QUOTAS is an
other fundamental error in the Confederation. Its
repugnancy to an adequate supply of the national
exigencies has been already pointed out, and has
sufficiently appeared from the trial which has been
made of it. I speak of it now solely with a view to
equality among the States. Those who have been
accustomed to contemplate the circumstances which
produce and constitute national wealth, must be
satisfied that there is no common standard or ba
rometer by which the degrees of it can be ascertained.
Neither the value of lands, nor the numbers of the
people, which have been successively proposed as
the rule of State contributions, has any pretension
to being a just representative. If we compare the

The Federalist 163

wealth of the United Netherlands with that of Rus
sia or Germany, or even of France, and if we at the
same time compare the total value of the lands and
the aggregate population of that contracted district
with the total value of the lands and the aggregate
population of the immense regions of either of the
three last-mentioned countries, we shall at once dis
cover that there is no comparison between the pro
portion of either of these two objects and that of the
relative wealth of those nations. If the like parallel
were to be run between several of the American
States, it would furnish a like result. Let Virginia
be contrasted with North Carolina, Pennsylvania
with Connecticut, or Maryland with New Jersey,
and we shall be convinced that the respective abili
ties of those States, in relation to revenue, bear little
or no analogy to their comparative stock in lands
or to their comparative population. The position
may be equally illustrated by a similar process be
tween the counties of the same State. No man who
is acquainted with the State of New York will doubt
that the active wealth of King's County bears a
much greater proportion to that of Montgomery
than it would appear to be if we should take either
the total value of the lands or the total number of
the people as a criterion!

The wealth of nations depends upon an infinite
variety of causes. Situation, soil, climate, the na
ture of the productions, the nature of the govern
ment, the genius of the citizens, the degree of
information they possess, the state of commerce, of
arts, of industry, — these circumstances and many

1 64 Alexander Hamilton

more, too complex, minute, or adventitious to ad
mit of a particular specification, occasion differ
ences hardly conceivable in the relative opulence
and riches of different countries. The consequence
clearly is that there can be no common measure of
national wealth, and, of course, no general or sta
tionary rule by which the ability of a state to pay
taxes can be determined. The attempt, therefore,
to regulate the contributions of the members of
a confederacy by any such rule, cannot fail to
be productive of glaring inequality and extreme
oppression.

This inequality would of itself be sufficient in
America to work the eventual destruction of the
Union, if any mode of enforcing a compliance with
its requisitions could be devised. The suffering
States would not long consent to remain associated
upon a principle which distributes the public burdens
with so unequal a hand, and which was calculated
to impoverish and oppress the citizens of some States,
while those of others would scarcely be conscious of
the small proportion of the weight they were re
quired to sustain. , This, however, is an evil insep
arable from the principle of quotas and requisitions.

There is no method of steering clear of this in
convenience, but by authorizing the national gov
ernment to raise its own revenues in its own way.
Imposts, excises, and, in general, all duties upon
articles of consumption, may be compared to a fluid,
which will, in time, find its level with the means of
paying them. The amount to be contributed by each
citizen will in a degree be at his own option, and can

The Federalist 165

be regulated by an attention to his resources. The
rich may be extravagant, the poor can be frugal;
and private oppression may always be avoided by
a judicious selection of objects proper for such im
positions. If inequalities should arise in some States
from duties on particular objects, these will, in all
probability, be counterbalanced by proportional in
equalities in other States, from the duties on other
objects. In the course of time and things, an
equilibrium, as far as it is attainable in so com
plicated a subject, will be established everywhere.
Or, if inequalities should still exist, they would
neither be so great in their degree, so uniform in
their operation, nor so odious in their appearance, as
those which would necessarily spring from quotas,
upon any scale that can possibly be devised.

It is a signal advantage of taxes on articles of con
sumption, that they contain in their own nature a
security against excess. They prescribe their own
limit; which cannot be exceeded without defeating
the end proposed, — that is, an extension of the re
venue. When applied to this object, the saying is as
just as it is witty, that, " in political arithmetic, two
and two do not always make four." If duties are
too high, they lessen the consumption ; the collec
tion is eluded; and the product to the treasury is
not so great as when they are confined within proper
and moderate bounds. This forms a complete bar
rier against any material oppression of the citizens
by taxes of this class, and is itself a natural limita
tion of the power of imposing them.

Impositions of this kind usually fall under the

1 66 Alexander Hamilton

denomination of indirect taxes, and must for a long
time constitute the chief part of the revenue raised
in this country. Those of the direct kind, which
principally relate to land and buildings, may admit
of a rule of apportionment. Either the value of land,
or the number of the people, may serve as a standard.
The state of agriculture and the populousness of a
country have been considered as nearly connected
with each other. And, as a rule, for the purpose
intended, numbers, in the view of simplicity and
certainty, are entitled to a preference. In every
country it is a herculean task to obtain a valuation
of the land; in a country imperfectly settled and
progressive in improvement, the difficulties are in
creased almost to impracticability. The expense
of an accurate valuation is, in all situations, a for
midable objection. In a branch of taxation where
no limits to the discretion of the government are to
be found in the nature of things, the establishment
of a fixed rule, not incompatible with the end, may
be attended with fewer inconveniences than to leave
that discretion altogether at large.

PUBLIUS.

From the New York Packet, Friday, December 14, 1787

THE FEDERALIST. No. XXII

(HAMILTON)

To the People of the State of New York:

In addition to the defects already enumerated in
the existing federal system, there are others of not

The Federalist 167

less importance, which concur in rendering it alto
gether unfit for the administration of the affairs of
the Union.

The want of a power to regulate commerce is by
all parties allowed to be of the number. The utility
of such a power has been anticipated under the first
head of our inquiries ; and for this reason, as well as
from the universal conviction entertained upon the
subject, little need be added in this place. It is in
deed evident, on the most superficial view, that
there is no object, either as it respects the interests
of trade or finance, that more strongly demands a
federal superintendence. The want of it has already
operated as a bar to the formation of beneficial
treaties with foreign powers, and has given occasions
of dissatisfaction between the States. No nation
acquainted with the nature of our political associa
tion would be unwise enough to enter into stipu
lations with the United States, by which they
conceded privileges of any importance to them, while
they were apprised that the engagements on the part
of the Union might at any moment be violated by
its members, and while they found from experience
that they might enjoy every advantage they de
sired in our markets, without granting us any return
but such as their momentary convenience might
suggest. It is not, therefore, to be wondered at that
Mr. Jenkinson, in ushering into the House of Com
mons a bill for regulating the temporary intercourse
between the two countries, should preface its intro
duction by a declaration that similar provisions in
former bills had been found to answer every purpose

1 68 Alexander Hamilton

to the commerce of Great Britain, and that it would
be prudent to persist in the plan until it should ap
pear whether the American government was likely
or not to acquire greater consistency.1

Several States have endeavored, by separate pro
hibitions, restrictions, and exclusions, to influence
the conduct of that kingdom in this particular, but
the want of concert, arising from the want of a gen
eral authority and from clashing and dissimilar
views in the State, has hitherto frustrated every
experiment of the kind, and will continue to do so
as long as the same obstacles to a uniformity of
measures continue to exist.

The interfering and unneighborly regulations of
some States, contrary to the true spirit of the Union,
have, in different instances, given just cause of um
brage and complaint to others, and it is to be feared
that examples of this nature, if not restrained by a
national control, would be multiplied and extended
till they became not less serious sources of animosity
and discord than injurious impediments to the in
tercourse between the different parts of the Con
federacy. " The commerce of the German empire 2
is in continual trammels from the multiplicity of the
duties which the several princes and states exact
upon the merchandises passing through their terri
tories, by means of which the fine streams and
navigable rivers with which Germany is so happily
watered are rendered almost useless." Though the

1 This, as nearly as I can recollect, was the sense of his speech on
introducing the last bill. — PUB LI us.

2 Encyclopedia, article "Empire." — PUBLIUS.

The Federalist 169

genius of the people of this country might never per
mit this description to be strictly applicable to us,
yet we may reasonably expect, from the gradual
conflicts of State regulations, that the citizens of
each would at length come to be considered and
treated by the others in no better light than that of
foreigners and aliens.

The power of raising armies, by the most obvious
construction of the articles of the Confederation, is
merely a power of making requisitions upon the
States for quotas of men. This practice, in the
course of the late war, was found replete with ob
structions to a vigorous and to an economical system
of defence. It gave birth to a competition between
the States which created a kind of auction for men.
In order to furnish the quotas required of them,
they outbid each other till bounties grew to an enor
mous and insupportable size. The hope of a still
further increase afforded an inducement to those
who were disposed to serve to procrastinate their
enlistment, and disinclined them from engaging for
any considerable periods. Hence, slow and scanty
levies of men, in the most critical emergencies of
our affairs; short enlistments at an unparalleled ex
pense; continual fluctuations in the troops, ruinous
to their discipline and subjecting the public safety
frequently to the perilous crisis of a disbanded army.
Hence, also, those oppressive expedients for raising
men which were upon several occasions practised,
and which nothing but the enthusiasm of liberty
would have induced the people to endure.

This method of raising troops is not more tin-

i7° Alexander Hamilton

friendly to economy and vigor than it is to an equal
distribution of the burden. The States near the
seat of war, influenced by motives of self-preserva
tion, made efforts to furnish their quotas, which even
exceeded their abilities; while those at a distance
from danger were, for the most part, as remiss as the
others were diligent, in their exertions. The immedi
ate pressure of this inequality was not in this case, as
in that of the contributions of money, alleviated by
the hope of a final liquidation. The States which did
not pay their proportions of money might at least
be charged with their deficiencies; but no account
could be formed of the deficiencies in the supplies of
men. We shall not, however, see much reason to re
gret the want of this hope, when we consider how
little prospect there is, that the most delinquent
States will ever be able to make compensation for
their pecuniary failures. The system of quotas and
requisitions, whether it be applied to men or money,
is, in every view, a system of imbecility in the Union,
and of inequality and injustice among the members.
The right of equal suffrage among the States is
another exceptionable part of the Confederation.
Every idea of proportion and every rule of fair re
presentation conspires to condemn a principle, which
gives to Rhode Island an equal weight in the scale of
power with Massachusetts, or Connecticut, or New
York; and to Delaware an equal voice in the na
tional deliberations with Pennsylvania, or Virginia,
or North Carolina. Its operation contradicts the
fundamental maxim of republican government,
which requires that the sense of the majority should

The Federalist 171

prevail. Sophistry may reply, that sovereigns are
equal, and that a majority of the votes of the States
will be a majority of confederated America. But
this kind of logical legerdemain will never counter
act the plain suggestions of justice and common-
sense. It may happen that this majority of States
is a small minority of the people of America ' ; and
two thirds of the people of America could not long
be persuaded, upon the credit of artificial distinc
tions and syllogistic subtleties, to submit their in
terests to the management and disposal of one third.
The larger States would after a while revolt from the
idea of receiving the law from the smaller. To
acquiesce in such a privation of their due import
ance in the political scale, would be not merely to
be insensible to the love of power, but even to sacri
fice the desire of equality. It is neither rational to
expect the first, nor just to require the last. The
smaller States, considering how peculiarly their
safety and welfare depend on union, ought readily
to renounce a pretension which, if not relinquished,
would prove fatal to its duration.

It may be objected to this, that not seven but
nine States, or two thirds of the whole number, must
consent to the most important resolutions; and it
may be thence inferred, that nine States would
always comprehend a majority of the Union. But
this does not obviate the impropriety of an equal
vote between States of the most unequal dimensions

1 New Hampshire, Rhode Island, New Jersey, Delaware, Georgia,
South Carolina, and Maryland are a majority of the whole number of
the States, but they do not contain one third of the people. — PUBLIUS.

172 Alexander Hamilton

and populousness; nor is the inference accurate in
point of fact; for we can enumerate nine States
which contain less than a majority of the people1;
and it is constitutionally possible that these nine
may give the vote. Besides, there are matters of
considerable moment determinable by a bare ma
jority ; and there are others, concerning which doubts
have been entertained, which, if interpreted in
favor of the sufficiency of a vote of seven States,
would extend its operation to interests of the first
magnitude. In addition to this, it is to be observed
that there is a probability of an increase in the num
ber of States, and no provision for a proportional
augmentation of the ratio of votes.

But this is not all : what at first sight may seem a
remedy, is, in reality, a poison. To give a minority
a negative upon the majority (which is always the
case where more than a majority is requisite to a
decision), is, in its tendency, to subject the sense of
the greater number to that of the lesser. Congress,
from the non-attendance of a few States, have been
frequently in the situation of a Polish diet, where a
single VOTE has been sufficient to put a stop to all
their movements. A sixtieth part of the Union,
which is about the proportion of Delaware and Rhode
Island, has several times been able to oppose an entire
bar to its operations. This is one of those refine
ments which, in practice, has an effect the reverse
of what is expected from it in theory. The neces
sity of unanimity in public bodies, or of something

1 Add New York and Connecticut to the foregoing seven, and they
will be less than a majority. — PUBLIUS.

The Federalist 173

approaching towards it, has been founded upon a
supposition that it would contribute to security.
But its real operation is to embarrass the adminis
tration, to destroy the energy of the government,
and to substitute the pleasure, caprice, or artifices
of an insignificant, turbulent, or corrupt junto, to
the regular deliberations and decisions of a respect
able majority. In those emergencies of a nation, in
which the goodness or badness, the weakness or
strength of its government, is of the greatest im
portance, there is commonly a necessity for action.
The public business must, in some way or other, go
forward. If a pertinacious minority can control the
opinion of a majority, respecting the best mode of
conducting it, the majority, in order that something
may be done, must conform to the views of the
minority; and thus the sense of the smaller number
will overrule that of the greater, and give a tone to
the national proceedings. Hence, tedious delays;
continual negotiation and intrigue; contemptible
compromises of the public good. And yet, in such
a system, it is even happy when such compromises
can take place: for upon some occasions things will
not admit of accommodation ; and then the measures
of government must be injuriously suspended, or
fatally defeated. It is often, by the impracticability
of obtaining the concurrence of the necessary num
ber of votes, kept in a state of inaction. Its situa
tion must always savor of weakness, sometimes
border upon anarchy.

It is not difficult to discover, that a principle of
this kind gives greater scope to foreign corruption,

174 Alexander Hamilton

as well as to domestic faction, than that which per
mits the sense of the majority to decide; though
the contrary of this has been presumed. The mis
take has proceeded from not attending with due
care to the mischiefs that may be occasioned by
obstructing the progress of government at certain
critical seasons. When the concurrence of a large
number is required by the Constitution to the doing
of any national act, we are apt to rest satisfied that
all is safe, because nothing improper will be likely
to be done; but we forget how much good may be
prevented, and how much ill may be produced, by
the power of hindering the doing what may be neces
sary, and of keeping affairs in the same unfavorable
posture in which they may happen to stand at par
ticular periods.

Suppose, for instance, we were engaged in a war,
in conjunction with one foreign nation, against an
other. Suppose the necessity of our situation de
manded peace, and the interest or ambition of our
ally led him to seek the prosecution of the war, with
views that might justify us in making separate terms.
In such a state of things, this ally of ours would evi
dently find it much easier, by his bribes and in
trigues, to tie up the hands of government from
making peace, where two thirds of all the votes were
requisite to that object, than where a simple major
ity would suffice. In the first case, he would have
to corrupt a smaller number; in the last, a greater
number. Upon the same principle, it would be
much easier for a foreign power with which we were
at war to perplex our councils and embarrass our

The Federalist 175

exertions. And, in a commercial view, we may be
subjected to similar inconveniences. A nation, with
which we might have a treaty of commerce, could
with much greater facility prevent our forming a
connection with her competitor in trade, though
such a connection should be ever so beneficial to
ourselves.

Evils of this description ought not to be regarded
as imaginary. One of the weak sides of republics,
among their numerous advantages, is that they
afford too easy an inlet to foreign corruption. An
hereditary monarch, though often disposed to sacri
fice his subjects to his ambition, has so great a per
sonal interest in the government and in the external
glory of the nation, that it is not easy for a foreign
power to give him an equivalent for what he would
sacrifice by treachery to the state. The world has
accordingly been witness to few examples of this
species of royal prostitution, though there have been
abundant specimens of every other kind.

In republics, persons elevated from the mass of
the community, by the suffrages of their fellow-
citizens, to stations of great pre-eminence and
power, may find compensations for betraying their
trust, which, to any but minds animated and guided
by superior virtue, may appear to exceed the propor
tion of interest they have in the common stock, and
to overbalance the obligations of duty. Hence it is
that history furnishes us with so many mortifying
examples of the prevalency of foreign corruption in
republican governments. How much this contri
buted to the ruin of the ancient commonwealths has

176 Alexander Hamilton

been already delineated. It is well known that the
deputies of the United Provinces have, in various
instances, been purchased by the emissaries of the
neighboring kingdoms. The Earl of Chesterfield (if
my memory serves me right), in a letter to his court,
intimates that his success in an important negotia
tion must depend on his obtaining a major's com
mission for one of those deputies. And in Sweden
the parties were alternately bought by France and
England in so barefaced and notorious a manner
that it excited universal disgust in the nation, and
was a principal cause that the most limited monarch
in Europe, in a single day, without tumult, violence,
or opposition, became one of the most absolute and
uncontrolled.

A circumstance which crowns the defects of the
Confederation remains yet to be mentioned, — the
want of a judiciary power. Laws are a dead letter
without courts to expound and define their true
meaning and operation. The treaties of the United
States, to have any force at all, must be considered
as part of the law of the land. Their true import, as
far as respects individuals, must, like all other laws,
be ascertained by judicial determinations. To pro
duce uniformity in these determinations, they ought
to be submitted, in the last resort, to one SUPREME
TRIBUNAL. And this tribunal ought to be instituted
under the same authority which forms the treaties
themselves. These ingredients are both indispen
sable. If there is in each State a court of final
jurisdiction, there may be as many different final
determinations on the same point as there are courts.

The Federalist 177

There are endless diversities in the opinions of men.
We often see not only different courts but the judges
of the same court differing from each other. To
avoid the confusion which would unavoidably result
from the contradictory decisions of a number of in
dependent judicatories, all nations have found it
necessary to establish one court paramount to the
rest, possessing a general superintendence, and au
thorized to settle and declare in the last resort a uni
form rule of civil justice.

This is the more necessary where the frame of
the government is so compounded that the laws of
the whole are in danger of being contravened by the
laws of the parts. In this case, if the particular
tribunals are invested with a right of ultimate juris
diction, besides the contradictions to be expected
from difference of opinion, there will be much to
fear from the bias of local views and prejudices, and
from the interference of local regulations. As often
as such an interference was to happen, there would
be reason to apprehend that the provisions of the
particular laws might be preferred to those of the
general laws; for nothing is more natural to men in
office than to look with peculiar deference towards
that authority to which they owe their official exist
ence. The treaties of the United States, under the
present Constitution, are liable to the infractions of
thirteen different legislatures, and as many differ
ent courts of final jurisdiction, acting under the
authority of those legislatures. The faith, the repu
tation, the peace of the whole Union, are thus con
tinually at the mercy of the prejudices, the passions,

VOL. XI. — 12.

1 78 Alexander Hamilton

and the interests of every member of which it is
composed. Is it possible that foreign nations can
either respect or confide in such a government? Is
it possible that the people of America will longer
consent to trust their honor, their happiness, their
safety, on so precarious a foundation?

In this review of the Confederation, I have con
fined myself to the exhibition of its most material
defects; passing over those imperfections in its de
tails by which even a great part of the power in
tended to be conferred upon it has been in a great
measure rendered abortive. It must be by this time
evident to all men of reflection, who can divest them
selves of the prepossessions of preconceived opinions,
that it is a system so radically vicious and unsound,
as to admit not of amendment but by an entire
change in its leading features and characters.

The organization of Congress is itself utterly im
proper for the exercise of those powers which are
necessary to be deposited in the Union. A single
assembly may be a proper receptacle of those slender,
or rather fettered, authorities, which have been
heretofore delegated to the federal head; but it-
would be inconsistent with all the principles of good
government, to intrust it with those additional
powers which, even the moderate and more rational
adversaries of the proposed Constitution admit,
ought to reside in the United States. If that plan
should not be adopted, and if the necessity of the
Union should be able to withstand the ambitious
aims of those men who may indulge magnificent
schemes of personal aggrandizement from its disso-

The Federalist 179

lution, the probability would be, that we should run
into the project of conferring supplementary powers
upon Congress, as they are now constituted; and
either the machine, from the intrinsic feebleness of
its structure, will moulder into pieces, in spite of our
ill-judged efforts to prop it; or, by successive aug
mentations of its force and energy, as necessity
might prompt, we shall finally accumulate, in a
single body, all the most important prerogatives of
sovereignty, and thus entail upon our posterity one
of the most execrable forms of government that
human infatuation ever contrived. Thus we should
create in reality that very tyranny which the adver
saries of the new Constitution either are, or affect
to be, solicitous to avert.

It has not a little contributed to the infirmities of
the existing federal system, that it never had a
ratification by the PEOPLE. Resting on no better
foundation than the consent of the several legisla
tures, it has been exposed to frequent and intricate
questions concerning the validity of its powers, and
has, in some instances, given birth to the enormous
doctrine of a right of legislative repeal. Owing its
ratification to the law of a State, it has been con
tended that the same authority might repeal the law
by which it was ratified. However gross a heresy
it may be to maintain that a party to a compact
has a right to revoke that compact, the doctrine it
self has had respectable advocates. The possibility
of a question of this nature proves the necessity
of laying the foundations of our national govern
ment deeper than in the mere sanction of delegated

180 Alexander Hamilton

authority. The fabric of American empire ought to
rest on the solid basis of THE CONSENT OF THE
PEOPLE. The streams of national power ought to
flow immediately from that pure, original fountain
of all legitimate authority.

PUBLIUS.

From the New York Packet, Tuesday, December 18, 1787

THE FEDERALIST. No. XXIII

(HAMILTON)

To the People of the State of New York:

The necessity of a Constitution, at least equally
energetic with the one proposed, to the preservation
of the Union, is the point at the examination of
which we are now arrived.

This inquiry will naturally divide itself into three
branches — the objects to be provided for by the
federal government, the quantity of power neces
sary to the accomplishment of those objects, the
persons upon whom that power ought to operate.
Its distribution and organization will more properly
claim our attention tinder the succeeding head.

The principal purposes to be answered by union
are these — the common defence of the members;
the preservation of the public peace, as well against
internal convulsions as external attacks; the regu
lation of commerce with other nations and between
the States; the superintendence of our intercourse,
political and commercial, with foreign countries.

The authorities essential to the common defence
are these: to raise armies ; to build and equip fleets ;

The Federalist 181

to prescribe rules for the government of both; to
direct their operations; to provide for their sup
port. These powers ought to exist without limita
tion, because it is impossible to foresee or define the
extent and variety of national exigencies, or the cor
respondent extent and variety of the means which may
be necessary to satisfy them. The circumstances that
endanger the safety of nations are infinite, and for
this reason no constitutional shackles can wisely be
imposed on the power to which the care of it is com
mitted. This power ought to be co-extensive with
all the possible combinations of such circumstances;
and ought to be under the direction of the same
councils which are appointed to preside over the
common defence.

This is one of those truths which, to a correct and
unprejudiced mind, carries its own evidence along
with it; and may be obscured, but cannot be made
plainer by argument or reasoning. It rests upon
axioms as simple as they are universal; the means
ought to be proportioned to the end; the persons,
from whose agency the attainment of any end is ex
pected, ought to possess the means by which it is to
be attained.

Whether there ought to be a federal government
intrusted with the care of the common defence, is a
question in the first instance, open for discussion;
but the moment it is decided in the affirmative,
it will follow, that that government ought to be
clothed with all the powers requisite to complete
execution of its trust. And unless it can be shown
that the circumstances which may affect the public

1 82 Alexander Hamilton

safety are reducible within certain determinate lim
its; unless the contrary of this position can be fairly
and rationally disputed, it must be admitted, as a
necessary consequence, that there can be no limita
tion of that authority which is to provide for the
defence and protection of the community, in any
matter essential to its efficacy — that is, in any mat
ter essential to the formation, direction, or support

Of the NATIONAL FORCES.

Defective as the present Confederation has been
proved to be, this principle appears to have been
fully recognized by the framers of it; though they
have not made proper or adequate provision for its
exercise. Congress have an unlimited discretion to
make requisitions of men and money; to govern
the army and navy ; to direct their operations. As
their requisitions are made constitutionally binding
upon the States, who are in fact under the most
solemn obligations to furnish the supplies required
of them, the intention evidently was, that the United
States should command whatever resources were by
them judged requisite to the " common defence and
general welfare.'* It was presumed that a sense of
their true interests, and a regard to the dictates of
good faith, would be found sufficient pledges for the
punctual performance of the duty of the members to
the federal head.

The experiment has, however, demonstrated that
this expectation was ill-founded and illusory; and
the observations, made under the last head, will, I
imagine, have sufficed to convince the impartial and
discerning, that there is an absolute necessity for an

The Federalist 183

entire change in the first principles of the system;
that if we are in earnest about giving the Union
energy and duration, we must abandon the vain
project of legislating upon the States in their col
lective capacities; we must extend the laws of the
federal government to the individual citizens of
America; we must discard the fallacious scheme of
quotas and requisitions, as equally impracticable
and unjust. The result from all this is that the
Union ought to be invested with full power to levy
troops; to build and equip fleets; and to raise the
revenues which will be required for the formation
and support of an army and navy, in the customary
and ordinary modes practised in other governments.
If the circumstances of our country are such as to
demand a compound instead of a simple, a con
federate instead of a sole, government, the essen
tial point which will remain to be adjusted will be
to discriminate the OBJECTS, as far as it can be done,
which shall appertain to the different provinces or
departments of power; allowing to each the most
ample authority for fulfilling the objects committed
to its charge. Shall the Union be constituted the
guardian of the common safety? Are fleets and ar
mies and revenues necessary to this purpose? The
government of the Union must be empowered to pass
all laws, and to make all regulations which have re
lation to them. The same must be the case in re
spect to commerce, and to every other matter to
which its jurisdiction is permitted to extend. Is
the administration of justice between the citizens of
the same State the proper department of the local

184 Alexander Hamilton

governments ? These must possess all the authorities
which are connected with this object, and with every
other that may be allotted to their particular cogni
zance and direction. Not to confer in each case a
degree of power commensurate to the end, would be
to violate the most obvious rules of prudence and
propriety, and improvidently to trust the great in
terests of the nation to hands which are disabled
from managing them with vigor and success.

Who so likely to make suitable provisions for the
public defence, as that body to which the guardian
ship of the public safety is confided; which, as the
centre of information, will best understand the ex
tent and urgency of the dangers that threaten; as
the representative of the WHOLE, will feel itself most
deeply interested in the preservation of every part;
which, from the responsibility implied in the duty
assigned to it, will be most sensibly impressed with
the necessity of proper exertions; and which, by
the extension of its authority throughout the States,
can alone establish uniformity and concert in the
plans and measures by which the common safety is
to be secured? Is there not a manifest inconsistency
in devolving upon the federal government the care
of the general defence, and leaving in the State gov
ernments the effective powers by which it is to be
provided for? Is not a want of co-operation the in
fallible consequence of such a system? And will
not weakness, disorder, an undue distribution of
the burdens and calamities of war, an unnecessary
and intolerable increase of expense, be its natural
and inevitable concomitants? Have we not had un-

The Federalist 185

equivocal experience of its effects in the course of the
revolution which we have just accomplished?

Every view we may take of the subject, as candid
inquirers after truth, will serve to convince us, that
it is both unwise and dangerous to deny the federal
government an unconfined authority, as to all those
objects which are intrusted to its management. It
will indeed deserve the most vigilant and careful at
tention of the people, to see that it be modelled in
such a manner as to admit of its being safely vested
with the requisite powers. If any plan which has
been, or may be, offered to our consideration, should
not, upon a dispassionate inspection, be found to
answer this description, it ought to be rejected. A
government, the constitution of which renders it
unfit to be trusted with all the powers which a free
people ought to delegate to any government, would be
an unsafe and improper depositary of the NATIONAL
INTERESTS. Wherever THESE can with propriety be
confided, the coincident powers may safely accom
pany them. This is the true result of all just reason
ing upon the subject. And the adversaries of the
plan promulgated by the convention ought to have
confined themselves to showing, that the internal
structure of the proposed government was such as
to render it unworthy of the confidence of the people.
They ought not to have wandered into inflammatory
declamations and unmeaning cavils about the ex
tent of the powers. The POWERS are not too ex
tensive for the OBJECTS of federal administration, or,
in other words, for the management of our NATIONAL
INTERESTS; nor can any satisfactory argument be

1 86 Alexander Hamilton

framed to show that they are chargeable with such
an excess. If it be true, as has been insinuated by
some of the writers on the other side, that the diffi
culty arises from the nature of the thing, and that
the extent of the country will not permit us to form
a government in which such ample powers can
safely be reposed, it would prove that we ought to
contract our views, and resort to the expedient of
separate confederacies, which will move within more
practicable spheres. For the absurdity must con
tinually stare us in the face of confiding to a govern
ment the direction of the most essential national
interests, without daring to trust to it the author
ities which are indispensable to their proper and
efficient management. Let us not attempt to recon
cile contradictions, but firmly embrace a rational
alternative.

I trust, however, that the impracticability of one
general system cannot be shown. I am greatly mis
taken, if any thing of weight has yet been advanced
of this tendency; and I flatter myself, that the ob
servations which have been made in the course of
these papers have served to place the reverse of that
position in as clear a light as any matter still in the
womb of time and experience can be susceptible of.
This, at all events, must be evident, that the very
difficulty itself, drawn from the extent of the country,
is the strongest argument in favor of an energetic
government; for any other can certainly never pre
serve the Union of so large an empire. If we em
brace the tenets of those who oppose the adoption
of the proposed Constitution, as the standard of our

The Federalist 187

political creed, we cannot fail to verify the gloomy
doctrines which predict the impracticability of a
national system pervading the entire limits of the
present Confederacy.

PUBLIUS.

For the Independent Journal

THE FEDERALIST. No. XXIV

(HAMILTON)

To the People of the State of New York:

To the powers proposed to be conferred upon the
federal government, in respect to the creation and
direction of the national forces, I have met with but
one specific objection, which, if I understand it
right, is this, — that proper provision has not been
made against the existence of standing armies in
time of peace, an objection which, I shall now en
deavor to show, rests on weak and unsubstantial
foundations.

It has indeed been brought forward in the most
vague and general form, supported only by bold
assertions, without the appearance of argument;
without even the sanction of theoretical opinions;
in contradiction to the practice of other free nations,
and to the general sense of America, as expressed in
most of the existing constitutions. The propriety
of this remark will appear, the moment it is recol
lected that the objection under consideration turns
upon a supposed necessity of restraining the LEGIS
LATIVE authority of the nation, in the article of

1 88 Alexander Hamilton

military establishments; a principle unheard of, ex
cept in one or two of our State constitutions, and
rejected in all the rest.

A stranger to our politics, who was to read our
newspapers at the present juncture, without having
previously inspected the plan reported by the con
vention, would be naturally led to one of two
conclusions: either that it contained a positive in
junction, that standing armies should be kept up in
time of peace; or that it vested in the EXECUTIVE
the whole power of levying troops, without subject
ing his discretion, in any shape, to the control of
the legislature.

If he came afterwards to peruse the plan itself, he
would be surprised to discover, that neither the one
nor the other was the case ; that the whole power of
raising armies was lodged in the Legislature, not in
the Executive; that this legislature was to be a popu
lar body, consisting of the representatives of the
people periodically elected; and that instead of the
provision he had supposed in favor of standing ar
mies, there was to be found, in respect to this object,
an important qualification even of the legislative
discretion, in that clause which forbids the appro
priation of money for the support of an army for any
longer period than two years — a precaution which,
upon a nearer view of it, will appear to be a great
and real security against the keeping up of troops
without evident necessity.

Disappointed in his first surmise, the person I have
supposed would be apt to pursue his conjectures a
little further. He would naturally say to himself,

The Federalist 189

it is impossible that all this vehement and pathetic
declamation can be without some colorable pretext.
It must needs be that this people, so jealous of their
liberties, have, in all the preceding models of the
constitutions which they have established, inserted
the most precise and rigid precautions on this point,
the omission of which, in the new plan, has given
birth to all this apprehension and clamor.

If, under this impression, he proceeded to pass in
review the several State constitutions, how great
would be his disappointment to find that two only of
them x contained an interdiction of standing armies
in time of peace; that the other eleven had either
observed a profound silence on the subject, or had
in express terms admitted the right of the Legis
lature to authorize their existence.

Still, however, he would be persuaded that there
must be some plausible foundation for the cry raised
on this head. He would never be able to imagine,
while any source of information remained unexplored,

1 This statement of the matter is taken from the printed collection
of State Constitutions. Pennsylvania and North Carolina are the
two which contain the interdiction in these words: "As standing
armies in time of peace are dangerous to liberty, THEY OUGHT NOT to
be kept up." This is, in truth, rather a CAUTION than a PROHIBITION.
New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Delaware, and Maryland have, in
each of their bills of rights, a clause to this effect: "Standing armies
are dangerous to liberty, and ought not to be raised or kept up WITH
OUT THE CONSENT OF THE LEGISLATURE" ; which is a formal admission
of the authority of the Legislature. New York has no bills of rights,
and her constitution says not a word about the matter. No bills of
rights appear annexed to the constitutions of the other States, except
the foregoing, and their constitutions are equally silent. I am told,
however, that one or two States have bills of rights which do not ap
pear in this collection; but that those also recognize the right of the
legislative authority in this respect. — PUBLIUS.

19° Alexander Hamilton

that it was nothing more than an experiment upon
the public credulity, dictated either by a deliber
ate intention to deceive, or by the overflowings of
a zeal too intemperate to be ingenuous. It would
probably occur to him, that he would be likely to
find the precautions he was in search of in the primi
tive compact between the States. Here, at length,
he would expect to meet with a solution of the
enigma. No doubt, he would observe to himself,
the existing Confederation must contain the most
explicit provisions against military establishments
in time of peace; and a departure from this model,
in a favorite point, has occasioned the discontent
which appears to influence these political champions.
If he should now apply himself to a careful and
critical survey of the articles of Confederation, his
astonishment would not only be increased, but
would acquire a mixture of indignation, at the un
expected discovery, that these articles, instead of
containing the prohibition he looked for, and though
they had, with jealous circumspection, restricted
the authority of the State legislatures in this par
ticular, had not imposed a single restraint on that
of the United States. If he happened to be a man
of quick sensibility, or ardent temper, he could now
no longer refrain from regarding these clamors as
the dishonest artifices of a sinister and unprincipled
opposition to a plan which ought at least to receive
a fair and candid examination from all sincere lovers
of their country! How else, he would say, could the
authors of them have been tempted to vent such
loud censures upon that plan, about a point in which

The Federalist 191

it seems to have conformed itself to the general sense
of America as declared in its different forms of gov
ernment, and in which it has even superadded a new
and powerful guard unknown to any of them? If,
on the contrary, he happened to be a man of calm
and dispassionate feelings, he would indulge a sigh
for the frailty of human nature, and would lament,
that in a matter so interesting to the happiness of
millions, the true merits of the question should be
perplexed and entangled by expedients so unfriendly
to an impartial and right determination. Even
such a man could hardly forbear remarking, that a
conduct of this kind has too much the appearance of
an intention to mislead the people by alarming their
passions, rather than to convince them by arguments
a%iressed to their understandings.

But however little this objection may be counte
nanced, even by precedents among ourselves, it may
be satisfactory to take a nearer view of its intrinsic
merits. From a close examination it will appear
that restraints upon the discretion of the legislature
in respect to military establishments in time of
peace, would be improper to be imposed, and if im
posed, from the necessities of society, would be un
likely to be observed.

Though a wide ocean separates the United States
from Europe, yet there are various considerations
that warn us against an excess of confidence or se
curity. On one side of us, and stretching far into
our rear, are growing settlements subject to the do
minion of Britain. On the other side, and extend
ing to meet the British settlements, are colonies and

1 92 Alexander Hamilton

establishments subject to the dominion of Spain.
This situation and the vicinity of the West India
Islands, belonging to these two powers, create be
tween them, in respect to their American possessions
and in relation to us, a common interest. The sav
age tribes on our Western frontier ought to be re
garded as our natural enemies, their natural allies,
because they have most to fear from us, and most to
hope from them. The improvements in the art of
navigation have, as to the facility of communication,
rendered distant nations, in a great measure, neigh
bors. Britain and Spain are among the principal
maritime powers of Europe. A future concert of
views between these nations ought not to be re
garded as improbable. The increasing remoteness
of consanguinity is every day diminishing the force
of the family compact between France and Spain.
And politicians have ever with great reason con
sidered the ties of blood as feeble and precarious
links of political connection. These circumstances
combined, admonish us not to be too sanguine in
considering ourselves as entirely out of the reach of
danger.

Previous to the Revolution, and ever since the
peace, there has been a constant necessity for keep
ing small garrisons on our Western frontier. No
person can doubt that these will continue to be in
dispensable, if it should only be against the ravages
and depredations of the Indians. These garrisons
must either be furnished by occasional detachments
from the militia, or by permanent corps in the pay of
the government. The first is impracticable; and if

The Federalist 193

practicable, would be pernicious. The militia would
not long, if at all, submit to be dragged from their
occupations and families to perform that most dis
agreeable duty in times of profound peace. And if
they could be prevailed upon or compelled to do it,
the increased expense of a frequent rotation of serv
ice, and the loss of labor and disconcertion of the
industrious pursuits of individuals, would form con
clusive objections to the scheme. It would be as
burdensome and injurious to the public as ruinous
to private citizens. The latter resource of permanent
corps in the pay of the government amounts to a
standing army in time of peace; a small one, indeed,
but not the less real for being small. Here is a sim
ple view of the subject, that shows us at once the
impropriety of a constitutional interdiction of such
establishments, and the necessity of leaving the
matter to the discretion and prudence of the legis
lature.

In proportion to our increase in strength, it is
probable, nay, it may be said certain, that Britain
and Spain would augment their military establish
ments in our neighborhood. If we should not be
willing to be exposed, in a naked and defenceless
condition, to their insults and encroachments, we
should find it expedient to increase our frontier
garrisons in some ratio to the force by which our
Western settlements might be annoyed. There are,
and will be, particular posts, the possession of which
will include the command of large districts of terri
tory, and facilitate future invasions of the remainder.
It may be added that some of those posts will be

VOL. XI.— 13.

194 Alexander Hamilton

keys to the trade with the Indian nations. Can any
man think it would be wise to leave such posts in a
situation to be at any instant seized by one or the
other of two neighboring and formidable powers?
To act this part would be to desert all the usual
maxims of prudence and policy.

If we mean to be a commercial people, or even to
be secure on our Atlantic side, we must endeavor, as
soon as possible, to have a navy. To this purpose
there must be dock-yards and arsenals ; and for the
defence of these, fortifications, and probably garri
sons. When a nation has become so powerful by
sea that it can protect its dock-yards by its fleets,
this supersedes the necessity of garrisons for that
purpose; but where naval establishments are in
their infancy, moderate garrisons will, in all likeli
hood, be found an indispensable security against
descents for the destruction of the arsenals and
dock-yards, and sometimes of the fleet itself.

PUBLIUS.

From the New York Packet, Friday, December 21, 1787

WHE FEDERALIST. No. XXV

(HAMILTON)

To the People of the State of New York:

It may perhaps be urged that the objects enumer
ated in the preceding number ought to be provided
for by the State governments, under the direction
of the Union. But this would be, in reality, an
inversion of the primary principle of our political
association, as it would in practice transfer the care

The Federalist 195

of the common defence from the federal head to the
individual members: a project oppressive to some
States, dangerous to all, and baneful to the Con
federacy.

The territories of Britain, Spain, and of the Indian
nations in our neighborhood do not border on par
ticular States, but encircle the Union from Maine to
Georgia. The danger, though in different degrees,
is therefore common. And the means of guarding
against it ought, in like manner, to be the objects of
common councils and of a common treasury. It
happens that some States, from local situation, are
more directly exposed. New York is of this class.
Upon the plan of separate provisions, New York
would have to sustain the whole weight of the estab
lishments requisite to her immediate safety, and to
the mediate or ultimate protection of her neighbors.
This would neither be equitable as it respected New
York nor safe as it respected the other States.
Various inconveniences would attend such a system.
The States, to whose lot it might fall to support the
necessary establishments, would be as little able as
willing, for a considerable time to come, to bear the
burden of competent provisions. The security of
all would thus be subjected to the parsimony, im
providence, or inability of a part. If the resources
of such part becoming more abundant and exten
sive, its provisions should be proportionally en
larged, the other States would quickly take the
alarm at seeing the whole military force of the Union
in the hands of two or three of its members, and
those probably amongst the most powerful. They

196 Alexander Hamilton

would each choose to have some counterpoise, and
pretences could easily be contrived. In this situa
tion, military establishments, nourished by mutual
jealousy, would be apt to swell beyond their natural
or proper size ; and being at the separate disposal of
the members, they would be engines for the abridg
ment or demolition of the national authority.

Reasons have been already given to induce a
supposition that the State governments will too
naturally be prone to a rivalship with that of the
Union, the foundation of which will be the love of
power; and that in any contest between the federal
head and one of its members the people will be most
apt to unite with their local government. If, in
addition to this immense advantage, the ambition
of the members should be stimulated by the separate
and independent possession of military forces, it
would afford too strong a temptation and too great
a facility to them to make enterprises upon, and
finally to subvert, the constitutional authority of the
Union. On the other hand, the liberty of the people
would be less safe in this state of things than in that
which left the national forces in the hands of the
national government. As far as an army may be
considered as a dangerous weapon of power, it had
better be in those hands of which the people are
most likely to be jealous than in those of which they
are least likely to be jealous. For it is a truth,
which the experience of ages has attested, that the
people are always most in danger when the means of
injuring their rights are in the possession of those
of whom they entertain the least suspicion.

The Federalist 197

The framers of the existing Confederation, fully
aware of the danger to the Union from the separate
possession of military forces by the States, have, in
express terms, prohibited them from having either
ships or troops, unless with the consent of Congress.
The truth is, that the existence of a federal govern
ment and military establishments under State au
thority are not less at variance with each other than
a due supply of the federal treasury and the system
of quotas and requisitions.

There are other lights besides those already taken
notice of, in which the impropriety of restraints on
the discretion of the national legislature will be
equally manifest. The design of the objection,
which has been mentioned, is to preclude standing
armies in time of peace, though we have never been
informed how far it is designed the prohibition should
extend: whether to raising armies as well as to
keeping them up in a season of tranquillity or not.
If it be confined to the latter it will have no precise
signification, and it will be ineffectual for the pur
pose intended. When armies are once raised what
shall be denominated " keeping them up/' contrary
to the sense of the Constitution? What time shall
be requisite to ascertain the violation? Shall it be
a week, a month, a year? Or shall we say they may
be continued as long as the danger which occasioned
their being raised continues? This would be to
admit that they might be kept up in time of peace,
against threatening or impending danger, which
would be at once to deviate from the literal meaning
of the prohibition, and to introduce an extensive

198 Alexander Hamilton

latitude of construction. Who shall judge of the
continuance of the danger? This must undoubtedly
be submitted to the national government, and the
matter would then be brought to this issue, that the
national government, to provide against appre
hended danger, might in the first instance raise
troops, and might afterwards keep them on foot
as long as they supposed the peace or safety of the
community was in any degree of jeopardy. It is
easy to perceive that a discretion so latitudinary
as this would afford ample room for eluding the
force of the provision.

The supposed utility of a provision of this kind can
only be founded on the supposed probability, or at
least possibility, of a combination between the exec
utive and the legislative, in some scheme of usur
pation. Should this at any time happen, how easy
would it be to fabricate pretences of approaching
danger! Indian hostilities, instigated by Spain or
Britain, would always be at hand. Provocations to
produce the desired appearances might even be given
to some foreign power, and appeased again by timely
concessions. If we can reasonably presume such a
combination to have been formed, and that the enter
prise is warranted by a sufficient prospect of success,
the army, when once raised, from whatever cause, or
on whatever pretext, may be applied to the execution
of the project.

If, to obviate this consequence, it should be re
solved to extend the prohibition to the raising of
armies in time of peace, the United States would
then exhibit the most extraordinary spectacle which

The Federalist 199

the world has yet seen, — that of a nation incapaci
tated by its Constitution to prepare for defence, be
fore it was actually invaded. As the ceremony of a
formal denunciation of war has of late fallen into
disuse, the presence of an enemy within our terri
tories must be waited for, as the legal warrant to the
government to begin its levies of men for the protec
tion of the State. We must receive the blow, before
we could even prepare to return it. All that kind of
policy by which nations anticipate distant danger,
and meet the gathering storm, must be abstained
from, as contrary to the genuine maxims of a free
government. We must expose our property and
liberty to the mercy of foreign invaders, and invite
them by our weakness to seize the naked and defence
less prey, because we are afraid that rulers, created
by our choice, dependent on our will, might endanger
that liberty, by an abuse of the means necessary to
its preservation.

Here I expect we shall be told that the militia of
the country is its natural bulwark, and would be at
all times equal to the national defence. This doc
trine, in substance, had like to have lost us our in
dependence. It cost millions to the United States
that might have been saved. The facts which,
from our own experience, forbid a reliance of this
kind, are too recent to permit us to be the dupes of
such a suggestion. The steady operations of war
against a regular and disciplined army can only be
successfully conducted by a force of the same kind.
Considerations of economy, not less than of stabil
ity and vigor, confirm this position. The American

200 Alexander Hamilton

militia, in the course of the late war, have, by their
valor on numerous occasions, erected eternal monu
ments to their fame; but the bravest of them feel
and know that the liberty of their country could not
have been established by their efforts alone, however
great and valuable they were. War, like most other
things, is a science to be acquired and perfected by
diligence, by perseverance, by time, and by practice.
All violent policy, as it is contrary to the natural
and experienced course of human affairs, defeats it
self. Pennsylvania, at this instant, affords an ex
ample of the truth of this remark. The Bill of Rights
of that State declares that standing armies are dan
gerous to liberty, and ought not to be kept up in
time of peace. Pennsylvania, nevertheless, in a
time of profound peace, from the existence of partial
disorders in one or two of her counties, has resolved
to raise a body of troops ; and in all probability will
keep them up as long as there is any appearance of
danger to the public peace. The conduct of Massa
chusetts affords a lesson on the same subject, though
on different ground. That State (without waiting
for the sanction of Congress, as the articles of the
Confederation require) was compelled to raise troops
to quell a domestic insurrection, and still keeps a
corps in pay to prevent a revival of the spirit of
revolt. The particular constitution of Massachu
setts opposed no obstacle to the measure; but the
instance is still of use to instruct us that cases are
likely to occur under our government, as well as
under those of other nations, which will sometimes
render a military force in time of peace essential to

The Federalist 201

the security of the society, and that it is therefore
improper in this respect to control the legislative
discretion. It also teaches us, in its application to
the United States, how little the rights of a feeble
government are likely to be respected, even by its
own constituents. And it teaches us, in addition
to the rest, how unequal parchment provisions are
to a struggle with public necessity.

It was a fundamental maxim of the Lacedaemonian
commonwealth, that the post of admiral should not
be conferred twice on the same person. The Pelo-
ponnesian confederates, having suffered a severe
defeat at sea from the Athenians, demanded Ly-
sander, who had before served with success in that
capacity, to command the combined fleets. The
Lacedaemonians, to gratify their allies, and yet pre
serve the semblance of an adherence to their ancient
institutions, had recourse to the flimsy subterfuge
of investing Lysander with the real power of ad
miral, under the nominal title of vice-admiral. This
instance is selected from among a multitude that
might be cited to confirm the truth already ad
vanced and illustrated by domestic examples; which
is, that nations pay little regard to rules and maxims
calculated in their very nature to run counter to the
necessities of society. Wise politicians will be cau
tious about fettering the government with restrictions
that cannot be observed, because they know that
every breach of the fundamental laws, though dic
tated by necessity, impairs that sacred reverence
which ought to be maintained in the breast of rulers
towards the constitution of a country, and forms a

2O2 Alexander Hamilton

precedent for other breaches where the same plea of
necessity does not exist at all, or is less urgent and
palpable.

PUBLIUS.

For the Independent Journal

THE FEDERALIST. No. XXVI

(HAMILTON)

To the People of the State of New York:

It was a thing hardly to be expected that in a
popular revolution the minds of men should stop at
that happy mean which marks the salutary boundary
between POWER and PRIVILEGE, and combines the
energy of government with the security of private
rights. A failure in this delicate and important point
is the great source of the inconveniences we experi
ence, and if we are not cautious to avoid a repetition
of the error, in our future attempts to rectify and
ameliorate our system, we may travel from one
chimerical project to another; we may try change
after change; but we shall never be likely to make
any material change for the better.

The idea of restraining the legislative authority,
in the means of providing for the national defence,
is one of those refinements which owe their origin to
a zeal for liberty more ardent than enlightened. We
have seen, however, that it has not had thus far an
extensive prevalency; that even in this country,
where it made its first appearance, Pennsylvania
and North Carolina are the only two States by
which it has been in any degree patronized; and

The Federalist 203

that all the others have refused to give it the least
countenance ; wisely judging that confidence must be
placed somewhere; that the necessity of doing it,
is implied in the very act of delegating power; and
that it is better to hazard the abuse of that confi
dence than to embarrass the government and en
danger the public safety by impolitic restrictions on
the legislative authority. The opponents of the
proposed Constitution combat, in this respect, the
general decision of America; and instead of being
taught by experience the propriety of correcting any
extremes into which we may have heretofore run,
they appear disposed to conduct us into others still
more dangerous, and more extravagant. As if the
tone of government had been found too high, or too
rigid, the doctrines they teach are calculated to in
duce us to depress or to relax it, by expedients which,
upon other occasions, have been condemned or for
borne. It may be affirmed without the imputation
of invective, that if the principles they inculcate, on
various points, could so far obtain as to become the
popular creed, they would utterly unfit the people
of this country for any species of government what
ever. But a danger of this kind is not to be appre
hended. The citizens of America have too much
discernment to be argued into anarchy. And I am
much mistaken, if experience has not wrought a
deep and solemn conviction in the public mind, that
greater energy of government is essential to the
welfare and prosperity of the community.

It may not be amiss in this place concisely to re
mark the origin and progress of the idea, which aims

204 Alexander Hamilton

at the exclusion of military establishments in time
of peace. Though in speculative minds it may
arise from a contemplation of the nature and ten
dency of such institutions, fortified by the events
that have happened in other ages and countries, yet
as a national sentiment, it must be traced to those
habits of thinking which we derive from the nation
from whom the inhabitants of these States have in
general sprung.

In England, for a long time after the Norman
Conquest, the authority of the monarch was almost
unlimited. Inroads were gradually made upon the
prerogative, in favor of liberty, first by the barons,
and afterwards by the people, till the greatest part
of its most formidable pretensions became extinct.
But it was not till the revolution in 1688, which
elevated the Prince of Orange to the throne of Great
Britain, that English liberty was completely tri
umphant. As incident to the undefined power of
making war, an acknowledged prerogative of the
crown, Charles II. had, by his own authority, kept
on foot in time of peace a body of 5,000 regular
troops. And this number James II. increased to
30,000; who were paid out of his civil list. At the
revolution, to abolish the exercise of so dangerous an
authority, it became an article of the Bill of Rights
then framed, that " the raising or keeping a standing
army within the kingdom in time of peace, unless
with the consent of Parliament, was against law/'

In that kingdom, when the pulse of liberty was at
its highest pitch, no security against the danger of
standing armies was thought requisite, beyond a

The Federalist 205

prohibition of their being raised or kept up by the
mere authority of the executive magistrate. The
patriots, who effected that memorable revolution,
were too temperate, too well-informed, to think of
any restraint on the legislative discretion. They
were aware that a certain number of troops for
guards and garrisons were indispensable; that no
precise bounds could be set to the national exigen
cies ; that a power equal to every possible contingency
must exist somewhere in the government: and that
when they referred the exercise of that power to the
judgment of the legislature, they had arrived at the
ultimate point of precaution which was reconcilable
with the safety of the community.
» From the same source, the people of America may
be said to have derived an hereditary impression of
danger to liberty, from standing armies in time of
peace. The circumstances of a revolution quickened
the public sensibility on every point connected with
the security of popular rights, and in some instances
raised the warmth of our zeal beyond the degree
which consisted with the due temperature of the
body politic. The attempts of two of the States to
restrict the authority of the legislature in the article
of military establishments, are of the number of
these instances. The principles which had taught
us to be jealous of the power of an hereditary mon
arch were by an injudicious excess extended to the
representatives of the people in their popular assem
blies. Even in some of the States, where this error
was not adopted, we find unnecessary declarations
that standing armies ought not to be kept up, in

206 Alexander Hamilton

time of peace, WITHOUT THE CONSENT OP THE LEGIS
LATURE. I call them unnecessary, because the
reason which had introduced a similar provision into
the English Bill of Rights is not applicable to any
of the State constitutions. The power of raising
armies at all, under those constitutions, can by no
construction be deemed to reside anywhere else,
than in the legislatures themselves; and it was
superfluous, if not absurd, to declare that a matter
should not be done without the consent of a body,
which alone had the power of doing it. Accordingly,
in some of those constitutions, and among others, in
that of this State of New York, which has been
justly celebrated, both in Europe and America, as
one of the best of the forms of government estab
lished in this country, there is a total silence upon
the subject.

It is remarkable, that even in the two States which
seem to have meditated an interdiction of military
establishments in time of peace, the mode of expres
sion made use of is rather cautionary than prohibi
tory. It is not said, that standing armies shall not
be kept up, but that they ought not to be kept up, in
time of peace. This ambiguity of terms appears to
have been the result of a conflict between jealousy
and conviction; between the desire of excluding
such establishments at all events, and the persuasion
that an absolute exclusion would be unwise and
unsafe.

Can it be doubted that such a provision, whenever
the situation of public affairs was understood to re
quire a departure from it, would be interpreted by

The Federalist 207

the legislature into a mere admonition, and would
be made to yield to the necessities or supposed neces
sities of the State? Let the fact already mentioned,
with respect to Pennsylvania, decide. What then
(it may be asked) is the use of such a provision, if it
cease to operate the moment there is an inclination
to disregard it?

Let us examine whether there be any comparison,
in point of efficacy, between the provision alluded to
and that which is contained in the new Constitution,
for restraining the appropriations of money for mili
tary purposes to the period of two years. The
former, by aiming at too much, is calculated to effect
nothing; the latter, by steering clear of an impru
dent extreme, and by being perfectly compatible with
a proper provision for the exigencies of the nation,
will have a salutary and powerful operation.

The legislature of the United States will be obliged
by this provision, once at least in every two years,
to deliberate upon the propriety of keeping a military
force on foot; to come to a new resolution on the
point ; and to declare their sense of the matter, by a
formal vote in the face of their constituents. They
are not at liberty to vest in the executive department
permanent funds for the support of an army, if they
were even incautious enough to be willing to repose
in it so improper a confidence. As the spirit of party,
in different degrees, must be expected to infect all
political bodies, there will be, no doubt, persons in
the national legislature willing enough to arraign the
measures and criminate the views of the majority.
The provision for the support of a military force will

2o8 Alexander Hamilton

always be a favorable topic for declamation. As
often as the question comes forward, the public atten
tion will be roused and attracted to the subject, by
the party in opposition; and if the majority should
be really disposed to exceed the proper limits, the
community will be warned of the danger, and will
have an opportunity of taking measures to guard
against it. Independent of parties in the national
legislature itself, as often as the period of discussion
arrived, the State legislatures, who will always be not
only vigilant but suspicious and jealous guardians
of the rights of the citizens against encroachments
from the federal government, will constantly have
their attention awake to the conduct of the national
rulers, and will be ready enough, if any thing im
proper appears, to sound the alarm to the people,
and not only to be the VOICE, but, if necessary, the
ARM of their discontent.

Schemes to subvert the liberties of a great com
munity require time to mature them for execution.
An army, so large as seriously to menace those liber
ties, could only be formed by progressive augmenta
tions ; which would suppose, not merely a temporary
combination between the legislature and executive,
but a continued conspiracy for a series of time. Is
it probable that such a combination would exist at
all? Is it probable that it would be persevered in,
and transmitted along through all the successive
variations in a representative body, which biennial
elections would naturally produce in both houses?
Is it presumable, that every man, the instant he took
his seat in the national Senate or House of Repre-

The Federalist 209

sentatives, would commence a traitor to his con
stituents and to his country? Can it be supposed
that there would not be found one man, discerning
enough to detect so atrocious a conspiracy, or bold
or honest enough to apprise his constituents of their
danger? If such presumptions can fairly be made,
there ought at once to be an end of all delegated
authority. The people should resolve to recall all
the powers they have heretofore parted with out of
their own hands, and to divide themselves into as
many States as there are counties, in order that they
may be able to manage their own concerns in person.

If such suppositions could even be reasonably made,
still the concealment of the design, for any duration,
would be impracticable. It would be announced, by
the very circumstance of augmenting the army to so
great an extent in time of profound peace. What
colorable reason could be assigned, in a country so
situated, for such vast augmentations of the military
force? It is impossible that the people could be long
deceived; and the destruction of the project, and of
the projectors, would quickly follow the discovery.

It has been said that the provision which limits
the appropriation of money for the support of an
army to the period of two years would be unavailing,
because the Executive, when once possessed of a
force large enough to awe the people into submission,
would find resources in that very force sufficient to
enable him to dispense with supplies from the acts of
the legislature. But the question again recurs, upon
what pretence could he be put in possession of a
force of that magnitude in time of peace? If we

VOL. XI.— 14.

2io Alexander Hamilton

suppose it to have been created in consequence of
some domestic insurrection or foreign war, then it
becomes a case not within the principles of the ob
jection; for this is levelled against the power of
keeping up troops in time of peace. Few persons
will be so visionary as seriously to contend that mili
tary forces ought not to be raised to quell a rebellion
or resist an invasion ; and if the defence of the com
munity under such circumstances should make it
necessary to have an army so numerous as to hazard
its liberty, this is one of those calamities for which
there is neither preventative nor cure. It cannot
be provided against by any possible form of govern
ment; it might even result from a simple league
offensive and defensive, if it should ever be necessary
for the confederates or allies to form an army for
common defence.

But it is an evil infinitely less likely to attend us
in a united than in a disunited state ; nay, it may be
safely asserted that it is an evil altogether unlikely
to attend us in the latter situation. It is not easy
to conceive a possibility that dangers so formidable
can assail the whole Union, as to demand a force
considerable enough to place our liberties in the
least jeopardy, especially if we take into our view
the aid to be derived from the militia, which ought
always to be counted upon as a valuable and power
ful auxiliary. But in a state of disunion (as has
been fully shown in another place), the contrary of
this supposition would become not only probable,
but almost unavoidable.

PUBLIUS.

The Federalist 211

From the New York Packet, Tuesday, December 25, 1787

THE FEDERALIST. No. XXVII

(HAMILTON)

To the People of the State of New York:

It has been urged, in different shapes, that a Con
stitution of the kind proposed by the convention
cannot operate without the aid of a military force to
execute its laws. This, however, like most other
things that have been alleged on that side, rests on
mere general assertion, unsupported by any precise
or intelligible designation of the reasons upon which
it is founded. As far as I have been able to divine
the latent meaning of the objectors, it seems to
originate in a presupposition that the people will be
disinclined to the exercise of federal authority in any
matter of an internal nature. Waiving any excep
tion that might be taken to the inaccuracy or in-
explicitness of the distinction between internal and
external, let us inquire what ground there is to pre
suppose that disinclination in the people. Unless
we presume at the same time that the powers of the
general government will be worse administered than
those of the State government, there seems to be no
room for the presumption of ill-will, disaffection, or
opposition in the people. I believe it may be laid
down as a general rule that their confidence in
and obedience to a government will commonly be
proportioned to the goodness or badness of its ad
ministration. It must be admitted that there are
exceptions to this rule; but these exceptions depend
so entirely on accidental causes, that they cannot be

212 Alexander Hamilton

considered as having any relation to the intrinsic
merits or demerits of a constitution. These can only
be judged of by general principles and maxims.

Various reasons have been suggested, in the course
of these papers, to induce a probability that the
general government will be better administered than
the particular governments: the principal of which
reasons are that the extension of the spheres of elec
tion will present a greater option, or latitude of
choice, to the people; that through the medium
of the State legislatures — which are select bodies of
men, and which are to appoint the members of the
national Senate — there is reason to expect that this
branch will generally be composed with peculiar
care and judgment; that these circumstances prom
ise greater knowledge and more extensive informa
tion in the national councils, and that they will be
less apt to be tainted by the spirit of faction, and
more out of the reach of those occasional ill-humors,
or temporary prejudices and propensities, which, in
smaller societies, frequently contaminate the public
councils, beget injustice and oppression of a part
of the community, and engender schemes which,
though they gratify a momentary inclination or de
sire, terminate in general distress, dissatisfaction,
and disgust. Several additional reasons of con
siderable force, to fortify that probability, will occur
when we come to survey, with a more critical eye,
the interior structure of the edifice which we are in
vited to erect. It will be sufficient here to remark,
that until satisfactory reasons can be assigned to
justify an opinion, that the federal government is

The Federalist 213

likely to be administered in such a manner as to
render it odious or contemptible to the people, there
can be no reasonable foundation for the supposition
that the laws of the Union will meet with any greater
obstruction from them, or will stand in need of any
other methods to enforce their execution, than the
laws of the particular members.

The hope of impunity is a strong incitement to
sedition ; the dread of punishment, a proportionably
strong discouragement to it. Will not the govern
ment of the Union, which, if possessed of a due
degree of power, can call to its aid the collective
resources of the whole Confederacy, be more likely
to repress the former sentiment and to inspire the
latter, than that of a single State, which can only
command the resources within itself? A turbulent
faction in a State may easily suppose itself able to
contend with the friends to the government in that
State; but it can hardly be so infatuated as to im
agine itself a match for the combined efforts of the
Union. If this reflection be just, there is less danger
of resistance from irregular combinations of individ
uals to the authority of the Confederacy than to
that of a single member.

I will, in this place, hazard an observation, which
will not be the less just because to some it may ap
pear new; which is, that the more the operations of
the national authority are intermingled in the ordi
nary exercise of government, the more the citizens
are accustomed to meet with it in the common oc
currences of their political life, the more it is familiar
ized to their sight and to their feelings, the further

214 Alexander Hamilton

it enters into those objects which touch the most
sensible chords and put in motion the most active
springs of the human heart, the greater will be the
probability that it will conciliate the respect and at
tachment of the community. Man is very much a
creature of habit. A thing that rarely strikes his
senses will generally have but little influence upon
his mind. A government continually at a distance
and out of sight can hardly be expected to interest
the sensations of the people. The inference is, that
the authority of the Union, and the affections of the
citizens towards it, will be strengthened, rather than
weakened, by its extension to what are called matters
of internal concern; and will have less occasion to
recur to force, in proportion to the familiarity and
comprehensiveness of its agency. The more it cir
culates through those channels and currents in which
the passions of mankind naturally flow, the less will
it require the aid of the violent and perilous expe
dients of compulsion.

One thing, at all events, must be evident, that a
government like the one proposed would bid much
fairer to avoid the necessity of using force, than that
species of league contended for by most of its oppo
nents; the authority of which should only operate
upon the States in their political or collective capa
cities. It has been shown that in such a Confeder
acy there can be no sanction for the laws but force ;
that frequent delinquencies in the members are the
natural offspring of the very frame of the govern
ment; and that as often as these happen, they can
only be redressed, if at all, by war and violence.

The Federalist 215

The plan reported by the convention, by extend
ing the authority of the federal head to the individual
citizens of the several States, will enable the govern
ment to employ the ordinary magistracy of each, in
the execution of its laws. It is easy to perceive that
this will tend to destroy, in the common apprehen
sion, all distinction between the sources from which
they might proceed; and will give the federal gov
ernment the same advantage for securing a due
obedience to its authority which is enjoyed by the
government of each State, in addition to the influence
on public opinion which will result from the im
portant consideration of its having power to call to
its assistance and support the resources of the whole
Union. It merits particular attention in this place,
that the laws of the Confederacy, as to the enumerated
and legitimate objects of its jurisdiction, will become
the SUPREME LAW of the land; to the observance of
which all officers, legislative, executive, and judicial,
in each State, will be bound by the sanctity of an
oath. Thus the legislatures, courts, and magis
trates, of the respective members, will be incorpo
rated into the operations of the national government
as far as its just and constitutional authority extends;
and will be rendered auxiliary to the enforcement
of its laws.1 Any man who will pursue, by his own
reflections, the consequences of this situation, will
perceive that there is good ground to calculate upon
a regular and peaceable execution of the laws of the

1 The sophistry which has been employed, to show that this will
tend to the destruction of the State governments, will, in its proper
place, be fully detected. — PUBLIUS.

2i6 Alexander Hamilton

Union, if its powers are administered with a com
mon share of prudence. If we will arbitrarily sup
pose the contrary, we may deduce any inferences we
please from the supposition ; for it is certainly possi
ble, by an injudicious exercise of the authorities of
the best government that ever was, or ever can be
instituted, to provoke and precipitate the people
into the wildest excesses. But though the adver
saries of the proposed Constitution should presume
that the national rulers would be insensible to the
motives of public good, or to the obligations of duty,
I would still ask them how the interests of ambition,
or the views of encroachment, can be promoted by
such a conduct?

PUBLIUS.

For the Independent Journal

THE FEDERALIST. No. XXVIII

(HAMILTON)

To the People of the State of New York:

That there may happen cases, in which the na
tional government may be necessitated to resort to
force, cannot be denied. Our own experience has
corroborated the lessons taught by the examples
of other nations; that emergencies of this sort will
sometimes arise in all societies, however constituted ;
that seditions and insurrections are, unhappily,
maladies as inseparable from the body politic as
tumors and eruptions from the natural body; that
the idea of governing at all times by the simple force
of law (which we have been told is the only admis-

The Federalist 217

sible principle of republican government), has no
place but in the reveries of those political doctors
whose sagacity disdains the admonitions of experi
mental instruction.

Should such emergencies at any time happen
under the national government, there could be no
remedy but force. The means to be employed must
be proportioned to the extent of the mischief. If it
should be a slight commotion in a small part of a
State, the militia of the residue would be adequate
to its suppression; and the natural presumption is
that they would be ready to do their duty. An in
surrection, whatever may be its immediate cause,
eventually endangers all government. Regard to
the public peace, if not to the rights of the Union,
would engage the citizens to whom the contagion
had not communicated itself to oppose the insur
gents; and if the general government should be
found in practice conducive to the prosperity and
felicity of the people, it were irrational to believe
that they would be disinclined to its support.

If, on the contrary, the insurrection should per
vade a whole State, or a principal part of it, the em
ployment of a different kind of force might become
unavoidable. It appears that Massachusetts found it
necessary to raise troops for repressing the disorders
within that State; that Pennsylvania, from the mere
apprehension of commotions among a part of her
citizens, has thought proper to have recourse to the
same measure. Suppose the State of New York had
been inclined to re-establish her lost jurisdiction
over the inhabitants of Vermont, could she have

218 Alexander Hamilton

hoped for success in such an enterprise from the
efforts of the militia alone? Would she not have
been compelled to raise and to maintain a more
regular force for the execution of her design? If it
must then be admitted that the necessity of recurring
to a force different from the militia, in cases of this
extraordinary nature, is applicable to the State gov
ernments themselves, why should the possibility,
that the national government might be under a like
necessity, in similar extremities, be made an objec
tion to its existence? Is it not surprising that men
who declare an attachment to the Union in the ab
stract, should urge as an objection to the proposed
Constitution what applies with tenfold weight to
the plan for which they contend; and what, as far
as it has any foundation in truth, is an inevitable
consequence of civil society upon an enlarged scale?
Who would not prefer that possibility to the un
ceasing agitations and frequent revolutions which
are the continual scourges of petty republics?

Let us pursue this examination in another light.
Suppose, in lieu of one general system, two, or three,
or even four Confederacies were to be formed, would
not the same difficulty oppose itself to the operations
of either of these Confederacies? Would not each
of them be exposed to the same casualties; and
when these happened, be obliged to have recourse
to the same expedients for upholding its authority
which are objected to in a government for all the
States? Would the militia, in this supposition, be
more ready or more able to support the federal au
thority than in the case of a general union? All

The Federalist 219

candid and intelligent men must, upon due considera
tion, acknowledge that the principle of the objection
is equally applicable to either of the two cases; and
that whether we have one government for all the
States, or different governments for different parcels
of them, or even if there should be an entire separa
tion of the States,1 there might sometimes be a
necessity to make use of a force constituted differ
ently from the militia, to preserve the peace of the
community and to maintain the just authority of
the laws against those violent invasions of them
which amount to insurrections and rebellions.

Independent of all other reasonings upon the sub
ject, it is a full answer to those who require a more
peremptory provision against military establishments
in time of peace, to say that the whole power of the
proposed government is to be in the hands of the
representatives of the people. This is the essential,
and, after all, only efficacious security for the rights
and privileges of the people, which is attainable in
civil society.2

If the representatives of the people betray their
constituents, there is then no resource left but in the
exertion of that original right of self-defence which
is paramount to all positive forms of government,
and which against the usurpations of the national
rulers, may be exerted with infinitely better pros
pect of success than against those of the rulers of an
individual state. In a single state, if the persons

1 In the revised text, "or if there should be as many unconnected
governments as there are States."

2 Its full efficacy will be examined hereafter. — PUBLIUS.

220 Alexander Hamilton

intrusted with supreme power become usurpers, the
different parcels, subdivisions, or districts of which
it consists, having no distinct government in each,
can take no regular measures for defence. The citi
zens must rush tumultuously to arms, without con
cert, without system, without resource; except in
their courage and despair. The usurpers, clothed
with the forms of legal authority, can too often crush
the opposition in embryo. The smaller the extent
of the territory, the more difficult will it be for the
people to form a regular or systematic plan of oppo
sition, and the more easy will it be to defeat their
early efforts. Intelligence can be more speedily ob
tained of their preparations and movements, and
the military force in the possession of the usurpers
can be more rapidly directed against the part where
the opposition has begun. In this situation there
must be a peculiar coincidence of circumstances to
insure success to the popular resistance.

The obstacles to usurpation and the facilities of
resistance increase with the increased extent of the
state, provided the citizens understand their rights
and are disposed to defend them. The natural
strength of the people in a large community, in pro
portion to the artificial strength of the government,
is greater than in a small, and of course more
competent to a struggle with the attempts of the
government to establish a tyranny. But in a con
federacy the people, without exaggeration, may be
said to be entirely the masters of their own fate.
Power being almost always the rival of power, the
general government will at all times stand ready to

The Federalist 221

check the usurpations of the state governments, and
these will have the same disposition towards the
general government. The people, by throwing
themselves into either scale, will infallibly make it
preponderate. If their rights are invaded by either,
they can make use of the other as the instrument of
redress. How wise will it be in them by cherishing
the union to preserve to themselves an advantage
which can never be too highly prized!

It may safely be received as an axiom in our po
litical system, that the State governments will, in
all possible contingencies, afford complete security
against invasions of the public liberty by the na
tional authority. Projects of usurpation cannot be
masked under pretences so likely to escape the pene
tration of select bodies of men, as of the people at
large. The legislatures will have better means of
information. They can discover the danger at a
distance; and possessing all the organs of civil
power, and the confidence of the people, they can at
once adopt a regular plan of opposition, in which
they can combine all the resources of the community.
They can readily communicate with each other in
the different States, and unite their common forces
for the protection of their common liberty.

The great extent of the country is a further secur
ity. We have already experienced its utility against
the attacks of a foreign power. And it would have
precisely the same effect against the enterprises of
ambitious rulers in the national councils. If the
federal army should be able to quell the resistance
of one State, the distant States would have it in their

222 Alexander Hamilton

power to make head with fresh forces. The advan
tages obtained in one place must be abandoned to
subdue the opposition in others; and the moment
the part which had been reduced to submission was
left to itself, its efforts would be renewed, and its
resistance revive.

We should recollect that the extent of the military
force must, at all events, be regulated by the re
sources of the country. For a long time to come, it
will not be possible to maintain a large army; and
as the means of doing this increase, the population
and natural strength of the community will pro-
portionably increase. When will the time arrive
that the federal government can raise and maintain
an army capable of erecting a despotism over the
great body of the people of an immense empire, who
are in a situation, through the medium of their State
governments, to take measures for their own de
fence, with all the celerity, regularity, and system of
independent nations? The apprehension may be
considered as a disease, for which there can be found
no cure in the resources of argument and reasoning.

PUBLIUS.

From the Daily Advertiser, Thursday, January 10, 1788

THE FEDERALIST. No. XXIX *

(HAMILTON)

To the People of the State of New York:

The power of regulating the militia, and of com
manding its services in times of insurrection and

1 This essay appeared as No. XXXV. in the original publication in
the newspapers, and is therefore here misplaced chronologically. In

The Federalist 223

invasion are natural incidents to the duties of super
intending the common defence, and of watching over
the internal peace of the Confederacy.

It requires no skill in the science of war to discern
that uniformity in the organization and discipline
of the militia would be attended with the most
beneficial effects, whenever they were called into ser
vice for the public defence. It would enable them
to discharge the duties of the camp and of the field
with mutual intelligence and concert — -an advantage
of peculiar moment in the operations of an army;
and it would fit them much sooner to acquire the
degree of proficiency in military functions which
would be essential to their usefulness. This desire-
able uniformity can only be accomplished by con
fiding the regulation of the militia to the direction
of the national authority. It is, therefore, with the
most evident propriety, that the plan of the con
vention proposes to empower the Union "to provide
for organizing, arming, and disciplining the militia,
and for governing such part of them as may be em
ployed in the service of the United States, reserving
to the States respectively ike appointment of the officers,
and the authority of training the militia according to
the discipline prescribed by Congress."

Of the different grounds which have been taken in
opposition to the plan of the convention, there is
none that was so little to have been expected, or
is so untenable in itself, as the one from which this

the first edition of 1788, however, it is printed as No. XXIX., which
gives it its proper place according to subject, and for this reason the
order of the first edition has been followed.

224 Alexander Hamilton

particular provision has been attacked. If a well-
regulated militia be the most natural defence of a free
country, it ought certainly to be under the regula
tion and at the disposal of that body which is con
stituted the guardian of the national security. If
standing armies are dangerous to liberty, an effica
cious power over the militia, in the body to whose
care the protection of the State is committed, ought,
as far as possible, to take away the inducement and
the pretext to such unfriendly institutions. If the
federal government can command the aid of the
militia in those emergencies which call for the military
arm in support of the civil magistrate, it can the
better dispense with the employment of a different
kind of force. If it cannot avail itself of the former,
it will be obliged to recur to the latter. To render
an army unnecessary, will be a more certain method
of preventing its existence than a thousand pro
hibitions upon paper.

In order to cast an odium upon the power of call
ing forth the militia to execute the laws of the Union,
it has been remarked that there is nowhere any pro
vision in the proposed Constitution for calling out the
POSSE COMITATUS, to assist the magistrate in the
execution of his duty ; whence it has been inferred,
that military force was intended to be his only aux
iliary. There is a striking incoherence in the ob
jections which have appeared, and sometimes even
from the same quarter, not much calculated to in
spire a very favorable opinion of the sincerity or fair
dealing of their authors. The same persons who tell
us in one breath, that the powers of the federal gov-

The Federalist 225

ernment will be despotic and unlimited, inform us in
the next, that it has not authority sufficient even to
call out the POSSE COMITATUS. The latter, fortu
nately, is as much short of the truth as the former
exceeds it. It would be as absurd to doubt, that a
right to pass all laws necessary and proper to execute
its declared powers, would include that of requiring
the assistance of the citizens to the officers who may
be intrusted with the execution of those laws, as it
would be to believe, that a right to enact laws neces
sary and proper for the imposition and collection of
taxes would involve that of varying the rules of
descent and of the alienation of landed property, or
of abolishing the trial by jury in cases relating to it.
It being therefore evident that the supposition of a
want of power to require the aid of the POSSE COMI
TATUS is entirely destitute of color, it will follow,
that the conclusion which has been drawn from it,
in its application to the authority of the federal gov
ernment over the militia, is as uncandid as it is il
logical. What reason could there be to infer, that
force was intended to be the sole instrument of au
thority, merely because there is a power to make use
of it when necessary? What shall we think of the
motives which could induce men of sense to reason
in this manner? How shall we prevent a conflict
between charity and judgment?

By a curious refinement upon the spirit of repub
lican jealousy, we are even taught to apprehend
danger from the militia itself, in the hands of the
federal government. It is observed that select corps
may be formed, composed of the young and ardent,

VOL. XI.-I5.

226 Alexander Hamilton

who may be rendered subservient to the views of
arbitrary power. What plan for the regulation of
the militia may be pursued by the national govern
ment, is impossible to be foreseen. But so far from
viewing the matter in the same light with those who
object to select corps as dangerous, were the Con
stitution ratified, and were I to deliver my sentiments
to a member of the federal legislature from this State
on the subject of a militia establishment, I should
hold to him, in substance, the following discourse :

"The project of disciplining all the militia of the
United States is as futile as it would be injurious, if
it were capable of being carried into execution. A
tolerable expertness in military movements is a
business that requires time and practice. It is not
a day, or even a week, that will suffice for the at
tainment of it. To oblige the great body of the yeo
manry, and of the other classes of the citizens, to be
under arms for the purpose of going through military
exercises and evolutions, as often as might be neces
sary to acquire the degree of perfection which would
entitle them to the character of a well-regulated
militia, would be a real grievance to the people, and
a serious public inconvenience and loss. It would
form an annual deduction from the productive labor
of the country, to an amount which, calculating upon
the present numbers of the people, would not fall
far short of the whole expense of the civil establish
ments of all the States. To attempt a thing which
would abridge the mass of labor and industry to so
considerable an extent, would be unwise: and the
experiment, it made, could not succeed, because it

The Federalist 227

would not long be endured. Little more can reason
ably be aimed at, with respect to the people at large,
than to have them properly armed and equipped;
and in order to see that this be not neglected, it will
be necessary to assemble them once or twice in the
course of a year.

" But though the scheme of disciplining the whole
nation must be abandoned as mischievous or im
practicable ; yet it is a matter of the utmost impor
tance that a well-digested plan should, as soon as
possible, be adopted for the proper establishment of
the militia. The attention of the government ought
particularly to be directed to the formation of a
select corps of moderate extent, upon such prin
ciples as will really fit them for service in case of
need. By thus circumscribing the plan, it will be
possible to have an excellent body of well-trained
militia, ready to take the field whenever the defence
of the State shall require it. This will not only lessen
the call for military establishments, but if circum
stances should at any time oblige the government to
form an army of any magnitude that army can never
be formidable to the liberties of the people while
there is a large body of citizens, little, if at all, in
ferior to them in discipline and the use of arms, who
stand ready to defend their own rights and those of
their fellow-citizens. This appears to me the only
substitute that can be devised for a standing army,
and the best possible security against it, if it should
exist. "

Thus differently from the adversaries of the pro
posed Constitution should I reason on the same sub-

228 Alexander Hamilton

ject, deducing arguments of safety from the very
sources which they represent as fraught with danger
and perdition. But how the national legislature
may reason on the point, is a thing which neither
they nor I can foresee.

There is something so far-fetched and so extrava
gant in the idea of danger to liberty from the militia,
that one is at a loss whether to treat it with gravity
or with raillery; whether to consider it as a mere
trial of skill, like the paradoxes of rhetoricians; as a
disingenuous artifice to instil prejudices at any price ;
or as the serious offspring of political fanaticism.
Where, in the name of common-sense, are our fears
to end if we may not trust our sons, our brothers,
our neighbors, our fellow-citizens? What shadow
of danger can there be from men who are daily min
gling with the rest of their countrymen, and who par
ticipate with them in the same feelings, sentiments,
habits, and interests? What reasonable cause of
apprehension can be inferred from a power in the
Union to prescribe regulations for the militia, and to
command its services when necessary, while the
particular States are to have the sole and exclusive
appointment of the officers f If it were possible seri
ously to indulge a jealousy of the militia upon any
conceivable establishment under the federal govern
ment, the circumstance of the officers being in the
appointment of the States ought at once to extin
guish it. There can be no doubt that this circum
stance will always secure to them a preponderating
influence over the militia.

In reading many of the publications against the

The Federalist 229

Constitution, a man is apt to imagine that he is
perusing some ill-written tale or romance, which,
instead of natural and agreeable images, exhibits
to the mind nothing but frightful and distorted
shapes —

"Gorgons, hydras, and chimeras dire";

discoloring and disfiguring whatever it represents,
and transforming every thing it touches into a
monster.

A sample of this is to be observed in the exagger
ated and improbable suggestions which have taken
place respecting the power of calling for the ser
vices of the militia. That of New Hampshire is to
be marched to Georgia, of Georgia to New Hamp
shire, of New York to Kentucky, and of Kentucky
to Lake Champlain. Nay, the debts due to the
French and Dutch are to be paid in militiamen in
stead of louis d'ors and ducats. At one moment
there is to be a large army to lay prostrate the liber
ties of the people ; at another moment the militia of
Virginia are to be dragged from their homes five or
six hundred miles, to tame the republican contu
macy of Massachusetts; and that of Massachusetts
is to be transported an equal distance to subdue the
refractory haughtiness of the aristocratic Virginians.
Do the persons who rave at this rate imagine that
their art or their eloquence can impose any conceits
or absurdities upon the people of America for in
fallible truths?

If there should be an army to be made use of as
the engine of despotism, what need of the militia?
If there should be no army, whither would the militia,

23° Alexander Hamilton

irritated by being called upon to undertake a distant
and hopeless expedition, for the purpose of riveting
the chains of slavery upon a part of their country
men, direct their course, but to the seat of the ty
rants, who had meditated so foolish as well as so
wicked a project, to crush them in their imagined
intrenchments of power, and to make them an ex
ample of the just vengeance of an abused and in
censed people? Is this the way in which usurpers
stride to dominion over a numerous and enlightened
nation? Do they begin by exciting the detestation
of the very instruments of their intended usurpa
tions? Do they usually commence their career by
wanton and disgustful acts of power, calculated to
answer no end, but to draw upon themselves uni
versal hatred and execration? Are suppositions of
this sort the sober admonitions of discerning patriots
to a discerning people? Or are they the inflamma
tory ravings of incendiaries or distempered enthu
siasts? If we were even to suppose the national
rulers actuated by the most ungovernable ambi
tion, it is impossible to believe that they would em
ploy such preposterous means to accomplish their
designs.

In times of insurrection, or invasion, it would be
natural and proper that the militia of a neighboring
State should be marched into another, to resist a
common enemy, or to guard the republic against the
violence of faction or sedition. This was frequently
the case, in respect to the first object, in the course
of the late war; and this mutual succor is, indeed, a
principal end of our political association. If the

The Federalist 231

power of affording it be placed under the direction
of the Union, there will be no danger of a supine and
listless inattention to the dangers of a neighbor, till
its near approach had superadded the incitements
of self-preservation to the too feeble impulses of duty
and sympathy.

PUBLIUS.

From the New York Packet, Friday, December 28, 1787

THE FEDERALIST. No. XXX

(HAMILTON)

To the People of the State of New York:

It has been already observed that the federal gov
ernment ought to possess the power of providing for
the support of the national forces ; in which proposi
tion was intended to be included the expense of
raising troops, of building and equipping fleets, and
all other expenses in any wise connected with mili
tary arrangements and operations. But these are
not the only objects to which the jurisdiction of the
Union, in respect to revenue, must necessarily be
empowered to extend. It must embrace a provi
sion for the support of the national civil list ; for the
payment of the national debts contracted, or that
may be contracted; and, in general, for all those
matters which will call for disbursements out of the
national treasury. The conclusion is, that there
must be interwoven, in the frame of the government,
a general power of taxation, in one shape or another.

Money is, with propriety, considered as the vital
principle of the body politic ; as that which sustains

232 Alexander Hamilton

its life and motion, and enables it to perform its most
essential functions. A complete power, therefore,
to procure a regular and adequate supply of it, as
far as the resources of the community will permit,
may be regarded as an indispensable ingredient in
every constitution. From a deficiency in this par
ticular, one of two evils must ensue : either the people
must be subjected to continual plunder, as a substi
tute for a more eligible mode of supplying the public
wants, or the government must sink into a fatal
atrophy, and, in a short course of time, perish.

In the Ottoman or Turkish empire, the sovereign,
though in other respects absolute master of the lives
and fortunes of his subjects, has no right to impose
a new tax. The consequence is that he permits the
bashaws or governors of provinces to pillage the
people without mercy; and, in turn, squeezes out of
them the sums of which he stands in need, to satisfy
his own exigencies and those of the state. In Amer
ica, from a like cause, the government of the Union
has gradually dwindled into a state of decay, ap
proaching nearly to annihilation. Who can doubt,
that the happiness of the people in both countries
would be promoted by competent authorities in the
proper hands, to provide the revenues which the
necessities of the public might require?

The present Confederation, feeble as it is, in
tended to repose in the United States an unlimited
power of providing for the pecuniary wants of the
Union. But proceeding upon an erroneous prin
ciple, it has been done in such a manner as entirely
to have frustrated the intention. Congress, by the

The Federalist 233

articles which compose that compact (as has already
been stated), are authorized to ascertain and call for
any sums of money necessary, in their judgment, to
the service of the United States; and their requisi
tions, if conformable to the rule of apportionment,
are in every constitutional sense obligatory upon the
States. These have no right to question the pro
priety of the demand; no discretion beyond that of
devising the ways and means of furnishing the sums
demanded. But though this be strictly and truly
the case; though the assumption of such a right
would be an infringement of the articles of Union;
though it may seldom or never have been avowedly
claimed, yet in practice it has been constantly exer
cised, and would continue to be so, as long as the
revenues of the Confederacy should remain depend
ent on the intermediate agency of its members.
What the consequences of this system have been, is
within the knowledge of every man the least con
versant in our public affairs, and has been amply
unfolded in different parts of these inquiries. It is
this which has chiefly contributed to reduce us to a
situation, which affords ample cause both of morti
fication to ourselves, and of triumph to our enemies.
What remedy can there be for this situation, but
in a change of the system which has produced it —
in a change of the fallacious and delusive system of
quotas and requisitions? What substitute can there
be imagined for this ignis fatuus in finance, but that
of permitting the national government to raise its
own revenues by the ordinary methods of taxation
authorized in every well-ordered constitution of

234 Alexander Hamilton

civil government? Ingenious men may declaim
with plausibility on any subject; but no human in
genuity can point out any other expedient to rescue
us from the inconveniences and embarrassments
naturally resulting from defective supplies of the
public treasury.

The more intelligent adversaries of the new Con
stitution admit the force of this reasoning; but they
qualify their admission by a distinction between
what they call internal and external taxation. The
former they would reserve to the State governments ;
the latter, which they explain into commercial im
posts, or rather duties on imported articles, they
declare themselves willing to concede to the federal
head. This distinction, however, would violate the
maxim of good sense and sound policy, which dic
tates that every POWER ought to be in proportion to
its OBJECT ; and would still leave the general govern
ment in a kind of tutelage to the State governments,
inconsistent with every idea of vigor or efficiency.
Who can pretend that commercial imposts are, or
would be, alone equal to the present and future exi
gencies of the Union? Taking into the account the
existing debt, foreign and domestic, upon any plan
of extinguishment which a man moderately im
pressed with the importance of public justice and
public credit could approve, in addition to the es
tablishments which all parties will acknowledge to be
necessary, we could not reasonably flatter ourselves,
that this resource alone, upon the most improved
scale, would even suffice for its present necessities.
Its future necessities admit not of calculation or

The Federalist 235

limitation; and upon the principle, more than once
adverted to, the power of making provision for them
as they arise ought to be equally unconfined. I
believe it may be regarded as a position warranted
by the history of mankind, that, in the usual pro-
gress of things, the necessities of a nation, in every
stage of its existence, will be found at least equal to
its resources.

To say that deficiencies may be provided for by
requisitions upon the States, is on the one hand to
acknowledge that this system cannot be depended
upon, and on the other hand to depend upon it for
every thing beyond a certain limit. Those who have
carefully attended to its vices and deformities as
they have been exhibited by experience or delineated
in the course of these papers, must feel invincible
repugnancy to trusting the national interests in any
degree to its operation. Its inevitable tendency,
whenever it is brought into activity, must be to en
feeble the Union, and sow the seeds of discord and
contention between the federal head and its mem
bers, and between the members themselves. Can it
be expected that the deficiencies would be better
supplied in this mode than the total wants of the
Union have heretofore been supplied in the same
mode? It ought to be recollected that if less will be
required from the States, they will have proportion-
ably less means to answer the demand. If the
opinions of those who contend for the distinction
which has been mentioned were to be received as
evidence of truth, one would be led to conclude that
there was some known point in the economy of

236 Alexander Hamilton

national affairs at which it would be safe to stop and
to say: Thus far the ends of public happiness will
be promoted by supplying the wants of government,
and all beyond this is unworthy of our care or
anxiety. How is it possible that a government
half supplied and always necessitous, can fulfil the
purposes of its institution, can provide for the secur
ity, advance the prosperity, or support the reputa
tion of the commonwealth? How can it ever possess
either energy or stability, dignity or credit, con
fidence at home or respectability abroad? How
can its administration be any thing else than a suc
cession of expedients temporizing, impotent, dis
graceful? How will it be able to avoid a frequent
sacrifice of its engagements to immediate necessity?
How can it undertake or execute any liberal or en
larged plans of public good?

Let us attend to what would be the effects of this
situation in the very first war in which we should
happen to be engaged. We will presume, for argu
ment's sake, that the revenue arising from the im
post duties answers the purposes of a provision for
the public debt and of a peace establishment for the
Union. Thus circumstanced, a war breaks out.
What would be the probable conduct of the govern
ment in such an emergency? Taught by experience
that proper dependence could not be placed on the
success of requisitions, unable by its own authority
to lay hold of fresh resources, and urged by con
siderations of national danger, would it not be
driven to the expedient of diverting the funds al
ready appropriated from their proper objects to the

The Federalist 237

defence of the State? It is not easy to see how a
step of this kind could be avoided; and if it should
be taken, it is evident that it would prove the de
struction of public credit at the very moment that
it was becoming essential to the public safety. To
imagine that at such a crisis credit might be dispensed
with, would be the extreme of infatuation. In the
modern system of war, nations the most wealthy are
obliged to have recourse to large loans. A country
so little opulent as ours must feel this necessity in a
much stronger degree. But who would lend to a
government that prefaced its overtures for borrow
ing by an act which demonstrated that no reliance
could be placed on the steadiness of its measures for
paying? The loans it might be able to procure
would be as limited in their extent as burdensome in
their conditions. They would be made upon the
same principles that usurers commonly lend to
bankrupt and fraudulent debtors, — with a sparing
hand at enormous premiums.

It may perhaps be imagined that, from the scanti
ness of the resources of the country, the necessity of
diverting the established funds in the case supposed
would exist, though the national government should
possess an unrestrained power of taxation. But
two considerations will serve to quiet all apprehen
sion on this head: one is, that we are sure the re
sources of the community, in their full extent, will
be brought into activity for the benefit of the Union;
the other is, that whatever deficiencies there may
be, can without difficulty be supplied by loans.

The power of creating new funds upon new ob-

238 Alexander Hamilton

jects of taxation, by its own authority, would enable
the national government to borrow as far as its
necessities might require. Foreigners, as well as the
citizens of America, could then reasonably repose
confidence in its engagements; but to depend upon
a government that must itself depend upon thirteen
other governments for the means of fulfilling its con
tracts, when once its situation is clearly understood,
would require a degree of credulity not often to be
met with in the pecuniary transactions of mankind,
and little reconcilable with the usual sharp-sighted-
ness of avarice.

Reflections of this kind may have trifling weight
with men who hope to see realized in America the
halcyon scenes of the poetic or fabulous age; but to
those who believe we are likely to experience a com
mon portion of the vicissitudes and calamities which
have fallen to the lot of other nations, they must
appear entitled to serious attention. Such men
must behold the actual situation of their country
with painful solicitude, and deprecate the evils
which ambition or revenge might, with too much

facility, inflict upon it.

PUBLIUS.

From the New York Packet, Tuesday, January i, 1788

THE FEDERALIST. No. XXXI

(HAMILTON)

To the People of the State of New York:

In disquisitions of every kind, there are certain
primary truths, or first principles, upon which all

The Federalist 239

subsequent reasonings must depend. These contain
an internal evidence which, antecedent to all re
flection or combination, commands the assent of the
mind. Where it produces not this effect, it must
proceed either from some defect or disorder in the
organs of perception, or from the influence of some
strong interest, or passion, or prejudice. Of this
nature are the maxims in geometry, that " the whole
is greater than its part; things equal to the same are
equal to one another; two straight lines cannot en
close a space; and all right angles are equal to each
other." Of the same nature are these other maxims
in ethics and politics, that there cannot be an effect
without a cause; that the means ought to be pro
portioned to the end; that every power ought to be
commensurate with its object; that there ought to
be no limitation of a power destined to effect a pur
pose which is itself incapable of limitation. And
there are other truths in the two latter sciences
which, if they cannot pretend to rank in the class
of axioms, are yet such direct inferences from them,
and so obvious in themselves, and so agreeable to
the natural and unsophisticated dictates of common-
sense, that they challenge the assent of a sound
and unbiased mind, with a degree of force and con
viction almost equally irresistible.

The objects of geometrical inquiry are so entirely
abstracted from those pursuits which stir up and
put in motion the unruly passions of the human
heart, that mankind, without difficulty, adopt not
only the more simple theorems of the science, but
even those abstruse paradoxes which, however they

240 Alexander Hamilton

may appear susceptible of demonstration, are at
variance with the natural conceptions which the
mind, without the aid of philosophy, would be led
to entertain upon the subject. The INFINITE DIVISI
BILITY of matter, or, in other words, the INFINITE
divisibility of a FINITE thing, extending even to the
minutest atom, is a point agreed among geometri
cians, though not less incomprehensible to common-
sense than any of those mysteries in religion, against
which the batteries of infidelity have been so indus
triously levelled.

But in the sciences of morals and politics, men
are found far less tractable. To a certain degree, it
is right and useful that this should be the case.
Caution and investigation are a necessary armor
against error and imposition. But this untractable-
ness may be carried too far, and may degenerate
into obstinacy, perverseness, or disingenuity. Though
it cannot be pretended that the principles of moral
and political knowledge have, in general, the same
degree of certainty with those of the mathematics,
yet they have much better claims in this respect
than, to judge from the conduct of men in particular
situations, we should be disposed to allow them.
The obscurity is much oftener in the passions and
prejudices of the reasoner than in the subject. Men,
upon too many occasions, do not give their own
understandings fair play ; but, yielding to some un
toward bias, they entangle themselves in words and
confound themselves in subtleties.

How else could it happen (if we admit the objec
tors to be sincere in their opposition), that positions

The Federalist 241

so clear as those which manifest the necessity of a
general power of taxation in the government of the
Union, should have to encounter any adversaries
among men of discernment ? Though these positions
have been elsewhere fully stated, they will perhaps
not be improperly recapitulated in this place, as in
troductory to an examination of what may have
been offered by way of objection to them. They
are in substance as follows:

A government ought to contain in itself every
power requisite to the full accomplishment of the
objects committed to its care, and to the complete
execution of the trusts for which it is responsible,
free from every other control but a regard to the
public good and to the sense of the people.

As the duties of superintending the national de
fence and of securing the public peace against
foreign or domestic violence involve a provision
for casualties and dangers to which no possible
limits can be assigned, the power of making that
provision ought to know no other bounds than the
exigencies of the nation and the resources of the
community.

As revenue is the essential engine by which the
means of answering the national exigencies must be
procured, the power of procuring that article in its
full extent must necessarily be comprehended in
that of providing for those exigencies.

As theory and practice conspire to prove that
the power of procuring revenue is unavailing when
exercised over the States in their collective capaci
ties, the federal government must of necessity be

VOL. XI.— 16.

242 Alexander Hamilton

invested with an unqualified power of taxation in the
ordinary modes.

Did not experience evince the contrary, it would
be natural to conclude that the propriety of a gen
eral power of taxation in the national government
might safely be permitted to rest on the evidence of
these propositions, unassisted by any additional ar
guments or illustrations. But we find, in fact, that
the antagonists of the proposed Constitution, so far
from acquiescing in their justness or truth, seem to
make their principal and most zealous effort against
this part of the plan. It may therefore be satis
factory to analyze the arguments with which they
combat it.

Those of them which have been most labored with
that view, seem in substance to amount to this: " It
is not true, because the exigencies of the Union may
not be susceptible of limitation, that its power of
laying taxes ought to be unconfined. Revenue is as
requisite to the purposes of the local administrations
as to those of the Union ; and the former are at least
of equal importance with the latter to the happiness
of the people. It is, therefore, as necessary that the
State governments should be able to command the
means of supplying their wants, as that the national
government should possess the like faculty in re
spect to the wants of the Union. But an indefinite
power of taxation in the latter might, and probably
would in time, deprive the former of the means of
providing for their own necessities ; and would sub
ject them entirely to the mercy of the national legis
lature. As the laws of the Union are to become the

The Federalist 243

supreme law of the land, as it is to have power to
pass all laws that may be NECESSARY for carrying
into execution the authorities with which it is pro
posed to vest it, the national government might at
any time abolish the taxes imposed for State objects
upon the pretence of an interference with its 3wn.
It might allege a necessity of doing this in order to
give efficacy to the national revenues. And thus
all the resources of taxation might by degrees be
come the subjects of federal monopoly, to the entire
exclusion and destruction of the State governments."
This mode of reasoning appears sometimes to
turn upon the supposition of usurpation in the na
tional government; at other times it seems to be
designed only as a deduction from the constitutional
operation of its intended powers. It is only in the
latter light that it can be admitted to have any pre
tensions to fairness. The moment we launch into
conjectures about the usurpations of the federal
government, we get into an unfathomable abyss,
and fairly put ourselves out of the reach of all reason
ing. Imagination may range at pleasure till it gets
bewildered amidst the labyrinths of an enchanted
castle, and knows not on which side to turn to ex
tricate itself from the perplexities into which it has
so rashly adventured. Whatever may be the limits
or modifications of the powers of the Union, it is
easy to imagine an endless train of possible dangers;
and by indulging an excess of jealousy and timidity,
we may bring ourselves to a state of absolute scepti
cism and irresolution. I repeat here what I have
observed in substance in another place, that all

244 Alexander Hamilton

observations founded upon the danger of usurpation
ought to be referred to the composition and structure
of the government, not to the nature or extent of
its powers. The State governments, by their origi
nal constitutions, are invested with complete sov
ereignty. In what does our security consist against
usurpation from that quarter? Doubtless in the
manner of their formation, and in a due dependence
of those who are to administer them upon the people.
If the proposed construction of the federal govern
ment be found, upon an impartial examination of it,
to be such as to afford, to a proper extent, the same
species of security, all apprehensions on the score of
usurpation ought to be discarded.

It should not be forgotten that a disposition in
the State governments to encroach upon the rights
of the Union is quite as probable as a disposition in
the Union to encroach upon the rights of the State
governments. What side would be likely to prevail
in such a conflict, must depend on the means which
the contending parties could employ towards insur
ing success. As in republics strength is always on
the side of the people, and as there are weighty rea
sons to induce a belief that the State governments
will commonly possess most influence over them, the
natural conclusion is that such contests will be most
apt to end to the disadvantage of the Union; and
that there is greater probability of encroachments
by the members upon the federal head, than by the
federal head upon the members. But it is evident
that all conjectures of this kind must be extremely
vague and fallible: and that it is by far the safest

The Federalist 245

course to lay them altogether aside, and to confine
our attention wholly to the nature and extent of the
powers as they are delineated in the Constitution.
Every thing beyond this must be left to the pru
dence and firmness of the people; who, as they will
hold the scales in their own hands, it is to be hoped,
will always take care to preserve the constitutional
equilibrium between the general and the State gov
ernments. Upon this ground, which is evidently
the true one, it will not be difficult to obviate the
objections which have been made to an indefinite
power of taxation in the United States.

PUBLIUS.

From the Daily Advertiser, Thursday, January 3, 1788
THE FEDERALIST. No. XXXII
(HAMILTON)

To the People of the State of New York:

Although I am of opinion that there would be no
real danger of the consequences which seem to be
apprehended to the State governments from a power
in the Union to control them in the levies of money,
because I am persuaded that the sense of the people,
the extreme hazard of provoking the resentments
of the State governments, and a conviction of the
utility and necessity of local administrations for
local purposes, would be a complete barrier against
the oppressive use of such a power ; yet I am willing
here to allow, in its full extent, the justness of the
reasoning which requires that the individual States
should possess an independent and uncontrollable

246 Alexander Hamilton

authority to raise their own revenues for the supply
of their own wants. And making this concession, I
affirm that (with the sole exception of duties on
imports and exports) they would, under the plan of
the convention, retain that authority in the most ab
solute and unqualified sense; and that an attempt
on the part of the national government to abridge
them in the exercise of it, would be a violent assump
tion of power, unwarranted by any article or clause
of its Constitution.

An entire consolidation of the States into one
complete national sovereignty would imply an entire
subordination of the parts; and whatever powers
might remain in them, would be altogether dependent
on the general will. But as the plan of the conven
tion aims only at a partial union or consolidation,
the State governments would clearly retain all the
rights of sovereignty which they before had, and
which were not, by that act, exclusively delegated
to the United States. This exclusive delegation, or
rather this alienation, of State sovereignty, would
only exist in three cases : where the Constitution in
express terms granted an exclusive authority to the
Union; where it granted in one instance an author
ity to the Union, and in another prohibited the States
from exercising the like authority; and where it
granted an authority to the Union, to which a similar
authority in the States would be absolutely and
totally contradictory and repugnant. I use these
terms to distinguish this last case from another
which might appear to resemble it, but which would,
in fact, be essentially different; I mean where the

The Federalist 247

exercise of a concurrent jurisdiction might be pro
ductive of occasional interferences in the policy of
any branch of administration, but would not imply
any direct contradiction or repugnancy in point of
constitutional authority. These three cases of ex
clusive jurisdiction in the federal government may
be exemplified by the following instances: The last
clause but one in the eighth section of the first article
provides expressly that Congress shall exercise " ex
clusive legislation" over the district to be appro
priated as the seat of government. This answers to
the first case. The first clause of the same section
empowers Congress "to lay and collect taxes, duties,
imposts, and excises1'; and the second clause of the
tenth section of the same article declares that, "no
State shall, without the consent of Congress, lay any
imposts or duties on imports or exports, except for the
purpose of executing its inspection laws." Hence
would result an exclusive power in the Union to lay
duties on imports and exports, with the particular
exception mentioned ; but this power is abridged by
another clause, which declares that no tax or duty
shall be laid on articles exported from any State; in
consequence of which qualification, it now only ex
tends to the duties on imports. This answers to the
second case. The third will be found in that clause
which declares that Congress shall have power "to
establish an UNIFORM RULE of naturalization through
out the United States." This must necessarily be
exclusive; because if each State had power to pre
scribe a DISTINCT RULE, there could not be a UNI
FORM RULE.

248 Alexander Hamilton

A case which may perhaps be thought to resemble
the latter, but which is in fact widely different,
affects the question immediately under considera
tion. I mean the power of imposing taxes on all
articles other than exports and imports. This, I
contend, is manifestly a concurrent and coequal
authority in the United States and in the individual
States. There is plainly no expression in the grant
ing clause which makes that power exclusive in the
Union. There is no independent clause or sentence
which prohibits the States from exercising it. So
far is this from being the case, that a plain and con
clusive argument to the contrary is to be deduced
from the restraint laid upon the States in relation
to duties on imports and exports. This restriction
implies an admission that, if it were not inserted, the
States would possess the power it excludes; and it
implies a further admission, that as to all other
taxes, the authority of the States remains undi-
minished. In any other view it would be both un
necessary and dangerous; it would be unnecessary,
because if the grant to the Union of the power of
laying such duties implied the exclusion of the States,
or even their subordination in this particular, there
could be no need of such a restriction ; it would be
dangerous, because the introduction of it leads di
rectly to the conclusion which has been mentioned,
and which, if the reasoning of the objectors be just,
could not have been intended; I mean that the
States, in all cases to which the restriction did not
apply, would have a concurrent power of taxation
with the Union. The restriction in question amounts

The Federalist 249

to what lawyers call a NEGATIVE PREGNANT — that is,
a negation of one thing, and an affirmance of another;
a negation of the authority of the States to impose
taxes on imports and exports, and an affirmance of
their authority to impose them on all other articles.
It would be mere sophistry to argue that it was
meant to exclude them absolutely from the imposi
tion of taxes of the former kind, and to leave them
at liberty to lay others subject to the control of the
national legislature. The restraining or prohibitory
clause only says, that they shall not, without the
consent of Congress, lay such duties; and if we are
to understand this in the sense last mentioned, the
Constitution would then be made to introduce a
formal provision for the sake of a very absurd con
clusion ; which is, that the States, with the consent of
the national legislature, might tax imports and ex
ports; and that they might tax every other article,
unless controlled by the same body. If this was the
intention, why not leave it, in the first instance, to
what is alleged to be the natural operation of the
original clause, conferring a general power of taxa
tion upon the Union? It is evident that this could
not have been the intention, and that it will not bear
a construction of the kind.

As to a supposition of repugnancy between the
power of taxation in the States and in the Union, it
cannot be supported in that sense which would be
requisite to work an exclusion of the States. It is,
indeed, possible that a tax might be laid on a par
ticular article by a State which might render it in
expedient that thus a further tax should be laid on

250 Alexander Hamilton

the same article by the Union; but it would not
imply a constitutional inability to impose a further
tax. The quantity of the imposition, the expedi
ency or inexpediency of an increase on either side,
would be mutually questions of prudence; but
there would be involved no direct contradiction of
power. The particular policy of the national and of
the State systems of finance might now and then not
exactly coincide, and might require reciprocal for
bearances. It is not, however, a mere possibility of
inconvenience in the exercise of powers, but an im
mediate constitutional repugnancy that can by im
plication alienate and extinguish a preexisting right
of sovereignty.

The necessity of a concurrent jurisdiction in cer
tain cases results from the division of the sovereign
power; and the rule that all authorities, of which
the States are not explicitly divested in favor of the
Union, remain with them in full vigor, is not a theo
retical consequence of that division, but is clearly
admitted by the whole tenor of the instrument
which contains the articles of the proposed Constitu
tion. We there find that, notwithstanding the
affirmative grants of general authorities, there has
been the most pointed care in those cases where it
was deemed improper that the like authorities should
reside in the States, to insert negative clauses pro
hibiting the exercise of them by the States. The
tenth section of the first article consists altogether
of such provisions. This circumstance is a clear in
dication of the sense of the convention, and fur
nishes a rule of interpretation out of the body of the

The Federalist 251

act, which justifies the position I have advanced
and refutes every hypothesis to the contrary.

PUBLIUS.

From the Daily Advertiser, January 3, 1788

THE FEDERALIST. No. XXXIII

(HAMILTON)

To the People of the State of New York:

The residue of the argument against the provisions
of the Constitution in respect to taxation is in
grafted upon the following clause.1 The last clause
of the eighth section of the first article of the plan
under consideration authorizes the national legis
lature "to make all laws which shall be necessary
and proper for carrying into execution the powers by
that Constitution vested in the government of the
United States, or in any department or officer
thereof"; and the second clause of the sixth article
declares, "that the Constitution and the laws of the
United States made in pursuance thereof, and the
treaties made by their authority shall be the supreme
law of the land, any thing in the constitution or laws
of any State to the contrary notwithstanding."

These two clauses have been the source of much
virulent invective and petulant declamation against
the proposed Constitution. They have been held
up to the people in all the exaggerated colors of
misrepresentation as the pernicious engines by which

1 This was the point at which No. XXXI. of the original newspaper
essays was divided, and this opening sentence appeared first in the
McLean edition of 1788.

252 Alexander Hamilton

their local governments were to be destroyed and
their liberties exterminated; as the hideous monster
whose devouring jaws would spare neither sex nor
age, nor high nor low, nor sacred nor profane ; and
yet, strange as it may appear, after all this clamor,
to those who may not have happened to contem
plate them in the same light, it may be affirmed
with perfect confidence that the constitutional op
eration of the intended government would be pre
cisely the same, if these clauses were entirely
obliterated, as if they were repeated in every article.
They are only declaratory of a truth which would have
resulted by necessary and unavoidable implication
from the very act of constituting a federal govern
ment, and vesting it with certain specified powers.
This is so clear a proposition, that moderation itself
can scarcely listen to the railings which have been
so copiously vented against this part of the plan,
without emotions that disturb its equanimity.

What is a power, but the ability or faculty of
doing a thing? What is the ability to do a thing,
but the power of employing the means necessary to
its execution? What is a LEGISLATIVE power, but a
power of making LAWS? What are the means to
execute a LEGISLATIVE power, but LAWS? What is
the power of laying and collecting taxes, but a
legislative power, or a power of making laws, to lay
and collect taxes ? What are the proper means of
executing such a power, but necessary and proper
laws?

This simple train of inquiry furnishes us at once
with a test by which to judge of the true nature of

The Federalist 253

the clause complained of. It conducts us to this
palpable truth, that a power to lay and collect taxes
must be a power to pass all laws necessary and proper
for the execution of that power; and what does the
unfortunate and calumniated provision in question
do more than declare the same truth, to wit, that
the national legislature, to whom the power of laying
and collecting taxes had been previously given,
might, in the execution of that power, pass all laws
necessary and proper to carry it into effect? I have
applied these observations thus particularly to the
power of taxation, because it is the immediate sub
ject under consideration, and because it is the most
important of the authorities proposed to be con
ferred upon the Union. But the same process will
lead to the same result, in relation to all other powers
declared in the Constitution. And it is expressly to
execute these powers that the sweeping clause, as it
has been affectedly called, authorizes the national
legislature to pass all necessary and proper laws. If
there is any thing exceptionable, it must be sought
for in the specific powers upon which this general
declaration is predicated. The declaration itself,
though it may be chargeable with tautology or re
dundancy, is at least perfectly harmless.

But SUSPICION may ask, Why then was it intro
duced? The answer is, that it could only have been
done for greater caution, and to guard against all
cavilling refinements in those who might hereafter
feel a disposition to curtail and evade the legitimate
authorities of the Union. The Convention prob
ably foresaw, what it has been a principal aim of

254 Alexander Hamilton

these papers to inculcate, that the danger which
most threatens our political welfare is that the State
governments will finally sap the foundations of the
Union; and might therefore think it necessary, in
so cardinal a point, to leave nothing to construction.
Whatever may have been the inducement to it, the
wisdom of the precaution is evident from the cry
which has been raised against it; as that very cry
betrays a disposition to question the great and es
sential truth which it is manifestly the object of that
provision to declare.

But it may be again asked, Who is to judge of the
necessity and propriety of the laws to be passed for
executing the powers of the Union? I answer, first,
that this question arises as well and as fully upon
the simple grant of those powers as upon the de
claratory clause; and I answer, in the second place,
that the national government, like every other, must
judge, in the first instance, of the proper exercise of
its powers, and its constituents in the last. If the
federal government should overpass the just bounds
of its authority and make a tyrannical use of its
powers, the people, whose creature it is, must appeal
to the standard they have formed, and take such
measures to redress the injury done to the Constitu
tion as the exigency may suggest and prudence jus
tify. The propriety of a law, in a constitutional
light, must always be determined by the nature of
the powers upon which it is founded. Suppose, by
some forced constructions of its authority (which,
indeed, cannot easily be imagined), the Federal
legislature should attempt to vary the law of descent

The Federalist 255

in any State, would it not be evident that, in making
such an attempt, it had exceeded its jurisdiction,
and infringed upon that of the State? Suppose,
again, that upon the pretence of an interference with
its revenues, it should undertake to abrogate a land-
tax imposed by the authority of a State; would it
not be equally evident that this was an invasion of
that concurrent jurisdiction in respect to this species
of tax, which its Constitution plainly supposes to exist
in the State governments? If there ever should be
a doubt on this head, the credit of it will be entirely
due to those reasoners who, in the imprudent zeal
of their animosity to the plan of the convention,
have labored to envelop it in a cloud calculated to
obscure the plainest and simplest truths.

But it is said that the laws of the Union are to be
the supreme law of the land. But what inference
can be drawn from this, or what would they amount
to, if they were not to be supreme? It is evident
they would amount to nothing. A LAW, by the
very meaning of the term, includes supremacy. It
is a rule which those to whom it is prescribed are
bound to observe. This results from every political
association. If individuals enter into a state of
society, the laws of that society must be the supreme
regulator of their conduct. If a number of political
societies enter into a larger political society, the laws
which the latter may enact, pursuant to the powers
intrusted to it by its constitution, must necessarily
be supreme over those societies, and the individuals
of whom they are composed. It would otherwise be
a mere treaty, dependent on the good faith of the

256 Alexander Hamilton

parties, and not a government, which is only an
other word for POLITICAL POWER AND SUPREMACY.
But it will not follow from this doctrine that acts of
the larger society which are not pursuant to its con
stitutional powers, but which are invasions of the
residuary authorities of the smaller societies, will
become the supreme law of the land. These will be
merely acts of usurpation, and will deserve to be
treated as such. Hence we perceive that the clause
which declares the supremacy of the laws of the
Union, like the one we have just before considered,
only declares a truth, which flows immediately and
necessarily from the institution of a federal govern
ment. It will not, I presume, have escaped obser
vation, that it expressly confines this supremacy to
laws made pursuant to the Constitution; which I
mention merely as an instance of caution in the
convention; since that limitation would have been
to be understood, though it had not been expressed.
Though a law, therefore, laying a tax for the use of
the United States would be supreme in its nature,
and could not legally be opposed or controlled, yet
a law for abrogating or preventing the collection of
a tax laid by the authority of the State (unless upon
imports and exports), would not be the supreme law
of the land, but a usurpation of power not granted
by the Constitution. As far as an improper accu
mulation of taxes on the same object might tend
to render the collection difficult or precarious, this
would be a mutual inconvenience, not arising from
a superiority or defect of power on either side, but
from an injudicious exercise of power by one or the

The Federalist 257

other, in a manner equally disadvantageous to both.
It is to be hoped and presumed, however, that
mutual interest would dictate a concert in this re
spect which would avoid any material inconvenience.
The inference from the whole is, that the individual
States would, under the proposed Constitution, re
tain an independent and uncontrollable authority to
raise revenue to any extent of which they may stand
in need, by every kind of taxation, except duties on
imports and exports. It will be shown in the next
paper that this CONCURRENT JURISDICTION in the
article of taxation was the only admissible substi
tute for an entire subordination, in respect to this
branch of power, of the State authority to that of
the Union.

PUBLIUS.

From the New York Packet, Friday, January 4, 1788
THE FEDERALIST. No. XXXIV
(HAMILTON)

To the People of the State of New York:

I flatter myself it has been clearly shown in my
last number that the particular States, under the
proposed Constitution, would have COEQUAL au
thority with the Union in the article of revenue,
except as to duties on imports. As this leaves open
to the States far the greatest part of the resources
of the community, there can be no color for the
assertion that they would not possess means as
abundant as could be desired for the supply of then-
own wants, independent of all external control.

VOL. XI. — 17.

258 Alexander Hamilton

That the field is sufficiently wide will more fully
appear when we come to advert to the inconsider
able share of the public expenses for which it will fall
to the lot of the State governments to provide.

To argue upon abstract principles that this co
ordinate authority cannot exist, is to set up supposi
tion and theory against fact and reality. However
proper such reasonings might be to show that a
thing ought not to exist, they are wholly to be re
jected when they are made use of to prove that it
does not exist contrary to the evidence of the fact
itself. It is well known that in the Roman republic
the legislative authority, in the last resort, resided
for ages in two different political bodies — not as
branches of the same legislature, but as distinct and
independent legislatures, in each of which an oppo
site interest prevailed: in one the patrician; in the
other, the plebeian. Many arguments might have
been adduced to prove the unfitness of two such
seemingly contradictory authorities, each having
power to annul or repeal the acts of the other. But
a man would have been regarded as frantic who
should have attempted at Rome to disprove their
existence. It will be readily understood that I
allude to the COMITIA CENTURIATA and the COMITIA
TRIBUTA. The former, in which the people voted by
centuries, was so arranged as to give a superiority to
the patrician interest; in the latter, in which num
bers prevailed, the plebeian interest had an entire
predominancy. And yet these two legislatures co
existed for ages, and the Roman republic attained
to the utmost height of human greatness.

The Federalist 259

In the case particularly under consideration, there
is no such contradiction as appears in the example
cited; there is no power on either side to annul the
acts of the other. And in practice there is little
reason to apprehend any inconvenience; because,
in a short course of time, the wants of the States will
naturally reduce themselves within a very narrow
compass; and in the interim, the United States will,
in all probability, find it convenient to abstain
wholly from those objects to which the particular
States would be inclined to resort.

To form a more precise judgment of the true
merits of this question, it will be well to advert to
the proportion between the objects that will require
a federal provision in respect to revenue, and those
which will require a State provision. We shall dis
cover that the former are altogether unlimited, and
that the latter are circumscribed within very mod
erate bounds. In pursuing this inquiry, we must
bear in mind that we are not to confine our view to
the present period, but to look forward to remote
futurity. Constitutions of civil government are not
to be framed upon a calculation of existing exigen
cies, but upon a combination of these with the prob
able exigencies of ages, according to the natural and
tried course of human affairs. Nothing, therefore,
can be more fallacious than to infer the extent of any
power, proper to be lodged in the national govern
ment, from an estimate of its immediate necessities.
There ought to be a CAPACITY to provide for future
contingencies as they may happen; and as these are
illimitable in their nature, it is impossible safely to

260 Alexander Hamilton

limit that capacity. It is true, perhaps, that a com
putation might be made with sufficient accuracy to
answer the purpose of the quantity of revenue re
quisite to discharge the subsisting engagements of
the Union, and to maintain those establishments
which, for some time to come, would suffice in time
of peace. But would it be wise, or would it not
rather be the extreme of folly, to stop at this point,
and to leave the government intrusted with the care
of the national defence in a state of absolute in
capacity to provide for the protection of the com
munity against future invasions of the public peace,
by foreign war or domestic convulsions? If, on the
contrary, we ought to exceed this point, where can
we stop, short of an indefinite power of providing
for emergencies as they may arise? Though it is easy
to assert, in general terms, tho possibility of forming
a rational judgment of a due provision against prob
able dangers, yet we may safely challenge those who
make the assertion to bring forward their data, and
may affirm that they would be found as vague and
uncertain as any that could be produced to establish
the probable duration of the world. Observations
confined to the mere prospects of internal attacks
can deserve no weight ; though even theso will admit
of no satisfactory calculation: but if we mean to be
a commercial people, it must form a part of our
policy to be able one day to defend that commerce.
The support of a navy and of naval wars would in
volve contingencies that must baffle all the efforts
of political arithmetic.
Admitting that we ought to try the novel and

The Federalist 261

absurd experiment in politics of tying up the hands
of government from offensive war founded upon
reasons of state, yet certainly we ought not to dis
able it from guarding the community against the
ambition or enmity of other nations. A cloud has
been for some time hanging over the European
world. If it should break forth into a storm, who
can insure us that in its progress a part of its fury
would not be spent upon us? No reasonable man
would hastily pronounce that we are entirely out of
its reach. Or if the combustible materials that now
seem to be collecting should be dissipated without
coming to maturity, or if a flame should be kindled
without extending to us, what security can we have
that our tranquillity will long remain undisturbed
from some other cause or from some other quarter?
Let us recollect that peace or war will not always be
left to our option; that however moderate or un
ambitious we may be, we cannot count upon the
moderation, or hope to extinguish the ambition of
others. Who could have imagined at the conclu
sion of the last war that France and Britain, wearied
and exhausted as they both were, would so soon
have looked with so hostile an aspect upon each
other? To judge from the history of mankind, we
shall be compelled to conclude that the fiery and
destructive passions of war reign in the human
breast with much more powerful sway than the mild
and beneficent sentiments of peace; and that to
model our political systems upon speculations of
lasting tranquillity, is to calculate on the weaker
springs of the human character.

262 Alexander Hamilton

What are the chief sources of expense in every
government? What has occasioned that enormous
accumulation of debts with which several of the
European nations are oppressed? The answer
plainly is, wars and rebellions ; the support of those
institutions which are necessary to guard the body
politic against these two most mortal diseases of
society. The expenses arising from those institu
tions which are relative to the mere domestic police
of a state, to the support of its legislative, executive,
and judicial departments, with their different appen
dages, and to the encouragement of agriculture and
manufactures (which will comprehend almost all the
objects of state expenditure), are insignificant in
comparison with those which relate to the national
defence.

In the kingdom of Great Britain, where all the
ostentatious apparatus of monarchy is to be pro
vided for, not above a fifteenth part of the annual
income of the nation is appropriated to the class of
expenses last mentioned ; the other fourteen fifteenths
are absorbed in the payment of the interest of debts
contracted for carrying on the wars in which that
country has been engaged, and in the maintenance
of fleets and armies. If, on the one hand, it should
be observed that the expenses incurred in the prose
cution of the ambitious enterprises and vainglorious
pursuits of a monarchy are not a proper standard by
which to judge of those which might be necessary in
a republic, it ought, on the other hand, to be re
marked that there should be as great a disproportion
between the profusion and extravagance of a wealthy

The Federalist 263

kingdom in its domestic administration, and the
frugality and economy which in that particular be
come the modest simplicity of republican govern
ment. If we balance a proper deduction from one
side against that which it is supposed ought to be
made from the other, the proportion may still be
considered as holding good.

But let us advert to the large debt which we have
ourselves contracted in a single war, and let us only
calculate on a common share of the events which
disturb the peace of nations, and we shall instantly
perceive, without the aid of any elaborate illustra
tion, that there must always be an immense dispro
portion between the objects of federal and state
expenditures. It is true that several of the States,
separately, are encumbered with considerable debts,
which are an excrescence of the late war. But this
cannot happen again, if the proposed system be
adopted; and when these debts are discharged, the
only call for revenue of any consequence, which the
State governments will continue to experience, will
be for the mere support of their respective civil lists ;
to which, if we add all contingencies, the total
amount in every State ought to fall considerably
short of two hundred thousand pounds.

In framing a government for posterity as well as
ourselves, we ought, in those provisions which are
designed to be permanent, to calculate, not on tem
porary, but on permanent causes of expense. If
this principle be a just one, our attention would be
directed to a provision in favor of the State govern
ments for an annual sum of about two hundred

264 Alexander Hamilton

thousand pounds ; while the exigencies of the Union
could be susceptible of no limits, even in imagina
tion. In this view of the subject, by what logic can
it be maintained that the local governments ought to
command, in perpetuity, an EXCLUSIVE source of
revenue for any sum beyond the extent of two hun
dred thousand pounds? To extend its power fur
ther, in exclusion of the authority of the Union,
would be to take the resources of the community
out of those hands which stood in need of them for
the public welfare, in order to put them into other
hands which could have no just or proper occasion
for them.

Suppose, then, the convention had been inclined
to proceed upon the principle of a repartition of the
objects of revenue, between the Union and its mem
bers, in proportion to their comparative necessities;
what particular fund could have been selected for
the use of the States, that would not either have been
too much or too little — too little for their present,
too much for their future wants? As to the line of
separation between external and internal taxes, this
would leave to the States, at a rough computation,
the command of two thirds of the resources of the
community to defray from a tenth to a twentieth
part of its expenses ; and to the Union, one third of
the resources of the community, to defray from nine
tenths to nineteen twentieths of its expenses. If we
desert this boundary and content ourselves with
leaving to the States an exclusive power of taxing
houses and lands, there would still be a great dis
proportion between the means and the end; the

The Federalist 265

possession of one third of the resources of the com
munity to supply, at most, one tenth of its wants. If
any fund could have been selected and appropriated,
equal to and not greater than the object, it would
have been inadequate to the discharge of the existing
debts of the particular States, and would have left
them dependent on the Union for a provision for
this purpose.

The preceding train of observation will justify the
position which has been elsewhere laid down, that
"A CONCURRENT JURISDICTION in the article of taxa
tion was the only admissible substitute for an entire
subordination, in respect to this branch of power,
of State authority to that of the Union." Any
separation of the objects of revenue that could have
been fallen upon, would have amounted to a sacrifice
of the great INTERESTS of the Union to the POWER of
the individual States. The convention thought the
concurrent jurisdiction preferable to that subordina
tion; and it is evident that it has at least the merit
of reconciling an indefinite constitutional power of
taxation in the Federal government with an ade
quate and independent power in the States to pro
vide for their own necessities. There remain a few
other lights, in which this important subject of
taxation will claim a further consideration.

PUBLIUS.

266 Alexander Hamilton

For the Independent Journal

THE FEDERALIST. No. XXXV

(HAMILTON)

To the People of the State of New York:

Before we proceed to examine any other objections
to an indefinite power of taxation in the Union, I shall
make one general remark; which is, that if the juris
diction of the national government, in the article of
revenue, should be restricted to particular objects,
it would naturally occasion an undue proportion of
the public burdens to fall upon those objects. Two
evils would spring from this source: the oppression
of particular branches of industry; and an unequal
distribution of the taxes, as well among the several
States as among the citizens of the same State.

Suppose, as has been contended for, the federal
power of taxation were to be confined to duties on
imports, it is evident that the government, for want
of being able to command other resources, would
frequently be tempted to extend these duties to an
injurious excess. There are persons who imagine
that they can never be carried to too great a length;
since the higher they are, the more it is alleged they
will tend to discourage an extravagant consumption,
to produce a favorable balance of trade, and to pro
mote domestic manufactures. But all extremes are
pernicious in various ways. Exorbitant duties on
imported articles would beget a general spirit of
smuggling; which is always prejudicial to the fair
trader, and eventually to the revenue itself: they
tend to render other classes of the community tribu-

The Federalist 267

tary, in an improper degree, to the manufacturing
classes, to whom they give a premature monopoly of
the markets: they sometimes force industry out of
its more natural channels into others in which it
flows with less advantage; and in the last place, they
oppress the merchant, who is often obliged to pay
them himself without any retribution from the con
sumer. When the demand is equal to the quantity
of goods at market, the consumer generally pays the
duty; but when the markets happen to be over
stocked, a great proportion falls upon the merchant,
and sometimes not only exhausts his profits, but
breaks in upon his capital. I am apt to think that
a division of the duty, between the seller and the
buyer, more often happens than is commonly im
agined. It is not always possible to raise the price of
a commodity in exact proportion to every additional
imposition laid upon it. The merchant, especially
in a country of small commercial capital, is often
under a necessity of keeping prices down in order to
a more expeditious sale.

The maxim that the consumer is the payer, is so
much oftener true than the reverse of the proposi
tion, that it is far more equitable that the duties on
imports should go into a common stock, than that
they should redound to the exclusive benefit of the
importing States. But it is not so generally true as
to render it equitable, that those duties should form
the only national fund. When they are paid by the
merchant they operate as an additional tax upon the
importing State, whose citizens pay their proportion
of them in the character of consumers. In this view

268 Alexander Hamilton

they are productive of inequality among the States;
which inequality would be increased with the in
creased extent of the duties. The confinement of
the national revenues to this species of imposts would
be attended with inequality, from a different cause,
between the manufacturing and the non-manufac
turing States. The States which can go farthest
towards the supply of their own wants, by their own
manufactures, wiU not, according to their numbers
or wealth, consume so great a proportion of imported
articles as those States which are not in the same
favorable situation. They would not, therefore, in
this mode alone contribute to the public treasury in
a ratio to their abilities. To make them do this it
is necessary that recourse be had to excises, the
proper objects of which are particular kinds of manu
factures. New York is more deeply interested in
these considerations than such of her citizens as
contend for limiting the power of the Union to ex
ternal taxation may be aware of. New York is an
importing State, and is not likely speedily to be,
to any great extent,1 a manufacturing State. She
would, of course, suffer in a double light from re
straining the jurisdiction of the Union to commer
cial imposts.

So far as these observations tend to inculcate a
danger of the import duties being extended to an
injurious extreme it may be observed, conformably
to a remark made in another part of these papers,

1 In the revised text, "and from a greater disproportion between
her population and territory is unlikely speedily to be, to any great
extent."

The Federalist 269

that the interest of the revenue itself would be a
sufficient guard against such an extreme. I readily
admit that this would be the case, as long as other
resources were open; but if the avenues to them
were closed, HOPE, stimulated by necessity, would
beget experiments, fortified by rigorous precautions
and additional penalties, which, for a time, would
have the intended effect, till there had been leisure
to contrive expedients to elude these new precau
tions. The first success would be apt to inspire false
opinions, which it might require a long course of
subsequent experience to correct. Necessity, espe
cially in politics, often occasions false hopes, false
reasonings, and a system of measures correspond
ingly erroneous. But even if this supposed excess
should not be a consequence of the limitation of the
federal power of taxation, the inequalities spoken of
would still ensue, though not in the same degree,
from the other causes that have been noticed. Let
us now return to the examination of objections.

One which, if we may judge from the frequency of
its repetition, seems most to be relied on, is, that the
House of Representatives is not sufficiently numer
ous for the reception of all the different classes of
citizens, in order to combine the interests and feelings
of every part of the community, and to produce
a due sympathy between the representative body
and its constituents. This argument presents itself
under a very specious and seducing form; and is
well calculated to lay hold of the prejudices of those
to whom it is addressed. But when we come to
dissect it with attention, it will appear to be made up

270 Alexander Hamilton

of nothing but fair-sounding words. The object it
seems to aim at is, in the first place, impracticable,
and in the sense in which it is contended for, is un
necessary. I reserve for another place the discus
sion of the question which relates to the sufficiency
of the representative body in respect to numbers,
and shall content myself with examining here the
particular use which has been made of a contrary
supposition, in reference to the immediate subject
of our inquiries.

The idea of an actual representation of all classes
of the people, by persons of each class, is altogether
visionary. Unless it were expressly provided in the
Constitution, that each different occupation should
send one or more members, the thing would never
take place in practice. Mechanics and manufac
turers will always be inclined, with few exceptions,
to give their votes to merchants, in preference to
persons of their own professions or trades. Those
discerning citizens are well aware that the mechanic
and manufacturing arts furnish the materials of
mercantile enterprise and industry. Many of them,
indeed, are immediately connected with the opera
tions of commerce. They know that the merchant
is their natural patron and friend; and they are
aware, that however great the confidence they may
justly feel in their own good sense, their interests
can be more effectually promoted by the merchant
than by themselves. They are sensible that their
habits in life have not been such as to give them
those acquired endowments, without which, in a
deliberative assembly, the greatest natural abilities

The Federalist 271

are for the most part useless ; and that the influence
and weight, and superior acquirements of the mer
chants render them more equal to a contest with
any spirit which might happen to infuse itself into
the public councils, unfriendly to the manufacturing
and trading interests. These considerations, and
many others that might be mentioned, prove, and
experience confirms it, that artisans and manu
facturers will commonly be disposed to bestow their
votes upon merchants and those whom they recom
mend. We must therefore consider merchants as
the natural representatives of all these classes of the
community.

With regard to the learned professions, little need
be observed; they truly form no distinct interest in
society, and according to their situation and talents,
will be indiscriminately the objects of the confidence
and choice of each other, and of other parts of the
community.

Nothing remains but the landed interest; and
this, in a political view, and particularly in relation
to taxes, I take to be perfectly united, from the
wealthiest landlord down to the poorest tenant. No
tax can be laid on land which will not affect the pro
prietor of millions of acres as well as the proprietor
of a single acre. Every landholder will therefore
have a common interest to keep the taxes on land
as low as possible ; and common interest may always
be reckoned upon as the surest bond of sympathy.
But if we even could suppose a distinction of interest
between the opulent landholder and the middling
farmer, what reason is there to conclude, that the

272 Alexander Hamilton

first would stand a better chance of being deputed
to the national legislature than the last? If we take
fact as our guide, and look into our own senate and
assembly, we shall find that moderate proprietors of
land prevail in both; nor is this less the case in the
senate, which consists of a smaller number, than in
the assembly, which is composed of a greater num
ber. Where the qualifications of the electors are the
same, whether they have to choose a small or a large
number, their votes will fall upon those in whom
they have most confidence; whether these happen
to be men of large fortunes, or of moderate property,
or of no property at all.

It is said to be necessary, that all classes of citizens
should have some of their own number in the re
presentative body, in order that their feelings and
interests may be the better understood and attended
to. But we have seen that this will never happen
under any arrangement that leaves the votes of the
people free. Where this is the case, the representative
body, with too few exceptions to have any influence
on the spirit of the government, will be composed of
landholders, merchants, and men of the learned pro
fessions. But where is the danger that the interests
and feelings of the different classes of citizens will
not be understood or attended to by these three
descriptions of men? Will not the landholder know
and feel whatever will promote or insure the interest
of landed property? And will he not, from his own
interest in that species of property, be sufficiently
prone to resist every attempt to prejudice or encum
ber it? Will not the merchant understand and be

The Federalist 273

disposed to cultivate, as far as may be proper, the
interests of the mechanic and manufacturing arts,
to which his commerce is so nearly allied? Will not
the man of the learned profession, who will feel a
neutrality to the rivalships between the different
branches of industry, be likely to prove an impartial
arbiter between them, ready to promote either, so
far as it shall appear to him conducive to the general
interests of the society?

If we take into the account the momentary hu
mors or dispositions which may happen to prevail
in particular parts of the society, and to which a
wise administration will never be inattentive, is the
man whose situation leads to extensive inquiry and
information less likely to be a competent judge of
their nature, extent, and foundation than one whose
observation does not travel beyond the circle of his
neighbors and acquaintances? Is it not natural
that a man who is a candidate for the favor of the
people, and who is dependent on the suffrages of
his fellow-citizens for the continuance of his public
honors, should take care to inform himself of their
dispositions and inclinations, and should be willing
to allow them their proper degree of influence upon
his conduct? This dependence, and the necessity
of being bound himself, and his posterity, by the
laws to which he gives his assent, are the true, and
they are the strong chords of sympathy between the
representative and the constituent.

There is no part of the administration of govern
ment that requires extensive information and a
thorough knowledge of the principles of political

VOL. XI.— 18.

274 Alexander Hamilton

economy, so much as the business of taxation. The
man who understands those principles best will be
least likely to resort to oppressive expedients, or to
sacrifice any particular class of citizens to the pro
curement of revenue. It might be demonstrated
that the most productive system of finance will
always be the least burdensome. There can be no
doubt that in order to a judicious exercise of the
power of taxation, it is necessary that the person in
whose hands it is should be acquainted with the
general genius, habits, and modes of thinking of the
people at large, and with the resources of the country.
And this is all that can be reasonably meant by a
knowledge of the interests and feelings of the people.
In any other sense the proposition has either no
meaning, or an absurd one. And in that sense let
every considerate citizen judge for himself where the
requisite qualification is most likely to be found.

PUBLIUS.

From the New York Packet, Tuesday, January 8, 1788

THE FEDERALIST. No. XXXVI

(HAMILTON)

To the People of the State of New York:

We have seen that the result of the observations,
to which the foregoing number has been principally
devoted, is, that from the natural operation of the
different interests and views of the various classes
of the community, whether the representation of
the people be more or less numerous, it will consist

The Federalist 275

almost entirely of proprietors of land, of merchants,
and of members of the learned professions, who will
truly represent all those different interests and views.
If it should be objected that we have seen other
descriptions of men in the local legislatures, I answer
that it is admitted there are exceptions to the rule,
but not in sufficient number to influence the general
complexion or character of the government. There
are strong minds in every walk of life that will rise
superior to the disadvantages of situation, and will
command the tribute due to their merit, not only
from the classes to which they particularly belong,
but from the society in general. The door ought to
be equally open to all; and I trust, for the credit of
human nature, that we shall see examples of such
vigorous plants flourishing in the soil of federal as
well as of State legislation; but occasional instances
of this sort will not render the reasoning, founded
upon the general course of things, less conclusive.

The subject might be placed in several other lights
that would all lead to the same result; and in par
ticular it might be asked, What greater affinity or
relation of interest can be conceived between the
carpenter and blacksmith, and the linen manufac
turer or stocking- weaver, than between the merchant
and either of them? It is notorious that there are
often as great rivalships between different branches
of the mechanic or manufacturing arts as there are
between any of the departments of labor and in
dustry; so that, unless the representative body were
to be far more numerous than would be consist
ent with any idea of regularity or wisdom in its

276 Alexander Hamilton

deliberations, it is impossible that what seems to be
the spirit of the objection we have been considering
should ever be realized in practice. But I forbear
to dwell any longer on a matter which has hitherto
worn too loose a garb to admit even of an accurate
inspection of its real shape or tendency.

There is another objection of a somewhat more
precise nature that claims our attention. It has been
asserted that a power of internal taxation in the
national legislature could never be exercised with
advantage, as well from the want of a sufficient
knowledge of local circumstances, as from an inter
ference between the revenue laws of the Union
and of the particular States. The supposition of a
want of proper knowledge seems to be entirely desti
tute of foundation. If any question is depending in a
State legislature respecting one of the counties, which
demands a knowledge of local details, how is it ac
quired? No doubt from the information of the
members of the county. Cannot the like knowledge
be obtained in the national legislature from the re
presentatives of each State? And is it not to be
presumed that the men who will generally be sent
there will be possessed of the necessary degree of
intelligence to be able to communicate that infor
mation? Is the knowledge of local circumstances,
as applied to taxation, a minute topographical ac
quaintance with all the mountains, rivers, streams,
highways, and by-paths in each State; or is it a
general acquaintance with its situation and re
sources, with the state of its agriculture, commerce,
manufactures, with the nature of its products and

The Federalist 277

consumptions, with the different degrees and kinds
of its wealth, property, and industry?

Nations in general, even under governments of
the more popular kind, usually commit the adminis
tration of their finances to single men or to boards
composed of a few individuals, who digest and pre
pare, in the first instance, the plans of taxation,
which are afterwards passed into laws by the au
thority of the sovereign or legislature.

Inquisitive and enlightened statesmen are deemed
everywhere best qualified to make a judicious selec
tion of the objects proper for revenue; which is a
clear indication, as far as the sense of mankind can
have weight in the question, of the species of know
ledge of local circumstances requisite to the purposes
of taxation.

The taxes intended to be comprised under the
general denomination of internal taxes may be sub
divided into those of the direct and those of the in
direct kind. Though the objection be made to both,
yet the reasoning upon it seems to be confined to the
former branch. And indeed, as to the latter, by
which must be understood duties and excises on
articles of consumption, one is at a loss to conceive
what can be the nature of the difficulties appre
hended. The knowledge relating to them must evi
dently be of a kind that will either be suggested
by the nature of the article itself, or can easily be
procured from any well-informed man, especially of
the mercantile class. The circumstances that may
distinguish its situation in one State from its situa
tion in another must be few, simple, and easy to be

278 Alexander Hamilton

comprehended. The principal thing to be attended
to, would be to avoid those articles which had been
previously appropriated to the use of a particular
State; and there could be no difficulty in ascertain
ing the revenue system of each. This could always
be known from the respective codes of laws, as well
as from the information of the members from the
several States.

The objection, when applied to real property or to
houses and lands, appears to have, at first sight,
more foundation, but even in this view it will not
bear a close examination. Land-taxes are com
monly laid in one of two modes, either by actual
valuations, permanent or periodical, or by occa
sional assessments, at the discretion, or according to
the best judgment, of certain officers whose duty it
is to make them. In either case, the EXECUTION of
the business, which alone requires the knowledge of
local details, must be devolved upon discreet persons
in the character of commissioners or assessors,
elected by the people or appointed by the govern
ment for the purpose. All that the law can do must
be to name the persons or to prescribe the manner of
their election or appointment, to fix their numbers
and qualifications and to draw the general outlines
of their powers and duties. And what is there in
all this that cannot as well be performed by the na
tional legislature as by a State legislature? The at
tention of either can only reach to general principles ;
local details, as already observed, must be referred
to those who are to execute the plan.

But there is a simple point of view in which this

The Federalist 279

matter may be placed that must be altogether satis
factory. The national legislature can make use of
the system of each State within that State. The
method of laying and collecting this species of taxes
in each State can, in all its parts, be adopted and
employed by the federal government.

Let it be recollected that the proportion of these
taxes is not to be left to the discretion of the national
legislature, but is to be determined by the numbers
of each State, as described in the second section of
the first article. An actual census or enumeration
of the people must furnish the rule, a circumstance
which effectually shuts the door to partiality or
oppression. The abuse of this power of taxation
seems to have been provided against with guarded
circumspection. In addition to the precaution just
mentioned, there is a provision that " all duties, im
posts, and excises shall be UNIFORM throughout the
United States."

It has been very properly observed by different
speakers and writers on the side of the Constitution,
that if the exercise of the power of internal taxation
by the Union should be discovered on experiment
to be really inconvenient, the federal government
may then forbear the use of it, and have recourse to
requisitions in its stead. By way of answer to this,
it has been triumphantly asked, Why not in the first
instance omit that ambiguous power, and rely upon
the latter resource? Two solid answers may be
given. The first is, that the exercise of that power,
if convenient, will be preferable, because it will be
more effectual; and it is impossible to prove in

280 Alexander Hamilton

theory, or otherwise than by the experiment, that
it cannot be advantageously exercised. The con
trary, indeed, appears most probable. The second
answer is, that the existence of such a power in the
Constitution will have a strong influence in giving
efficacy to requisitions. When the States know that
the Union can apply itself without their agency, it
will be a powerful motive for exertion on their part.

As to the interference of the revenue laws of the
Union, and of its members, we have already seen
that there can be no clashing or repugnancy of au
thority. The laws cannot, therefore, in a legal sense,
interfere with each other; and it is far from im
possible to avoid an interference even in the policy
of their different systems. An effectual expedient
for this purpose will be, mutually to abstain from
those objects which either side may have first had
recourse to. As neither can control the other, each
will have an obvious and sensible interest in this
reciprocal forbearance. And where there is an im
mediate common interest, we may safely count upon
its operation. When the particular debts of the
States are done away, and their expenses come to be
limited within their natural compass, the possibility
almost of interference will vanish. A small land-tax
will answer the purpose of the States, and will be
their most simple and most fit resource.

Many spectres have been raised out of this power
of internal taxation, to excite the apprehensions of
the people: double sets of revenue officers, a du
plication of their burdens by double taxations, and
the frightful forms of odious and oppressive poll-

The Federalist 281

taxes, have been played off with all the ingenious
dexterity of political legerdemain.

As to the first point, there are two cases in which
there can be no room for double sets of officers : one,
where the right of imposing the tax is exclusively
vested in the Union, which applies to the duties on
imports; the other, where the object has not fallen
under any State regulation or provision which may
be applicable to a variety of objects. In other cases,
the probability is that the United States will either
wholly abstain from the objects preoccupied for
local purposes, or will make use of the State officers
and State regulations for collecting the additional
imposition. This will best answer the views of
revenue, because it will save expense in the collec
tion, and will best avoid any occasion of disgust to
the State governments and to the people. At all
events, here is a practicable expedient for avoiding
such an inconvenience; and nothing more can be
required than to show that evils predicted do not
necessarily result from the plan.

As to any argument derived from a supposed sys
tem of influence, it is a sufficient answer to say that
it ought not to be presumed; but the supposition
is susceptible of a more precise answer. If such a
spirit should infest the councils of the Union, the
most certain road to the accomplishment of its aim
would be to employ the State officers as much as
possible, and to attach them to the Union by an
accumulation of their emoluments. This would
serve to turn the tide of State influence into the
channels of the national government, instead of

282 Alexander Hamilton

.making federal influence flow in an opposite and
adverse current. But all suppositions of this kind
are invidious, and ought to be banished from the
consideration of the great question before the people.
They can answer no other end than to cast a mist
over the truth.

As to the suggestion of double taxation, the an
swer is plain. The wants of the Union are to be
supplied in one way or another; if to be done by
the authority of the federal government, it will not
be to be done by that of the State government. The
quantity of taxes to be paid by the community must
be the same in either case; with this advantage, if
the provision is to be made by the Union — that the
capital resource of commercial imposts, which is the
most convenient branch of revenue, can be pru
dently improved to a much greater extent under
federal than under State regulation, and of course
will render it less necessary to recur to more incon
venient methods; and with this further advantage,
that as far as there may be any real difficulty in the
exercise of the power of internal taxation, it will
impose a disposition to greater care in the choice
and arrangement of the means ; and must naturally
tend to make it a fixed point of policy in the national
administration to go as far as may be practicable in
making the luxury of the rich tributary to the pub
lic treasury, in order to diminish the necessity of
those impositions which might create dissatisfaction
in the poorer and most numerous classes of the so
ciety. Happy it is when the interest which the gov
ernment has in the preservation of its own power,

The Federalist 283

coincides with a proper distribution of the public
burdens, and tends to guard the least wealthy part
of the community from oppression!

As to poll-taxes, I, without scruple, confess my
disapprobation of them; and though they have pre
vailed from an early period in those States f which
have uniformly been the most tenacious of their
rights, I should lament to see them introduced into
practice under the national government. But does
it follow because there is a power to lay them, that
they will actually be laid? Every State in the
Union has power to impose taxes of this kind; and
yet in several of them they are unknown in practice.
Are the State governments to be stigmatized as
tyrannies, because they possess this power? If they
are not, with what propriety can the like power jus
tify such a charge against the national government,
or even be urged as an obstacle to its adoption? As
little friendly as I am to the species of imposition,
I still feel a thorough conviction that the power of
having recourse to it ought to exist in the federal
government. There are certain emergencies of na
tions, in which expedients, that in the ordinary
state of things ought to be forborne, become essen
tial to the public weal. And the government, from
the possibility of such emergencies, ought ever to
have the option of making use of them. The real
scarcity of objects in this country, which may be
considered as productive sources of revenue, is a
reason peculiar to itself, for not abridging the dis
cretion of the national councils in this respect.

* The New England States. — PUBLIUS.

284 Alexander Hamilton

There may exist certain critical and tempestuous
conjunctures of the State, in which a poll-tax may
become an inestimable resource. And as I know
nothing to exempt this portion of the globe from
the common calamities that have befallen other
parts of it, I acknowledge my aversion to every pro
ject that is calculated to disarm the government of
a single weapon, which in any possible contingency
might be usefully employed for the general defence
and security.

I have now gone through the examination of such
of the powers proposed to be vested in the United
States, which may be considered as having an im
mediate relation to the energy of the government;
and have endeavored to answer the principal ob
jections which have been made to them. I have
passed over in silence those minor authorities, which
are either too inconsiderable to have been thought
worthy of the hostilities of the opponents of the
Constitution, or of too manifest propriety to admit
of controversy. The mass of judiciary power, how
ever, might have claimed an investigation under
this head, had it not been for the consideration that
its organization and its extent may be more ad
vantageously considered in connection. This has
determined me to refer it to the branch of our in
quiries upon which we shall next enter.

PUBLIUS.

The Federalist 285

From the Daily Advertiser, Friday, January n, 1788
THE FEDERALIST. No. XXXVII

(MADISON)

To the People of the State of New York:

In reviewing the defects of the existing Confedera
tion, and showing that they cannot be supplied by
a government of less energy than that before the
public, several of the most important principles of
the latter fell of course under consideration. But
as the ultimate object of these papers is to determine
clearly and fully the merits of this Constitution, and
the expediency of adopting it, our plan cannot be
complete without taking a more critical and thorough
survey of the work of the convention, without ex
amining it on all its sides, comparing it in all its
parts, and calculating its probable effects.

That this remaining task may be executed under
impressions conducive to a just and fair result, some
reflections must in this place be indulged, which
candor previously suggests.

It is a misfortune, inseparable from human affairs,
that public measures are rarely investigated with
that spirit of moderation which is essential to a just
estimate of their real tendency to advance or ob
struct the public good; and that this spirit is more
apt to be diminished than promoted, by those occa
sions which require an unusual exercise of it. To
those who have been led by experience to attend to
this consideration, it could not appear surprising,
that the act of the convention, which recommends
so many important changes and innovations, which

y

286 Alexander Hamilton

may be viewed in so many lights and relations, and
which touches the springs of so many passions and
interests, should find or excite dispositions un
friendly, both on one side and on the other, to a fair
discussion and accurate judgment of its merits. In
some, it has been too evident from their own pub
lications, that they have scanned the proposed Con
stitution, not only with a predisposition to censure,
but with a predetermination to condemn; as the
language held by others betrays an opposite pre
determination or bias, which must render their
opinions also of little moment in the question. In
placing, however, these different characters on a
level with respect to the weight of their opinions, I
wish not to insinuate that there may not be a ma
terial difference in the purity of their intentions.
It is but just to remark in favor of the latter descrip
tion, that as our situation is universally admitted
to be peculiarly critical, and to require indispensably
that something should be done for our relief, the
predetermined patron of what has been actually
done may have taken his bias from the weight of
these considerations, as well as from considerations
of a sinister nature. The predetermined adversary,
on the other hand, can have been governed by no
venial motive whatever. The intentions of the first
may be upright, as they may on the contrary be
culpable. The views of the last cannot be upright,
and must be culpable. But the truth is, that these
papers are not addressed to persons falling under
either of these characters. They solicit the atten
tion of those only, who add to a sincere zeal for the

The Federalist 287

happiness of their country, a temper favorable to a
just estimate of the means of promoting it.

Persons of this character will proceed to an ex
amination of the plan submitted by the convention,
not only without a disposition to find or to magnify
faults; but will see the propriety of reflecting, that
a faultless plan was not to be expected. Nor will
they barely make allowances for the errors which
may be chargeable on the fallibility to which the
convention, as a body of men, were liable ; but will
keep in mind, that they themselves also are but
men, and ought not to assume an infallibility in re-
judging the fallible opinions of others.

With equal readiness will it be perceived, that be
sides these inducements to candor, many allowances
ought to be made for the difficulties inherent in
the very nature of the undertaking referred to the
convention.

The novelty of the undertaking immediately
strikes us. It has been shown in the course of these
papers, that the existing Confederation is founded on
principles which are fallacious; that we must con
sequently change this first foundation, and with it
the superstructure resting upon it. It has been
shown, that the other confederacies which could be
consulted as precedents have been vitiated by the
same erroneous principles, and can therefore furnish
no other light than that of beacons, which give
warning of the course to be shunned, without point
ing out that which ought to be pursued. The most
that the convention could do in such a situation,
was to avoid the errors suggested by the past

288 Alexander Hamilton

experience of other countries, as well as of our own;
and to provide a convenient mode of rectifying their
own errors, as future experience may unfold them.

Among the difficulties encountered by the con
vention, a very important one must have lain in
combining the requisite stability and energy in gov
ernment, with the inviolable attention due to liberty
and to the republican form. Without substantially
accomplishing this part of their undertaking, they
would have very imperfectly fulfilled the object of
their appointment, or the expectation of the public;
yet that it could not be easily accomplished, will be
denied by no one who is unwilling to betray his ig
norance of the subject. Energy in government is
essential to that security against external and in
ternal danger, and to that prompt and salutary
execution of the laws which enter into the very de
finition of good government. Stability in govern
ment is essential to national character and to the
advantages annexed to it, as well as to that repose
and confidence in the minds of the people, which
are among the chief blessings of civil society. An
irregular and mutable legislation is not more an evil
in itself than it is odious to the people; and it may
be pronounced with assurance that the people of
this country, enlightened as they are with regard to
the nature, and interested, as the great body of them
are, in the effects of good government, will never
be satisfied till some remedy be applied to the
vicissitudes and uncertainties which characterize
the State administrations. On comparing, however,
these valuable ingredients with the vital principles

The Federalist 289

of liberty, we must perceive at once the difficulty of
mingling them together in their due proportions.
The genius of republican liberty seems to demand
on one side, not only that all power should be de
rived from the people, but that those intrusted with
it should be kept in dependence on the people, by a
short duration of their appointments; and that even
during this short period the trust should be placed
not in a few, but a number of hands. Stability, on
the contrary, requires that the hands in which power
is lodged should continue for a length of time the
same. A frequent change of men will result from a
frequent return of elections ; and a frequent change
of measures from a frequent change of men: whilst
energy in government requires not only a certain
duration of power, but the execution of it by a
single hand.

How far the convention may have succeeded in
this part of their work, will better appear on a more
accurate view of it. From the cursory view here
taken, it must clearly appear to have been an ar
duous part.

Not less arduous must have been the task of
marking the proper line of partition between the
authority of the general and that of the State gov
ernments. Every man will be sensible of this diffi
culty, in proportion as he has been accustomed to
contemplate and discriminate objects extensive and
complicated in their nature. The faculties of the
mind itself have never yet been distinguished and
defined, with satisfactory precision, by all the efforts
of the most acute and metaphysical philosophers.

VOL. XI.— Ifl.

2 QO Alexander Hamilton

Sense, perception, judgment, desire, volition, mem
ory, imagination, are found to be separated by such
delicate shades and minute gradations that their
boundaries have eluded the most subtle investiga
tions, and remain a pregnant source of ingenious
disquisition and controversy. The boundaries be
tween the great kingdoms of nature, and, still more,
between the various provinces, and lesser portions,
into which they are subdivided, afford another illus
tration of the same important truth. The most
sagacious and laborious naturalists have never yet
succeeded in tracing with certainty the line which
separates the district of vegetable life from the
neighboring region of unorganized matter, or which
marks the termination of the former and the com
mencement of the animal empire. A still greater
obscurity lies in the distinctive characters by which
the objects in each of these great departments of
nature have been arranged and assorted.

When we pass from the works of nature, in which
all the delineations are perfectly accurate, and ap
pear to be otherwise only from the imperfection of
the eye which surveys them, to the institutions of
man, in which the obscurity arises as well from the
objedt itself as from the organ by which it is con
templated, we must perceive the necessity of mod
erating still further our expectations and hopes from
the efforts of human sagacity. Experience has in
structed us that no skill in the science of govern
ment has yet been able to discriminate and define,
with sufficient certainty, its three great provinces—
the legislative, executive, and judiciary ; or even the

The Federalist 291

privileges and powers of the different legislative
branches. Questions daily occur in the course of
practice, which prove the obscurity which reigns in
these subjects, and which puzzle the greatest adepts
in political science.

The experience of ages, with the continued and
combined labors of the most enlightened legislators
and jurists, has been equally unsuccessful in de
lineating the several objects and limits of different
codes of laws and different tribunals of justice. The
precise extent of the common law, and the statute
law, the maritime law, the ecclesiastical law, the law
of corporations, and other local laws and customs,
remains still to be clearly and finally established
in Great Britain, where accuracy in such subjects
has been more industriously pursued than in any
other part of the world. The jurisdiction of her
several courts, general and local, of law, of equity,
of admiralty, etc., is not less a source of frequent
and intricate discussions, sufficiently denoting the
indeterminate limits by which they are respectively
circumscribed. All new laws, though penned with
the greatest technical skill, and passed on the fullest
and most mature deliberation, are considered as
more or less obscure and equivocal, until their
meaning be liquidated and ascertained by a series
of particular discussions and adjudications. Besides
the obscurity arising from the complexity of objects,
and the imperfection of the human faculties, the
medium through which the conceptions of men are
conveyed to each other adds a fresh embarrassment.
The use of words is to express ideas. Perspicuity,

292 Alexander Hamilton

therefore, requires not only that the ideas should
be distinctly formed, but that they should be ex
pressed by words distinctly and exclusively appro
priate to them. But no language is so copious as
to supply words and phrases for every complex idea,
or so correct as not to include many equivocally
denoting different ideas. Hence it must happen
that however accurately objects may be discrimi
nated in themselves, and however accurately the
discrimination may be considered, the definition of
them may be rendered inaccurate by the inaccuracy
of the terms in which it is delivered. And this un
avoidable inaccuracy must be greater or less, accord
ing to the complexity and novelty of the objects
defined. When the Almighty himself condescends
to address mankind in their own language, his
meaning, luminous as it must be, is rendered dim
and doubtful by the cloudy medium through which
it is communicated.

Here, then, are three sources of vague and incor
rect definitions: indistinctness of the object, imper
fection of the organ of conception, inadequateness
of the vehicle of ideas. Any one of these must pro
duce a certain degree of obscurity. The conven
tion, in delineating the boundary between the federal
and State jurisdictions, must have experienced the
full effect of them all.

To the difficulties already mentioned may be added
the interfering pretensions of the larger and smaller
States. We cannot err in supposing that the former
would contend for a participation in the government,
fully proportioned to their superior wealth and im-

The Federalist 293

portance; and that the latter would not be less
tenacious of the equality at present enjoyed by them.
We may well suppose that neither side would en
tirely yield to the other, and consequently that the
struggle could be terminated only by compromise.
It is extremely probable, also, that after the ratio
of representation had been adjusted, this very com
promise must have produced a fresh struggle be
tween the same parties, to give such a turn to the
organization of the government, and to the distribu
tion of its powers, as would increase the importance
of the branches, in forming which they had re
spectively obtained the greatest share of influence.
There are features in the Constitution which warrant
each of these suppositions; and as far as either of
them is well founded, it shows that the convention
must have been compelled to sacrifice theoretical
propriety to the force of extraneous considerations.
Nor could it have been the large and small States
only, which would marshal themselves in opposition
to each other on various points. Other combina
tions, resulting from a difference of local position
and policy, must have created additional difficulties.
As every State may be divided into different dis
tricts, and its citizens into different classes, which
give birth to contending interests and local jealousies,
so the different parts of the United States are dis
tinguished from each other by a variety of circum
stances, which produce a like effect on a larger scale.
And although this variety of interests, for reasons
sufficiently explained in a former paper, may have
a salutary influence on the administration of the

294 Alexander Hamilton

government when formed, yet every one must be
sensible of the contrary influence, which must have
been experienced in the task of forming it.

Would it be wonderful if, under the pressure of
all these difficulties, the convention should have been
forced into some deviations from that artificial struc
ture and regular symmetry which an abstract view
of the subject might lead an ingenious theorist to
bestow on a Constitution planned in his closet or in
his imagination? The real wonder is that so many
difficulties should have been surmounted, and sur
mounted with a unanimity almost as unprecedented
as it must have been unexpected. It is impossible
for any man of candor to reflect on this circumstance
without partaking of the astonishment. It is im
possible for the man of pious reflection not to per
ceive in it a finger of that Almighty hand which
has been so frequently and signally extended to our
relief in the critical stages of the revolution.

We had occasion, in a former paper, to take notice
of the repeated trials which have been unsuccess
fully made in the United Netherlands for reforming
the baneful and notorious vices of their constitution.
The history of almost all the great councils and con
sultations held among mankind for reconciling their
discordant opinions, assuaging their mutual jealous
ies, and adjusting their respective interests, is a
history of factions, contentions, and disappoint
ments, and may be classed among the most dark and
degraded pictures which display the infirmities and
depravities of the human character. If, in a few
scattered instances, a brighter aspect is presented,

The Federalist 295

they serve only as exceptions to admonish us of the
general truth; and by their lustre to darken the
gloom of the adverse prospect to which they are con
trasted. In revolving the causes from which these
exceptions result, and applying them to the par
ticular instances before us, we are necessarily led to
two important conclusions. The first is, that the
convention must have enjoyed, in a very singular
degree, an exemption from the pestilential influence
of party animosities — the disease most incident to
deliberative bodies, and most apt to contaminate
their proceedings. The second conclusion is that
all the deputations composing the convention were
satisfactorily accommodated by the final act, or were
induced to accede to it by a deep conviction of the
necessity of sacrificing private opinions and partial
interests to the public good, and by a despair of
seeing this necessity diminished by delays or by new
experiments.

PUBLIUS.

From the New York Packet, Tuesday, January 15, 1788

THE FEDERALIST. No. XXXVIII

(MADISON)

To the People of ike State of New York:

It is not a little remarkable that in every case re
ported by ancient history, in which government has
been established with deliberation and consent, the
task of framing it has not been committed to an
assembly of men, but has been performed by some

Alexander Hamilton

individual citizen of pre-eminent wisdom and ap
proved integrity.

Minos, we learn, was the primitive founder of the
government of Crete, as Zaleucus was of that of the
Locrians. Theseus first, and after him Draco and
Solon, instituted the government of Athens. Ly-
curgus was the lawgiver of Sparta. The foundation
of the original government of Rome was laid by
Romulus, and the work completed by two of his
elective successors, Numa and Tullus Hostilius. On
the abolition of royalty the consular administration
was substituted by Brutus, who stepped forward
with a project for such a reform, which, he alleged,
had been prepared by Servius Tullius, and to
which his address obtained the assent and ratification
of the senate and people. This remark is applicable
to confederate governments also. Amphictyon, we
are told, was the author of that which bore his name.
The Achaean league received its first birth from
Achaeus, and its second from Aratus.

What degree of agency these reputed lawgivers
might have in their respective establishments, or
how far they might be clothed with the legitimate
authority of the people, cannot in every instance be
ascertained. In some, however, the proceeding was
strictly regular. Draco appears to have been in
trusted by the people of Athens with indefinite pow
ers to reform its government and laws. And Solon,
according to Plutarch, was in a manner compelled,
by the universal suffrage of his fellow-citizens, to
take upon him the sole and absolute power of new-
modelling the constitution. The proceedings under

The Federalist 297

Lycurgus were less regular; but as far as the advo
cates for a regular reform could prevail, they all
turned their eyes towards the single efforts of that
celebrated patriot and sage, instead of seeking to
bring about a revolution by the intervention of a
deliberative body of citizens.

Whence could it have proceeded that a people,
jealous as the Greeks were of their liberty, should so
far abandon the rules of caution as to place their
destiny in the hands of a single citizen? Whence
could it have proceeded, that the Athenians, a people
who would not suffer an army to be commanded by
fewer than ten generals, and who required no other
proof of danger to their liberties than the illustrious
merit of a fellow-citizen, should consider one illus
trious citizen as a more eligible depositary of the
fortunes of themselves and their posterity, than a
select body of citizens, from whose common delibera
tions more wisdom, as well as more safety, might
have been expected? These questions cannot be
fully answered, without supposing that the fears of
discord and disunion among a number of counsellors
exceeded the apprehension of treachery or inca
pacity in a single individual. History informs us,
likewise, of the difficulties with which these cele
brated reformers had to contend, as well as the ex
pedients which they were obliged to employ in order
to carry their reforms into effect. Solon, who seems
to have indulged a more temporizing policy, con
fessed that he had not given to his countrymen the
government best suited to their happiness, but most
tolerable to their prejudices. And Lycurgus, more

298 Alexander Hamilton

true to his object, was under the necessity of mixing
a portion of violence with the authority of supersti
tion, and of securing his final success by a voluntary
renunciation, first of his country, and then of his life.
If these lessons teach us, on one hand, to admire the
improvement made by America on the ancient mode
of preparing and establishing regular plans of gov
ernment, they serve not less, on the other, to ad
monish us of the hazards and difficulties incident to
such experiments, and of the great imprudence of
unnecessarily multiplying them.

Is it an unreasonable conjecture, that the errors
which may be contained in the plan of the convention
are such as have resulted rather from the defect of
antecedent experience on this complicated and diffi
cult subject, than from a want of accuracy or care in
the investigation of it; and, consequently, such as
will not be ascertained until an actual trial shall have
pointed them out ? This conjecture is rendered prob
able, not only by many considerations of a general
nature, but by the particular case of the Articles
of Confederation. It is observable that among the
numerous objections and amendments suggested by
the several States, when these articles were sub
mitted for their ratification, not one is found which
alludes to the great and radical error which on actual
trial has discovered itself. And if we except the
observations which New Jersey was led to make,
rather by her local situation, than by her peculiar
foresight, it may be questioned whether a single
suggestion was of sufficient moment to justify a re
vision of the system. There is abundant reason,

The Federalist 299

nevertheless, to suppose that immaterial as these
objections were, they would have been adhered to
with a very dangerous inflexibility, in some States,
had not a zeal for their opinions and supposed in
terests been stifled by the more powerful sentiment
of self-preservation. One State, we may remember,
persisted for several years in refusing her concur
rence, although the enemy remained the whole pe
riod at our gates, or rather in the very bowels of our
country. Nor was her pliancy in the end effected
by a less motive, than the fear of being chargeable
with protracting the public calamities, and endan
gering the event of the contest. Every candid
reader will make the proper reflections on these im
portant facts.

A patient who finds his disorder daily growing
worse, and that an efficacious remedy can no longer
be delayed without extreme danger, after coolly re
volving his situation, and the characters of different
physicians, selects and calls in such of them as he
judges most capable of administering relief, and
best entitled to his confidence. The physicians at
tend; the case of the patient is carefully examined;
a consultation is held ; they are unanimously agreed
that the symptoms are critical, but that the case,
with proper and timely relief, so far from being
desperate, may be made to issue in an improve
ment of his constitution. They are equally unani
mous in prescribing the remedy, by which this
happy effect is to be produced. The prescription is
no sooner made known, however, than a number of
persons interpose, and, without denying the reality

300 Alexander Hamilton

or danger of the disorder, assure the patient that the
prescription will be poison to his constitution, and
forbid him, under pain of certain death, to make use
of it. Might not the patient reasonably demand,
before he ventured to follow this advice, that the
authors of it should at least agree among themselves
on some other remedy to be substituted? And if he
found them differing as much from one another as
from his first counsellors, would he not act prudently
in trying the experiment unanimously recommended
by the latter, rather than be hearkening to those who
could neither deny the necessity of a speedy remedy,
nor agree in proposing one?

Such a patient and in such a situation is America
at this moment. She has been sensible of her mal
ady. She has obtained a regular and unanimous
advice from men of her own deliberate choice. And
she is warned by others against following this advice
under pain of the most fatal consequences. Do the
monitors deny the reality of her danger? No. Do
they deny the necessity of some speedy and powerful
remedy? No. Are they agreed, are any two of
them agreed, in their objections to the remedy pro
posed, or in the proper one to be substituted? Let
them speak for themselves. This one tells us that
the proposed Constitution ought to be rejected, be
cause it is not a confederation of the States, but a
government over individuals. Another admits that
it ought to be a government over individuals to a
certain extent, but by no means to the extent pro
posed. A third does not object to the government
over individuals, or to the extent proposed, but to

The Federalist 301

the want of a bill of rights. A fourth concurs in the
absolute necessity of a bill of rights, but contends
that it ought to be declaratory, not of the personal
rights of individuals, but of the rights reserved to the
States in their political capacity. A fifth is of opinion
that a bill of rights of any sort would be superfluous
and misplaced, and that the plan would be unexcep
tionable but for the fatal power of regulating the
times and places of election. An objector in a large
State exclaims loudly against the unreasonable equal
ity of representation in the Senate. An objector in
a small State is equally loud against the dangerous
inequality in the House of Representatives. From
this quarter, we are alarmed with the amazing
expense, from the number of persons who are to
administer the new government. From another
quarter, and sometimes from the same quarter, on
another occasion, the cry is that the Congress will
be but a shadow of a representation, and that the
government would be far less objectionable if the
number and the expense were doubled. A patriot
in a State that does not import or export, discerns
insuperable objections against the power of direct
taxation. The patriotic adversary in a State of
great exports and imports, is not less dissatisfied
that the whole burden of taxes may be thrown on
consumption. This politician discovers in the Con
stitution a direct and irresistible tendency to mon
archy ; that is equally sure it will end in aristocracy.
Another is puzzled to say which of these shapes it
will ultimately assume, but sees clearly it must be
one or other of them ; whilst a fourth is not wanting,

302 Alexander Hamilton

who with no less confidence affirms that the Con
stitution is so far from having a bias towards either
of these dangers, that the weight on that side will
not be sufficient to keep it upright and firm against
its opposite propensities. With another class of ad
versaries to the Constitution the language is that the
legislative, executive, and judiciary departments are
intermixed in such a manner as to contradict all the
ideas of regular government and all the requisite
precautions in favor of liberty. Whilst this objec
tion circulates in vague and general expressions,
there are but a few who lend their sanction to it.
Let each one come forward with his particular ex
planation, and scarce any two are exactly agreed
upon the subject. In the eyes of one the junction
of the Senate with the President in the responsible
function of appointing to offices, instead of vesting
this executive power in the Executive alone, is the
vicious part of the organization. To another, the
exclusion of the House of Representatives, whose
numbers alone could be a due security against cor
ruption and partiality in the exercise of such a
power, is equally obnoxious. With another, the ad
mission of the President into any share of a power
which must ever be a dangerous engine in the hands
of the executive magistrate, is an unpardonable
violation of the maxims of republican jealousy. No
part of the arrangement, according to some, is more
inadmissible than the trial of impeachments by the
Senate, which is alternately a member both of the
legislative and executive departments, when this
power so evidently belonged to the judiciary de-

The Federalist 303

partment. " We concur fully," reply others, " in the
objection to this part of the plan, but we can never
agree that a reference of impeachments to the ju
diciary authority would be an amendment of the
error. Our principal dislike to the organization
arises from the extensive powers already lodged in
that department/' Even among the zealous pa
trons of a council of state the most irreconcilable
variance is discovered concerning the mode in which
it ought to be constituted. The demand of one
gentleman is, that the council should consist of a
small number to be appointed by the most numerous
branch of the legislature. Another would prefer a
larger number, and considers it as a fundamental
condition that the appointment should be made by
the President himself.

As it can give no umbrage to the writers against
the plan of the federal Constitution, let us suppose,
that as they are the most zealous, so they are also
the most sagacious, of those who think the late con
vention were unequal to the task assigned them,
and that a wiser and better plan might and ought to
be substituted. Let us further suppose that their
country should concur, both in this favorable opinion
of their merits, and in their unfavorable opinion of
the convention; and should accordingly proceed to
form them into a second convention, with full
powers, and for the express purpose of revising and
remoulding the work of the first. Were the experi
ment to be seriously made, though it required some
effort to view it seriously even in fiction, I leave it to
be decided by the sample of opinions just exhibited,

304 Alexander Hamilton

whether, with all their enmity to their predecessors,
they would, in any one point, depart so widely from
their example, as in the discord and ferment that
would mark their own deliberations; and whether
the Constitution, now before the public, would not
stand as fair a chance for immortality, as Lycurgus
gave to that of Sparta, by making its change to de
pend on his own return from exile and death, if it
were to be immediately adopted, and were to con
tinue in force, not until a BETTER, but until ANOTHER
should be agreed upon by this new assembly of law
givers.

It is a matter both of wonder and regret, that
those who raise so many objections against the new
Constitution should never call to mind the defects
of that which is to be exchanged for it. It is not
necessary that the former should be perfect: it is
sufficient that the latter is more imperfect. No man
would refuse to give brass for silver or gold, because
the latter had some alloy in it. No man would re
fuse to quit a shattered and tottering habitation for
a firm and commodious building, because the latter
had not a porch to it, or because some of the rooms
might be a little larger or smaller, or the ceiling a
little higher or lower than his fancy would have
planned them. But waiving illustrations of this
sort, is it not manifest that most of the capital ob
jections urged against the new system lie with ten
fold weight against the existing Confederation? Is
an indefinite power to raise money dangerous in the
hands of the federal government ? The present Con
gress can make requisitions to any amount they

The Federalist 305

please, and the States are constitutionally bound to
furnish them; they can emit bills of credit as long
as they will pay for the paper; they can borrow,
both abroad and at home, as long as a shilling will be
lent. Is an indefinite power to raise troops dan
gerous? The Confederation gives to Congress that
power also; and they have already begun to make
use of it. Is it improper and unsafe to intermix the
different powers of government in the same body of
men? Congress, a single body of men, are the sole
depositary of all the federal powers. Is it particu
larly dangerous to give the keys of the treasury, and
the command of the army, into the same hands?
The Confederation places them both in the hands of
Congress. Is a bill of rights essential to liberty?
The Confederation has no bill of rights. Is it an
objection against the new Constitution, that it em
powers the Senate, with the concurrence of the
Executive, to make treaties which are to be the laws
of the land? The existing Congress, without any
such control, can make treaties which they them
selves have declared, and most of the States have
recognized, to be the supreme law of the land. Is
the importation of slaves permitted by the new
Constitution for twenty years? By the old it is
permitted forever.

I shall be told, that however dangerous this mix
ture of powers may be in theory, it is rendered harm
less by the dependence of Congress on the States for
the means of carrying them into practice; that how
ever large the mass of powers may be, it is in fact a
lifeless mass. Then, say I, in the first place, that

VOL. XI.— 20.

306 Alexander Hamilton

the Confederation is chargeable with the still greater
folly of declaring certain powers in the federal gov
ernment to be absolutely necessary, and at the same
time rendering them absolutely nugatory; and, in
the next place, that if the Union is to continue, and
no better government be substituted, effective pow
ers must either be granted to, or assumed by, the
existing Congress ; in either of which events, the con
trast just stated will hold good. But this is not all.
Out of this lifeless mass has already grown an ex
crescent power, which tends to realize all the dangers
that can be apprehended from a defective construc
tion of the supreme government of the Union. It is
now no longer a point of speculation and hope, that
the Western territory is a mine of vast wealth to
the United States; and although it is not of such
a nature as to extricate them from their present
distresses, or, for some time to come, to yield any
regular supplies for the public expenses, yet must it
hereafter be able, under proper management, both
to effect a gradual discharge of the domestic debt,
and to furnish, for a certain period, liberal tributes
to the federal treasury. A very large proportion of
this fund has been already surrendered by individual
States; and it may with reason be expected that the
remaining States will not persist in withholding
similar proofs of their equity and generosity. We
may calculate, therefore, that a rich and fertile
country, of an area equal to the inhabited extent of
the United States, will soon become a national stock.
Congress have assumed the administration of this
stock. They have begun to render it productive.

The Federalist 30?

Congress have undertaken to do more: they have
proceeded to form new States, to erect temporary
governments, to appoint officers for them, and to
prescribe the conditions on which such States shall
be admitted into the Confederacy. All this has been
done ; and done without the least color of constitu
tional authority. Yet no blame has been whispered ;
no alarm has been sounded. A GREAT and INDEPEN
DENT fund of revenue is passing into the hands of a
SINGLE BODY of men, who can RAISE TROOPS to an
INDEFINITE NUMBER, and appropriate money to their
support for an INDEFINITE PERIOD OF TIME. And
yet there are men, who have not only been silent
spectators of this prospect, but who are advocates for
the system which exhibits it ; and, at the same time,
urge against the new system the objections which
we have heard. Would they not act with more con
sistency, in urging the establishment of the latter,
as no less necessary to guard the Union against the
future powers and resources of a body constructed
like the existing Congress, than to save it from the
dangers threatened by the present impotency of
that Assembly?

I mean not, by any thing here said, to throw cen
sure on the measures which have been pursued by
Congress. I am sensible they could not have done
otherwise. The public interest, the necessity of the
case, imposed upon them the task of overleaping
their constitutional limits. But is not the fact an
alarming proof of the danger resulting from a gov
ernment which does not possess regular powers
commensurate to its objects? A dissolution or

308 Alexander Hamilton

usurpation is the dreadful dilemma to which it is
continually exposed.

PUBLIUS.

For the Independent Journal

THE FEDERALIST. No. XXXIX

(MADISON)

To the People of the State of New York:

The last paper having concluded the observations
which were meant to introduce a candid survey of
the plan of government reported by the convention,
we now proceed to the execution of that part of our
undertaking.

The first question that offers itself is, whether
the general form and aspect of the government be
strictly republican. It is evident that no other
form would be reconcilable with the genius of the
people of America; with the fundamental principles
of the Revolution; or with that honorable determina
tion which animates every votary of freedom, to
rest all our political experiments on the capacity of
mankind for self-government. If the plan of the
convention, therefore, be found to depart from the
republican character, its advocates must abandon
it as no longer defensible.

What, then, are the distinctive characters of the
republican form? Were an answer to this question
to be sought, not by recurring to principles, but in
the application of the term by political writers, to
the constitutions of different States, no satisfactory
one would ever be found. Holland, in which no

The Federalist 309

particle of the supreme authority is derived from
the people, has passed almost universally under the
denomination of a republic. The same title has
been bestowed on Venice, where absolute power over
the great body of the people is exercised, in the most
absolute manner, by a small body of hereditary
nobles. Poland, which is a mixture of aristocracy
and of monarchy in their worst forms, has been
dignified with the same appellation. The govern
ment of England, which has one republican branch
only, combined with an hereditary aristocracy and
monarchy, has, with equal impropriety, been fre
quently placed on the list of republics. These ex
amples, which are nearly as dissimilar to each other
as to a genuine republic, show the extreme inac
curacy with which the term has been used in po
litical disquisitions.

If we resort for a criterion to the different prin
ciples on which different forms of government are
established, we may define a republic to be, or at
least may bestow that name on, a government which
derives all its powers directly or indirectly from the
great body of the people, and is administered by
persons holding their offices during pleasure, for a
limited period, or during good behavior. It is es
sential to such a government that it be derived from
the great body of the society, not from an incon
siderable proportion, or a favored class of it; other
wise a handful of tyrannical nobles, exercising their
oppressions by a delegation of their powers, might
aspire to the rank of republicans, and claim for their
government the honorable title of republic. It is

Alexander Hamilton

sufficient for such a government that the persons ad
ministering it be appointed, either directly or in
directly, by the people; and that they hold their
appointments by either of the tenures just specified;
otherwise every government in the United States,
as well as every other popular government that has
been or can be well organized or well executed,
would be degraded from the republican character.
According to the constitution of every State in the
Union, some or other of the officers of government
are appointed indirectly only by the people. Ac
cording to most of them, the chief magistrate himself
is so appointed. And according to one, this mode
of appointment is extended to one of the coordinate
branches of the legislature. According to all the
constitutions, also, the tenure of the highest offices
is extended to a definite period, and in many in
stances, both within the legislative and executive
departments, to a period of years. According to the
provisions of most of the constitutions, again, as well
as according to the most respectable and received
opinions on the subject, the members of the judiciary
department are to retain their offices by the firm
tenure of good behavior.

On comparing the Constitution planned by the
convention with the standard here fixed, we per
ceive at once that it is, in the most rigid sense, con
formable to it. The House of Representatives, like
that of one branch at least of all the State legisla
tures, is elected immediately by the great body of
the people. The Senate, like the present Congress,
and the Senate of Maryland, derives its appointment

The Federalist 311

indirectly from the people. The President is in
directly derived from the choice of the people, ac
cording to the example in most of the States. Even
the judges, with all other officers of the Union, will,
as in the several States, be the choice, though a re
mote choice, of the people themselves. The dura
tion of the appointments is equally conformable to
the republican standard, and to the model of State
constitutions. The House of Representatives is
periodically elective, as in all the States; and for
the period of two years, as in the State of South
Carolina. The Senate is elective, for the period of
six years; which is but one year more than the
period of the Senate of Maryland, and but two more
than that of the Senates of New York and Virginia.
The President is to continue in office for the period
of four years; as in New York and Delaware the
chief magistrate is elected for three years, and in
South Carolina for two years. In the other States
the election is annual. In several of the States,
however, no constitutional provision is made for the
impeachment of the chief magistrate. And in Dela
ware and Virginia he is not impeachable till out of
office. The President of the United States is im
peachable at any time during his continuance in
office. The tenure by which the judges are to hold
their places, is, as it unquestionably ought to be,
that of good behavior. The tenure of the minis
terial offices generally, will be a subject of legal regu
lation, conformably to the reason of the case and the
example of the State constitutions.

Could any further proof be required of the repub-

312 Alexander Hamilton

lican complexion of this system, the most decisive
one might be found in its absolute prohibition of
titles of nobility, both under the federal and the
State governments; and in its express guaranty of
the republican form to each of the latter.

" But it was not sufficient," say the adversaries
of the proposed Constitution, "for the convention to
adhere to the republican form. They ought, with
equal care, to have preserved the federal form, which
regards the Union as a Confederacy of sovereign
states; instead of which, they have framed a na
tional government, which regards the Union as a
consolidation of the States." And it is asked by
what authority this bold and radical innovation was
undertaken? The handle which has been made of
this objection requires that it should be examined
with some precision.

Without inquiring into the accuracy of the dis
tinction on which the objection is founded, it will
be necessary to a just estimate of its force, first,
to ascertain the real character of the government
in question; secondly, to inquire how far the con
vention were authorized to propose such a govern
ment; and thirdly, how far the duty they owed to
their country could supply any defect of regular
authority.

First. — In order to ascertain the real character of
the government, it may be considered in relation to
the foundation on which it is to be established;
to the sources from which its ordinary powers
are to be drawn; to the operation of those powers;
to the extent of them; and to the authority by

The Federalist 313

which future changes in the government are to be
introduced.

On examining the first relation, it appears, on one
hand, that the Constitution is to be founded on
the assent and ratification of the people of America,
given by deputies elected for the special purpose;
but, on the other, that this assent and ratification is
to be given by the people, not as individuals com
posing one entire nation, but as composing the
distinct and independent States to which they re
spectively belong. It is to be the assent and ratifica
tion of the several States, derived from the supreme
authority in each State, — the authority of the people
themselves. The act, therefore, establishing the
Constitution, will not be a national, but a federal act.

That it will be a federal and not a national act, as
these terms are understood by the objectors; the
act of the people, as forming so many independent
States, not as forming one aggregate nation, is ob
vious from this single consideration, that it is to
result neither from the decision of a majority of the
people of the Union, nor from that of a majority of
the States. It must result from the unanimous as
sent of the several States that are parties to it,
differing no otherwise from their ordinary assent
than in its being expressed, not by the legislative
authority, but by that of the people themselves.
Were the people regarded in this transaction as
forming one nation, the will of the majority of the
whole people of the United States would bind the
minority, in the same manner as the majority in
each State must bind the minority; and the will of

3 1 4 Alexander Hamilton

the majority must be determined either by a com
parison of the individual votes, or by considering the
will of the majority of the States as evidence of the
will of a majority of the people of the United States.
Neither of these rules has been adopted. Each
State, in ratifying the Constitution, is considered as
a sovereign body, independent of all others, and only
to be bound by its own voluntary act. In this rela
tion, then, the new Constitution will, if established,
be a federal, and not a national constitution.

The next relation is, to the sources from which the
ordinary powers of government are to be derived.
The House of Representatives will derive its powers
from the people of America; and the people will be
represented in the same proportion, and on the same
principle, as they are in the legislature of a particular
State. So far the government is national, not fed
eral. The Senate, on the other hand, will derive its
powers from the States, as political and coequal so
cieties; and these will be represented on the prin
ciple of equality in the Senate, as they now are in
the existing Congress. So far the government is
federal, not national. The executive power will be
derived from a very compound source. The immedi
ate election of the President is to be made by the
States in their political characters. The votes al
lotted to them are in a compound ratio, which con
siders them partly as distinct and coequal societies,
partly as unequal members of the same society. The
eventual election, again, is to be made by that branch
of the legislature which consists of the national re
presentatives ; but in this particular act they are to

The Federalist 315

be thrown into the form of individual delegations,
from so many distinct and coequal bodies politic.
From this aspect of the government, it appears to
be of a mixed character, presenting at least as many
federal as national features.

The difference between a federal and national
government, as it relates to the operation of the
government, is supposed to consist in this, that in
the former the powers operate on the political bodies
composing the Confederacy, in their political capac
ities; in the latter, on the individual citizens com
posing the nation, in their individual capacities. On
trying the Constitution by this criterion, it falls
under the national, not the federal character ; though
perhaps not so completely as has been understood.
In several cases, and particularly in the trial of con
troversies to which States may be parties, they must
be viewed and proceeded against in their collective
and political capacities only. So far the national
countenance of the government on this side seems
to be disfigured by a few federal features. But this
blemish is perhaps unavoidable in any plan; and
the operation of the government on the people, in
their individual capacities, in its ordinary and most
essential proceedings, may, on the whole, designate
it, in this relation, a national government.

But if the government be national with regard to
the operation of its powers, it changes its aspect
again when we contemplate it in relation to the ex
tent of its powers. The idea of a national govern
ment involves in it, not only an authority over the
individual citizens, but an indefinite supremacy over

316 Alexander Hamilton

all persons and things, so far as they are objects of
lawful government. Among a people consolidated
into one nation, this supremacy is completely vested
in the national legislature. Among communities
united for particular purposes, it is vested partly in
the general and partly in the municipal legislatures.
In the former case, all local authorities are subordi
nate to the supreme; and may be controlled, di
rected, or abolished by it at pleasure. In the latter,
the local or municipal authorities form distinct and
independent portions of the supremacy, no more
subject, within their respective spheres, to the gen
eral authority, than the general authority is subject
to them, within its own sphere. In this relation,
then, the proposed government cannot be deemed a
national one; since its jurisdiction extends to certain
enumerated objects only, and leaves to the several
States a residuary and inviolable sovereignty over all
other objects. It is true that in controversies relat
ing to the boundary between the two jurisdictions, the
tribunal which is ultimately to decide, is to be estab
lished under the general government. But this does
not change the principle of the case. The decision is
to be impartially made, according to the rules of the
Constitution ; and all the usual and most effectual pre
cautions are taken to secure this impartiality. Some
such tribunal is clearly essential to prevent an appeal
to the sword and a dissolution of the compact ; and that
it ought to be established under the general rather
than under the local governments, or, to speak more
properly, that it could be safely established under the
first alone, is a position not likely to be combated.

The Federalist 317

If we try the Constitution by its last relation to
the authority by which amendments are to be made,
we find it neither wholly national nor wholly federal.
Were it wholly national, the supreme and ultimate
authority would reside in the majority of the people
of the Union; and this authority would be com
petent at all times, like that of a majority of every
national society, to alter or abolish its established
government. Were it wholly federal, on the other
hand, the concurrence of each State in the Union
would be essential to every alteration that would be
binding on all. The mode provided by the plan of
the convention is not founded on either of these
principles. In requiring more than a majority, and
particularly in computing the proportion by States,
not by citizens, it departs from the national and ad
vances towards the federal character; in rendering
the concurrence of less than the whole number of
States sufficient, it loses again the federal and par
takes of the national character.

The proposed Constitution, therefore, is, in strict
ness, neither a national nor a federal Constitution,
but a composition of both. In its foundation, it is
federal, not national; in the sources from which the
ordinary powers of the government are drawn, it is
partly federal and partly national; in the operation
of these powers, it is national, not federal; in the
extent of them, again, it is federal, not national;
and, finally, in the authoritative mode of introducing
amendments, it is neither wholly federal nor wholly
national.

PUBLIUS.

318 Alexander Hamilton

From the New York Packet, Friday \ January 18, 1788

THE FEDERALISW. No. XL

(MADISON)

To the People of the State of New York:

The second point to be examined is, whether the
convention were authorized to frame and propose
this mixed Constitution.

The powers of the convention ought, in strictness,
to be determined by an inspection of the commis
sions given to the members by their respective con
stituents. As all of these, however, had reference,
either to the recommendation from the meeting at
Annapolis, in September, 1786, or to that from Con
gress, in February, 1787, it will be sufficient to recur
to these particular acts.

The act from Annapolis recommends the " appoint
ment of commissioners to take into consideration the
situation of the United States; to devise such fur
ther provisions as shall appear to them necessary to
render the Constitution of the federal government
adequate to the exigencies of the Union; and to report
such an act for that purpose, to the United States in
Congress assembled, as when agreed to by them, and
afterwards confirmed by the legislature of every
State, will effectually provide for the same."

The recommendatory act of Congress is in the
words following: "Whereas, there is provision in
the articles of Confederation and perpetual Union,
for making alterations therein, by the assent of a
Congress of the United States, and of the legislatures
of the several States; and whereas experience hath

The Federalist 319

evinced, that there are defects in the present Con
federation; as a mean to remedy which, several of
the States, and particularly the State of New York,
by express instructions to their delegates in Con
gress, have suggested a convention for the purposes
expressed in the following resolution; and such con
vention appearing to be the most probable mean of
establishing in these States a firm national govern
ment:

"Resolved, — That in the opinion of Congress it is
expedient, that on the second Monday of May next
a convention of delegates, who shall have been ap
pointed by the several States, be held at Philadelphia,
for the sole and express purpose of revising the articles
of Confederation, and reporting to Congress and the
several legislatures such alterations and provisions
therein, as shall, when agreed to in Congress, and
confirmed by the States, render the federal Consti
tution adequate to the exigencies of government and
the preservation of the Union."

From these two acts, it appears, ist, that the
object of the convention was to establish, in these
States, a firm national government; 26., that this gov
ernment was to be such as would be adequate to the
exigencies of government and the preservation of the
Union; 3d, that these purposes were to be effected
by alterations and provisions in the articles of Con
federation, as it is expressed in the act of Congress, or
by such further provisions as should appear necessary,
as it stands in the recommendatory act from Anna
polis; 4th, that the alterations and provisions were
to be reported to Congress, and to the States, in

320 Alexander Hamilton

order to be agreed to by the former and confirmed
by the latter.

From a comparison and fair construction of these
several modes of expression, is to be deduced the
authority under which the convention acted. They
were to frame a national government, adequate to the
exigencies of government, and of the Union; and to
reduce the articles of Confederation into such form
as to accomplish these purposes. There are two
rules of construction, dictated by plain reason, as
well as founded on legal axioms. The one is, that
every part of the expression ought, if possible, to be
allowed some meaning, and be made to conspire to
some common end. The other is, that where the
several parts cannot be made to coincide, the less
important should give way to the more important
part; the means should be sacrificed to the end,
rather than the end to the means.

Suppose, then, that the expressions defining the
authority of the convention were irreconcilably at
variance with each other ; that a national and adequate
government could not possibly, in the judgment of the
convention, be effected by alterations and provisions
in the articles of Confederation; which part of the
definition ought to have been embraced, and which
rejected? Which was the more important, which
the less important part? Which the end; which the
means ? Let the most scrupulous expositors of dele
gated powers; let the most inveterate objectors
against those exercised by the convention, answer
these questions. Let them declare, whether it was
of most importance to the happiness of the people

The Federalist 321

of America, that the articles of Confederation should
be disregarded, and an adequate government be
provided, and the Union preserved; or that an ade
quate government should be omitted, and the arti
cles of Confederation preserved. Let them declare,
whether the preservation of these articles was the
end, for securing which a reform of the government
was to be introduced as the means; or whether the
establishment of a government, adequate to the na
tional happiness, was the end at which these arti
cles themselves originally aimed, and to which they
ought, as insufficient means, to have been sacrificed.

But is it necessary to suppose that these expres
sions are absolutely irreconcilable to each other;
that no alterations or provisions in the articles of the
Confederation could possibly mould them into a na
tional and adequate government; into such a gov
ernment as has been proposed by the convention?

No stress, it is presumed, will, in this case, be laid
on the title; a change of that could never be deemed
an exercise of ungranted power. Alterations in the
body of the instrument are expressly authorized.
New provisions therein are also expressly authorized.
Here then is a power to change the title; to insert
new articles; to alter old ones. Must it of necessity
be admitted that this power is infringed, so long as a
part of the old articles remain? Those who main
tain the affirmative ought at least to mark the
boundary between authorized and usurped innova
tions; between that degree of change which lies
within the compass of alterations and further pro
visions, and that which amounts to a transmutation of

VOL. XI.— 21.

322 Alexander Hamilton

the government. Will it be said that the alterations
ought not to have touched the substance of the
Confederation? The States would never have ap
pointed a convention with so much solemnity, nor
described its objects with so much latitude, if some
substantial reform had not been in contemplation.
Will it be said that the fundamental principles of the
Confederation were not within the purview of the
convention, and ought not to have been varied? I
ask, What are these principles? Do they require
that, in the establishment of the Constitution, the
States should be regarded as distinct and inde
pendent sovereigns? They are so regarded by the
Constitution proposed. Do they require that the
members of the government should derive their ap
pointment from the legislatures, not from the people
of the States ? One branch of the new government is
to be appointed by these legislatures ; and under the
Confederation, the delegates to Congress may all be
appointed immediately by the people, and in two
States I are actually so appointed. Do they require
that the powers of the government should act on
the States, and not immediately on individuals? In
some instances, as has been shown, the powers of the
new government will act on the States in their col
lective characters. In some instances, also, those of
the existing government act immediately on indi
viduals. In cases of captures ; of piracy ; of the post-
office; of coins, weights, and measures; of trade with
the Indians ; of claims under grants of land by differ
ent States; and, above all, in the case of trials by

1 Connecticut and Rhode Island. — PUBLIUS.

The Federalist 323

courts-martial in the army and navy, by which
death may be inflicted without the intervention of a
jury, or even of a civil magistrate; — in all these cases
the powers of the Confederation operate immediately
on the persons and interests of individual citizens.
Do these fundamental principles require, particu
larly, that no tax should be levied without the inter
mediate agency of the States? The Confederation
itself authorizes a direct tax, to a certain extent, on
the post-office. The power of coinage has been so
construed by Congress as to levy a tribute im
mediately from that source also. But pretermitting
these instances, was it not an acknowledged object
of the convention and the universal expectation of
the people, that the regulation of trade should be
submitted to the general government in such a form
as would render it an immediate source of general
revenue? Had not Congress repeatedly recom
mended this measure as not inconsistent with the
fundamental principles of the Confederation? Had
not every State but one; had not New York herself,
so far complied with the plan of Congress as to recog
nize the principle of the innovation? Do these prin
ciples, in fine, require that the powers of the general
government should be limited, and that, beyond this
limit, the States should be left in possession of their
sovereignty and independence? We have seen that
in the new government, as in the old, the general
powers are limited; and that the States, in all un-
enumerated cases, are left in the enjoyment of their
sovereign and independent jurisdiction.

The truth is, that the great principles of the Con-

324 Alexander Hamilton

stitution proposed by the convention may be con
sidered less as absolutely new, than as the expansion
of principles which are found in the articles of Con
federation. The misfortune under the latter system
has been, that these principles are so feeble and con
fined as to justify all the charges of inefficiency
which have been urged against it, and to require a
degree of enlargement which gives to the new system
the aspect of an entire transformation of the old.

In one particular it is admitted that the conven
tion have departed from the tenor of their commis
sion. Instead of reporting a plan requiring the
confirmation of the legislatures of all the States, they
have reported a plan which is to be confirmed by the
people, and may be carried into effect by nine States
only. It is worthy of remark that this objection,
though the most plausible, has been the least urged
in the publications which have swarmed against the
convention. The forbearance can only have pro
ceeded from an irresistible conviction of the ab
surdity of subjecting the fate of twelve States to the
perverseness or corruption of a thirteenth; from the
example of inflexible opposition given by a majority
of one sixtieth of the people of America to a measure
approved and called for by the voice of twelve
States, comprising fifty-nine sixtieths of the people —
an example still fresh in the memory and indigna
tion of every citizen who has felt for the wounded
honor and prosperity of his country. As this ob
jection, therefore, has been in a manner waived by
those who have criticised the powers of the conven
tion, I dismiss it without further observation.

The Federalist 325

The third point to be inquired into is, how far
considerations of duty arising out of the case itself
could have supplied any defect of regular authority.

In the preceding inquiries the powers of the con
vention have been analyzed and tried with the same
rigor, and by the same rules, as if they had been real
and final powers for the establishment of a Constitu
tion for the United States. We have seen in what
manner they have borne the trial even on that sup
position. It is time now to recollect that the powers
were merely advisory and recommendatory; that
they were so meant by the States, and so understood
by the convention ; and that the latter have accord
ingly planned and proposed a Constitution which is
to be of no more consequence than the paper on
which it is written, unless it be stamped with the
approbation of those to whom it is addressed. This
reflection places the subject in a point of view alto
gether different, and will enable us to judge with
propriety of the course taken by the convention.

Let us view the ground on which the convention
stood. It may be collected from their proceedings,
that they were deeply and unanimously impressed
with the crisis, which had led their country almost
with one voice to make so singular and solemn an
experiment for correcting the errors of a system by
which this crisis had been produced; that they were
no less deeply and unanimously convinced that such
a reform as they have proposed was absolutely neces
sary to effect the purposes of their appointment. It
could not be unknown to them that the hopes and
expectations of the great body of citizens, throughout

326 Alexander Hamilton

this great empire, were turned with the keenest
anxiety to the event of their deliberations. They
had every reason to believe that the contrary senti
ments agitated the minds and bosoms of every
external and internal foe to the liberty and pro
sperity of the United States. They had seen in the
origin and progress of the experiment, the alacrity
with which the proposition, made by a single State
(Virginia), towards a partial amendment of the
Confederation, had been attended to and promoted.
They had seen the liberty assumed by a very few depu
ties from a very jew States, convened at Annapolis,
of recommending a great and critical object, wholly
foreign to their commission, not only justified by the
public opinion, but actually carried into effect by
twelve out of the thirteen States. They had seen,
in a variety of instances, assumptions by Congress,
not only of recommendatory, but of operative,
powers, warranted, in the public estimation, by
occasions and objects infinitely less urgent than those
by which their conduct was to be governed. They
must have reflected, that in all great changes of
established governments, forms ought to give way to
substance; that a rigid adherence in such cases to
the former, would render nominal and nugatory the
transcendent and precious right of the people to
"abolish or alter their governments as to them
shall seem most likely to effect their safety and
happiness/'1 since it is impossible for the people
spontaneously and universally to move in concert
towards their object; and it is therefore essential

1 Declaration of Independence. — PUBLIUS.

The Federalist 327

that such changes be instituted by some informal
and unauthorized propositions, made by some patri
otic and respectable citizen or number of citizens.
They must have recollected that it was by this ir
regular and assumed privilege of proposing to the
people plans for their safety and happiness, that the
States were first united against the danger with
which they were threatened by their ancient govern
ment; that committees and congresses were formed
for concentrating their efforts and defending their
rights; and that conventions were elected in the
several States for establishing the constitutions under
which they are now governed ; nor could it have been
forgotten that no little ill-timed scruples, no zeal
for adhering to ordinary forms, were anywhere seen,
except in those who wished to indulge, under these
masks, their secret enmity to the substance con
tended for. They must have borne in mind, that as
the plan to be framed and proposed was to be sub
mitted to the people themselves, the disapprobation of
this supreme authority would destroy it forever; its
approbation blot out antecedent errors and irregu
larities. It might even have occurred to them, that
where a disposition to cavil prevailed, their neglect
to execute the degree of power vested in them, and
still more their recommendation of any measure
whatever, not warranted by their commission, would
not less excite animadversion, than a recommenda
tion at once of a measure fully commensurate to the
national exigencies.

Had the convention, under all these impressions,
and in the midst of all these considerations, instead

328 Alexander Hamilton

of exercising a manly confidence in their country, by
whose confidence they had been so peculiarly dis
tinguished, and of pointing out a system capable, in
their judgment, of securing its happiness, taken the
cold and sullen resolution of disappointing its ardent
hopes, of sacrificing substance to forms, of com
mitting the dearest interests of their country to the
uncertainties of delay and the hazard of events, let
me ask the man who can raise his mind to one ele
vated conception, who can awaken in his bosom one
patriotic emotion, what judgment ought to have
been pronounced by the impartial world, by the
friends of mankind, by every virtuous citizen, on the
conduct and character of this assembly ? Or if there
be a man whose propensity to condemn is susceptible
of no control, let me then ask what sentence he has
in reserve for the twelve States, who usurped the
power of sending deputies to the convention, a body
utterly unknown to their constitutions; for Con
gress, who recommended the appointment of this
body, equally unknown to the Confederation; and
for the State of New York, in particular, which first
urged and then complied with this unauthorized
interposition?

But that the objectors may be disarmed of every
pretext, it shall be granted for a moment that the
convention were neither authorized by their com
mission, nor justified by circumstances in proposing
a Constitution for their country : does it follow that
the Constitution ought, for that reason alone, to be
rejected? If, according to the noble precept, it be
lawful to accept good advice even from an enemy,

The Federalist 329

shall we set the ignoble example of refusing such
advice even when it is offered by our friends? The
prudent inquiry, in all cases, ought surely to be, not
so much from whom the advice comes, as whether the
advice be good.

The sum of what has been here advanced and
proved is, that the charge against the convention of
exceeding their powers, except in one instance little
urged by the objectors, has no foundation to sup
port it; that if they had exceeded their powers, they
were not only warranted, but required, as the con
fidential servants of their country, by the circum
stances in which they were placed, to exercise the
liberty which they assumed ; and that finally, if they
had violated both their powers and their obligations,
in proposing a Constitution, this ought nevertheless
to be embraced, if it be calculated to accomplish the
views and happiness of the people of America. How
far this character is due to the Constitution, is the
subject under investigation.

PUBLIUS.

For the Independent Journal

THE FEDERALIST. No. XLI

(MADISON)

To the People of the State of New York:

The Constitution proposed by the convention
may be considered under two general points of view.
The FIRST relates to the sum or quantity of power
which it vests in the government, including the re
straints imposed on the States. The SECOND, to the

33° Alexander Hamilton

particular structure of the government, and the dis
tribution of this power among its several branches.

Under the first view of the subject, two important
questions arise: i. Whether any part of the powers
transferred to the general government be unneces
sary or improper? 2. Whether the entire mass of
them be dangerous to the portion of jurisdiction left
in the several States?

Is the aggregate power of the general government
greater than ought to have been vested in it? This
is the -first question.

It cannot have escaped those who have attended
with candor to the arguments employed against the
extensive powers of the government, that the au
thors of them have very little considered how far
these powers were necessary means of attaining a
necessary end. They have chosen rather to dwell
on the inconveniences which must be unavoidably
blended with all political advantages; and on the
possible abuses which must be incident to every
power or trust, of which a beneficial use can be made.
This method of handling the subject cannot impose
on the good sense of the people of America. It
may display the subtlety of the writer; it may open
a boundless field for rhetoric and declamation; it
may inflame the passions of the unthinking, and may
confirm the prejudices of the misthinking : but cool
and candid people will at once reflect, that the purest
of human blessings must have a portion of alloy in
them; that the choice must always be made, if not
of the lesser evil, at least of the GREATER, not the
PERFECT, good; and that in every political institu-

The Federalist 331

tion, a power to advance the public happiness in
volves a discretion which may be misapplied and
abused. They will see, therefore, that in all cases
where power is to be conferred, the point first to be
decided is, whether such a power be necessary to the
public good ; as the next will be, in case of an affirma
tive decision, to guard as effectually as possible against
a perversion of the power to the public detriment.

That we may form a correct judgment on this sub
ject, it will be proper to review the several powers
conferred on the government of the Union ; and that
this may be the more conveniently done they may
be reduced into different classes as they relate to
the following different objects: i. Security against
foreign danger; 2. Regulation of the intercourse with
foreign nations; 3. Maintenance of harmony and
proper intercourse among the States; 4. Certain mis
cellaneous objects of general utility; 5. Restraint of
the States from certain injurious acts; 6. Provisions
for giving due efficacy to all these powers.

The powers falling within the first class are those
of declaring war and granting letters of marque; of
providing armies and fleets ; of regulating and calling
forth the militia; of levying and borrowing money.

Security against foreign danger is one of the primi
tive objects of civil society. It is an avowed and
essential object of the American Union. The powers
requisite for attaining it must be effectually confided
to the federal councils.

Is the power of declaring war necessary ? No man
will answer this question in the negative. It would
be superfluous, therefore, to enter into a proof of the

332 Alexander Hamilton

affirmative. The existing Confederation establishes
this power in the most ample form.

Is the power of raising armies and equipping fleets
necessary? This is involved in the foregoing power.
It is involved in the power of self-defence.

But was it necessary to give an INDEFINITE POWER
of raising TROOPS, as well as providing fleets; and of
maintaining both in PEACE, as well as in war?

The answer to these questions has been too far
anticipated in another place to admit an extensive
discussion of them in this place. The answer indeed
seems to be so obvious and conclusive as scarcely to
justify such a discussion in any place. With what
color of propriety could the force necessary for de
fence be limited by those who cannot limit the force
of offence? If a federal Constitution could chain
the ambition or set bounds to the exertions of all
other nations, then indeed might it prudently chain
the discretion of its own government, and set bounds
to the exertions for its own safety.

How could a readiness for war in time of peace be
safely prohibited, unless we could prohibit, in like
manner, the preparations and establishments of
every hostile nation? The means of security can
only be regulated by the means and the danger of
attack. They will, in fact, be ever determined by
these rules, and by no others. It is in vain to oppose
constitutional barriers to the impulse of self-preserva
tion. It is worse than in vain; because it plants
in the Constitution itself necessary usurpations of
power, every precedent of which is a germ of un
necessary and multiplied repetitions. If one nation

The Federalist 333

maintains constantly a disciplined army, ready for
the service of ambition or revenge, it obliges the most
pacific nations who may be within the reach of its
enterprises to take corresponding precautions. The
fifteenth century was the unhappy epoch of military
establishments in the time of peace. They were in
troduced by Charles VII. of France. All Europe has
followed, or been forced into, the example. Had the
example not been followed by other nations, all
Europe must long ago have worn the chains of a uni
versal monarch. Were every nation except France
now to disband its peace establishments, the same
event might follow. The veteran legions of Rome
were an overmatch for the undisciplined valor of all
other nations, and rendered her the mistress of the
world.

Not the less true is it, that the liberties of Rome
proved the final victim to her military triumphs ; and
that the liberties of Europe, as far as they ever
existed, have, with few exceptions, been the price
of her military establishments. A standing force,
therefore, is a dangerous, at the same time that it
may be a necessary, provision. On the smallest
scale it has its inconveniences. On an extensive
scale its consequences may be fatal. On any scale
it is an object of laudable circumspection and pre
caution. A wise nation will combine all these con
siderations; and, whilst it does not rashly preclude
itself from any resource which may become essential
to its safety, will exert all its prudence in diminishing
both the necessity and the danger of resorting to one
which may be inauspicious to its liberties.

334 Alexander Hamilton

The clearest marks of this prudence are stamped
on the proposed Constitution. The Union itself,
which it cements and secures, destroys every pretext
for a military establishment which could be danger
ous. America united, with a handful of troops, or
without a single soldier, exhibits a more forbidding
posture to foreign ambition than America disunited,
with a hundred thousand veterans ready for combat.
It was remarked, on a former occasion, that the want
of this pretext had saved the liberties of one nation
in Europe. Being rendered by her insular situation
and her maritime resources impregnable to the ar
mies of her neighbors, the rulers of Great Britain
have never been able, by real or artificial dangers, to
cheat the public into an extensive peace establish
ment. The distance of the United States from the
powerful nations of the world gives them the same
happy security. A dangerous establishment can
never be necessary or plausible, so long as they con
tinue a united people. But let it never, for a mo
ment, be forgotten, that they are indebted for this
advantage to the Union alone. The moment of its
dissolution will be the date of a new order of things.
The fears of the weaker, or the ambition of the
stronger States, or Confederacies, will set the same
example in the New, as Charles VII. did in the Old
World. The example will be followed here from the
same motives which produced universal imitation
there. Instead of deriving from our situation the
precious advantage which Great Britain has derived
from hers, the face of America will be but a copy
of that of the continent of Europe. It will present

The Federalist 335

liberty everywhere crushed between standing ar
mies and perpetual taxes. The fortunes of dis
united America will be even more disastrous than
those of Europe. The sources of evil in the latter
are confined to her own limits. No superior powers
of another quarter of the globe intrigue among her
rival nations, inflame their mutual animosities, and
render them the instruments of foreign ambition,
jealousy, and revenge. In America the miseries
springing from her internal jealousies, contentions,
and wars, would form a part only of her lot. A
plentiful addition of evils would have their source
in that relation in which Europe stands to this
quarter of the earth, and which no other quarter of
the earth bears to Europe.

This picture of the consequences of disunion can
not be too highly colored, or too often exhibited.
Every man who loves peace, every man who loves
his country, every man who loves liberty, ought to
have it ever before his eyes, that he may cherish in
his heart a due attachment to the Union of America,
and be able to set a due value on the means of pre
serving it.

Next to the effectual establishment of the Union,
the best possible precaution against danger from
standing armies is a limitation of the term for which
revenue may be appropriated to their support. This
precaution the Constitution has prudently added. I
will not repeat here the observations which I flat
ter myself have placed this subject in a just and
satisfactory light. But it may not be improper to
take notice of an argument against this part of the

336 Alexander Hamilton

Constitution, which has been drawn from the policy
and practice of Great Britain. It is said that the
continuance of an army in that kingdom requires an
annual vote of the legislature ; whereas the American
Constitution has lengthened this critical period to
two years. This is the form in which the comparison
is usually stated to the public: but is it a just form?
Is it a fair comparison? Does the British Constitu
tion restrain the parliamentary discretion to one
year? Does the American impose on the Congress
appropriations for two years? On the contrary, it
cannot be unknown to the authors of the fallacy
themselves, that the British Constitution fixes no
limit whatever to the discretion of the legislature,
and that the American ties down the legislature to
two years, as the longest admissible term.

Had the argument from the British example been
truly stated, it would have stood thus: The term for
which supplies may be appropriated to the army
establishment, though unlimited by the British Con
stitution, has nevertheless, in practice, been limited
by parliamentary discretion to a single year. Now,
if in Great Britain, where the House of Commons is
elected for seven years ; where so great a proportion
of the members are elected by so small a proportion
of the people; where the electors are so corrupted
by the representatives, and the representatives so
corrupted by the Crown, the representative body
can possess a power to make appropriations to the
army for an indefinite term, without desiring, or
without daring, to extend the term beyond a single
year, ought not suspicion herself to blush, in pre-

The Federalist 337

tending that the representatives of the United States,
elected FREELY by the WHOLE BODY of the people,
every SECOND YEAR, cannot be safely intrusted with
the discretion over such appropriations, expressly
limited to the short period of TWO YEARS?

A bad cause seldom fails to betray itself. Of this
truth, the management of the opposition to the
federal government is an unvaried exemplification.
But among all the blunders which have been com
mitted, none is more striking than the attempt to
enlist on that side the prudent jealousy entertained
by the people, of standing armies. The attempt has
awakened fully the public attention to that import
ant subject; and has led to investigations which
must terminate in a thorough and universal convic
tion, not only that the Constitution has provided
the most effectual guards against danger from that
quarter, but that nothing short of a Constitution
fully adequate to the national defence and the pre
servation of the Union, can save America from as
many standing armies as it may be split into States
or Confederacies, and from such a progressive aug
mentation of these establishments in each, as will
render them as burdensome to the properties and
ominous to the liberties of the people, as any estab
lishment that can become necessary, under a united
and efficient government, must be tolerable to the
former and safe to the latter.

The palpable necessity of the power to provide and
maintain a navy has protected that part of the Con
stitution against a spirit of censure, which has spared
few other parts. It must, indeed, be numbered

VOL. XI. — 22.

338 Alexander Hamilton

among the greatest blessings of America, that as her
Union will be the only source of her maritime strength,
so this will be a principal source of her security
against danger from abroad. In this respect our
situation bears another likeness to the insular advan
tage of Great Britain. The batteries most capable
of repelling foreign enterprises on our safety, are
happily such as can never be turned by a perfidious
government against our liberties.

The inhabitants of the Atlantic frontier are all of
them deeply interested in this provision for naval
protection, and if they have hitherto been suffered
to sleep quietly in their beds; if their property has
remained safe against the predatory spirit of licen
tious adventurers ; if their maritime towns have not
yet been compelled to ransom themselves from the
terrors of a conflagration, by yielding to the exactions
of daring and sudden invaders, these instances of
good fortune are not to be ascribed to the capacity
of the existing government for the protection of
those from whom it claims allegiance, but to causes
that are fugitive and fallacious. If we except per
haps Virginia and Maryland, which are peculiarly
vulnerable on their eastern frontiers, no part of
the Union ought to feel more anxiety on this subject
than New York. Her sea-coast is extensive. A very
important district of the State is an island. The
State itself is penetrated by a large navigable river
for more than fifty leagues. The great emporium
of its commerce, the great reservoir of its wealth, lies
every moment at the mercy of events, and may
almost be regarded as a hostage for ignominious

The Federalist 339

compliances with the dictates of a foreign enemy,
or even with the rapacious demands of pirates and
barbarians. Should a war be the result of the pre
carious situation of European affairs, and all the un
ruly passions attending it be let loose on the ocean,
our escape from insults and depredations, not only
on that element, but every part of the other border
ing on it, will be truly miraculous. In the present
condition of America, the States more immediately
exposed to these calamities have nothing to hope
from the phantom of a general government which
now exists; and if their single resources were equal
to the task of fortifying themselves against the
danger, the object to be protected would be almost
consumed by the means of protecting them.

The power of regulating and calling forth the
militia has been already sufficiently vindicated and
explained.

The power of levying and borrowing money, being
the sinew of that which is to be exerted in the na
tional defence, is properly thrown into the same
class with it. This power, also, has been examined
already with much attention, and has, I trust, been
clearly shown to be necessary, both in the extent and
form given to it by the Constitution. I will address
one additional reflection only to those who contend
that the power ought to have been restrained to ex
ternal taxation — by which they mean, taxes on
articles imported from other countries. It cannot
be doubted that this will always be a valuable source
of revenue; that for a considerable time it must be
a principal source; that at this moment it is an

34° Alexander Hamilton

essential one. But we may form very mistaken
ideas on this subject, if we do not call to mind in
our calculations, that the extent of revenue drawn
from foreign commerce must vary with the varia
tions, both in the extent and the kind of imports;
and that these variations do not correspond with the
progress of population, which must be the general
measure of the public wants. As long as agriculture
continues the sole field of labor, the importation of
manufactures must increase as the consumers mul
tiply. As soon as domestic manufactures are begun
by the hands not called for by agriculture, the im
ported manufactures will decrease as the numbers
of people increase. In a more remote stage, the
imports may consist in a considerable part of raw
materials, which will be wrought into articles for
exportation, and will, therefore, require rather the
encouragement of bounties, than to be loaded with
discouraging duties. A system of government,
meant for duration, ought to contemplate these
revolutions, and be able to accommodate itself to
them.

Some, who have not denied the necessity of the
power of taxation, have grounded a very fierce at
tack against the Constitution, on the language in
which it is defined. It has been urged and echoed,
that the power "to lay and collect taxes, duties, im
posts, and excises, to pay the debts, and provide for
the common defence and general welfare of the
United States," amounts to an unlimited commis
sion to exercise every power which may be alleged
to be necessary for the common defence or general

The Federalist 341

welfare. No stronger proof could be given of the
distress under which these writers labor for objec
tions, than their stooping to such a misconstruction.

Had no other enumeration or definition of the
powers of the Congress been found in the Constitu
tion, than the general expressions just cited, the au
thors of the objection might have had some color for
it; though it would have been difficult to find a
reason for so awkward a form of describing an au
thority to legislate in all possible cases. A power to
destroy the freedom of the press, the trial by jury,
or even to regulate the course of descents, or the
forms of conveyances, must be very singularly ex
pressed by the terms " to raise money for the general
welfare."

But what color can the objection have, when a
specification of the objects alluded to by these
general terms immediately follows, and is not even
separated by a longer pause than a semicolon? If
the different parts of the same instrument ought to
be so expounded, as to give meaning to every part
which will bear it, shall one part of the same sen
tence be excluded altogether from a share in the
meaning; and shall the more doubtful and indefinite
terms be retained in their full extent, and the clear
and precise expressions be denied any signification
whatsoever? For what purpose could the enumera
tion of particular powers be inserted, if these and all
others were meant to be included in the preceding
general power? Nothing is more natural nor com
mon than first to use a general phrase, and then to
explain and qualify it by a recital of particulars.

342 Alexander Hamilton

But the idea of an enumeration of particulars which
neither explain nor qualify the general meaning, and
can have no other effect than to confound and mis
lead, is an absurdity, which, as we are reduced to
the dilemma of charging either on the authors of the
objection or on the authors of the Constitution, we
must take the liberty of supposing, had not its origin
with the latter.

The objection here is the more extraordinary, as
it appears that the language used by the convention
is a copy from the articles of Confederation. The
objects of the Union among the States, as described
in article third, are, " their common defence, security
of their liberties, and mutual and general welfare."
The terms of article eighth are still more identical:
" All charges of war and all other expenses that shall
be incurred for the common defence or general wel
fare, and allowed by the United States in Congress,
shall be defrayed out of a common treasury, "etc. A
similar language again occurs in article ninth. Con
strue either of these articles by the rules which would
justify the construction put on the new Constitution,
and they vest in the existing Congress a power to
legislate in all cases whatsoever. But what would
have been thought of that assembly, if, attaching
themselves to these general expressions, and dis
regarding the specifications which ascertain and
limit their import, they had exercised an unlimi
ted power of providing for the common defence
and general welfare? I appeal to the objectors
themselves, whether they would in that case have
employed the same reasoning in justification of Con-

The Federalist 343

gress as they now make use of against the conven
tion. How difficult it is for error to escape its own
condemnation!

PUBLIUS.

From the New York Packet, Tuesday, January 22, 1788

THE FEDERALIST. No. XLII

(MADISON)

To the People of the State of New York:

The second class of powers, lodged in the general
government, consist of those which regulate the
intercourse with foreign nations, to wit: to make
treaties; to send and receive ambassadors, other
public ministers, and consuls; to define and punish
piracies and felonies committed on the high seas, and
offences against the law of nations; to regulate
foreign commerce, including a power to prohibit,
after the year 1808, the importation of slaves, and
to lay an intermediate duty of ten dollars per head,
as a discouragement to such importations.

This class of powers forms an obvious and essen
tial branch of the federal administration. If we are
to be one nation in any respect, it clearly ought to
be in respect to other nations.

The powers to make treaties and to send and re
ceive ambassadors, speak their own propriety. Both
of them are comprised in the articles of Confedera
tion, with this difference only, that the former is
disembarrassed, by the plan of the convention, of
an exception, under which treaties might be sub
stantially frustrated by regulations of the States;

344 Alexander Hamilton

and that a power of appointing and receiving " other
public ministers and consuls/' is expressly and very
properly added to the former provision concern
ing ambassadors. The term ambassador, if taken
strictly, as seems to be required by the second of the
articles of Confederation, comprehends the highest
grade only of public ministers, and excludes the
grades which the United States will be most likely
to prefer, where foreign embassies may be necessary.
And under no latitude of construction will the term
comprehend consuls. Yet it has been found ex
pedient, and has been the practice of Congress, to
employ the inferior grades of public ministers, and
to send and receive consuls.

It is true, that where treaties of commerce stipu
late for the mutual appointment of consuls, whose
functions are connected with commerce, the admis
sion of foreign consuls may fall within the power
of making commercial treaties; and that where no
such treaties exist, the mission of American consuls
into foreign countries may perhaps be covered under
the authority, given by the ninth article of the Con
federation, to appoint all such civil officers as may
be necessary for managing the general affairs of the
United States. But the admission of consuls into the
United States, where no previous treaty has stipu
lated it, seems to have been nowhere provided for.
A supply of the omission is one of the lesser instances
in which the convention have improved on the model
before them. But the most minute provisions be
come important when they tend to obviate the ne
cessity or the pretext for gradual and unobserved

The Federalist 345

usurpations of power. A list of the cases in which
Congress have been betrayed, or forced by the de
fects of the Confederation, into violations of their
chartered authorities, would not a little surprise
those who have paid no attention to the subject;
and would be no inconsiderable argument in favor
of the new Constitution, which seems to have pro
vided no less studiously for the lesser, than the more
obvious and striking defects of the old.

The power to define and punish piracies and
felonies committed on the high seas, and offences
against the law of nations, belongs with equal pro
priety to the general government, and is a still
greater improvement on the articles of Confedera
tion. These articles contain no provision for the
case of offences against the law of nations ; and con
sequently leave it in the power of any indiscreet
member to embroil the Confederacy with foreign
nations. The provision of the federal articles on the
sul^ject of piracies and felonies extends no further
than to the establishment of courts for the trial
of these offences. The definition of piracies might,
perhaps, without inconveniency, be left to the
law of nations; though a legislative definition of
them is found in most municipal codes. A defini
tion of felonies on the high seas is evidently requisite.
Felony is a term of loose signification, even in the
common law of England; and of various import in
the statute law of that kingdom. But neither the
common nor the statute law of that, or of any other
nation, ought to be a standard for the proceedings
of this, unless previously made its own by legislative

346 Alexander Hamilton

adoption. The meaning of the term, as defined in
the codes of the several States, would be as imprac
ticable as the former would be a dishonorable and
illegitimate guide. It is not precisely the same in
any two of the States; and varies in each with
every revision of its criminal laws. For the sake
of certainty and uniformity, therefore, the power of
defining felonies in this case was in every respect
necessary and proper.

The regulation of foreign commerce, having fallen
within several views which have been taken of this
subject, has been too fully discussed to need addi
tional proofs here of its being properly submitted to
the federal administration.

It were doubtless to be wished, that the power of
prohibiting the importation of slaves had not been
postponed until the year 1808, or rather that it had
been suffered to have immediate operation. But it
is not difficult to account, either for this restriction
on the general government, or for the manner in
which the whole clause is expressed. It ought to be
considered as a great point gained in favor of hu
manity, that a period of twenty years may terminate
forever, within these States, a traffic which has so
long and so loudly upbraided the barbarism of
modern policy; that within that period, it will re
ceive a considerable discouragement from the federal
government, and may be totally abolished, by a
concurrence of the few States which continue the
unnatural traffic, in the prohibitory example which
has been given by so great a majority of the Union.
Happy would it be for the unfortunate Africans, if

The Federalist 347

an equal prospect lay before them of being redeemed
from the oppressions of their European brethren!

Attempts have been made to pervert this clause
into an objection against the Constitution, by re
presenting it on one side as a criminal toleration of
an illicit practice, and on another as calculated to
prevent voluntary and beneficial emigrations from
Europe to America. I mention these misconstruc
tions, not with a view to give them an answer, for
they deserve none, but as specimens of the manner
and spirit in which some have thought fit to conduct
'their opposition to the proposed government.

The powers included in the third class are those
which provide for the harmony and proper inter
course among the States.

Under this head might be included the particular
restraints imposed on the authority of the States,
and certain powers of the judicial department; but
the former are reserved for a distinct class, and the
latter will be particularly examined when we arrive
at the structure and organization of the government.
I shall confine myself to a cursory review of the
remaining powers comprehended under this third
description, to wit: to regulate commerce among
the several States and the Indian tribes; to coin
money, regulate the value thereof, and of foreign
coin; to provide for the punishment of counterfeit
ing the current coin and securities of the United
States; to fix the standard of weights and measures;
to establish a uniform rule of naturalization, and
uniform laws of bankruptcy; to prescribe the man
ner in which the public acts, records, and judicial

34-8 Alexander Hamilton

proceedings of each State shall be proved, and the
effect they shall have in other States; and to es
tablish post-offices and post-roads.

The defect of power in the existing Confederacy
to regulate the commerce between its several mem
bers, is in the number of those which have been
clearly pointed out by experience. To the proofs
and remarks which former papers have brought into
view on this subject, it may be added that without
this supplemental provision, the great and essential
power of regulating foreign commerce would have
been incomplete and ineffectual. A very material
object of this power was the relief of the States
which import and export through other States, from
the improper contributions levied on them by the
latter. Were these at liberty to regulate the trade
between State and State, it must be foreseen that
ways would be found out to load the articles of im
port and export, during the passage through their
jurisdiction, with duties which would fall on the
makers of the latter and the consumers of the
former. We may be assured by past experience,
that such a practice would be introduced by future
contrivances; and both by that and a common
knowledge of human affairs, that it would nourish
unceasing animosities, and not improbably termi
nate in serious interruptions of the public tranquil
lity. To those who do not view the question through
the medium of passion or of interest, the desire of
the commercial States to collect, in any form, an
indirect revenue from their uncommercial neighbors,
must appear not less impolitic than it is unfair;

The Federalist 349

since it would stimulate the injured party, by re
sentment as well as interest, to resort to less con
venient channels for their foreign trade. But the
mild voice of reason, pleading the cause of an en
larged and permanent interest, is but too often
drowned, before public bodies as well as individuals,
by the clamors of an impatient avidity for imme
diate and immoderate gain.

The necessity of a superintending authority over
the reciprocal trade of confederated States, has been
illustrated by other examples as well as our own. In
Switzerland, where the Union is so very slight, each
canton is obliged to allow to merchandises a passage
through its jurisdiction into other cantons, without
an augmentation of the tolls. In Germany it is a
law of the empire, that the princes and states shall
not lay tolls or customs on bridges, rivers, or pas
sages, without the consent of the emperor and the
diet; though it appears from a quotation in an ante
cedent paper, that the practice in this, as in many
other instances in that confederacy, has not followed
the law, and has produced there the mischiefs which
have been foreseen here. Among the restraints im
posed by the Union of the Netherlands on its mem
bers, one is, that they shall not establish imposts
disadvantageous to their neighbors, without the
general permission.

The regulation of commerce with the Indian tribes
is very properly unfettered from two limitations in
the articles of Confederation, which render the pro
vision obscure and contradictory. The power is
there restrained to Indians, not members of any of

350 Alexander Hamilton

the States, and is not to violate or infringe the legis
lative right of any State within its own limits. What
description of Indians are to be deemed members of
a State, is not yet settled, and has been a question
of frequent perplexity and contention in the federal
councils. And how the trade with Indians, though
not members of a State, yet residing within its
legislative jurisdiction, can be regulated by an ex
ternal authority, without so far intruding on the
internal rights of legislation, is absolutely incom
prehensible. This is not the only case in which the
articles of Confederation have inconsiderately en
deavored to accomplish impossibilities; to reconcile
a partial sovereignty in the Union, with complete
sovereignty in the States ; to subvert a mathematical
axiom, by taking away a part, and letting the whole
remain.

All that need be remarked on the power to coin
money, regulate the value thereof, and of foreign
coin, is, that by providing for this last case, the Con
stitution has supplied a material omission in the
articles of Confederation. The authority of the
existing Congress is restrained to the regulation of
coin struck by their own authority, or that of the
respective States. It must be seen at once that the
proposed uniformity in the value of the current coin
might be destroyed by subjecting that of foreign coin
to the different regulations of the different States.

The punishment of counterfeiting the public se
curities, as well as the current coin, is submitted of
course to that authority which is to secure the value
of both.

The Federalist 35 1

The regulation of weights and measures is trans
ferred from the articles of Confederation, and is
founded on like considerations with the preceding
power of regulating coin.

The dissimilarity in the rules of naturalization has
long been remarked as a fault in our system, and as
laying a foundation for intricate and delicate ques
tions. In the fourth article of the Confederation, it
is declared " that the free inhabitants of each of these
States, paupers, vagabonds, and fugitives from jus
tice excepted, shall be entitled to all privileges and
immunities of free citizens in the several States ; and
the people of each State shall, in every other, enjoy
all the privileges of trade and commerce, " etc. There
is a confusion of language here, which is remarkable.
Why the terms free inhabitants are used in one part
of the article, free citizens in another, and people in
another; or what was meant by superadding to " all
privileges and immunities of free citizens," "all the
privileges of trade and commerce," cannot easily be
determined. It seems to be a construction scarcely
avoidable, however, that those who come under the
denomination of free inhabitants of a State, although
not citizens of such State, are entitled, in every other
State, to all the privileges of free citizens of the
latter; that is, to greater privileges than they may
be entitled to in their own State: so that it may be
in the power of a particular State, or rather every
State is laid under a necessity, not only to confer the
rights of citizenship in other States upon any whom
it may admit to such rights within itself, but upon
any whom it may allow to become inhabitants within

35 2 Alexander Hamilton

its jurisdiction. But were an exposition of the term
" inhabitants " to be admitted which would confine
the stipulated privileges to citizens alone, the diffi
culty is diminished only, not removed. The very
improper power would still be retained by each State,
of naturalizing aliens in every other State. In one
State, residence for a short term confirms all the
rights of citizenship: in another, qualifications of
greater importance are required. An alien, therefore,
legally incapacitated for certain rights in the latter,
may, by previous residence only in the former, elude
his incapacity; and thus the law of one State be
preposterously rendered paramount to the law of
another, within the jurisdiction of the other. We
owe it to mere casualty, that very serious embarrass
ments on this subject have been hitherto escaped.
By the laws of several States, certain descriptions
of aliens, who had rendered themselves obnoxious,
were laid under interdicts inconsistent not only with
the rights of citizenship but with the privilege of
residence. What would have been the consequence,
if such persons, by residence or otherwise, had ac
quired the character of citizens under the laws of
another State, and then asserted their rights as such,
both to residence and citizenship, within the State
proscribing them ? Whatever the legal consequences
might have been, other consequences would prob
ably have resulted, of too serious a nature not to
be provided against. The new Constitution has
accordingly, with great propriety, made provision
against them, and all others proceeding from the
defect of the Confederation on this head, by author-

The Federalist 353

izing the general government to establish a uniform
rule of naturalization throughout the United States.

The power of establishing uniform laws of bank
ruptcy is so intimately connected with the regula
tion of commerce, and will prevent so many frauds
where the parties or their property may lie or be re
moved into different States, that the expediency of
it seems not likely to be drawn into question.

The power of prescribing by general laws, the man
ner in which the public acts, records, and judicial
proceedings of each State shall be proved, and the
effect they shall have in other States, is an evident
and valuable improvement on the clause relating to
this subject in the articles of Confederation. The
meaning of the latter is extremely indeterminate,
and can be of little importance under any inter
pretation which it will bear. The power here es
tablished may be rendered a very convenient
instrument of justice, and be particularly beneficial
on the borders of contiguous States, where the effects
liable to justice may be suddenly and secretly trans
lated, in any stage of the process, within a foreign
jurisdiction.

The power of establishing post-roads must, in
every view, be a harmless power, and may, perhaps,
by judicious management, become productive of
great public conveniency. Nothing which tends to
facilitate the intercourse between the States can be
deemed unworthy of the public care.

PUBLIUS.

VOI.. 3d.— -23.

354 Alexander Hamilton

For the Independent Journal

THE FEDERALIST. No. XLIII

(MADISON)

To the People of the State of New York:

The fourth class comprises the following miscel
laneous powers:

1. A power "to promote the progress of science
and useful arts, by securing, for a limited time, to
authors and inventors, the exclusive right to their
respective writings and discoveries/'

The utility of this power will scarcely be ques
tioned. The copyright of authors has been solemnly
adjudged, in Great Britain, to be a right of common
law. The right to useful inventions seems with
equal reason to belong to the inventors. The public
good fully coincides in both cases with the claims of
individuals. The States cannot separately make
effectual provision for either of the cases, and most
of them have anticipated the decision of this point,
by laws passed at the instance of Congress.

2. "To exercise exclusive legislation, in all cases
whatsoever, over such district (not exceeding ten
miles square) as may, by cession of particular States
and the acceptance of Congress, become the seat of
the government of the United States; and to exer
cise like authority over all places purchased by the
consent of the legislatures of the States in which the
same shall be, for the erection of forts, magazines,
arsenals, dock-yards, and other needful buildings."

The indispensable necessity of complete authority
at the seat of government, carries its own evidence

The Federalist 355

with it. It is a power exercised by every legislature
of the Union, I might say of the world, by virtue of
its general supremacy. Without it, not only the
public authority might be insulted and its proceed
ings interrupted with impunity; but a dependence
of the members of the general government on the
State comprehending the seat of the government,
for protection in the exercise of their duty, might
bring on the national councils an imputation of awe
or influence, equally dishonorable to the government
and dissatisfactory to the other members of the Con
federacy. This consideration has the more weight,
as the gradual accumulation of public improvements
at the stationary residence of the government would
be both too great a public pledge to be left in the
hands of a single State, and would create so many
obstacles to a removal of the government, as still
further to abridge its necessary independence. The
extent of this federal district is sufficiently circum
scribed to satisfy every jealousy of an opposite na
ture. And as it is to be appropriated to this use
with the consent of the State ceding it; as the State
will no doubt provide in the compact for the rights
and the consent of the citizens inhabiting it; as the
inhabitants will find sufficient inducements of in
terest to become willing parties to the cession; as
they will have had their voice in the election of the
government which is to exercise authority over them;
as a municipal legislature for local purposes, derived
from their own suffrages, will of course be allowed
them; and as the authority of the legislature of the
State, and of the inhabitants of the ceded part of it,

356 Alexander Hamilton

to concur in the cession, will be derived from the whole
people of the State, in their adoption of the Constitu
tion, every imaginable objection seems to be obviated.

The necessity of a like authority over forts, maga
zines, etc., established by the general government, is
not less evident. The public money expended on
such places, and the public property deposited in
them, require that they should be exempt from the
authority of the particular State. Nor would it be
proper for the places on which the security of the
entire Union may depend, to be in any degree
dependent on a particular member of it. All ob
jections and scruples are here also obviated, by re
quiring the concurrence of the States concerned, in
every such establishment.

3. " To declare the punishment of treason, but no
attainder of treason shall work corruption of blood,
or forfeiture, except during the life of the person
attainted."

As treason may be committed against the United
States, the authority of the United States ought to
be enabled to punish it. But as new-fangled and
artificial treasons have been the great engines by
which violent factions, the natural offspring of free
government, have usually wreaked their alternate
malignity on each other, the convention have, with
great judgment, opposed a barrier to this peculiar
danger, by inserting a constitutional definition of the
crime, fixing the proof necessary for conviction of it,
and restraining the Congress, even in punishing it,
from extending the consequences of guilt beyond the
person of its author.

The Federalist 357

4. "To admit new States into the Union; but no
new State shall be formed or erected within the
jurisdiction of any other State; nor any State be
formed by the junction of two or more States, or
parts of States, without the consent of the legis
latures of the States concerned, as well as of the
Congress."

In the articles of Confederation, no provision is
found on this important subject. Canada was to be
admitted of right, on her joining in the measures of
the United States; and the other colonies, by which
were evidently meant the other British colonies, at
the discretion of nine States. The eventual estab
lishment of new States seems to have been over
looked by the compilers of that instrument. We
have seen the inconvenience of this omission, and
the assumption of power into which Congress have
been led by it. With great propriety, therefore, has
the new system supplied the defect. The general
precaution, that no new States shall be formed,
without the concurrence of the federal authority,
and that of the States concerned, is consonant to
the principles which ought to govern such transac
tions. The particular precaution against the erec
tion of new States, by the partition of a State
without its consent, quiets the jealousy of the
larger States; as that of the smaller is quieted by
a like precaution, against a junction of States with
out their consent.

5. "To dispose of and make all needful rules and
regulations respecting the territory or other pro
perty belonging to the United States, with a proviso,

Alexander Hamilton

that nothing in the Constitution shall be so con
strued as to prejudice any claims of the United
States, or of any particular State."

This is a power of very great importance, and re
quired by considerations similar to those which show
the propriety of the former. The proviso annexed
is proper in itself, and was probably rendered abso
lutely necessary by jealousies and questions con
cerning the Western territory sufficiently known to
the public.

6. "To guarantee to every State in the Union a
republican form of government; to protect each of
them against invasion; and on application of the
legislature, or of the executive (when the legislature
cannot be convened), against domestic violence."

In a confederacy founded on republican principles,
and composed of republican members, the superin
tending government ought clearly to possess au
thority to defend the system against aristocratic or
monarchical innovations. The more intimate the
nature of such a union may be, the greater interest
have the members in the political institutions of
each other; and the greater right to insist that the
forms of government under which the compact was
entered into should be substantially maintained.
But a right implies a remedy; and where else could
the remedy be deposited, than where it is deposited
by the Constitution? Governments of dissimilar
principles and forms have been found less adapted
to a federal coalition of any sort, than those of a kin
dred nature. " As the confederate republic of Ger
many," says Montesquieu, " consists of free cities and

The Federalist 359

petty states, subject to different princes, experience
shows us that it is more imperfect than that of Hol
land and Switzerland." "Greece was undone," he
adds, "as soon as the king of Macedon obtained a
seat among the Amphictyons. " In the latter case,
no doubt, the disproportionate force, as well as the
monarchical form, of the new confederate, had its
share of influence on the events. It may possibly
be asked, what need there could be of such a precau
tion, and whether it may not become a pretext for
alterations in the State governments, without the
concurrence of the States themselves. These ques
tions admit of ready answers. If the interposition
of the general government should not be needed, the
provision for such an event will be a harmless super
fluity only in the Constitution. But who can say
what experiments may be produced by the caprice
of particular States, by the ambition of enterprising
leaders, or by the intrigues and influence of foreign
powers ? To the second question it may be answered,
that if the general government should interpose by
virtue of this constitutional authority, it will be, of
course, bound to pursue the authority. But the
authority extends no further than to a guaranty of a
republican form of government, which supposes a
preexisting government of the form which is to be
guaranteed. As long, therefore, as the existing re
publican forms are continued by the States, they are
guaranteed by the federal Constitution. Whenever
the States may choose to substitute other republican
forms, they have a right to do so, and to claim the
federal guaranty for the latter. The only restriction

360 Alexander Hamilton

imposed on them is, that they shall not exchange
republican for anti-republican Constitutions; a re
striction which, it is presumed, will hardly be con
sidered as a grievance.

A protection against invasion is due from every
society to the parts composing it. The latitude of
the expression here used seems to secure each State,
not only against foreign hostility, but against ambi
tious or vindictive enterprises of its more powerful
neighbors. The history, both of ancient and modern
confederacies, proves that the weaker members of
the union ought not to be insensible to the policy of
this article.

Protection against domestic violence is added with
equal propriety. It has been remarked, that even
among the Swiss cantons, which, properly speaking,
are not under one government, provision is made for
this object; and the history of that league informs
us that mutual aid is frequently claimed and afforded ;
and as well by the most democratic, as the other
cantons. A recent and well-known event among
ourselves has warned us to be prepared for emergen
cies of a like nature.

At first view, it might seem not to square with the
republican theory, to suppose, either that a ma
jority have not the right, or that a minority will have
the force, to subvert a government; and conse
quently, that the federal interposition can never be
required, but when it would be improper. But
theoretic reasoning, in this as in most other cases,
must be qualified by the lessons of practice. Why
may not illicit combinations, for purposes of vio-

The Federalist 361

lence, be formed as well by a majority of a State, es
pecially a small State, as by a majority of a county,
or a district of the same State ; and if the authority
of the State ought, in the latter case, to protect
the local magistracy, ought not the federal author
ity, in the former, to support the State authority?
Besides, there are certain parts of the State constitu
tions which are so interwoven with the federal Con
stitution, that a violent blow cannot be given to the
one without communicating the wound to the other.
Insurrections in a State will rarely induce a federal
interposition, unless the number concerned in them
bear some proportion to the friends of government.
It will be much better that the violence in such cases
should be repressed by the superintending power,
than that the majority should be left to maintain
their cause by a bloody and obstinate contest. The
existence of a right to interpose, will generally pre
vent the necessity of exerting it.

Is it true that force and right are necessarily on
the same side in republican governments? May not
the minor party possess such a superiority of pecu
niary resources, of military talents and experience,
or of secret succors from foreign powers, as will
render it superior also in an appeal to the sword?
May not a more compact and advantageous position
turn the scale on the same side, against a superior
number so situated as to be less capable of a prompt
and collected exertion of its strength? Nothing can
be more chimerical than to imagine that in a trial of
actual force, victory may be calculated by the rules
which prevail in a census of the inhabitants, or which

362 Alexander Hamilton

determine the event of an election! May it not
happen, in fine, that the minority of CITIZENS may
become a majority of PERSONS, by the accession of
alien residents, of a casual concourse of adventurers,
or of those whom the constitution of the State has
not admitted to the rights of suffrage? I take no
notice of an unhappy species of population abound
ing in some of the States, who, during the calm of
regular government, are sunk below the level of men ;
but who, in the tempestuous scenes of civil violence,
may emerge into the human character, and give a
superiority of strength to any party with which they
may associate themselves.

In cases where it may be doubtful on which side
justice lies, what better umpires could be desired
by two violent factions, flying to arms and tearing
a State to pieces, than the representatives of con
federate States, not heated by the local flame? To
the impartiality of judges, they would unite the
affection of friends. Happy would it be if such a
remedy for its infirmities could be enjoyed by all
free governments; if a project equally effectual
could be established for the universal peace of
mankind!

Should it be asked, what is to be the redress for an
insurrection pervading all the States, and comprising
a superiority of the entire force, though not a consti
tutional right? the answer must be, that such a case,
as it would be without the compass of human reme
dies, so it is fortunately not within the compass of
human probability; and that it is a sufficient recom
mendation of the federal Constitution, that it di-

The Federalist 363

minishes the risk of a calamity for which no possible
constitution can provide a cure.

Among the advantages of a confederate republic
enumerated by Montesquieu, an important one is,
"that should a popular insurrection happen in one
of the States, the others are able to quell it. Should
abuses creep into one part, they are reformed by
those that remain sound."

7. "To consider all debts contracted, and engage
ments entered into, before the adoption of this Con
stitution, as being no less valid against the United
States, under this Constitution, than under the
Confederation. "

This can only be considered as a declaratory pro
position; and may have been inserted, among other
reasons, for the satisfaction of the foreign creditors
of the United States, who cannot be strangers to the
pretended doctrine, that a change in the political
form of civil society has the magical effect of dissolv
ing its moral obligations.

Among the lesser criticisms which have been exer
cised on the Constitution, it has been remarked that
the validity of engagements ought to have been as
serted in favor of the United States, as well as
against them; and in the spirit which usually
characterizes little critics, the omission has been
transformed and magnified into a plot against the
national rights. The authors of this discovery may
be told, what few others need to be informed of, that
as engagements are in their nature reciprocal, an
assertion of their validity on one side, necessarily
involves a validity on the other side; and that as the

364 Alexander Hamilton

article is merely declaratory, the establishment of
the principle in one case is sufficient for every case.
They may be further told, that every constitution
must limit its precautions to dangers that are not
altogether imaginary; and that no real danger can
exist that the government would DARE, with, or even
without, this constitutional declaration before it, to
remit the debts justly due to the public, on the pre
text here condemned.

8. "To provide for amendments to be ratified by
three fourths of the States, under two exceptions
only."

That useful alterations will be suggested by ex
perience, could not but be foreseen. It was requi
site, therefore, that a mode for introducing them
should be provided. The mode preferred by the
convention seems to be stamped with every mark
of propriety. It guards equally against that ex
treme facility, which would render the Constitution
too mutable; and that extreme difficulty, which
might perpetuate its discovered faults. It, more
over, equally enables the general and the State gov
ernments to originate the amendment of errors, as
they may be pointed out by the experience on one
side, or on the other. The exception in favor of the
equality of suffrage in the Senate, was probably
meant as a palladium to the residuary sovereignty
of the States, implied and secured by that principle
of representation in one branch of the legislature;
and was probably insisted on by the States par
ticularly attached to that equality. The other
exception must have been admitted on the same

The Federalist 365

considerations which produced the privilege defended
by it.

9. ''The ratification of the conventions of nine
States shall be sufficient for the establishment of
this Constitution between the States, ratifying the

same."

This article speaks for itself. The express au
thority of the people alone could give due validity
to the Constitution. To have required the unani
mous ratification of the thirteen States, would have
subjected the essential interests of the whole to the
caprice or corruption of a single member. It would
have marked a want of foresight in the convention,
which our own experience would have rendered
inexcusable.

Two questions of a very delicate nature present
themselves on this occasion: i. On what principle
the Confederation, which stands in the solemn form
of a compact among the States, can be superseded
without the unanimous consent of the parties to it?
2. What relation is to subsist between the nine or
more States ratifying the Constitution, and the re
maining few who do not become parties to it?

The first question is answered at once by recurring
to the absolute necessity of the case; to the great
principle of self-preservation; to the transcendent
law of nature and of nature's God, which declares
that the safety and happiness of society are the
objects at which all political institutions aim, and
to which all such institutions must be sacrificed.
PERHAPS, also, an answer may be found without
searching beyond the principles of the compact itself.

366 Alexander Hamilton

It has been heretofore noted among the defects of
the Confederation, that in many of the States it had
received no higher sanction than a mere legislative
ratification. The principle of reciprocality seems to
require that its obligation on the other States should
be reduced to the same standard. A compact be
tween independent sovereigns, founded on ordinary
acts of legislative authority, can pretend to no higher
validity than a league or treaty between the parties.
It is an established doctrine on the subject of treaties,
that all the articles are mutually conditions of each
other; that a breach of any one article is a breach of
the whole treaty; and that a breach, committed by
either of the parties, absolves the others, and author
izes them, if they please, to pronounce the compact
violated and void. Should it unhappily be necessary
to appeal to these delicate truths for a justification
for dispensing with the consent of particular States
to a dissolution of the federal pact, will not the com
plaining parties find it a difficult task to answer the
MULTIPLIED and IMPORTANT infractions with which
they may be confronted? The time has been when
it was incumbent on us all to veil the ideas which
this paragraph exhibits. The scene is now changed,
and with it the part which the same motives dictate.
The second question is not less delicate; and the
flattering prospect of its being merely hypothetical
forbids an over-curious discussion of it. It is one
of those cases which must be left to provide for itself.
In general, it may be observed, that although no
political relation can subsist between the assenting
and dissenting States, yet the moral relations will

The Federalist 367

remain uncancelled. The claims of justice, both
on one side and on the other, will be in force, and
must be fulfilled; the rights of humanity must in all
cases be duly and mutually respected; whilst con
siderations of a common interest, and, above all, the
remembrance of the endearing scenes which are past,
and the anticipation of a speedy triumph over the
obstacles to reunion, will, it is hoped, not urge in
vain MODERATION on one side, and PRUDENCE on
the other.

PUBLIUS.

From the New York Packet, Friday, January 25, 1788

THE FEDERALIST. No. XLIV

(MADISON)

To the People of the State of New York:

A -fifth class of provisions in favor of the federal
authority consists of the following restrictions on the
authority of the several States.

i. "No State shall enter into any treaty, alliance,
or confederation; grant letters of marque and re
prisal; coin money; emit bills of credit; make any
thing but gold and silver a legal tender in payment
of debts; pass any bill of attainder, ex-post-facto
law, or law impairing the obligation of contracts ; or
grant any title of nobility."

The prohibition against treaties, alliances, and
confederations makes a part of the existing articles
of Union ; and for reasons which need no explanation,
is copied into the new Constitution. The prohibition
of letters of marque is another part of the old system,

368 Alexander Hamilton

but is somewhat extended in the new. According
to the former, letters of marque could be granted by
the States after a declaration of war; according to
the latter, these licenses must be obtained, as well
during war as previous to its declaration, from the
government of the United States. This alteration is
fully justified by the advantage of uniformity in all
points which relate to foreign powers; and of im
mediate responsibility to the nation in all those for
whose conduct the nation itself is to be responsible.

The right of coining money, which is here taken
from the States, was left in their hands by the Con
federation, as a concurrent right with that of Con
gress, under an exception in favor of the exclusive
right of Congress to regulate the alloy and value.
In this instance, also, the new provision is an im
provement on the old. Whilst the alloy and value
depended on the general authority, a right of coinage
in the particular States could have no other effect
than to multiply expensive mints and diversify the
forms and weights of the circulating pieces. The
latter inconveniency defeats one purpose for which
the power was originally submitted to the federal
head ; and as far as the former might prevent an in
convenient remittance of gold and silver to the
central mint for recoinage, the end can be as well
attained by local mints established under the general
authority.

The extension of the prohibition to bills of credit
must give pleasure to every citizen, in proportion to
his love of justice and his knowledge of the true
springs of public prosperity. The loss which America

The Federalist 369

has sustained since the peace, from the pestilent
effects of paper money on the necessary confidence
between man and man, on the necessary confidence
in the public councils, on the industry and morals
of the people, and on the character of republican
government, constitutes an enormous debt against
the States chargeable with this unadvised measure,
which must long remain unsatisfied; or rather an
accumulation of guilt, which can be expiated no
otherwise than by a voluntary sacrifice on the altar
of justice, of the power which has been the instru
ment of it. In addition to these persuasive con
siderations, it may be observed, that the same reasons
which show the necessity of denying to the States
the power of regulating coin, prove with equal force
that they ought not to be at liberty to substitute a
paper medium in the place of coin. Had every
State a right to regulate the value of its coin, there
might be as many different currencies as States, and
thus the intercourse among them would be impeded;
retrospective alterations in its value might be made,
and thus the citizens of other States be injured, and
animosities be kindled among the States themselves.
The subjects of foreign powers might suffer from the
same cause, and hence the Union be discredited and
embroiled by the indiscretion of a single member.
No one of these mischiefs is less incident to a power
in the States to emit paper money, than to coin gold
or silver. The power to make any thing but gold
and silver a tender in payment of debts, is withdrawn
from the States, on the same principle with that of
issuing a paper currency.

VOL. XI.— 24.

37° Alexander Hamilton

Bills of attainder, ex-post-facto laws, and laws im
pairing the obligation of contracts, are contrary to
the first principles of the social compact, and to
every principle of sound legislation. The two former
are expressly prohibited by the declarations pre
fixed to some of the State constitutions, and all
of them are prohibited by the spirit and scope of
these fundamental charters. Our own experience has
taught us, nevertheless, that additional fences
against these dangers ought not to be omitted.
Very properly, therefore, have the convention added
this constitutional bulwark in favor of personal se
curity and private rights; and I am much deceived
if they have not, in so doing, as faithfully consulted
the genuine sentiments as the undoubted interests of
their constituents. The sober people of America are
weary of the fluctuating policy which has directed
the public councils. They have seen with regret and
indignation that sudden changes and legislative in
terferences, in cases affecting personal rights, become
jobs in the hands of enterprising and influential
speculators, and snares to the more-industrious and
less-informed part of the community. They have
seen, too, that one legislative interference is but the
first link of a long chain of repetitions, every subse
quent interference being naturally produced by the
effects of the preceding. They very rightly infer,
therefore, that some thorough reform is wanting,
which will banish speculations on public measures,
inspire a general prudence and industry, and give a
regular course to the business of society. The pro
hibition with respect to titles of nobility is copied

The Federalist 371

from the articles of Confederation, and needs no
comment.

2. "No State shall, without the consent of the
Congress, lay any imposts or duties on imports or
exports, except what may be absolutely neces
sary for executing its inspection laws, and the
net produce of all duties and imposts laid by any
State on imports or exports, shall be for the use
of the treasury of the United States; and all such
laws shall be subject to the revision and con
trol of the Congress. No State shall, without the
consent of Congress, lay any duty on tonnage, keep
troops or ships of war in time of peace, enter into
any agreement or compact with another State, or
with a foreign power, or engage in war unless actu
ally invaded, or in such imminent danger as will
not admit of delay."

The restraint on the power of the States over im
ports and exports is enforced by all the arguments
which prove the necessity of submitting the regula
tion of trade to the federal councils. It is needless,
therefore, to remark further on this head, than that
the manner in which the restraint is qualified seems
well calculated at once to secure to the States a
reasonable discretion in providing for the conven-
iency of their imports and exports, and to the United
States a reasonable check against the abuse of this
discretion. The remaining particulars of this clause
fall within reasonings which are either so obvious,
or have been so fully developed, that they may be
passed over without remark.

The sixth and last class consists of the several

372 Alexander Hamilton

powers and provisions by which efficacy is given to
all the rest.

i. Of these the first is, the "power to make all
laws which shall be necessary and proper for carrying
into execution the foregoing powers, and all other
powers vested by this Constitution in the govern
ment of the United States, or in any department or
officer thereof."

Few parts of the Constitution have been assailed
with more intemperance than this; yet on a fair in
vestigation of it, no part can appear more com
pletely invulnerable. Without the substance of this
power, the whole Constitution would be a dead letter.
Those who object to the article, therefore, as a part
of the Constitution, can only mean that the form of
the provision is improper. But have they con
sidered whether a better form could have been
substituted?

There are four other possible methods which the
Constitution might have taken on this subject.
They might have copied the second article of the
existing Confederation, which would have pro
hibited the exercise of any power not expressly
delegated; they might have attempted a positive
enumeration of the powers comprehended under the
general terms "necessary and proper'*; they might
have attempted a negative enumeration of them, by
specifying the powers excepted from the general
definition; they might have been altogether silent
on the subject, leaving these necessary and proper
powers to construction and inference.

Had the convention taken the first method of

The Federalist 373

adopting the second article of Confederation, it is
evident that the new Congress would be continually
exposed, as their predecessors have been, to the
alternative of construing the term "expressly" with
so much rigor, as to disarm the government of all
real authority whatever, or with so much latitude as
to destroy altogether the force of the restriction. It
would be easy to show, if it were necessary, that no
important power, delegated by the articles of Con
federation, has been or can be executed by Congress,
without recurring more or less to the doctrine of
construction or implication. As the powers delegated
under the new system are more extensive, the govern
ment which is to administer it would find itself still
more distressed with the alternative of betraying the
public interests by doing nothing, or of violating
the Constitution by exercising powers indispensably
necessary and proper, but, at the same time, not
expressly granted.

Had the convention attempted a positive enum
eration of the powers necessary and proper for carry
ing their other powers into effect, the attempt would
have involved a complete digest of laws on every
subject to which the Constitution relates; accom
modated too, not only to the existing state of things,
but to all the possible changes which futurity may
produce; for in every new application of a general
power, the particular powers, which are the means of
attaining the object of the general power, must always
necessarily vary with that object, and be often
properly varied whilst the object remains the same.

Had they attempted to enumerate the particular

374 Alexander Hamilton

powers or means not necessary or proper for carrying
the general powers into execution, the task would
have been no less chimerical; and would have been
liable to this further objection, that every defect in
the enumeration would have been equivalent to a
positive grant of authority. If, to avoid this conse
quence, they had attempted a partial enumeration
of the exceptions, and described the residue by the
general terms, not necessary or proper, it must have
happened that the enumeration would comprehend a
few of the excepted powers only; that these would
be such as would be least likely to be assumed or
tolerated, because the enumeration would of course
select such as would be least necessary or proper;
and that the unnecessary and improper powers in
cluded in the residuum, would be less forcibly
excepted than if no partial enumeration had been
made.

Had the Constitution been silent on this head,
there can be no doubt that all the particular powers
requisite as means of executing the general powers
would have resulted to the government, by unavoid
able implication. No axiom is more clearly estab
lished in law, or in reason, than that wherever the
end is required, the means are authorized; wherever
a general power to do a thing is given, every particu
lar power necessary for doing it is included. Had
this last method, therefore, been pursued by the
convention, every objection now urged against their
plan would remain in all its plausibility; and the
real inconveniency would be incurred of not removing
a pretext which may be seized on critical occasions

The Federalist 375

for drawing into question the essential powers of the
Union.

If it be asked what is to be the consequence, in
case the Congress shall misconstrue this part of the
Constitution, and exercise powers not warranted by
its true meaning, I answer, the same as if they should
misconstrue or enlarge any other power vested in
them; as if the general power had been reduced to
particulars, and any one of these were to be violated;
the same, in short, as if the State legislatures should
violate their respective constitutional authorities.
In the first instance, the success of the usurpation
will depend on the executive and judiciary depart
ments, which are to expound and give effect to the
legislative acts ; and in the last resort a remedy must
be obtained from the people, who can, by the elec
tion of more faithful representatives, annul the acts
of the usurpers. The truth is, that this ultimate
redress may be more confided in against unconsti
tutional acts of the federal than of the State legis
latures, for this plain reason, that as every such act
of the former will be an invasion of the rights of the
latter, these will be ever ready to mark the innova
tion, to sound the alarm to the people, and to exert
their local influence in effecting a change of federal
representatives. There being no such intermediate
body between the State legislatures and the people
interested in watching the conduct of the former,
violations of the State constitutions are more likely
to remain unnoticed and unredressed.

2. "This Constitution and the laws of the United
States which shall be made in pursuance thereof,

376 Alexander Hamilton

and all treaties made, or which shall be made, under
the authority of the United States, shall be the su
preme law of the land, and the judges in every State
shall be bound thereby, any thing in the constitu
tion or laws of any State to the contrary notwith
standing."

The indiscreet zeal of the adversaries to the Con
stitution has betrayed them into an attack on this
part of it also, without which it would have been
evidently and radically defective. To be fully
sensible of this, we need only suppose for a moment
that the supremacy of the State constitutions had
been left complete by a saving clause in their favor.

In the first place, as these constitutions invest the
State legislatures with absolute sovereignty, in all
cases not excepted by the existing articles of Con
federation, all the authorities contained in the pro
posed Constitution, so far as they exceed those
enumerated in the Confederation, would have been
annulled, and the new Congress would have been
reduced to the same impotent condition with their
predecessors.

In the next place, as the constitutions of some of
the States do not even expressly and fully recognize
the existing powers of the Confederacy, an express
saving of the supremacy of the former would, in such
States, have brought into question every power con
tained in the proposed Constitution.

In the third place, as the constitutions of the
States differ much from each other, it might happen
that a treaty or national law, of great and equal
importance to the States, would interfere with some

The Federalist 377

and not with other constitutions, and would conse
quently be valid in some of the States, at the same
time that it would have no effect in others.

In fine, the world would have seen, for the first
time, a system of government founded on an inver
sion of the fundamental principles of all government ;
it would have seen the authority of the whole society
everywhere subordinate to the authority of the parts ;
it would have seen a monster, in which the head
was under the direction of the members.

3. "The Senators and Representatives, and the
members of the several State legislatures, and all
executive and judicial officers, both of the United
States and the several States, shall be bound by
oath or affirmation to support this Constitution."

It has been asked why it was thought necessary,
that the State magistracy should be bound to sup
port the federal Constitution, and unnecessary that
a like oath should be imposed on the officers of the
United States, in favor of the State constitutions.

Several reasons might be assigned for the distinc
tion. I content myself with one, which is obvious
and conclusive. The members of the federal govern
ment will have no agency in carrying the State
constitutions into effect. The members and officers
of the State governments, on the contrary, will have
an essential agency in giving effect to the federal
Constitution. The election of the President and
Senate will depend, in all cases, on the legislatures of
the several States. And the election of the House of
Representatives will equally depend on the same
authority in the first instance; and will, probably,

378 Alexander Hamilton

forever be conducted by the officers, and according
to the laws, of the States.

4. Among the provisions for giving efficacy to the
federal powers might be added those which belong
to the executive and judiciary departments: but as
these are reserved for particular examination in an
other place, I pass them over in this.

We have now reviewed, in detail, all the articles
composing the sum or quantity of power delegated
by the proposed Constitution to the federal govern
ment, and are brought to this undeniable conclusion,
that no part of the power is unnecessary or improper
for accomplishing the necessary objects of the Union.
The question, therefore, whether this amount of
power shall be granted or not, resolves itself into
another question, whether or not a government com
mensurate to the exigencies of the Union shall be
established; or, in other words, whether the Union
itself shall be preserved. PUBLIUS.

For the Independent Journal

THE FEDERALIST. No. XLV

(MADISON)

To the People of the State of New York:

Having shown that no one of the powers trans
ferred to the federal government is unnecessary or
improper, the next question to be considered is,
whether the whole mass of them will be dangerous to
the portion of authority left in the several States.

The adversaries to the plan of the convention,

The Federalist 379

instead of considering in the first place what degree
of power was absolutely necessary for the purposes
of the federal government, have exhausted them
selves in a secondary inquiry into the possible con
sequences of the proposed degree of power to the
governments of the particular States. But if the
Union, as has been shown, be essential to the security
of the people of America against foreign danger; if
it be essential to their security against contentions
and wars among the different States; if it be essential
to guard them against those violent and oppressive
factions which embitter the blessings of liberty, and
against those military establishments which must
gradually poison its very fountain; if, in a word, the
Union be essential to the happiness of the people of
America, is it not preposterous, to urge as an objec
tion to a government, without which the objects of
the Union cannot be attained, that such a govern
ment may derogate from the importance of the
governments of the individual States? Was, then,
the American Revolution effected, was the Ameri
can Confederacy formed, was the precious blood of
thousands spilt, and the hard-earned substance of mil
lions lavished, not that the people of America should
enjoy peace, liberty, and safety, but that the gov
ernments of the individual States, that particular
municipal establishments, might enjoy a certain ex
tent of power, and be arrayed with certain dignities
and attributes of sovereignty? We have heard of
the impious doctrine in the Old World, that the
people were made for kings, not kings for the people.
Is the same doctrine to be revived in the New, in

380 Alexander Hamilton

another shape — that the solid happiness of the people
is to be sacrificed to the views of political institutions
of a different form? It is too early for politicians to
presume on our forgetting that the public good, the
real welfare of the great body of the people, is the
supreme object to be pursued; and that no form of
government whatever has any other value than as
it may be fitted for the attainment of this object.
Were the plan of the convention adverse to the
public happiness, my voice would be, Reject the plan.
Were the Union itself inconsistent with the public
happiness, it would be, Abolish the Union. In like
manner, as far as the sovereignty of the States can
not be reconciled to the happiness of the people, the
voice of every good citizen must be, Let the former
be sacrificed to the latter. How far the sacrifice is
necessary, has been shown. How far the unsacrificed
residue will be endangered, is the question before us.

Several important considerations have been
touched in the course of these papers, which dis
countenance the supposition that the operation of
the federal government will by degrees prove fatal
to the State governments. The more I revolve the
subject, the more fully I am persuaded that the
balance is much more likely to be disturbed by
the preponderancy of the last than of the first scale.

We have seen, in all the examples of ancient and
modern confederacies, the strongest tendency con
tinually betraying itself in the members, to despoil
the general government of its authorities, with a very
ineffectual capacity in the latter to defend itself
against the encroachments. Although, in most of

The Federalist 381

these examples, the system has been so dissimilar
from that under consideration as greatly to weaken
any inference concerning the latter from the fate of the
former, yet, as the States will retain, under the pro
posed Constitution, a very extensive portion of act
ive sovereignty, the inference ought not to be wholly
disregarded. In the Achaean league it is probable
that the federal head had a degree and species of
power, which gave it a considerable likeness to the
government framed by the convention. The Lycian
Confederacy, as far as its principles and form are
transmitted, must have borne a still greater analogy
to it. Yet history does not inform us that either
of them ever degenerated, or tended to degenerate,
into one consolidated government. On the contrary,
we know that the ruin of one of them proceeded from
the incapacity of the federal authority to prevent the
dissensions, and finally the disunion, of the subor
dinate authorities. These cases are the more
worthy of our attention, as the external causes by
which the component parts were pressed together
were much more numerous and powerful than in
our case; and consequently less powerful ligaments
within would be sufficient to bind the members to
the head, and to each other.

In the feudal system, we have seen a similar pro
pensity exemplified. Notwithstanding the want of
proper sympathy in every instance between the local
sovereigns and the people, and the sympathy in some
instances between the general sovereign and the
latter, it usually happened that the local sovereigns
prevailed in the rivalship for encroachments. Had

382 Alexander Hamilton

no external dangers enforced internal harmony and
subordination, and particularly, had the local sov
ereigns possessed the affections of the people, the
great kingdoms in Europe would at this time consist
of as many independent princes as there were
formerly feudatory barons.

The State governments will have the advantage of
the Federal government, whether we compare them
in respect to the immediate dependence of the one on
the other; to the weight of personal influence which
each side will possess; to the powers respectively
vested in them; to the predilection and probable sup
port of the people; to the disposition and faculty of
resisting and frustrating the measures of each other.

The State governments may be regarded as con
stituent and essential parts of the federal govern
ment; whilst the latter is nowise essential to the
operation or organization of the former. Without
the intervention of the State legislatures, the Presi
dent of the United States cannot be elected at all.
They must in all cases have a great share in his ap
pointment, and will, perhaps, in most cases, of them
selves determine it. The Senate will be elected
absolutely and exclusively by the State legislatures.
Even the House of Representatives, though drawn
immediately from the people, will be chosen very
much under the influence of that class of men, whose
influence over the people obtains for themselves an
election into the State legislatures. Thus, each of
the principal branches of the federal government
will owe its existence more or less to the favor of the
State governments, and must consequently feel a

The Federalist 383

dependence, which is much more likely to beget a
disposition too obsequious than too overbearing
towards them. On the other side, the component
parts of the State governments will in no instance
be indebted for their appointment to the direct
agency of the federal government, and very little, if
at all, to the local influence of its members.

The number of individuals employed under the
Constitution of the United States will be much
smaller than the number employed under the par
ticular States. There will consequently be less of
personal influence on the side of the former than of
the latter. The members of the legislative, execu
tive, and judiciary departments of thirteen and more
States, the justices of peace, officers of militia,
ministerial officers of justice, with all the county,
corporation, and town officers, for three millions and
more of people, intermixed, and having particular
acquaintance with every class and circle of people,
must exceed, beyond all proportion, both in number
and influence, those of every description who will be
employed in the administration of the federal system.
Compare the members of the three great departments
of the thirteen States, excluding from the judiciary
department the justices of peace, with the members
of the corresponding departments of the single gov
ernment of the Union ; compare the militia officers
of three millions of people with the military and
marine officers of any establishment which is within
the compass of probability, or, I may add, of possi
bility, and in this view alone, we may pronounce the
advantage of the States to be decisive. If the

Alexander Hamilton

federal government is to have collectors of revenue,
the State governments will have theirs also. And
as those of the former will be principally on the sea-
coast, and not very numerous, whilst those of the
latter will be spread over the face of the country,
and will be very numerous, the advantage in this
view also lies on the same side. It is true, that the
Confederacy is to possess, and may exercise, the
power of collecting internal as well as external taxes
throughout the States; but it is probable that this
power will not be resorted to, except for supple
mental purposes of revenue ; that an option will then
be given to the States to supply their quotas by
previous collections of their own; and that the
eventual collection, under the immediate authority
of the Union, will generally be made by the officers,
and according to the rules, appointed by the several
States. Indeed it is extremely probable, that in
other instances, particularly in the organization of the
judicial power, the officers of the States will be clothed
with the correspondent authority of the Union.
Should it happen, however, that separate collectors
of internal revenue should be appointed under the
federal government, the influence of the whole num
ber would not bear a comparison with that of the
multitude of State officers in the opposite scale.
Within every district to which a federal collector
would be allotted, there would not be less than thirty
or forty, or even more, officers of different descrip
tions, and many of them persons of character and
weight, whose influence would lie on the side of the
State.

The Federalist 385

The powers delegated by the proposed Constitution
to the federal government are few and defined.
Those which are to remain in the State governments
are numerous and indefinite. The former will be
exercised principally on external objects, as war,
peace, negotiation, and foreign commerce; with
which last the power of taxation will, for the most
part, be connected. The powers reserved to the
several States will extend to all the objects which,
in the ordinary course of affairs, concern the lives,
liberties, and properties of the people, and the in
ternal order, improvement, and prosperity of the
State.

The operations of the federal government will be
most extensive and important in times of war and
danger; those of the State governments, in times of
peace and security. As the former periods will
probably bear a small proportion to the latter, the
State governments will here enjoy another advantage
over the federal government. The more adequate,
indeed, the federal powers may be rendered to the
national defence, the less frequent will be those scenes
of danger which might favor their ascendancy over
the governments of the particular States.

If the new Constitution be examined with accuracy
and candor, it will be found that the change which it
proposes consists much less in the addition of NEW
POWERS to the Union, than in the invigoration of its
ORIGINAL POWERS. The regulation of commerce, it
is true, is a new power; but that seems to be an
addition which few oppose, and from which no appre
hensions are entertained. The powers relating to

386 Alexander Hamilton

war and peace, armies and fleets, treaties and finance,
with the other more considerable powers, are all
vested in the existing Congress by the articles of
Confederation. The proposed change does not en
large these powers; it only substitutes a more
effectual mode of administering them. The change
relating to taxation may be regarded as the most
important; and yet the present Congress have as
complete authority to REQUIRE of the States in
definite supplies of money for the common defence
and general welfare, as the future Congress will
have to require them of individual citizens; and the
latter will be no more bound than the States them
selves have been, to pay the quotas respectively
taxed on them. Had the States complied punctually
with the articles of Confederation, or could their
compliance have been enforced by as peaceable means
as may be used with success towards single persons,
our past experience is very far from countenancing
an opinion, that the State governments would have
lost their constitutional powers, and have gradually
undergone an entire consolidation. To maintain
that such an event would have ensued, would be to
say at once, that the existence of the State govern
ments is incompatible with any system whatever that
accomplishes the essential purposes of the Union.

PUBLIUS.

END OF VOL. XI.

-

THIS BOOK IS DUE ON THE LAST DATE
STAMPED BELOW

AN INITIAL FINE OF 25 CENTS
