Speeches of Patrick Henry
Speeches of Patrick Henry
In the Virginia Ratifying Convention
Thursday,
June 5, 1788, Dangerous ambiguities
Saturday,
June 7, 1788, Legitimate government
Monday,
June 9, 1788, Dangers
Thursday,
June 12, 1788, Amendments needed
Friday,
June 13, 1788, New states from territories
Saturday,
June 14, 1788, First speech: Restraint on corruption
Saturday,
June 14, 1788, Second speech: Militia
Saturday,
June 14, 1788, Third speech: Accountability
Monday,
June 16, 1788, First speech: Army
Monday,
June 16, 1788, Second speech: Militia
Monday,
June 16, 1788, Third speech: District of Columbia
Monday,
June 16, 1788, Fourth speech: Bill of Rights
Tuesday,
June 17, 1788, First speech: Implied powers, slavery
Tuesday,
June 17, 1788, Second speech: Habeas corpus, ex post facto
Tuesday,
June 17, 1788, Third speech: National & state debt
Wednesday, June 18, 1788, First speech: Treaty power
Wednesday, June 18, 1788, Second speech: Treaty power
Thursday,
June 19, 1788, Accountability of officials
Friday,
June 20, 1788, Judicial protections
Monday,
June 23, 1788, First speech: Federal judicial supremacy
Monday,
June 23, 1788, Second speech: Trial by jury
Tuesday,
June 24, 1788, First speech: Construction of enumerated rights
Tuesday,
June 24, 1788, Second speech: Reserved powers
Wednesday, June 25, 1788, Rights omitted from
enumeration
Contents
x
x

Mr. PENDLETON. Mr. Chairman, my worthy friend (Mr. Henry) has expressed
great uneasiness in his mind, {36} and informed us that a great many of our
citizens are also extremely uneasy, at the proposal of changing our government;
but that, a year ago, before this fatal system was thought of, the public mind
was at perfect repose. It is necessary to inquire whether the public mind was
at ease on the subject, and if it be since disturbed, what was the cause. What
was the situation of this country before the meeting of the federal Convention?
Our general government was totally inadequate to the purpose of its
institution; our commerce decayed; our finances deranged; public and private
credit destroyed: these and many other national evils rendered necessary the
meeting of that Convention. If the public mind was then at ease, it did not
result from a conviction of being in a happy and easy situation: it must have
been an inactive, unaccountable stupor. The federal Convention devised the
paper on your table as a remedy to remove our political diseases. What has
created the public uneasiness since? Not public reports, which are not to be
depended upon; but mistaken apprehensions of danger, drawn from observations on
government which do not apply to us. When we come to inquire into the origin of
most governments of the world, we shall find that they are generally dictated
by a conqueror, at the point of the sword, or are the offspring of confusion,
when a great popular leader, taking advantage of circumstances, if not
producing them, restores order at the expense of liberty, and becomes the
tyrant over the people. It may well be supposed that, in forming a government
of this sort, it will not be favorable to liberty: the conqueror will take care
of his own emoluments, and have little concern for the interest of the people.
In either case, the interest and ambition of a despot, and not the good of the
people, have given the tone to the government. A government thus formed must
necessarily create a continual war between the governors and governed.
Writers consider the two parties (the people and tyrants) as in a state
of perpetual warfare, and sound the alarm to the people. But what is our case?
We are perfectly free from sedition and war: we are not yet in confusion: we
are left to consider our real happiness and security: we want to secure these
objects: we know they cannot be attained without government. Is there a single
man, in this committee, of a contrary opinion? What was it that brought us from
a {37} state of nature to society, but to secure happiness? And can society be
formed without government? Personify government: apply to it as a friend to
assist you, and it will grant your request. This is the only government founded
in real compact. There is no quarrel between government and liberty; the former
is the shield and protector of the latter. The war is between government and
licentiousness, faction, turbulence, and other violations of the rules of
society, to preserve liberty. Where is the cause of alarm? We, the people,
possessing all power, form a government, such as we think will secure
happiness: and suppose, in adopting this plan, we should be mistaken in the
end; where is the cause of alarm on that quarter? In the same plan we point out
an easy and quiet method of reforming what may be found amiss. No, but, say
gentlemen, we have put the introduction of that method in the hands of our
servants, who will interrupt it from motives of self-interest. What then? We
will resist, did my friend say? conveying an idea of force. Who shall dare to
resist the people? No, we will assemble in Convention; wholly recall our
delegated powers, or reform them so as to prevent such abuse; and punish those
servants who have perverted powers, designed for our happiness, to their own
emolument. We ought to be extremely cautious not to be drawn into dispute with
regular government, by faction and turbulence, its natural enemies. Here, then,
sir, there is no cause of alarm on this side; but on the other side, rejecting
of government, and dissolving of the Union, produce confusion and despotism.
But an objection is made to the form: the expression, We, the people, is
thought improper. Permit me to ask the gentleman who made this objection, who
but the people can delegate powers? Who but the people have a right to form
government? The expression is a common one, and a favorite one with me. The
representatives of the people, by their authority, is a mode wholly
inessential. If the objection be, that the Union ought to be not of the people,
but of the state governments, then I think the choice of the former very happy
and proper. What have the state governments to do with it? Were they to
determine, the people would not, in that case, be the judges upon what terms it
was adopted.
But the power of the Convention is doubted. What is the power? To
propose, not to determine. This power {38} of proposing was very broad; it
extended to remove all defects in government: the members of that Convention,
who were to consider all the defects in our general government, were not
confined to any particular plan. Were they deceived? This is the proper
question here. Suppose the paper on your table dropped from one of the planets;
the people found it, and sent us here to consider whether it was proper for
their adoption; must we not obey them? Then the question must be between this
government and the Confederation. The latter is no government at all. It has
been said that it has carried us, through a dangerous war, to a happy issue.
Not that Confederation, but common danger, and the spirit of America, were
bonds of our union: union and unanimity, and not that insignificant paper,
carried us through that dangerous war. "United, we stand — divided, we
fall!" echoed and reëchoed through America — from Congress to the
drunken carpenter — was effectual, and procured the end of our wishes,
though now forgotten by gentlemen, if such there be, who incline to let go this
stronghold, to catch at feathers; for such all substituted projects may
prove.
This spirit had nearly reached the end of its power when relieved by
peace. It was the spirit of America, and not the Confederation, that carried us
through the war: thus I prove it. The moment of peace showed the imbecility of
the federal government: Congress was empowered to make war and peace; a peace
they made, giving us the great object, independence, and yielding us a
territory that exceeded my most sanguine expectations. Unfortunately, a single
disagreeable clause, not the object of the war, has retarded the performance of
the treaty on our part. Congress could only recommend its performance, not
enforce it; our last Assembly (to their honor be it said) put this on its
proper grounds — on honorable grounds; it was as much as they ought to
have done. This single instance shows the imbecility of the Confederation; the
debts contracted by the war were unpaid; demands were made on Congress; all
that Congress was able to do was to make an estimate of the debt, and
proportion it among the several states; they sent on the requisitions, from
time to time, to the states, for their respective quotas. These were either
complied with partially, or not at all. Repeated demands on Congress distressed
{39} that honorable body; but they were unable to fulfil those engagements, as
they so earnestly wished. What was the idea of other nations respecting
America? What was the idea entertained of us by those nations to whom we were
so much indebted? The inefficacy of the general government warranted an idea
that we had no government at all. Improvements were proposed, and agreed to by
twelve states; but were interrupted, because the little state of Rhode Island
refused to accede to them. This was a further proof of the imbecility of that
government. Need I multiply instances to show that it is wholly ineffectual for
the purposes of its institution? Its whole progress since the peace proves it.
Shall we then, sir, continue under such a government, or shall we
introduce that kind of government which shall produce the real happiness and
security of the people? When gentlemen say that we ought not to introduce this
new government, but strengthen the hands of Congress, they ought to be
explicit. In what manner shall this be done? If the union of the states be
necessary, government must be equally so; for without the latter, the former
cannot be effected. Government must then have its complete powers, or be
ineffectual; a legislature to fix rules, impose sanctions, and point out the
punishment of the transgressors of these rules; an executive to watch over
officers, and bring them to punishment; a judiciary, to guard the innocent, and
fix the guilty, by a fair trial. Without an executive, offenders would not be
brought to punishment; without a judiciary, any man might be taken up,
convicted, and punishment; without a trial. Hence the necessity of having these
three branches. Would any gentleman in this committee agree to vest these three
powers in one body — Congress? No. Hence the necessity of a new
organization and distribution of those powers. If there be any feature in this
government which is not republican, it would be exceptionable. From all the
public servants responsibility is secured, by their being representatives,
mediate or immediate, for short terms, and their powers defined. It is, on the
whole complexion of it, a government of laws, not of men.
But it is represented to be a consolidated government, annihilating that
of the states — a consolidated government, which so extensive a territory
as the United States cannot {40} admit of, without terminating in despotism. If
this be such a government, I will confess, with my worthy friend, that it is
inadmissible over such a territory as this country. Let us consider whether it
be such a government or not. I should understand a consolidated government to
be that which should have the sole and exclusive power, legislative, executive,
and judicial, without any limitation. Is this such a government? Or can it be
changed to such a one? It only extends to the general purposes of the Union. It
does not intermeddle with the local, particular affairs of the states. Can
Congress legislate for the state of Virginia? Can they make a law altering the
form of transferring property, or the rule of descents, in Virginia? In one
word, can they make a single law for the individual, exclusive purpose of any
one state? It is the interest of the federal to preserve the state governments;
upon the latter the existence of the former depends: the Senate derives its
existence immediately from the state legislatures; and the representatives and
President are elected under their direction and control; they also preserve
order among the citizens of their respective states, and without order and
peace no society can possibly exist. Unless, therefore, there be state
legislatures to continue the existence of Congress, and preserve order and
peace among the inhabitants, this general government, which gentlemen suppose
will annihilate the state governments, must itself be destroyed. When,
therefore, the federal government is, in so many respects, so absolutely
dependent on the state governments, I wonder how any gentleman, reflecting on
the subject, could have conceived an idea of a possibility of the former
destroying the latter. But the power of laying direct taxes is objected to.
Government must be supported; this cannot be done without a revenue: if a
sufficient revenue be not otherwise raised, recurrence must be had to direct
taxation; gentleman admit this, but insist on the propriety of first applying
to the state legislatures.
Let us consider the consequence that would result from this. In the
first place, time would be lost by it. Congress would make requisitions in
December; our legislature do not meet till October; here would be a
considerable loss of time, admitting the requisitions to be fully complied
with. But suppose the requisitions to be refused; would it not be dangerous to
send a collector, to collect the Congressional {41} taxes, after the state
legislature had absolutely refused to comply with the demands of Congress?
Would not resistance to collectors be the probable consequence? Would not this
resistance terminate in confusion, and a dissolution of the Union? The
concurrent power of two different bodies laying direct taxes, is objected to.
These taxes are for two different purposes, and cannot interfere with one
another. I can see no danger resulting from this; and we must suppose that a
very small sum more than the impost would be sufficient. But the representation
is supposed too small. I confess, I think with the gentleman who opened the
debate (Mr. Nicholas) on this subject; and I think he gave a very satisfactory
answer to this objection, when he observed that, though the number might be
insufficient to convey information of necessary local interests to a state
legislature, yet it was sufficient for the federal legislature, who are to act
only on general subjects, in which this state is concerned in common with other
states. The apportionment of representation and taxation by the same scale is
just; it removes the objection, that, while Virginia paid one sixth part of the
expenses of the Union, she had no more weight in public counsels than Delaware,
which paid but a very small portion. By this just apportionment she is put on a
footing with the small states, in point of representation and influence in
councils. I cannot imagine a more judicious principle than is here fixed by the
Constitution — the number shall not exceed one for every thirty thousand.
But it is objected that the number may be less. If Virginia sends in that
proportion, I ask, Where is the power in Congress to reject them? States might
incline to send too many; they are therefore restrained: but can it be doubted
that they will send the number they are entitled to? We may be therefore sure,
from this principle unequivocally fixed in the Constitution, that the number of
our representatives will be in proportion to the increase or decrease of our
population. I can truly say that I am of no party, nor actuated by any
influence, but the true interest and real happiness of those whom I represent;
and my age and situation, I trust, will sufficiently demonstrate the truth of
this assertion. I cannot conclude without adding, that I am perfectly satisfied
with this part of the system.
Mr. LEE, (of Westmoreland.) Mr. Chairman, I feel {42} every power of my
mind moved by the language of the honorable gentleman yesterday. The
éclat
and brilliancy which have distinguished that gentleman, the
honors with which he has been dignified, and the brilliant talents which he has
so often displayed, have attracted my respect and attention. On so important an
occasion, and before so respectable a body, I expected a new display of his
powers of oratory; but, instead of proceeding to investigate the merits of the
new plan of government, the worthy character informed us of horrors which he
felt, of apprehensions to his mind, which made him tremblingly fearful of the
fate of the commonwealth. Mr. Chairman, was it proper to appeal to the fears of
this house? The question before us belongs to the judgment of this house. I
trust he is come to judge, and not to alarm. I trust that he, and every other
gentleman in this house, comes with a firm resolution coolly and calmly to
examine, and fairly and impartially to determine. He was pleased to pass a
eulogium on that character who is the pride of peace and support of war; and
declared that even from him he would require the reason of proposing such a
system. I cannot see the propriety of mentioning that illustrious character on
this occasion; we must be all fully impressed with a conviction of his extreme
rectitude of conduct. But, sir, this system is to be examined by its own merit.
He then adverted to the style of government, and asked what authority they had
to use the expression, "We, the people," and not We, the states. This
expression was introduced into that paper with great propriety. This system is
submitted to the people for their consideration, because on them it is to
operate, if adopted. It is not binding on the people until it becomes their
act. It is now submitted to the people of Virginia. If we do not adopt it, it
will be always null and void as to us. Suppose it was found proper for our
adoption, and becoming the government of the people of Virginia; by what style
should it be done? Ought we not to make use of the name of the people? No other
style would be proper. He then spoke of the characters of the gentlemen who
framed it. This was inapplicable, strange, and unexpected: it was a more proper
inquiry whether such evils existed as rendered necessary a change of
government.
This necessity is evidenced by the concurrent testimony of almost all
America. The legislative acts of different {43} states avow it. It is
acknowledged by the acts of this state; under such an act we are here now
assembled. If reference to the acts of the assemblies will not sufficiently
convince him of this necessity, let him go to our seaports; let him see our
commerce languishing — not an American bottom to be seen; let him ask the
price of land, and of produce, in different parts of the country: to what cause
shall we ascribe the very low prices of these? To what cause are we to
attribute the decrease of population and industry, and the impossibility of
employing our tradesmen and mechanics? To what cause will the gentleman impute
these and a thousand other misfortunes our people labor under? These, sir, are
owing to the imbecility of the Confederation; to that defective system which
never can make us happy at home nor respectable abroad. The gentleman sat down
as he began, leaving us to ruminate on the horrors which he opened with.
Although I could trust to the argument of the gentleman who spoke yesterday in
favor of the plan, permit me to make one observation on the weight of our
representatives in the government. If the House of Commons, in England,
possessing less power, are now able to withstand the power of the crown, —
if that House of Commons, which has been undermined by corruption in every age,
and contaminated by bribery even in this enlightened age, with far less powers
than our representatives possess, is still able to contend with the executive
of that country, — what danger have we to fear that our representatives
cannot successfully oppose the encroachments of the other branches of the
government? Let it be remembered that, in the year 1782, the East India Bill
was brought into the House of Commons. Although the members of that house are
only elected in part by the landed interest, yet, in spite of ministerial
influence, that bill was carried in that house by a majority of one hundred and
thirty, and the king was obliged to dissolve the Parliament to prevent its
effect. If, then, the House of Commons was so powerful, no danger can be
apprehended that our House of Representatives is not amply able to protect our
liberties. I trust that this representation is sufficient to secure our
happiness, and that we may fairly congratulate ourselves on the superiority of
our government to that I just referred to.
Mr. HENRY. Mr. Chairman, I am much obliged to the
{44} very worthy gentleman for his encomium. I wish I was possessed with
talents, or possessed of any thing that might enable me to elucidate this great
subject. I am not free from suspicion: I am apt to entertain doubts. I rose
yesterday to ask a question which arose in my own mind. When I asked that
question, I thought the meaning of my interrogation was obvious. The fate of
this question and of America may depend on this. Have they said, We, the
states? Have they made a proposal of a compact between states? If they had,
this would be a confederation. It is otherwise most clearly a consolidated
government. The question turns, sir, on that poor little thing — the
expression, We, the
people
, instead of the
states
, of America. I
need not take much pains to show that the principles of this system are
extremely pernicious, impolitic, and dangerous. Is this a monarchy, like
England — a compact between prince and people, with checks on the former
to secure the liberty of the latter? Is this a confederacy, like Holland —
an association of a number of independent states, each of which retains its
individual sovereignty? It is not a democracy, wherein the people retain all
their rights securely. Had these principles been adhered to, we should not have
been brought to this alarming transition, from a confederacy to a consolidated
government. We have no detail of these great considerations, which, in my
opinion, ought to have abounded before we should recur to a government of this
kind. Here is a revolution as radical as that which separated us from Great
Britain. It is radical in this transition; our rights and privileges are
endangered, and the sovereignty of the states will be relinquished: and cannot
we plainly see that this is actually the case? The rights of conscience, trial
by jury, liberty of the press, all your immunities and franchises, all
pretensions to human rights and privileges, are rendered insecure, if not lost,
by this change, so loudly talked of by some, and inconsiderately by others. Is
this tame relinquishment of rights worthy of freemen? Is it worthy of that
manly fortitude that ought to characterize republicans? It is said eight states
have adopted this plan. I declare that if twelve states and a half had adopted
it, I would, with manly firmness, and in spite of an erring world, reject it.
You are not to inquire how your trade may be increased, nor how you are to
become a great and powerful {45} people, but how your liberties can be secured;
for liberty ought to be the direct end of your government.
Having premised these things, I shall, with the aid of my judgment and
information, which, I confess, are not extensive, go into the discussion of
this system more minutely. Is it necessary for your liberty that you should
abandon those great rights by the adoption of this system? Is the
relinquishment of the trial by jury and the liberty of the press necessary for
your liberty? Will the abandonment of your most sacred rights tend to the
security of your liberty? Liberty, the greatest of all earthly blessing —
give us that precious jewel, and you may take every thing else! But I am
fearful I have lived long enough to become an old-fashioned fellow. Perhaps an
invincible attachment to the dearest rights of man may, in these refined,
enlightened days, be deemed old-fashioned; if so, I am contented to be so. I
say, the time has been when every pulse of my heart beat for American liberty,
and which, I believe, had a counterpart in the breast of every true American;
but suspicions have gone forth — suspicions of my integrity —
publicly reported that my professions are not real. Twenty-three years ago was
I supposed a traitor to my country? I was then said to be the bane of sedition,
because I supported the rights of my country. I may be thought suspicious when
I say our privileges and rights are in danger. But, sir, a number of the people
of this country are weak enough to think these things are too true. I am happy
to find that the gentleman on the other side declares they are groundless. But,
sir, suspicion is a virtue as long as its object is the preservation of the
public good, and as long as it stays within proper bounds: should it fall on
me, I am contented: conscious rectitude is a powerful consolation. I trust
there are many who think my professions for the public good to be real. Let
your suspicion look to both sides. There are many on the other side, who
possibly may have been persuaded to the necessity of these measures, which I
conceive to be dangerous to your liberty. Guard with jealous attention the
public liberty. Suspect every one who approaches that jewel. Unfortunately,
nothing will preserve it but downright force. Whenever you give up that force,
you are inevitably ruined. I am answered by gentlemen, that, though I might
speak of terrors, yet the fact was, that we were surrounded by none of the {46}
dangers I apprehended. I conceive this new government to be one of those
dangers: it has produced those horrors which distress many of our best
citizens. We are come hither to preserve the poor commonwealth of Virginia, if
it can be possibly done: something must be done to preserve your liberty and
mine. The Confederation, this same despised government, merits, in my opinion,
the highest encomium: it carried us through a long and dangerous war; it
rendered us victorious in that bloody conflict with a powerful nation; it has
secured us a territory greater than any European monarch possesses: and shall a
government which has been thus strong and vigorous, be accused of imbecility,
and abandoned for want of energy? Consider what you are about to do before you
part with the government. Take longer time in reckoning things; revolutions
like this have happened in almost every country in Europe; similar examples are
to be found in ancient Greece and ancient Rome — instances of the people
losing their liberty by their own carelessness and the ambition of a few. We
are cautioned by the honorable gentleman, who presides, against faction and
turbulence. I acknowledge that licentiousness is dangerous, and that it ought
to be provided against: I acknowledge, also, the new form of government may
effectually prevent it: yet there is another thing it will as effectually do
— it will oppress and ruin the people.
There are sufficient guards placed against sedition and licentiousness;
for, when power is given to this government to suppress these, or for any other
purpose, the language it assumes is clear, express, and unequivocal; but when
this Constitution speaks of privileges, there is an ambiguity, sir, a fatal
ambiguity — an ambiguity which is very astonishing. In the clause under
consideration, there is the strangest language that I can conceive. I mean,
when it says that there shall not be more representatives than one for every
thirty thousand. Now, sir, how easy is it to evade this privilege! "The number
shall not exceed one for every thirty thousand." This may be satisfied by one
representative from each state. Let our numbers be ever so great, this immense
continent may, by this artful expression, be reduced to have but thirteen
representatives. I confess this construction is not natural; but the ambiguity
of the expression lays a good ground for a quarrel. Why was it not clearly and
unequivocally {47} expressed, that they should be entitled to have one for
every thirty thousand? This would have obviated all disputes; and was this
difficult to be done? What is the inference? When population increases, and a
state shall send representatives in this proportion, Congress may remand them,
because the right of having one for every thirty thousand is not clearly
expressed. This possibility of reducing the number to one for each state
approximates to probability by that other expression — "but each state
shall at least have one representative." Now, is it not clear that, from the
first expression, the number might be reduced so much that some states should
have no representatives at all, were it not for the insertion of this last
expression? And as this is the only restriction upon them, we may fairly
conclude that they may restrain the number to one from each state. Perhaps the
same horrors may hang over my mind again. I shall be told I am continually
afraid: but, sir, I have strong cause of apprehension. In some parts of the
plan before you, the great rights of freemen are endangered; in other parts,
absolutely taken away. How does your trial by jury stand? In civil cases gone
— not sufficiently secured in criminal — this best privilege is gone.
But we are told that we need not fear; because those in power, being our
representatives, will not abuse the powers we put in their hands. I am not well
versed in history, but I will submit to your recollection, whether liberty has
been destroyed most often by the licentiousness of the people, or by the
tyranny of rulers. I imagine, sir, you will find the balance on the side of
tyranny. Happy will you be if you miss the fate of those nations, who, omitting
to resist their oppressors, or negligently suffering their liberty to be
wrested from them, have groaned under intolerable despotism! Most of the human
race are now in this deplorable condition; and those nations who have gone in
search of grandeur, power, and splendor, have also fallen a sacrifice, and been
the victims of their own folly. While they acquired those visionary blessings,
they lost their freedom. My great objection to this government is, that it does
not leave us the means of defending our rights, or of waging war against
tyrants. It is urged by some gentlemen, that this new plan will bring us an
acquisition of strength — an army, and the militia of the states. This is
an idea extremely ridiculous: gentlemen cannot be earnest. This acquisition
{48} will trample on our fallen liberty. Let my beloved Americans guard against
that fatal lethargy that has pervaded the universe. Have we the means of
resisting disciplined armies, when our only defence, the militia, is put into
the hands of Congress? The honorable gentleman said that great danger would
ensue if the Convention rose without adopting this system. I ask, Where is that
danger? I see none. Other gentlemen have told us, within these walls, that the
union is gone, or that the union will be gone. Is not this trifling with the
judgment of their fellow-citizens? Till they tell us the grounds of their
fears, I will consider them as imaginary. I rose to make inquiry where those
dangers were; they could make no answer: I believe I never shall have that
answer. Is there a disposition in the people of this country to revolt against
the dominion of laws? Has there been a single tumult in Virginia? Have not the
people of Virginia, when laboring under the severest pressure of accumulated
distresses, manifested the most cordial acquiescence in the execution of the
laws? What could be more awful than their unanimous acquiescence under general
distresses? Is there any revolution in Virginia? Whither is the spirit of
America gone? Whither is the genius of America fled? It was but yesterday, when
our enemies marched in triumph through our country. Yet the people of this
country could not be appalled by their pompous armaments: they stopped their
carer, and victoriously captured them. Where is the peril, now, compared to
that? Some minds are agitated by foreign alarms. Happily for us, there is no
real danger from Europe; that country is engaged in more arduous business: from
that quarter there is no cause of fear: you may sleep in safety forever for
them.
Where is the danger? If, sir, there was any, I would recur to the
American spirit to defend us; that spirit which has enabled us to surmount the
greatest difficulties: to that illustrious spirit I address my most fervent
prayer to prevent our adopting a system destructive to liberty. Let not
gentlemen be told that it is not safe to reject this government. Wherefore is
it not safe? We are told there are dangers, but those dangers are ideal; they
cannot be demonstrated. To encourage us to adopt it, they tell us that there is
a plain, easy way of getting amendments. When I come to contemplate this part,
I suppose that I am mad, or that my {49} countrymen are so. The way to
amendment is, in my conception, shut. Let us consider this plain, easy way.
"The Congress, whenever two thirds of both houses shall deem it necessary,
shall propose amendments to this Constitution, or, on the application of the
legislatures of two thirds of the several states, shall call a Convention for
proposing amendments, which, in either case, shall be valid to all intents and
purposes, as part of this Constitution, when ratified by the legislatures of
three fourths of the several states, or by the Conventions in three fourths
thereof, as the one or the other mode of ratification may be proposed by the
Congress. Provided, that no amendment which may be made prior to the year 1808,
shall in any manner affect the 1st and 4th clauses in the 9th section of the
1st article; and that no state, without its consent, shall be deprived of its
equal suffrage in the Senate."
Hence it appears that three fourths of the states must ultimately agree
to any amendments that may be necessary. Let us consider the consequence of
this. However uncharitable it may appear, yet I must tell my opinion —
that the most unworthy characters may get into power, and prevent the
introduction of amendments. Let us suppose — for the case is supposable,
possible, and probable — that you happen to deal those powers to unworthy
hands; will they relinquish powers already in their possession, or agree to
amendments? Two thirds of the Congress, or of the state legislatures, are
necessary even to propose amendments. If one third of these be unworthy men,
they may prevent the application for amendments; but what is destructive and
mischievous, is, that three fourths of the state legislatures, or of the state
conventions, must concur in the amendments when proposed! In such numerous
bodies, there must necessarily be some designing, bad men. To suppose that so
large a number as three fourths of the states will concur, is to suppose that
they will possess genius, intelligence, and integrity, approaching to
miraculous. It would indeed be miraculous that they should concur in the same
amendments, or even in such as would bear some likeness to one another; for
four of the smallest states, that do not collectively contain one tenth part of
the population of the United States, may obstruct the most salutary and
necessary amendments. Nay, in these four states, six tenths of the people may
reject {50} these amendments; and suppose that amendments shall be opposed to
amendments, which is highly probable, — is it possible that three fourths
can ever agree to the same amendments? A bare majority in these four small
states may hinder the adoption of amendments; so that we may fairly and justly
conclude that one twentieth part of the American people may prevent the removal
of the most grievous inconveniences and oppression, by refusing to accede to
amendments. A trifling minority may reject the most salutary amendments. Is
this an easy mode of securing the public liberty It is, sir, a most fearful
situation, when the most contemptible minority can prevent the alteration of
the most oppressive government; for it may, in many respects, prove to be such.
Is this the spirit of republicanism?
What, sir, is the genius of democracy? Let me read that clause of the
bill of rights of Virginia which relates to this: 3d clause: — that
government is, or ought to be, instituted for the common benefit, protection,
and security of the people, nation, or community. Of all the various modes and
forms of government, that is best, which is capable of producing the greatest
degree of happiness and safety, and is most effectually secured against the
danger of mal-administration; and that whenever any government shall be found
inadequate, or contrary to those purposes, a majority of the community hath an
indubitable, unalienable, and indefeasible right to reform, alter, or abolish
it, in such manner as shall be judged most conducive to the public weal.
This, sir, is the language of democracy — that a majority of the
community have a right to alter government when found to be oppressive. But how
different is the genius of your new Constitution from this! How different from
the sentiments of freemen, that a contemptible minority can prevent the good of
the majority! If, then, gentlemen, standing on this ground, are come to that
point, that they are willing to bind themselves and their posterity to be
oppressed, I am amazed and inexpressibly astonished. If this be the opinion of
the majority, I must submit; but to me, sir, it appears perilous and
destructive. I cannot help thinking so. Perhaps it may be the result of my age.
These may be feelings natural to a man of my years, when the American spirit
has left him, and his mental powers, like the members of the body, are decayed.
If, sir, amendments {51} are left to the twentieth, or tenth part of the people
of America, your liberty is gone forever. We have heard that there is a great
deal of bribery practised in the House of Commons, in England, and that many of
the members raise themselves to preferments by selling the rights of the whole
of the people. But, sir, the tenth part of that body cannot continue oppression
on the rest of the people. English liberty is, in this case, on a firmer
foundation than American liberty. It will be easily contrived to procure the
opposition of one tenth of the people to any alteration, however judicious. The
honorable gentleman who presides told us that, to prevent abuses in our
government, we will assemble in Convention, recall our delegated powers, and
punish our servants for abusing the trust reposed in them. O sir, we should
have fine times, indeed, if, to punish tyrants, it were only sufficient to
assemble the people! Your arms, wherewith you could defend yourselves, are
gone; and you have no longer an aristocratical, no longer a democratical
spirit. Did you ever read of any revolution in a nation, brought about by the
punishment of those in power, inflicted by those who had no power at all? You
read of a riot act in a country which is called one of the freest in the world,
where a few neighbors cannot assemble without the risk of being shot by a hired
soldiery, the engines of despotism. We may see such an act in America.
A standing army we shall have, also, to execute the execrable commands
of tyranny; and how are you to punish them? Will you order them to be punished?
Who shall obey these orders? Will your mace-bearer be a match for a disciplined
regiment? In what situation are we to be? The clause before you gives a power
of direct taxation, unbounded and unlimited, exclusive power of legislation, in
all cases whatsoever, for ten miles square, and over all places purchased for
the erection of forts, magazines, arsenals, dockyards, &c. What resistance
could be made? The attempt would be madness. You will find all the strength of
this country in the hands of your enemies; their garrisons will naturally be
the strongest places in the country. Your militia is given up to Congress,
also, in another part of this plan: they will therefore act as they think
proper: all power will be in their own possession. You cannot force them to
receive their punishment: of what service would militia be to you, {52} when,
most probably, you will not have a single musket in the state? for, as arms are
to be provided by Congress, they may or may not furnish them.
Let me here call your attention to that part which gives the Congress
power "to provide for organizing, arming, and disciplining the militia, and for
governing such part of them as may be employed in the service of the United
States — reserving to the states, respectively, the appointment of the
officers, and the authority of training the militia according to the discipline
prescribed by Congress." By this, sir, you see that their control over our last
and best defence is unlimited. If they neglect or refuse to discipline or arm
our militia, they will be useless: the states can do neither — this power
being exclusively given to Congress. The power of appointing officers over men
not disciplined or armed is ridiculous; so that this pretended little remains
of power left to the states may, at the pleasure of Congress, be rendered
nugatory. Our situation will be deplorable indeed: nor can we ever expect to
get this government amended, since I have already shown that a very small
minority may prevent it, and that small minority interested in the continuance
of the oppression. Will the oppressor let go the oppressed? Was there ever an
instance? Can the annals of mankind exhibit one single example where rulers
overcharged with power willingly let go the oppressed, though solicited and
requested most earnestly? The application for amendments will therefore be
fruitless. Sometimes, the oppressed have got loose by one of those bloody
struggles that desolate a country; but a willing relinquishment of power is one
of those things which human nature never was, nor ever will be, capable of.
The honorable gentleman's observations, respecting the people's right of
being the agents in the formation of this government, are not accurate, in my
humble conception. The distinction between a national government and a
confederacy is not sufficiently discerned. Had the delegates, who were sent to
Philadelphia, a power to propose a consolidated government instead of a
confederacy? Were they not deputed by states, and not by the people? The assent
of the people, in their collective capacity, is not necessary to the formation
of a federal government. The people have no right to enter into leagues,
alliances, or confederations; {53} they are not the proper agents for this
purpose. States and foreign powers are the only proper agents for this kind of
government. Show me an instance where the people have exercised this business.
Has it not always gone through the legislatures? I refer you to the treaties
with France, Holland, and other nations. How were they made? Were they not made
by the states? Are the people, therefore, in their aggregate capacity, the
proper persons to form a confederacy? This, therefore, ought to depend on the
consent of the legislatures, the people having never sent delegates to make any
proposition for changing the government. Yet I must say, at the same time, that
it was made on grounds the most pure; and perhaps I might have been brought to
consent to it so far as to the change of government. But there is one thing in
it which I never would acquiesce in. I mean, the changing it into a
consolidated government, which is so abhorrent to my mind. [The honorable
gentleman then went on to the figure we make with foreign nations; the
contemptible one we make in France and Holland; which, according to the
substance of the notes, he attributes to the present feeble government.] An
opinion has gone forth, we find, that we are contemptible people: the time has
been when we were thought otherwise. Under the same despised government, we
commanded the respect of all Europe: wherefore are we now reckoned otherwise?
The American spirit has fled from hence: it has gone to regions where it has
never been expected; it has gone to the people of France, in search of a
splendid government — a strong, energetic government. Shall we imitate the
example of those nations who have gone from a simple to a splendid government?
Are those nations more worthy of our imitation? What can make an adequate
satisfaction to them for the loss they have suffered in attaining such a
government — for the loss of their liberty? If we admit this consolidated
government, it will be because we like a great, splendid one. Some way or other
we must be a great and mighty empire; we must have an army, and a navy, and a
number of things. When the American spirit was in its youth, the language of
America was different: liberty, sir, was then the primary object. We are
descended from a people whose government was founded on liberty: our glorious
forefathers of Great Britain made liberty the foundation {54} of every thing.
That country is become a great, mighty, and splendid nation; not because their
government is strong and energetic, but, sir, because liberty is its direct end
and foundation. We drew the spirit of liberty from our British ancestors: by
that spirit we have triumphed over every difficulty. But now, sir, the American
spirit, assisted by the ropes and chains of consolidation, is about to convert
this country into a powerful and mighty empire. If you make the citizens of
this country agree to become the subjects of one great consolidated empire of
America, your government will not have sufficient energy to keep them together.
Such a government is incompatible with the genius of republicanism. There will
be no checks, no real balances, in this government. What can avail your
specious, imaginary balances, your rope-dancing, chain-rattling, ridiculous
ideal checks and contrivances? But, sir, we are not feared by foreigners; we do
not make nations tremble. Would this constitute happiness, or secure liberty? I
trust, sir, our political hemisphere will ever direct their operations to the
security of those objects.
Consider our situation, sir: go to the poor man, and ask him what he
does. He will inform you that he enjoys the fruits of his labor, under his own
fig-tree, with his wife and children around him, in peace and security. Go to
every other member of society, — you will find the same tranquil ease and
content; you will find no alarms or disturbances. Why, then, tell us of danger,
to terrify us into an adoption of this new form of government? And yet who
knows the dangers that this new system may produce? They are out of the sight
of the common people: they cannot foresee latent consequences. I dread the
operation of it on the middling and lower classes of people: it is for them I
fear the adoption of this system. I fear I tire the patience of the committee;
but I beg to be indulged with a few more observations. When I thus profess
myself an advocate for the liberty of the people, I shall be told I am a
designing man, that I am to be a great man, that I am to be a demagogue; and
many similar illiberal insinuations will be thrown out: but, sir, conscious
rectitude outweighs those things with me. I see great jeopardy in this new
government. I see none from our present one. I hope some gentleman or other
will bring forth, in full array, those {55} dangers, if there be any, that we
may see and touch them. I have said that I thought this a consolidated
government: I will now prove it. Will the great rights of the people be secured
by this government? Suppose it should prove oppressive, how can it be altered?
Our bill of rights declares, "that a majority of the community hath an
indubitable, unalienable, and indefeasible right to reform, alter, or abolish
it, in such manner as shall be judged most conducive to the public weal."
I have just proved that one tenth, or less, of the people of America
— a most despicable minority — may prevent this reform or alteration.
Suppose the people of Virginia should wish to alter their government; can a
majority of them do it? No; because they are connected with other men, or, in
other words, consolidated with other states. When the people of Virginia, at a
future day, shall wish to alter their government, though they should be
unanimous in this desire, yet they may be prevented therefrom by a despicable
minority at the extremity of the United States. The founders of your own
Constitution made your government changeable: but the power of changing it is
gone from you. Whither is it gone? It is placed in the same hands that hold the
rights of twelve other states; and those who hold those rights have right and
power to keep them. It is not the particular government of Virginia: one of the
leading features of that government is, that a majority can alter it, when
necessary for the public good. This government is not a Virginian, but an
American government. Is it not, therefore, a consolidated government? The sixth
clause of your bill of rights tells you, "that elections of members to serve as
representatives of the people in Assembly ought to be free, and that all men
having sufficient evidence of permanent common interest with, and attachment
to, the community, have the right of suffrage, and cannot be
taxed
, or
deprived of their property for public uses, without their own consent, or that
of their representatives so elected, nor bound by any law to which they have
not in like manner assented for the public good." But what does this
Constitution say? The clause under consideration gives an unlimited and
unbounded power of taxation. Suppose every delegate from Virginia opposes a law
laying a tax; what will it avail? They are opposed by a majority; eleven
members can destroy their efforts: {56} those feeble ten cannot prevent the
passing the most oppressive tax law; so that, in direct opposition to the
spirit and express language of your declaration of rights, you are taxed, not
by your own consent, but by people who have no connection with you.
The next clause of the bill of rights tells you, "that all power of
suspending law, or the execution of laws, by any authority, without the consent
of the representatives of the people, is injurious to their rights, and ought
not to be exercised." This tells us that there can be no suspension of
government or laws without our own consent; yet this Constitution can
counteract and suspend any of our laws that contravene its oppressive
operation; for they have the power of direct taxation, which suspends our bill
of rights; and it is expressly provided that they can make all laws necessary
for carrying their powers into execution; and it is declared paramount to the
laws and constitutions of the states. Consider how the only remaining defence
we have left is destroyed in this manner. Besides the expenses of maintaining
the Senate and other house in as much splendor as they please, there is to be a
great and mighty President, with very extensive powers — the powers of a
king. He is to be supported in extravagant magnificence; so that the whole of
our property may be taken by this American government, by laying what taxes
they please, giving themselves what salaries they please, and suspending our
laws at their pleasure. I might be thought too inquisitive, but I believe I
should take up very little of your time in enumerating the little power that is
left to the government of Virginia; for this power is reduced to little or
nothing: their garrisons, magazines, arsenals, and forts, which will be
situated in the strongest places within the states; their ten miles square,
with all the fine ornaments of human life, added to their powers, and taken
from the states, will reduce the power of the latter to nothing.
The voice of tradition, I trust, will inform posterity of our struggles
for freedom. If our descendants be worthy the name of Americans, they will
preserve, and hand down to their latest posterity, the transactions of the
present times; and, though I confess my exclamations are not worthy the
hearing, they will see that I have done my utmost to preserve their liberty;
for I never will give up the power of direct taxation but for a scourge. I am
willing to give it conditionally; {57} that is, after non-compliance with
requisitions. I will do more, sir, and what I hope will convince the most
skeptical man that I am a lover of the American Union — that, in case
Virginia shall not make punctual payment, the control of our custom-houses, and
the whole regulation of trade, shall be given to Congress, and that Virginia
shall depend on Congress even for passports, till Virginia shall have paid the
last farthing, and furnished the last soldier. Nay, sir, there is another
alternative to which I would consent; — even that they should strike us
out of the Union, and take away from us all federal privileges, till we comply
with federal requisitions: but let it depend upon our own pleasure to pay our
money in the most easy manner for our people. Were all the states, more
terrible than the mother country, to join against us, I hope Virginia could
defend herself; but, sir, the dissolution of the Union is most abhorrent to my
mind. The first thing I have at heart is American liberty: the second thing is
American union; and I hope the people of Virginia will endeavor to preserve
that union. The increasing population of the Southern States is far greater
than that of New England; consequently, in a short time, they will be far more
numerous than the people of that country. Consider this, and you will find this
state more particularly interested to support American liberty, and not bind
our posterity by an improvident relinquishment of our rights. I would give the
best security for a punctual compliance with requisitions; but I beseech
gentlemen, at all hazards, not to give up this unlimited power of taxation. The
honorable gentleman has told us that these powers, given to Congress, are
accompanied by a judiciary which will correct all. On examination, you will
find this very judiciary oppressively constructed; your jury trial destroyed,
and the judges dependent on Congress.
In this scheme of energetic government, the people will find two sets of
tax-gatherers — the state and the federal sheriffs. This, it seems to me,
will produce such dreadful oppression as the people cannot possibly bear. The
federal sheriff may commit what oppression, make what distresses, he pleases,
and ruin you with impunity; for how are you to tie his hands? Have you any
sufficiently decided means of preventing him from sucking your blood by
speculations, commissions, and fees? Thus thousands of your people will be most
shamefully robbed: our state sheriffs, those unfeeling blood-suckers {58} have,
under the watchful eye of our legislature, committed the most horrid and
barbarous ravages on our people. It has required the most constant vigilance of
the legislature to keep them from totally ruining the people; a repeated
succession of laws has been made to suppress their iniquitous speculations and
cruel extortions; and as often has their nefarious ingenuity devised methods of
evading the force of those laws: in the struggle they have generally triumphed
over the legislature.
It is a fact that lands have been sold for five shillings, which were
worth one hundred pounds: if sheriffs, thus immediately under the eye of our
state legislature and judiciary, have dared to commit these outrages, what
would they not have done if their masters had been at Philadelphia or New York?
If they perpetrate the most unwarrantable outrage on your person or property,
you cannot get redress on this side of Philadelphia or New York; and how can
you get it there? If your domestic avocations could permit you to go thither,
there you must appeal to judges sworn to support this Constitution, in
opposition to that of any state, and who may also be inclined to favor their
own officers. When these harpies are aided by excisemen, who may search, at any
time, your houses, and most secret recesses, will the people bear it? If you
think so, you differ from me. Where I thought there was a possibility of such
mischiefs, I would grant power with a niggardly hand; and here there is a
strong probability that these oppressions shall actually happen. I may be told
that it is safe to err on that side, because such regulations may be made by
Congress as shall restrain these officers, and because laws are made by our
representatives, and judged by righteous judges: but, sir, as these regulations
may be made, so they may not; and many reasons there are to induce a belief
that they will not. I shall therefore be an infidel on that point till the day
of my death.
This Constitution is said to have beautiful features; but when I come to
examine these features, sir, they appear to me horribly frightful. Among other
deformities, it has an awful squinting; it squints towards monarchy; and does
not this raise indignation in the breast of every true American?
Your President may easily become king. Your Senate is so imperfectly
constructed that your dearest rights may be sacrificed by what may be a small
minority; and a very small minority may continue forever unchangeably this
government, {59} although horridly defective. Where are your checks in this
government? Your strongholds will be in the hands of your enemies. It is on a
supposition that your American governors shall be honest, that all the good
qualities of this government are founded; but its defective and imperfect
construction puts it in their power to perpetrate the worst of mischiefs,
should they be bad men; and, sir, would not all the world, from the eastern to
the western hemisphere, blame our distracted folly in resting our rights upon
the contingency of our rulers being good or bad? Show me that age and country
where the rights and liberties of the people were placed on the sole chance of
their rulers being good men, without a consequent loss of liberty! I say that
the loss of that dearest privilege has ever followed, with absolute certainty,
every such mad attempt.
If your American chief be a man of ambition and abilities, how easy is
it for him to render himself absolute! The army is in his hands, and if he be a
man of address, it will be attached to him, and it will be the subject of long
meditation with him to seize the first auspicious moment to accomplish his
design; and, sir, will the American spirit solely relieve you when this
happens? I would rather infinitely — and I am sure most of this Convention
are of the same opinion — have a king, lords, and commons, than a
government so replete with such insupportable evils. If we make a king, we may
prescribe the rules by which he shall rule his people, and interpose such
checks as shall prevent him from infringing them; but the President, in the
field, at the head of his army, can prescribe the terms on which he shall reign
master, so far that it will puzzle any American ever to get his neck from under
the galling yoke. I cannot with patience think of this idea. If ever he
violates the laws, one of two things will happen: he will come at the head of
his army, to carry every thing before him; or he will give bail, or do what Mr.
Chief Justice will order him. If he be guilty, will not the recollection of his
crimes teach him to make one bold push for the American throne? Will not the
immense difference between being master of every thing, and being ignominiously
tried and punished, powerfully excite him to make this bold push? But, sir,
where is the existing force to punish him? Can he not, at the head of his army,
beat down every opposition? Away with your {60} President! we shall have a
king: the army will salute him monarch: your militia will leave you, and assist
in making him king, and fight against you: and what have you to oppose this
force? What will then become of you and your rights? Will not absolute
despotism ensue?
[Here Mr. HENRY strongly and pathetically expatiated on
the probability of the President's enslaving America, and the horrid
consequences that must result.]
What can be more defective than the clause concerning the elections? The
control given to Congress over the time, place, and manner of holding
elections, will totally destroy the end of suffrage. The elections may be held
at one place, and the most inconvenient in the state; or they may be at remote
distances from those who have a right of suffrage: hence nine out of ten must
either not vote at all, or vote for strangers; for the most influential
characters will be applied to, to know who are the most proper to be chosen. I
repeat, that the control of Congress over the
manner
, &c., of
electing, well warrants this idea. The natural consequence will be, that this
democratic branch will possess none of the public confidence; the people will
be prejudiced against representatives chosen in such an injudicious manner. The
proceedings in the northern conclave will be hidden from the yeomanry of this
country. We are told that the yeas and nays shall be taken, and entered on the
journals. This, sir, will avail nothing: it may be locked up in their chests,
and concealed forever from the people; for they are not to publish what parts
they think require secrecy: they
may
think, and
will think
, the
whole requires it. Another beautiful feature of this Constitution is, the
publication from time to time of the receipts and expenditures of the public
money.
This expression,
from time to time
, is very indefinite and
indeterminate: it may extend to a century. Grant that any of them are wicked;
they may squander the public money so as to ruin you, and yet this expression
will give you no redress. I say they may ruin you; for where, sir, is the
responsibility? The yeas and nays will show you nothing, unless they be fools
as well as knaves; for, after having wickedly trampled on the rights of the
people, they would act like fools indeed, were they to public and divulge {61}
their iniquity, when they have it equally in their power to suppress and
conceal it. Where is the responsibility — that leading principle in the
British government? In that government, a punishment certain and inevitable is
provided; but in this, there is no real, actual punishment for the grossest
mal-administration. They may go without punishment, though they commit the most
outrageous violation on our immunities. That paper may tell me they will be
punished. I ask, By what law? They must make the law, for there is no existing
law to do it. What! will they make a law to punish themselves?
This, sir, is my great objection to the Constitution, that there is no
true responsibility — and that the preservation of our liberty depends on
the single chance of men being virtuous enough to make laws to punish
themselves.
In the country from which we are descended, they have real and not
imaginary responsibility; for their mal-administration has cost their heads to
some of the most saucy geniuses that ever were. The Senate, by making treaties,
may destroy your liberty and laws for want of responsibility. Two thirds of
those that shall happen to be present, can, with the President, make treaties
that shall be the supreme law of the land; they may make the most ruinous
treaties; and yet there is no punishment for them. Whoever shows me a
punishment provided for them will oblige me. So, sir, notwithstanding there are
eight pillars, they want another. Where will they make another? I trust, sir,
the exclusion of the evils wherewith this system is replete in its present
form, will be made a condition precedent to its adoption by this or any other
state. The transition, from a general unqualified admission to offices, to a
consolidation of government, seems easy; for, though the American states are
dissimilar in their structure, this will assimilate them. This, sir, is itself
a strong consolidating feature, and is not one of the least dangerous in that
system. Nine states are sufficient to establish this government over those
nine. Imagine that nine have come into it. Virginia has certain scruples.
Suppose she will, consequently, refuse to join with those states; may not she
still continue in friendship and union with them? If she sends her annual
requisitions in dollars, do you think their stomachs will be so squeamish as to
refuse her dollars? Will they not accept her regiments? {62} They would
intimidate you into an inconsiderate adoption, and frighten you with ideal
evils, and that the Union shall be dissolved. 'Tis a bugbear, sir: the fact is,
sir, that the eight adopting states can hardly stand on their own legs. Public
fame tells us that the adopting states have already heart-burnings and
animosity, and repent their precipitate hurry: this, sir, may occasion
exceeding great mischief. When I reflect on these and many other circumstances,
I must think those states will be found to be in confederacy with us. If we pay
our quota of money annually, and furnish our ratable number of men, when
necessary, I can see no danger from a rejection.
The history of Switzerland clearly proves that we might be in amicable
alliance with those states without adopting this Constitution. Switzerland is a
confederacy, consisting of dissimilar governments. This is an example which
proves that governments of dissimilar structures may be confederated. That
confederate republic has stood upwards of four hundred years; and, although
several of the individual republics are democratic, and the rest aristocratic,
no evil has resulted from this dissimilarity; for they have braved all the
power of France and Germany during that long period. The Swiss spirit, sir, has
kept them together; they have encountered and overcome immense difficulties
with patience and fortitude. In the vicinity of powerful and ambitious
monarchs, they have retained their independence, republican simplicity, and
valor. [Here he makes a comparison of the people of that country and those of
France, and makes a quotation from Addison illustrating the subject.] Look at
the peasants of that country and of France; and mark the difference. You will
find the condition of the former far more desirable and comfortable. No matter
whether the people be great, splendid, and powerful, if they enjoy freedom. The
Turkish Grand Signior, alongside of our President, would put us to disgrace;
but we should be as abundantly consoled for this disgrace, when our citizens
have been put in contrast with the Turkish slave. The most valuable end of
government is the liberty of the inhabitants. No possible advantages can
compensate for the loss of this privilege. Show me the reason why the American
Union is to be dissolved. Who are those eight adopting states? Are they averse
to give us a little time to consider, before we {63} conclude? Would such a
disposition render a junction with them eligible; or is it the genius of that
kind of government to precipitate people hastily into measures of the utmost
importance, and grant no indulgence? If it be, sir, is it for us to accede to
such a government? We have a right to have time to consider; we shall therefore
insist upon it. Unless the government be amended, we can never accept it. The
adopting states will doubtless accept our money and our regiments; and what is
to be the consequence, if we are disunited? I believe it is yet doubtful,
whether it is not proper to stand by a while, and see the effect of its
adoption in other states. In forming a government, the utmost care should be
taken to prevent its becoming oppressive; and this government is of such an
intricate and complicated nature, that no man on this earth can know its real
operation. The other states have no reason to think, from the antecedent
conduct of Virginia, that she has any intention of seceding from the Union, or
of being less active to support the general welfare. Would they not, therefore,
acquiesce in our taking time to deliberate — deliberate whether the
measure be not perilous, not only for us, but the adopting states?
Permit me, sir, to say, that a great majority of the people, even in the
adopting states, are averse to this government. I believe I would be right to
say, that they have been egregiously misled. Pennsylvania has,
perhaps
,
been tricked into it. If the other states who have adopted it have not been
tricked, still they were too much hurried into its adoption. There were very
respectable minorities in several of them; and if reports be true, a clear
majority of the people are averse to it. If we also accede, and it should prove
grievous, the peace and prosperity of our country, which we all love, will be
destroyed. This government has not the affection of the people at present.
Should it be oppressive, their affections will be totally estranged from it;
and, sir, you know that a government, without their affections, can neither be
durable nor happy. I speak as one poor individual; but when I speak, I speak
the language of thousands. But, sir, I mean not to breathe the spirit, nor
utter the language, of secession.
I have trespassed so long on your patience, I am really concerned that I
have something yet to say. The honorable {64} member has said, we shall be
properly represented. Remember, sir, that the number of our representatives is
but ten, whereof six is a majority. Will those men be possessed of sufficient
information? A particular knowledge of particular districts will not suffice.
They must be well acquainted with agriculture, commerce, and a great variety of
other matters throughout the continent; they must know not only the actual
state of nations in Europe and America, the situations of their farmers,
cottagers, and mechanics, but also the relative situations and intercourse of
those nations. Virginia is as large as England. Our proportion of
representatives is but ten men. In England they have five hundred and
fifty-eight. The House of Commons, in England, numerous as they are, we are
told, are bribed, and have bartered away the rights of their constituents:
what, then, shall become of us? Will these few protect our rights? Will they be
incorruptible? You say they will be better men than the English commoners. I
say they will be infinitely worse men, because they are to be chosen
blindfolded: their election (the term, as applied to their appointment, is
inaccurate) will be an involuntary nomination, and not a choice.
I have, I fear, fatigued the committee; yet I have not said the one
hundred thousandth part of what I have on my mind, and wish to impart. On this
occasion, I conceived myself bound to attend strictly to the interest of the
state, and I thought her dearest rights at stake. Having lived so long —
been so much honored — my efforts, though small, are due to my country. I
have found my mind hurried on, from subject to subject, on this very great
occasion. We have been all out of order, from the gentleman who opened to-day
to myself. I did not come prepared to speak, on so multifarious a subject, in
so general a manner. I trust you will indulge me another time. Before you
abandon the present system, I hope you will consider not only its defects, most
maturely, but likewise those of that which you are to substitute for it. May
you be fully apprized of the dangers of the latter, not by fatal experience,
but by some abler advocate than I!
Gov. RANDOLPH. Mr. Chairman, if we go on in this irregular manner,
contrary to our resolution, instead of three or six weeks, it will take us six
months to decide this question. I shall endeavor to make the committee sensible
of {65} the necessity of establishing a national government. In the course of
my argument, I shall show the inefficacy of the Confederation. It is too late
to enter into the subject now, but I shall take the first opportunity for that
purpose. I mention this to show that I had not answered him fully, nor in a
general way, yesterday.
Next
|
Previous
|
Contents
|
Text
Version
|
Home
|
Constitution Society
x
x

in the front of opposition, (Mr. Henry.) No man admires more than I do his
declamatory talents; but I trust that neither declamation nor elegance of
periods will mislead the judgment of any member here, and that nothing but the
force of reasoning will operate conviction. He has asked, with an air of
triumph, whether the Confederation was not adequate to the purposes of the
federal government: permit me to say, No. If, sir, perfection existed in that
system, why was the federal Convention called? Why did every state except Rhode
Island send deputies to that Convention?
Was it not from a persuasion of its inefficacy? If this be not
sufficient to convince him, let me call the recollection of the honorable
gentleman to other circumstances. Let him go into the interior parts of the
country, and inquire into the situation of the farmers. He will be told that
tobacco, and other produce, are miserably low, merchandise dear, and taxes
high. Let him go through the United States. He {105} will perceive appearances
of ruin and decay every where. Let him visit the sea-coast — go to our
ports and inlets. In those ports, sir, where we had every reason to see the
fleets of all nations, he will behold but a few trifling little boats; he will
every where see commerce languish; the disconsolate merchant, with his arms
folded, ruminating, in despair, on the wretched ruins of his fortune, and
deploring the impossibility of retrieving it. The West Indies are blocked up
against us. Not the British only, but other nations, exclude us from those
islands; our fur trade gone to Canada; British sentinels within our own
territories; our posts withheld. To these distresses we may add the derangement
of our finances: yet the honorable gentleman tells us they are not sufficient
to justify so radical a change. Does he know the consequences of deranged
finances? What confusions, disorders, and even revolutions, have resulted from
this cause, in many nations! Look at France at this time: that kingdom is
almost convulsed; ministers of state, and first princes of the blood, banished;
manufacturers and merchants become bankrupt, and the people discontented; all
owing to the derangement of their finances.
The honorable gentleman must be well acquainted with the debts due by
the United States, and how much is due to foreign nations. Has not the payment
of these been shamefully withheld? How long, sir, shall we be able, by fair
promises, to satisfy these creditors? How long can we amuse, by idle words,
those who are amply possessed of the means of doing themselves justice? No part
of the principal is paid to those nations; nor has even the interest been paid
as honorably and punctually as it ought. Nay, we were obliged to borrow money
last year to pay the interest. What! borrow money to discharge the interest of
what was borrowed, and continually augment the amount of the public debt! Such
a plan would destroy the richest country on earth. What is to be done? Compel
the delinquent states to pay requisitions to Congress? How are they to be
compelled? By the instrumentality of such a scheme as was proposed to be
introduced in the year 1784?
[1]
Is this cruel
mode of compulsion eligible? It consistent with the {106} spirit of
republicanism? This savage mode, which could be made use of under the
Confederation, leads directly to civil war and destruction. How different is
this from the genius of the proposed Constitution! By this proposed plan, the
public money is to be collected by mild and gentle means; by a peaceable and
friendly application to the individuals of the community: whereas, by the other
scheme, the public treasury must be supplied through the medium of the sword,
by desolation and murder — by the blood of the citizens. Yet we are told
that there is too much energy in this system. Coercion is necessary in every
government. Justice, sir, cannot be done without it. It is more necessary in
federal governments than any other, because of the natural imbecility of such
governments.
The honorable gentleman is possessed of much historical knowledge. I
appeal to that knowledge therefore. Will he not agree that there was a coercive
power in the federal government of the Amphictyonics? The coercive power of the
Amphictyonic council was so great as to enable it to punish disobedience and
refractory behavior in the most severe manner. Is there not an instance of its
carrying fire and sword through the territories, and levelling to the ground
the towns, of those who disobeyed it? [Here Mr. Corbin mentions particular
instances.] Is there no coercion in the Germanic body? This body, though
composed of three hundred different component sovereignties, principalities and
cities, and divided into nine circles, is controlled by one superintending
power, the emperor. Is there no coercive power in the confederate government of
the Swiss? In the alliance between them and France, there is a provision
whereby the latter is to interpose and settle differences that may arise among
them; and this interposition has been more than once used. Is there none in
Holland? What is the stadtholder? This power is necessary in all governments; a
superintending coercive power is absolutely indispensable. This does not exist
under the present Articles of Confederation. To vest it with such a power, on
its present construction, without any alteration, would be extremely dangerous,
and might lead to civil war. Gentlemen must, before this, have been convinced
of the necessity of an alteration. Our state vessel has sprung a leak; we must
embark in a new bottom, or sink into perdition.
The honorable gentleman has objected to the Constitution, {107} on the
old worn-out idea that a republican government is best calculated for a small
territory. If a republic, sir, cannot be accommodated to an extensive country,
let me ask, How small must a country be to suit the genius of republicanism? In
what particular extent of country can a republican government exist? If
contracted into as small a compass as you please, it must labor under many
disadvantages. Too small an extent will render a republic weak, vulnerable, and
contemptible. Liberty, in such a petty state, must be on a precarious footing;
its existence must depend on the philanthropy and good nature of its neighbors.
Too large an extent, it is said, will produce confusion and tyranny. What has
been so often deprecated will be removed by this plan. The extent of the United
States cannot render this government oppressive. The powers of the general
government are only of a general nature, and their object is to protect,
defend, and strengthen the United States; but the internal administration of
government is left to the state legislatures, who exclusively retain such
powers as will give the states the advantages of small republics, without the
danger commonly attendant on the weakness of such governments.
There are controversies even about the name of this government. It is
denominated by some a federal, by others a consolidated government. The
definition given of it by my honorable friend (Mr. Madison) is, in my opinion,
accurate. Let me, however, call it by another name — a representative
federal republic, as contradistinguished from a confederacy. The former is more
wisely constructed than the latter; it places the remedy in the hands which
feel
the disorder: the other places the remedy in those hands which
cause
the disorder. The evils that are most complained of in such
governments (and with justice) are faction, dissension, and consequent
subjection of the minority to the caprice and arbitrary decisions of the
majority, who, instead of consulting the interest of the whole community
collectively, attend sometimes to partial and local advantages. To avoid this
evil is perhaps the great
desideratum
of republican wisdom; it may be
termed the philosopher's stone. Yet, sir, this evil will be avoided by this
Constitution: faction will be removed by the system now under consideration,
because all the causes which are generally productive {108} of faction are
removed. This evil does not take its flight entirely; for were jealousies and
divisions entirely at an end, it might produce such lethargy as would
ultimately terminate in the destruction of liberty, to the preservation of
which, watchfulness is absolutely necessary. It is transferred from the state
legislatures to Congress, where it will be more easily controlled. Faction will
decrease in proportion to the diminution of counsellors. It is much easier to
control it in small than in large bodies. Our state legislature consists of
upwards of one hundred and sixty, which is a greater number than Congress will
consist of at first. Will not more concord and unanimity exist in one than in
thirteen such bodies? Faction will more probably decrease, or be entirely
removed, if the interest of a nation be entirely concentrated, than if entirely
diversified. If thirteen men agree, there will be no faction. Yet if opposite,
and of heterogeneous dispositions, it is impossible that a majority of such
clashing minds can ever concur to oppress the minority. It is impossible that
this government, which will make us one people, will have a tendency to
assimilate our situations, and is admirably calculated to produce harmony and
unanimity, can ever admit of an oppressive combination by one part of the Union
against the other.
A confederate government is, of all others, best calculated for an
extensive country. Its component individual governments are, of all others,
best calculated for an extensive country. Its component individual governments
administer and afford all the local conveniences that the most compact
governments can do; and the strength and energy of the confederacy may be equal
to those of any government. A government of this kind may extend to all the
western world; nay, I may say,
ad infinitum
. But it is needless to dwell
any longer on this subject; for the objection that an extensive territory is
repugnant to a republican government applies against this and every state in
the Union, except Delaware and Rhode Island. Were the objection well founded, a
republican government could exist in none of the states, except those two. Such
an argument goes to the dissolution of the Union, and its absurdity is
demonstrated by our own experience.
But an objection is urged against this government because of its power
of laying direct taxes. Let me ask the honorable {109} gentleman who opposes it
on this ground, if he reflects whether this power be indispensable or not. Sir,
if it be not vested with the power of commanding all the resources of the state
when necessary, it will be trifling. Wars are as much (and more) carried on by
the length of the purse, as by that of the sword. They cannot be carried on
without money. Unless this power be given to Congress, foreign nations may
crush you. The concession of this power is necessary to do Virginia justice, by
compelling the delinquent states to pay as well as she: while she paid her
quotas, and her citizens were much distressed to pay their taxes, other states
most shamefully neglected or refused to pay their proportions. I trust
gentlemen need not be alarmed on the subject of taxation, nor intimidated by
the idea of double collectors, who, they tell us, will oppress and ruin the
people. From our attention to our situation, we shall see that this mode of
levying money, though indispensably necessary on great emergencies, will be but
seldom recurred to. Let us attend to the finances of this country.
Mr. CORBIN then stated the probable annual amount of duties on imported
articles throughout the continent, including West India produce, which, he
said, from the best calculation he could procure, would exceed the annual
expenses of the administration of the general government, including the civil
list, contingent charges, and the interest of the foreign and domestic debts,
by eighty or ninety thousand pounds; that, he said, would enable the United
States to discharge, in a few years, the principal debts due to foreign
nations; that, in the course of thirty years, that surplus would enable the
United States to perform the most splendid enterprises. He then concluded that
no danger was to be apprehended from the power of direct taxation, since there
was every reason to believe it would be very seldom used. He then made an
estimate of the state debt, and clearly proved that, with economical
regulations, all the demands of the internal administration of government would
be paid with facility and ease from the different resources of the state; and
that there would also be a considerable surplus, which, with prudence and
economy, might answer many valuable purposes.
Mr. Corbin then continued as follows: The honorable gentleman declared
in the most solemn manner, that, if he could see one single trait in that
government to secure liberty, {110} he would not object to it. I meet him on
this ground. Liberty is secured, sir, by the limitation of its powers, which
are clearly and unequivocally defined, and which are to be exercised by our own
representatives freely chosen. What power is given that will endanger liberty?
I consider all the traits of this system as having a tendency to the security
of our liberty. I consider all its powers necessary, and only given to avoid
greater evils; and if this conclusion of mine be well founded, let me ask if
public liberty is not secured by bars and adamantine bolts — secured by
the strongest guards and checks which human ingenuity can invent. Will this
dread power of taxation render liberty insecure? Sir, without this power, other
powers will answer no purpose. Government cannot exist without the means of
procuring money. My honorable friend told us he considered this clause as the
vitals of the Constitution. I will change the phrase, and say that I consider
this part as the lungs of the Constitution. If it be sick, the whole system is
consumptive, and must soon decay; and this power can never be dangerous if the
principles of equal and free representation be fully attended to. While the
right of suffrage is secured, we have little to fear. This government, sir,
fully secures us this noble privilege, on the purest and simplest principles of
equality. That number which, in any one part of the country, has a right to
send a representative, has the same right in another part. What does the
Constitution say? That thirty thousand shall have one representative, no matter
where. If this be not equal representation, what, in the name of God, is equal
representation? But, says the honorable gentleman, the Constitution may be
satisfied by one from each state. I conceive there is no fear of this. There is
not a power to diminish the number. Does it not say that representatives shall
be apportioned according to the number of the people, and that direct taxes
shall be regulated by the same rules? Virginia, in the first instance, will
have ten times as many as Delaware, and afterwards in proportion to their
numbers. What is the criterion of representation? Do the people wish land only
to be represented? They have their wish: for the qualifications which the laws
of the states require to entitle a man to vote for a state representative are
the qualifications required by this plan to vote for a representative to
Congress; and in this state, and most of the others, the {111} possession of a
freehold is necessary to entitle a man to the privilege of a vote. Do they wish
persons to be represented? Here also they are indulged; for the number of
representatives is determined by the number of people: this idea is so well
attended to, that even three fifths of those who are not free are included
among those of whom thirty thousand shall have a right to elect one
representative; so that, in either point of view, their wish is gratified. Is
not liberty secured on this foundation? If it be not secured by one or the
other mode, or by both, I am totally without reason. Liberty seems intrenched
on this ground.
But the gentleman objects that the number is not sufficient. My opinion,
with deference to that gentleman, and others who may be of different opinion
from me, is, that it is fully sufficient. Being delegated solely for general
purposes, a few intelligent men will suffice; at least one for every thirty
thousand, aided by the Senate, seems sufficient. Are combinations, or factions,
so often formed in small as in numerous bodies? Are laws better made in large
than in small assemblies? Is not the influence of popular declaimers less in
small than in great bodies? Would not a more numerous representation be very
expensive? Is economy of no consideration? We ought, sir, to attend to the
situation of the people; and our measures should be as economical as possible,
without extending, however, our parsimony to a dangerous length. Objections
should be founded on just and real grounds, and ought not to be urged out of a
mere obstinacy. Besides, it is by no means certain that a very numerous body is
more independent, or upright, than a small one. Why should the number of our
representatives be greater, Mr. Chairman? The county of Middlesex, in England,
which includes the cities of London and Westminster, contains upwards of nine
hundred and ninety thousand souls, and yet sends to Parliament no more than
eight members. Among all the clamors of the people there, it never entered into
the brain of any of them that these eight were not enough. They complain that
the boroughs of Old Sarum, Newton, and Gatton, and other such places, should
send each two members to Parliament, although without houses or inhabitants,
while the richest city sends but four. They also complain of the influence of
the landed interest in some cases; that the county of Cornwall sends forty
members to Parliament, {112} although it pays but eighteen parts, out of five
hundred and thirteen, to the subsidy and land tax, when the county of
Middlesex, which is calculated to pay two hundred and fifty parts out of five
hundred and thirteen, sends but eight members. In that country, it has been
uniformly found that those members, who are chosen by numerous respectable
electors, make the greatest opposition to oppression and corruption, and
signalize themselves for the preservation of liberty. The collective body of
the commons there have generally exerted themselves in the defence of freedom,
and have been successful in their exertions, notwithstanding the inequality of
their election. Our representatives are chosen in the fairest manner; their
election is founded in absolute equality. Is the American spirit so
degenerated, notwithstanding these advantages, that the love of liberty is more
predominant and warm in the breast of a Briton than in that of an American?
When liberty is on a more solid foundation here than in Britain, will Americans
be less ready to maintain and defend it than Britons? No, sir; the spirit of
liberty and independence of the people of this country, at present, is such
that they could not be enslaved under any government that could be described.
What danger is there, then, to be apprehended from a government which is
theoretically perfect, and the possible blemishes of which can only be
demonstrated by actual experience?
The honorable gentleman then urges an objection respecting the militia,
who, he tells us, will be made the instruments of tyranny to deprive us of our
liberty. Your militia, says he, will fight against you. Who are the militia?
Are we not militia? Shall we fight against ourselves? No, sir; the idea is
absurd. We are also terrified by the dread of a standing army. It cannot be
denied that we ought to have the means of defence, and be able to repel an
attack.
If some of the community are exclusively inured to its defence, and the
rest attend to agriculture, the consequence will be, that the arts of war and
defence, and of cultivating the soil, will be understood. Agriculture will
flourish, and military discipline will be perfect. If, on the contrary, our
defence be solely intrusted to militia, ignorance of arms and negligence of
farming will ensue: the former plan is, in every respect, more to the interest
of the state. By it we shall have good farmers and soldiers; by the latter we
shall have {113} neither. If the inhabitants be called out on sudden
emergencies of war, their crops, the means of their subsistence, may be
destroyed by it. If we are called in the time of sowing seed, or of harvest,
the means of subsistence might be lost; and the loss of one year's crop might
have been prevented by a trivial expense, if appropriated to the purpose of
supporting a part of the community, exclusively occupied in the defence of the
whole. I conceive that this idea, if it be a new one, is yet founded on solid
and very substantial reasons. But, sir, we are told of the expediency and
propriety of previous amendments. What end would it answer to attempt it? Will
the states which have adopted the Constitution rescind their adopting
resolutions? Had we adopted it, would we recede from it to please the caprice
of any other state? Pride, sir, revolts at the idea. Admitting this state
proposes amendments previous to her adoption, must there not be another federal
convention? Must there not be also a convention in each state? Suppose some of
our proposed conditions to be rejected; will not our exclusion out of the Union
be the consequence? Or would other conventions again be called, and would be
eternally revolving and devising expedients, without coming to a final
decision? The loss of the union, sir, must be the result of a pertinacious
demand of precedent conditions. My idea is, that we should go hand in hand with
Massachusetts: adopt it first, and then propose amendments of a general nature;
for local ones cannot be expected. Consider the situation of Massachusetts,
commanding the north, and the importance and respectability of Virginia to the
south. These, sir, are the two most populous, wealthy, and powerful states in
the Union. Is it not very probable that their influence would have very great
weight in carrying any amendments? Would any gentleman turn a deaf ear to their
solicitations? By union alone can we exist: by no other means can we be happy.
Union must be the object of every gentleman here. I never yet have heard any
gentleman so wild and frantic in his opposition as to avow an attachment to
partial confederacies. By previous adoption, the union will be preserved; by
insisting on alterations previous to our adoption, the union may be lost, and
our political happiness destroyed by internal dissensions. I trust, therefore,
that this Convention, after deliberate discussion, will not hesitate to
determine on a previous ratification {114} of a system which, even in its
present form, seems competent to the perpetual preservation of our security and
happiness.
Mr. HENRY then arose, and expressed a desire that the honorable
gentleman on the other side (Gov. Randolph) should continue his observations on
the subject he had left unfinished the day before; that he had before, and
would now, give him a patient hearing, as he wished to be informed of every
thing that gentlemen could urge in defence of that system which appeared to him
so defective.
Gov. RANDOLPH. Mr. Chairman, as the gentleman who was last up has given
us an opportunity of continuing our observations, I shall, in resuming the
subject, endeavor to put this question in a more correct and accurate point of
view than it has yet been put in.
I took the liberty, yesterday, of declaring to the house the necessity
of a national rather than a federal government, and that the union was
necessary for Virginia for many powerful reasons; that this necessity arose
from the certainty of her being involved in disputes and war with the adjoining
states, and the probability of an attack by foreign nations, particularly by
those nations to which she is greatly in debt, and which she is unable to pay;
from her inability to raise an army to protect her citizens from internal
seditions and external attacks, and her inability to raise a navy to protect
her trade and her coasts against descents and invasions. I also, in the course
of my argument on this occasion, showed the imbecility of the present system,
in order to obviate and detect the sophistry of that truly delusive opinion,
which has taken possession of the minds of some gentlemen, that this
shipwrecked vessel is sufficiently strong and safe for us to embark in. Whether
I have succeeded or not, I have given the full effusions of my soul, in my
attempt to prove the futility of that opinion. Permit me now to pursue the
object of my inquiry respecting the powers necessary to be given to the general
government. I shall discard general considerations at present, as I wish to be
as brief as possible, and take up the particular idea of direct taxation. Is it
necessary that the legislative power of the United States should be authorized
to levy taxes? A strange question to be agitated in this house, after hearing
the delinquency of other states, and even of {115} Virginia herself! Money is
the nerve — the life and soul of a government. It is the utmost folly to
say that a government could be carried on without this great agent of human
affairs. Wars cannot be carried on without a full and uncontrolled
discretionary power to raise money in an eligible manner. Nay, sir, government
cannot be administered in time of peace without this power. For how is it to be
done? It is needless to impress any further on the minds of the gentlemen who
hear me the necessity of this power in governments. If so, ought the general
government to be more circumscribed in the power of providing for its own
safety and existence than any other government? Ought it to depend for the
means of its preservation on other bodies? This is actually the case with the
Confederation. The power of raising money was nominally vested in that system.
In March, 1781, even Maryland, the most backward state then, conceded that
Congress should have the power of receiving and demanding their proportionate
quotas of the states. This was an acknowledgment of the necessity of vesting a
power in Congress to raise such sums as emergencies might require; but the
means which were proposed have been found inadequate to compass the end: the
propriety of the means is alone disputed. No doubt it is the universal opinion
of the people of this commonwealth, that its legislature should have the power
of raising money at its own will and pleasure. There are two ways whereby this
may be effected — by requisitions, or taxation: there is no other manner;
for it surpasses the ingenuity of man to devise any other mode of raising money
than by one of these two methods. If the alternative of requisitions be
determined upon, as more eligible, it will not avail without coercion. If that
of taxation be preferred, it will be sufficient without any coercion. If our
legislature were to depend on requisitions for money to answer the ends of
government, then, sir, the absurdity and sophistry of the arguments urged in
defence of such a mode of procuring money would strike the weakest intellect.
If the mere pleasure of individuals were alone to be consulted, if it were left
to the choice of your people to pay or not, your treasury would be much poorer
than it is; and the advocates of this pernicious policy would perhaps be
ashamed of their pertinacity. Suppose, for a moment, the only existing {116}
mode of raising a revenue in Virginia to be that of requisitions; suppose your
requisitions sent on to every county; say that money is wanted; assume the most
pressing language — "We earnestly entreat you; we humbly supplicate and
solicit you would furnish us with one thousand or one hundred pounds, to defray
the necessary charges of our government!" What would be the result of such
applications for voluntary contributions? You would be laughed at for your
folly, for thinking human nature could be thus operated upon. From my knowledge
of human nature, and of my countrymen, I am perfectly certain this would be the
case. The argument will be found good in all cases; it will admit of any
extension. I ask any gentleman in this house, if states would comply with what
even a few individuals would refuse? Would not the requisitions of Congress
meet a similar fate? This, sir, has as often happened as it has been the
pleasure of the states to withhold the quotas. Not a shilling has been put into
the Continental treasury but with the utmost reluctance. The probable
delinquency of other states has been the pretext of non-compliance, with every
state. It has been thought hard that our General Assembly should pay when
Congress ordered us. Our representatives have been supposed careless of our
interest in paying the demands of Congress, while delinquencies happened in
other states. Punctuality, sir, instead of being held in that estimation which
it really merits, has been looked upon as an improvident expenditure of the
substance of the people, and a subjection of the inhabitants to grievances and
burdens to which the people of delinquent states were not exposed. This idea
has been held in many states, and would hold again. Whosoever depends on the
mere right to demand their respective proportions of the states, shows a total
ignorance of human actions, and betrays an unacquaintance with the principles
of sure policy. The principal ends of all political institutions are the
happiness and safety of the community; but a reliance on congressional
requisitions would leave the country exposed and open to those who should
choose to invade us, or lead to such sedition and confusion among ourselves as
must subvert and destroy every object of human society. If requisitions be not
faithfully complied with, military coercion seems necessary: coercion,
judiciously and moderately {117} used, is proper; but, if severely and cruelly
inflicted, begets unconquerable aversion and hatred. If the spirit of
resentment actuates individuals, will not states be equally vindictive? What
species of military coercion could the general government adopt for the
enforcement of obedience to its demands? Either an army sent into the heart of
a delinquent state, or blocking up its ports. Have we lived to this, then,
that, in order to suppress and exclude tyranny, it is necessary to render the
most affectionate friends the most bitter enemies? — set the father
against the son, and make the brother slay the brother? Is this the happy
expedient that is to preserve liberty? Will it not destroy it? If an army be
once introduced to force us, if once marched into Virginia, figure to yourself
what the dreadful consequence will be: the most lamentable civil war must
ensue. Have we any troops but militia to confront those disciplined bands that
would be sent to force our compliance with requisitions? The most virulent
railings are vented against the federal executive. We are told that the
President can fix himself in the chair of state, establish himself as a
monarch, and destroy the liberties of the people.
It has too often happened that powers delegated for the purpose of
promoting the happiness of a community have been perverted to the advancement
of the personal emoluments of the agents of the people; but the powers of the
President are too well guarded and checked to warrant this illiberal aspersion.
Let us candidly consider the consequences of the favorite plan of requisitions,
and see whether, instead of imaginary or problematical, there be not real,
palpable dangers. To compel your obedience, a rapacious army will penetrate
into the bosom of your country, carrying destruction and desolation before it.
The commander of such an army will be liable to the corruptions and passions
incident to other men. If he be possessed of military genius, address, and
ambition, he may procure this army to proclaim him king. Who can tell the
result? Who can oppose him with success? Who can say to him, Sir, you shall not
be a despot! The reasoning, however inconclusive or illogical it may appear to
some, is, in my estimation, more accurate than arguments drawn from the
possibility of a President's becoming a tyrant.
Mr. Chairman, I should object to the so-much-admired alternative {118}
of gentlemen, were there no other reason than the danger of an army to enforce
requisitions, and the danger of its general becoming our master. I will not
mention those nations that might be applied to for aid in such a case: it could
easily be procured, but the remedy would be worse than the disease. I speak
with respect to Virginia alone. Suppose our trade was to be taken into the
hands of Congress; they would find little to satisfy their demands. If
permitted by other nations, the compensation they could derive from the
exclusive control of our trade would be but trivial. Great Britain, France, and
Holland, are intimately concerned to carry on trade with us: those nations
would disapprove of the measure; and such evasions would be practised on such
an occasion as would render it totally ineffectual. If Congress were then to
block up our ports, or send an army into our country, Virginia would be in such
a horrid situation as would induce her to call for the aid of foreign nations:
they have their eyes fixed on us; they watch every opportunity to avail
themselves of our divisions. It is their interest we should be weak and
divided. Any of them would readily engage in our dissensions; none of them
would be displeased at our distractions. But what would be their object in
assisting us? On what principles have auxiliaries ever been sent to the aid of
a country? Show me an instance (except the conduct of France to America) where
auxiliaries have not either attempted or actually made themselves masters of
those they assisted. With respect to France, her magnanimity to America is
almost unprecedented. She has displayed a degree of disinterestedness and
generosity not often exemplified in the annals of mankind. Till France joined
us, our troops were not able to withstand the enemy. Yet the fate of many other
nations ought to convince us that the assistance of foreigners is the most
dangerous and the last experiment that ought to be recurred to. Yet the
predilection for retaining the power of direct taxation in not to be overcome.
An expedient, proposed by a gentleman whom I do not now see in the
house, (Mr. George Mason,) is, that this power shall be only given to the
general government as an alternative after requisitions shall have been
refused. The most positive requisitions will be unavailable, and failure will
produce war. A formal refusal, or negligent non-compliance {119} with the
demands of Congress, under a knowledge of the existence of this execrated
alternative, would be a prelude to active opposition. I consider this expedient
very little better than the ineffectual mode of simple requisitions. The only
difference is, that it gives a little more time to a refractory state to
provide itself with arms and foreign alliance, to enable it to oppose the
operation of this alternative, and resist federal collectors, as was observed
by the honorable gentleman in the chair. The proper time will be picked for the
commencement of opposition, and for putting the bayonet to the breasts of their
fellow-citizens. Suppose a requisition to be made on Virginia for two hundred
thousand pounds: she fails to comply: taxes are then to be collected in the
common manner. Is it not probable that the aversion to the exercise of this
power by the general government will incite discontented minds to oppose it?
Then, sir, the dogs of war are to be let loose, and inconceivable mischief to
ensue. If the inability of the people requires an extension of the time of
payment, let them be indulged as far as may be consistent with a regard for the
public exigencies; but let us not be so infatuated as to choose an expedient
which must either be inadequate to the destined purpose, or eventuate in
bloodshed and war. Requisitions, sir, however modified, must come within this
description; they strike me with horror and disgust. I would as soon see a
separation from the Union, and trust to the genius, patriotism, vigilance, and
activity — to the morals and natural uprightness — of the people, as
ask a government with no other powers than those whereof our present system is
possessed. This is an improvement on that system; and if we reject it, we are
ruined.
Our credit is depressed and irretrievably gone, without a change of that
system which has caused its depression. It is humiliating and disgraceful to
recur to loans, situated as we are. It is ruinous on any condition on which our
credit could be competent to obtain them; though, under a regular, judicious
system of administration, they may be very salutary and beneficial. If some
accounts be believed, your ambassador has received from the king of France
those stipends which have supported him. Is this honorable? Is it safe for
America? Safety, sir, forbids so dishonorable and despicable a conduct as to
leave our representatives in a state of absolute dependence on another power.
Will not this situation be {120} freely and forcibly represented to him? —
"Remember, sir, the bread you eat to-morrow depends on the bounty of the Count
de Vergennes!" Is it possible that, in our present circumstances, we can
inspire any one with confidence in our engagements? Where, in the hour of
distress and calamity, shall Congress be able to borrow money? The present
revenues are appropriated to different purposes, and are, from the incompetency
of requisitions, inadequate to the public exigencies. Admitting the impost will
be sufficiently productive to enable Congress to discharge its engagements, and
answer all the demands of government, in case of a war, will not necessity and
the fear of danger render it necessary for the general government to divert the
revenues, from the usual appropriations, to the defence of the Union? The
necessity of such a diversion does not lessen the certainty that the public
credit would be destroyed by it. The interest on the public debt could not be
paid; foreign and domestic creditors would be disappointed and irritated; and
the displeasure of the former might lead to the most serious consequences. What
could the general government do, in such a situation, without the power of
providing money by taxation? Requisitions would be fruitless and ineffectual;
nor could a government, which depended on such a slender and inefficient force,
meet with credulity enough any where to trust it. Will you expose the
Continental Congress to such a critical distress? Do you consult public liberty
by reducing it to an extremity, whereof none can with certainty foretell the
dangerous consequences? Is it not laying a train by which liberty is to be
blown up? By withholding a necessary power, you may unwarily lay the foundation
of usurpation itself.
I conclude with my firm belief, that I show my friendship for Virginia
more steadfastly by discarding these requisitions, than by any proposition I
could suggest.
The benefits arising from loans are innumerable. Every nation, even the
most wealthy and the oldest nations, have found it necessary to recur to loans
in time of war. This country has found it so even in time of peace; but on a
supposition of war, we
must
borrow money. It will be inevitable. How can
Congress have credit to borrow any sum to a considerable amount, on any
reasonable conditions, unless it have full scope and complete command over the
resources of {121} the Union? Whatever may be the visionary and fanciful
conclusions of political skeptics, the credit of a nation will be found to be
coextensive with its ability. If Congress have an uncontrolled power to raise
money as contingencies may render it necessary, it can borrow with ease; but if
it have not this power, it is not possible that any confidence can be put in
it.
The difficulty of justly apportioning the taxes among the states, under
the present system, has been complained of; the rule of apportionment being the
value of all lands and improvements within the states. The inequality between
the rich lands of James River and the barrens of Massachusetts has been thought
to militate against Virginia. If taxes could be laid according to the real
value, no inconvenience could follow; but, from a variety of reasons, this
value was very difficult to be ascertained; and an error in the estimation must
necessarily have been oppressive to a part of the community. But in this new
Constitution, there is a more just and equitable rule fixed — a limitation
beyond which they cannot go. Representatives and taxes go hand in hand:
according to the one will the other be regulated. The number of representatives
is determined by the number of inhabitants; they have nothing to do but to lay
taxes accordingly. I will illustrate it by a familiar example. At present,
before the population is actually numbered, the number of representatives is
sixty-five. Of this number, Virginia has a right to send ten; consequently she
will have to pay ten parts out of sixty-five parts of any sum that may be
necessary to be raised by Congress. This, sir, is the line. Can Congress go
beyond the bounds prescribed in the Constitution? Has Congress a power to say
that she shall pay fifteen parts out of sixty-five parts? Were they to assume
such a power, it would be a usurpation so glaring, that rebellion would be the
immediate consequence. Congress is only to say on what subject the tax is to be
laid. It is a matter of very little consequence how it will be imposed, since
it must be clearly laid on the most productive article in each particular
state. I am surprised that such strong objections should have been made to, and
such fears and alarms excited by, this power of direct taxation, since
experience shows daily that it is neither inconvenient nor oppressive. A
collector goes to a man's house; the man pays him with freedom, or makes an
{122} apology for his inability to do it then: at a future day, if payment be
not made, distress is made, and acquiesced in by the party. What difference is
there between this and a tax imposed by Congress? Is it nor done by lawful
authority? The distinction is between a Virginian and Continental authority.
Yet, in both cases, it is imposed by ourselves, through the medium of our
representatives. When a tax will come to be laid by Congress, the collector
will apply in like manner, and in the same manner receive payment, or an
apology; at a future day, likewise, the same consequences will result from a
failure. I presume, sir, there is a manifest similarity between the two cases.
When gentlemen complain of the novelty, they ought to advert to the singular
one that must be the consequence of the requisitions — an army sent into
your country to force you to comply. Will not this be the dissolution of the
Union, if ever it takes effect? Let us be candid on this subject: let us see if
the criterion here fixed be not equal and just. Were the tax laid on one
uniform article through the Union, its operation would be oppressive on a
considerable part of the people. When any sum is necessary for the general
government, every state will immediately know its exact proportion of it, from
the number of their people and representatives; nor can it be doubted that the
tax will be laid on each state, in the manner that will best accommodate the
people of such state, as thereby it will be raised with more facility; for an
oppressive mode can never be so productive as the most easy for the people.
The system under consideration is objected to in an unconnected and
irregular manner: detached parts are attacked without considering the whole:
this, sir, is disingenuous and unreasonable. Ask if the powers be unnecessary.
If the end proposed can be obtained by any other means, the powers may be
unnecessary. Infallibility was not arrogated by the Convention: they included
in the system those powers they thought necessary. If you do not think the
ceding those powers indispensable, never give them up. But, I trust, this power
of imposing direct taxes has been proved to be essential to the very existence
of the Union. The advocates for the national government, circumstanced as they
are, with the accession of so many states, never will give their assent to
leave it in the power of the states {123} to sacrifice the Union. It has been
observed, by an honorable gentleman over the way, (Mr. George Mason,) that
there could not be a fellow-feeling between the national representatives and
their constituents, and that oppression must be inseparable from their exercise
of the power of imposing taxes. I beg leave to remind you of a similar
complaint made on a similar occasion. I allude to the Scotch union. If
gentlemen cast their eyes to that period, they will find there an instructive
similitude between our circumstances and the situation of those people. The
advocates for a union with England declared that it would be a foundation of
lasting peace, remove all jealousies between them, increase their strength and
riches, and enable them to resist more effectually the efforts of the
Pretender. These were irresistible arguments, one would be inclined to believe;
arguments
a priori
, which challenge conviction, and which appear
perfectly conclusive, since now verified by actual events. Yet the opposers of
that union declaimed that the independence of Scotland was gone; that the
peerage of Scotland was degraded; that the people of England would alone be
gainers; and that the people of Scotland would be the losers. How are the
facts? Both kingdoms have derived great benefits from that union, and the
predictions of the advocates for that union have been fully verified. The
arguments used on that occasion apply with more cogency to our situation.
The people of Rhode Island may say their independence will be lost by a
union with the other states; that they will be degraded, their consequence
lost, and their liberties endangered. Many such specious and plausible
arguments may be urged by their great men, who would no longer retain the
importance which their paper money, and other causes, give them in a single
state; yet the topographical situation of that state renders union more
essential to its existence than to that of any other state. It is urged that
the independence of Virginia will be gone by the union. Will not all the happy
effects of the union I have just mentioned, and more, redound to Virginia from
this union? But our representatives are suspected. On a further inspection of
the system before you, this objection must vanish. Ten representatives will
have no fellow-feeling for their constituents! Will not the people choose men
of integrity, and in similar {124} circumstances with themselves, to represent
them? What laws can they make that will not operate on themselves and friends,
as well as on the rest of the people? Will the people reelect the same men to
repeat oppressive legislation? Will the people commit suicide against
themselves, and discard all those maxims and principles of interest and
selfpreservation which actuate mankind in all their transactions? Will the ten
miles square transform our representatives into brutes and tyrants? I see no
grounds to distrust them: but suppose they will be inclined to do us mischief;
how can they effect it? If the federal necessities call for the sum of
sixty-five thousand pounds, our proportion of that sum is ten thousand pounds.
If, instead of this just proportion, they should require a greater sum, a
conflict would ensue. What steps could they take to enforce the payment of the
unjust and tyrannical demand? They must summon up all the genius of better men;
but in case of actual violence, they could not raise the thousandth part of ten
thousand pounds. In case of a struggle, sir, the people would be irresistible.
If they should be so liable to lapse from virtue, yet would not one man be
found, out of a multitude, to guard the interests of the people — not one
man to hold up his head to discover the tyrannical projects of a corrupt and
depraved majority?
Suppose the House of Representatives all equally infatuated, and
determined on so wicked an intention as to infringe the rights of the people;
they have not the whole authority in their own hands. There are twenty-six
senators, distinguished for their wisdom, not elevated by popular favor, but
chosen by a select body of intelligent men: will they also be corrupt? Will
their honor and virtue be contaminated and disgraced in one instant? Sixty-five
representatives and twenty-six senators are then to be suddenly changed from
upright men to monsters: ninety-one persons, selected for superior qualities,
are to compose this Pandemonium of iniquity. The supposition of their
degenerating to such a degree is unwarrantable, and inconsistent with an
admission of their being freely chosen by a people capable of discerning merit;
and should a majority ever be so forgetful of their duty as to wish to trample
on the immunities of the people, there is no reason to doubt that some of them
will be so far inspired with a zeal for liberty as to warn their country of
{125} any dangerous combinations against their privileges. The people, to
heighten their security, may send those to the general government who have been
signalized for their wisdom and virtue. What security have the people of
Virginia against the possible abuses of their legislature, that is not here?
But their number is objected to, as being too small. I should reluctantly
assent to this representative body, did I conceive it consisted of too few.
It is an established maxim, that such a body ought to be numerous enough
to be well acquainted with the interest of the people, to prevent corruption,
and give a chance to men of merit to be elected. If the number be not
sufficient for these purposes, I confess it to be a defect. The number is
sixty-five, of which ten represent this state. Cannot they inform themselves of
the situation of America? I appeal to those who hear me, if they could not rely
on the intelligence of ten men they could fix upon, sooner than upon any crowd
they could have. I do not reflect on my countrymen; but there is a certain
listlessness and inattention to the interest of the community, such indecision
or faction in numerous bodies, that I would rather depend on the virtue and
knowledge of some few men than on ever so many. The mode of their election must
induce us to believe that they will be men of experience and information. The
state will be laid off and divided into ten districts: from each of these a man
is to be elected. He must be really the choice of the people, not the man who
can distribute the most gold; for the riches of Croesus would not avail. The
qualifications of the electors being the same as those of the representatives
for the state legislatures, and the election being under the control of the
legislature, the prohibitory provisions against undue means of procuring votes
to the state representation extend to the federal representatives: the
extension of the sphere of election to so considerable a district will render
it impossible for contracted influence, or local intrigues, or personal
interest, to procure an election. Inquiries will be made, by the voters, into
the characters of the candidates. Greater talents, and a more extensive
reputation, will be necessary to procure an election for the federal than for
the state representation. The federal representatives must therefore be well
known for their integrity, and their knowledge of the country they represent.
We shall have ten men thus elected. {126} What are they going yonder for? Not
to consult for Virginia alone, but for the interest of the United States
collectively. Will not such men derive sufficient information from their own
knowledge of their respective states, and from the codes of the different
states? The want of information ought no longer to be urged as an objection.
With respect to merit, sir, the house must be satisfied that there is
ample room for it. A cottager will receive the votes of this country, as well
as the descendant of any aristocrat of this country. Is it not notorious that
virtue and ability have been preferred generally, here, to virtue and
connections? The present number, sixty-five, is to be increased according to
the progressive augmentation of the number of the people. From the present
number of inhabitants, which is estimated at three hundred and fifty-two
thousand whites, and two hundred and thirty-six thousand blacks, we shall be
entitled to fifteen representatives. But here another objection will be
offered: it will be complained that the taxes will be increased according to
the number of representatives; on which I will only observe here, that the same
rule operates in all the states, and that it is not more unjust or oppressive
in one state than in another. The number of representatives is as great as can
be paid by America at this time; and whatever other gentlemen may conclude on
that subject, I think, for my part, that it would be fortunate if the number
was to continue as it is at present for a long time; or, at least, that it
should be limited not to exceed a certain amount; for, if you swell the
legislative list to such a degree as the increase of population, at a
reasonable calculation, will, at a period not very remote, entitle the people
to send, it will introduce corruption and confusion, and prevent that secrecy
without which success can never be expected in negotiations or other
transactions. It was my purpose to answer the objections against the power of
the national government to lay direct taxes, and against the mode of
representation.
It is needless to dwell much longer on the subject. Were one to rise
from the dead to declare the expediency of that power, I could not be more
firmly persuaded than I am now of its propriety. To dissuade us from conceding
this power, gentlemen alarm us with apprehensions that the most intolerable
oppressions will be committed by the federal collectors. {127} Let us consider
this dispassionately, and whether the idea be well founded, which is suggested,
that a conflict will frequently happen between the state and congressional
collector for property seized and claimed by both. If there be no necessity, or
strong temptation, to increase the present number of officers, no addition will
be made to them. Congress will have every inducement, and, from the mode of
their appointment, must be inclined, to lighten the burdens of the people. They
can derive no advantage from a contrary conduct. In other countries, where the
fate of the poor is wretched, officers are created merely for the emolument of
certain individuals; but, by the structure of this government, the interest of
the people must always be considered; nor will any but necessary officers be
created. The number of officers, and their compensations, will be as
inconsiderable as the nature of their business will admit of. With respect to
collectors of the general taxes, I have not the least doubt that Congress will
employ the state officers and sheriffs, because it will be economical, and
agreeable to the people; a considerable sum will be saved by it. They will
employ such men, Mr. Chairman, unless they determine to throw away the public
money in an unjustifiable manner. They will never adopt measures which may
produce discontent in the country, when they can effect the same purpose by
peaceable and satisfactory means. With regard to any personal abuse or
misconduct of a collector, such an officer would be amenable to the laws, like
any other citizen. He is only protected by the law where he acts lawfully: in
such cases, the evil would not be repeated; it would not continue. Congress can
take away their offices from such men as abuse them, and give them to others.
It cannot be believed that they will carry their wickedness so far as to trust
men of this stamp.
As to the mode of paying the taxes, little need be said: it is
immaterial which way they are to be paid; for they are to be paid only once. I
had an objection which pressed heavily on my mind: I was solicitous to know the
objects of taxation. I wished to make some discrimination with regard to the
demands of Congress, and of the states, on the same object. As neither can
restrain the other in this case — as the power of both is unlimited —
it will be their interest mutually to avoid interferences: it will most
certainly be the {128} interest of either to avoid imposing a tax on an article
which shall have been previously taxed by the other. This consideration, and
the structure of the government, satisfy me. I cannot foretell, in the course
of human events, what Virginia and the United States may be exposed to,
blindfolded as I am with respect to futurity; but I would not restrain Congress
in this case, unless I meant to destroy the government itself. What will be the
consequence of withholding this power from Congress? Will it not be reduced to
the most dangerous distress, if a war should happen? The case has happened, and
may again. In case of domestic war, or an invasion, every shilling they could
lay their hands on would be necessary, but not sufficient, to carry it on. What
could the general government do without this force to procure money, for the
prosecution of the war and its other exigencies? I beg the friends of the Union
to consider the necessity of this power: without it we may abandon the
government altogether: it is the soul of the government; no substitute will
answer in its stead. The history of other confederacies will instruct us that
the general government must operate on the individuals of the community, or
else be totally insufficient. Not ancient confederacies only, but certain
modern ones, will point out to us the horrid situation in which these states
must be involved, unless the general government be vested with this power. The
history of those confederacies will discover to us the dreadful misfortunes
which their people will have suffered by the imbecility of their governments.
If some other gentleman will not, I shall discover, at another opportunity,
that mournful history.
Mr. MADISON. Mr. Chairman, in considering this great subject, I trust we
shall find that part which gives the general government the power of laying and
collecting taxes indispensable, and essential to the existence of any efficient
or well-organized system of government: if we consult reason, and be ruled by
its dictates, we shall find its justification there: if we review the
experience we have had, or contemplate the history of nations, here we find
ample reasons to prove its expediency. There is little reason to depend for
necessary supplies on a body which is fully possessed of the power of
withholding them. If a government depends on other governments for its revenues
— if it must depend on the voluntary contributions of its members —
its {129} existence must be precarious. A government which relies on thirteen
independent sovereignties for the means of its existence, is a solecism in
theory and a mere nullity in practice. Is it consistent with reason that such a
government can promote the happiness of any people? It is subversive of every
principle of sound policy, to trust the safety of a community with a government
totally destitute of the means of protecting itself or its members. Can
Congress, after the repeated unequivocal proofs it has experienced of the utter
inutility and inefficacy of requisitions, reasonably expect that they would be
hereafter effectual or productive? Will not the same local interests, and other
causes, militate against a compliance? Whoever hopes the contrary must ever be
disappointed. The effect, sir, cannot be changed without a removal of the
cause. Let each county in this commonwealth be supposed free and independent;
let your revenues depend on requisitions of proportionate quotas from them; let
application be made to them repeatedly: — is it to be presumed that they
would comply, or that an adequate collection could be made from partial
compliances? It is now difficult to collect the taxes from them: how much would
that difficulty be enhanced, were you to depend solely on their generosity! I
appeal to the reason of every gentleman here, whether he is not persuaded that
the present Confederation is as feeble as the government of Virginia would be
in that case: to the same reason I appeal, whether it be compatible with
prudence to continue a government of such manifest and palpable debility.
If we recur to history, and review the annals of mankind, I undertake to
say that no instance can be produced, by the most learned man, of any
confederate government that will justify a continuation of the present system,
or that will not demonstrate the necessity of this change, and of substituting,
for the present pernicious and fatal plan, the system now under consideration,
or one equally energetic. The uniform conclusion drawn from a review of ancient
and modern confederacies is, that, instead of promoting the public happiness,
or securing public tranquillity, they have, in every instance, been productive
of anarchy and confusion, ineffectual for the preservation of harmony, and a
prey to their own dissensions and foreign invasions.
The Amphictyonic league resembled our Confederation in {130} its nominal
powers; it was possessed of rather more power. The component states retained
their sovereignty, and enjoyed an equality of suffrage in the federal council.
But, though its powers were more considerable in many respects than those of
our present system, yet it had the same radical defect. Its powers were
exercised over its individual members, in their political capacities. To this
capital defect it owed its disorders and final destruction. It was compelled to
recur to the sanguinary coercion of war to enforce its decrees. The struggles
consequent on a refusal to obey a decree, and an attempt to enforce it,
produced the necessity of applying to foreign assistance. By complying with
such an application, together with his intrigues, Philip of Macedon acquired
sufficient influence to become a member of the league. This artful and
insidious prince soon after became master of their liberties.
The Achæan league, though better constructed than the
Amphictyonic, in material respects, was continually agitated with domestic
dissensions, and driven to the necessity of calling in foreign aid; this, also,
eventuated in the demolition of their confederacy. Had they been more closely
united, their people would have been happier; and their united wisdom and
strength would not only have rendered unnecessary all foreign interpositions in
their affairs, but would have enabled them to repel the attack of an enemy. If
we descend to more modern examples, we shall find the same evils resulting from
the same sources.
The Germanic system is neither adequate to the external defence nor
internal felicity of the people. The doctrine of quotas and requisitions
flourishes here. Without energy, without stability, the empire is a nerveless
body. The most furious conflicts, and the most implacable animosities, between
its members, strikingly distinguish its history. Concert and cooperation are
incompatible with such an injudiciously constructed system.
The republic of the Swiss is sometimes instanced for its stability; but
even there, dissensions and wars of a bloody nature have been frequently seen
between the cantons. A peculiar coincidence of circumstances contributes to the
continuance of their political connection. Their feeble association owes its
existence to their singular situation. There is a schism, this moment, in their
confederacy, which, without {131} the necessity of uniting for their external
defence, would immediately produce its dissolution.
The confederate government of Holland is a further confirmation of the
characteristic imbecility of such governments. From the history of this
government we might derive lessons of the most important utility.
[Here Mr. Madison quoted sundry passages from De Witt
respecting the people of Holland, and the war which they had so long supported
against the Spanish monarch, showing the impolitic and injudicious structure of
their confederacy; that it was entirely destitute of energy, because their
revenues depended chiefly on requisitions; that, during that long war, the
provinces of Guelderland and Overyssel had not paid their respective quotas,
but had evaded, altogether, their payments; in consequence of which, two
sevenths of the resources of the community had never been brought into action,
nor contributed in the least towards the prosecution of the war; that the fear
of pressing danger stimulated Holland and the other provinces to pay all the
charges of the war; that those two provinces had continued their delinquencies;
that the province of Holland alone paid more than all the rest — still
those provinces who paid up their proportional shares claimed from the failing
states the amount of their arrearages; that the most fatal consequences had
nearly resulted from the difficulty of adjusting those claims, and from the
extreme aversion of the delinquent states to discharge even their most solemn
engagements; that there are existing controversies between the provinces on
this account at present; and, to add to the evils consequent upon requisitions,
that unanimity, and the revision and sanction of their constituents, were
necessary to give validity to the decisions of the States-General.]
Mr. Madison then added, that these radical defects in their confederacy
must have dissolved their association long ago, were it not for their peculiar
position — circumscribed in a narrow territory; surrounded by the most
powerful nations in the world; possessing peculiar advantages from their
situation — an extensive navigation and a powerful navy — advantages
which it was clearly the interest of those nations to diminish or deprive them
of; and that their late unhappy dissensions were manifestly produced by the
vices of their system. He then continued: We may derive much benefit from the
experience of that unhappy country. Governments destitute of energy will ever
produce anarchy. These facts are worthy the most serious consideration of every
gentleman here. Does not the history of these confederacies coincide with the
lesson drawn from our own experience? I most earnestly pray that America may
have sufficient wisdom to avail herself of the instructive information she may
derive from a contemplation of the sources of {132} their misfortunes, and that
she may escape a similar fate by avoiding the causes from which their
infelicity sprang. If the general government is to depend on the voluntary
contribution of the states for its support,dismemberment of the United States
may be the consequence. In cases of imminent danger, the states more
immediately exposed to it only would exert themselves; those remote from it
would be too supine to interest themselves warmly in the fate of those whose
distresses they did not immediately perceive. The general government ought,
therefore, to be empowered to defend the whole Union.
Must we not suppose that those parts of America which are most exposed
will first be the scenes of war? Those nations whose interest is incompatible
with an extension of our power, and who are jealous of our resources to become
powerful and wealthy, must naturally be inclined to exert every means to
prevent our becoming formidable. Will they not be impelled to attack the most
exposed parts of the Union? Will not their knowledge of the weakness of our
government stimulate them the more readily to such an attack? Those parts to
which relief can be afforded with most difficulty are the extremities of the
country, and will be the first objects of our enemies. The general government,
having no resources beyond what are adequate to its existing necessities, will
not be able to afford any effectual succor to those parts which may be invaded.
America, in such a case, would palpably perceive the danger and folly of
withholding from the Union a power sufficient to protect the whole territory of
the United States. Such an attack is far from improbable; and if it be actually
made, it is difficult to conceive a possibility of escaping the catastrophe of
a dismemberment. On this subject we may receive an estimable and instructive
lesson from an American confederacy — from an example which has happened
in our country, and which applies to us with peculiar force, being most
analogous to our situation: I mean that species of association or union which
subsisted in New England. The colonies of Massachusetts, Bristol, Connecticut,
and New Hampshire, were confederated together.
The object of that confederacy was, primarily, to defend themselves
against the inroads and depredations of the Indians. They had a common council,
consisting of deputies {133} from each party, with an equality of suffrage in
their deliberations. The general expenditures and charges were to be adequately
defrayed. Its powers were very similar to those of the Confederation. Its
history proves clearly that a government founded on such principles must ever
disappoint the hopes of those who expect its operation to be conducive to the
public happiness.
There are facts on record to prove that, instead of answering the end of
its institution, or the expectation of its framers, it was violated with
impunity, and only regarded when it coincided perfectly with the views and
immediate interests of the respective parties.
The strongest member of the union availed itself of its circumstances to
infringe their confederacy. Massachusetts refused to pay its quotas. In the war
between England and Holland, it was found particularly necessary to make
exertions for the protection of that country.
Massachusetts, being then more powerful and less exposed than the other
colonies, refused its contributions to the general defence. In consequence of
this, the common council remonstrated against the council of Massachusetts.
This altercation terminated in the dissolution of their union. From this brief
account of a system perfectly resembling our present one, we may easily divine
the inevitable consequences of a longer adherence to the latter.
[Mr. Madison then recapitulated many instances of the
prevalent persuasion of the wisest patriots of the states, that the safety of
all America depended on union, and that the government of the United States
must be possessed of an adequate degree of energy, or that otherwise their
connection could not be justly denominated a union. He likewise enumerated the
expedients that had been attempted by the people of America to form an intimate
association, from the meeting at New York, in the year 1754, downwards; that
their sentiments on this subject had been uniform, both in their colonial and
independent conditions; and that a variety of causes had hitherto prevented the
adoption of an adequate system.]
He then continued thus: If we take experience for our guide, we shall
find still more instructive direction on this subject. The weakness of the
existing articles of the Union showed itself during the war. It has manifested
itself, since the peace, to such a degree as admits of no doubt, to a rational,
intelligent, and unbiased mind, of the necessity of alteration; nay, this
necessity is obvious to all America; it has forced itself on the minds of the
people, {134} The committee has been informed that the Confederation was not
completed till the year 1781, when a great portion of the war was ended;
consequently, no part of the merit of the antecedent operations of the war
could justly be attributed to that system. Its debility was perceived almost as
soon as it was put in operation. A recapitulation of the proofs which have been
experienced of its inefficacy is unnecessary. It is most notorious that
feebleness universally marked its character. Shall we be safe, in another war,
in the same situation? That instrument required the voluntary contributions of
the states, and thereby sacrificed some of our best privileges. The most
intolerable and unwarrantable opressions were committed on the people during
the late war. The gross enormity of those oppressions might have produced the
most serious consequences, were it not for the spirit of liberty, which
preponderated against every consideration.
A scene of injustice, partiality, and oppression, may bring heavenly
vengeance on any people. We are now, by our suffering, expiating the crimes of
the otherwise glorious revolution. Is it not known to every member of this
committee, that the great principles of a free government were reversed through
the whole progress of that scene? Was not every state harassed? Was not every
individual oppressed, and subjected to repeated distresses? Was this right? Was
it a proper form of government that warranted, authorized, or overlooked, the
most wanton deprivation of property? Had the government been vested with
complete power to procure a regular and adequate supply of revenue, those
oppressive measures would have been unnecessary. But, sir, can it be supposed
that a repetition of such measures would ever be acquiesced in? Can a
government that stands in need of such measures secure the liberty, or promote
the happiness or glory, of any country? If we do not change this system,
consequences must ensue that gentlemen do not now apprehend. If other testimony
were necessary, I might appeal to that which I am sure is very weighty, but
which I mention with reluctance. At the conclusion of the war, the man who had
the most extensive acquaintance with the nature of the country, who well
understood its interests, and who had given the most unequivocal and most
brilliant proofs of attachment to its welfare, when he laid down his arms,
wherewith he had so nobly {135} and successfully defended his country, publicly
testified his disapprobation of the present system, and suggested that some
alteration was necessary to render it adequate to the security of our
happiness. I did not introduce that great name to bias any gentleman here. Much
as I admire and revere the man, I consider these members as not to be actuated
by the influence of any man; but I introduced him as a respectable witness to
prove that the Articles of the Confederation were inadequate,and that we must
resort to something else. His modesty did not point out what ought to be done,
but said that some great change was necessary. But, sir, testimony, if wished
for, may be found in abundance, and numerous conclusive reasons urged for this
change. Experience was daily producing such irresistible proofs of the defects
of this system, this commonwealth was induced to exert her influence to
meliorate it: she began that noble work, in which I hope she will persist: she
proposed to revise it; her proposition met with that concurrence which that of
a respectable party will always meet. I am sure, if demonstration were
necessary on the part of this commonwealth, reasons have been abundantly heard,
in the course of this debate, manifold and cogent enough, not only to operate
conviction, but to disgust an attentive hearer. Recollect the resolution of the
year 1784. It was then found that the whole burden of the Union was sustained
by a few states. This state was likely to be saddled with a very
disproportionate share. That expedient was proposed (to obviate this
inconvenience) which has been placed in its true light. It has been painted in
sufficient horrors by the honorable gentleman who spoke last.
I agree with the honorable gentleman (Mr. Henry) that national splendor
and glory are not our objects; but does he distinguish between what will render
us secure and happy at home, and what will render us respectable abroad? If we
be free and happy at home, we shall be respectable abroad.
The Confederation is so notoriously feeble, that foreign nations are
unwilling to form any treaties with us; they are apprized that our general
government cannot perform any of its engagements, but that they may be violated
at pleasure by any of the states. Our violation of treaties already entered
into proves this truth unequivocally. No nation will, therefore, make any
stipulations with Congress, conceding {136} any advantages of importance to us:
they will be the more averse to entering into engagements with us, as the
imbecility of our government enables them to derive many advantages from our
trade, without granting us any return. But were this country united by proper
bands, in addition to other great advantages, we could form very beneficial
treaties with foreign states. But this can never happen without a change in our
system. Were we not laughed at by the minister of that nation, from which we
may be able yet to extort some of the most salutary measures for this country?
Were we not told that it was necessary to temporize till our government
acquired consistency? Will any nation relinquish national advantages to us? You
will be greatly disappointed, if you expect any such good effects from this
contemptible system. Let us recollect our conduct to that country from which we
have received the most friendly aid. How have we dealt with that benevolent
ally? Have we complied with our most sacred obligations to that nation? Have we
paid the interest punctually from year to year? Is not the interest
accumulating, while not a shilling is discharged of the principal? The
magnanimity and forbearance of that ally are so great that she has not called
upon us for her claims, even in her own distress and necessity. This, sir, is
an additional motive to increase our exertions. At this moment of time a very
considerable amount is due from us to that country and others.
[Here Mr. Madison mentioned the amount of the debts due
to different foreign nations.]
We have been obliged to borrow money even to pay the interest of our
debts. This is a ruinous and most disgraceful expedient. Is this a situation on
which America can rely for security and happiness? How are we to extricate
ourselves? The honorable member told us we might rely on the punctuality and
friendship of the states, and that they will discharge their quotas for the
future. The contributions of the states have been found inadequate from the
beginning, and are diminishing instead of increasing. From the month of June,
1787, till June, 1788, they have only paid 276,641 dollars into the federal
treasury for the purposes of supporting the national government, and
discharging the interest of the national debts — a sum so very
insufficient, that it must greatly alarm the friends of their country.
Suggestions {137} and strong assertions dissipate before these facts. I shall
no longer fatigue the committee at this time, but will resume the subject as
early as I can.
Mr. HENRY. I have thought, and still think, that
a full investigation of the actual situation of America ought to precede any
decision of this great and important question. That government is no more than
a choice among evils, is acknowledged by the most intelligent among mankind,
and has been a standing maxim for ages. If it be demonstrated that the adoption
of the new plan is a little or a trifling evil, then, sir, I acknowledge that
adoption ought to follow; but, sir, if this be a truth, that its adoption may
entail misery on the free people of this country, I then insist that rejection
ought to follow. Gentlemen strongly urge, its adoption will be a mighty benefit
to us; but, sir, I am made of so incredulous materials, that assertions and
declarations do not satisfy me. I must be convinced, sir. I shall retain my
infidelity on that subject till I see our liberties secured in a manner
perfectly satisfactory to my understanding.
There are certain maxims by which every wise and enlightened people will
regulate their conduct. There are certain political maxims which no free people
ought ever to abandon — maxims of which the observance is essential to the
security of happiness. It is impiously irritating the avenging hand of Heaven,
when a people, who are in the full enjoyment of freedom, launch out into the
wide ocean of human affairs, and desert those maxims which alone can preserve
liberty. Such maxims, humble as they are, are those only which can render a
nation safe or formidable. Poor little humble republican maxims have attracted
the admiration, and engaged the attention, of the virtuous and wise in all
nations, and have stood the shock of ages. We do not now admit the validity of
maxims which we once delighted in. We have since adopted maxims of a different,
but more refined nature — new maxims, which tend to the prostration of
republicanism.
We have one, sir,
that all men are by nature free and independent,
and have certain inherent rights, of which, when they enter into society, they
cannot by any compact deprive or divest their posterity
. We have a set of
maxims of the same spirit, which must be beloved by every friend to liberty, to
virtue, to mankind: our bill of rights contains those admirable maxims.
{138} Now, sir, I say, let us consider whether the picture given of
American affairs ought to drive us from those beloved maxims.
The honorable gentleman, Governor Randolph, has said that it is too late
in the day for us to reject this new plan. That system which was once execrated
by the honorable member must now be adopted, let its defects be ever so
glaring. That honorable member will not accuse me of want of candor, when I
cast in my mind what he has given the public,
[2]
and compare it to what has happened since. It seems
to me very strange and unaccountable that that which was the object of his
execration should now receive his encomiums. Something extraordinary must have
operated so great a change in his opinion. It is too late in the day! Gentlemen
must excuse me if they should declare, again and again, that it was too late,
and I should think differently. I never can believe, sir, that it is too late
to save all that is precious: if it be proper, and, independently of every
external consideration, wisely constructed, let us receive it: but, sir, shall
its adoption by eight states induce us to receive it, if it be replete with the
most dangerous defects? They urge that subsequent amendments are safer than
previous amendments, and that they will answer the same ends.
At present we have our liberties and privileges in our own hands. Let us
not relinquish them. Let us not adopt this system till we see them secure.
There is some small possibility that, should we follow the conduct of
Massachusetts, amendments might be obtained. There is a small possibility of
amending any government; but, sir, shall we abandon our most inestimable
rights, and rest their security on a mere possibility? The gentleman fears the
loss of the Union. If eight states have ratified it unamended, and we should
rashly imitate their precipitate example, do we not thereby disunite from
several other states? Shall those who have risked their lives for the sake of
the Union be at once thrown out of it? If it be amended, every state will
accede to it; but by an imprudent adoption in its defective and dangerous
state, a schism must inevitably be the consequence. {139} I can never,
therefore, consent to hazard our most unalienable rights on an absolute
uncertainty.
You are told there is no peace, although you fondly flatter yourselves
that all is peace; no peace; a general cry and alarm in the country; commerce,
riches, and wealth, vanished; citizens going to seek comforts in other parts of
the world; laws insulted; many instances of tyrannical legislation. These
things, sir, are new to me. He has made the discovery. As to the administration
of justice, I believe that failures in commerce, &c., cannot be attributed
to it. My age enables me to recollect its progress under the old government. I
can justify it by saying that it continues in the same manner in this state as
it did under the former government. As to other parts of the continent, I refer
that to other gentlemen. As to the ability of those who administer it, I
believe they would not suffer by a comparison with those who administered it
under the royal authority. Where is the cause of complaint if the wealthy go
away? Is this, added to the other circumstances, of such enormity, and does it
bring such danger over this commonwealth, as to warrant so important and so
awful a change, in so precipitate a manner? As to insults offered to the laws,
I know of none. In this respect, I believe this commonwealth would not suffer
by a comparison with the former government. The laws are as well executed, and
as patiently acquiesced in, as they were under the royal administration.
Compare the situation of the country — compare that of our citizens to
what it was then — and decide whether persons and property are not as safe
and secure as they were at that time. Is there a man in this commonwealth whose
person can be insulted with impunity? Cannot redress be had here for personal
insults or injuries, as well as in any part of the world — as well as in
those countries where aristocrats and monarchs triumph and reign? Is not the
protection of property in full operation here? The contrary cannot with truth
be charged on this commonwealth. Those severe charges, which are exhibited
against it, appear to be totally groundless. On a fair investigation, we shall
be found to be surrounded by no real dangers.
We have the animating fortitude and persevering alacrity of republican
men to carry us through misfortunes and calamities. It is the fortune of a
republic to be able to {140} withstand the stormy ocean of human vicissitudes.
I know of no danger awaiting us. Public and private security are to be found
here in the highest degree. Sir, it is the fortune of a free people not to be
intimidated by imaginary dangers. Fear is the passion of slaves. Our political
and natural hemisphere are now equally tranquil. Let us recollect the awful
magnitude of the subject of our deliberation; let us consider the latent
consequences of an erroneous decision, and let not our minds be led away by
unfair misrepresentations and uncandid suggestions. There have been many
instances of uncommon lenity and temperance used in the exercise of power in
this commonwealth. I could call your recollection to many that happened during
the war and since; but every gentleman here must be apprized of them.
The honorable member has given you an elaborate account of what he
judges tyrannical legislation, and an
ex post facto law
, (in the case of
Josiah Philips.) He has misrepresented the facts. That man was not executed by
a tyrannical stroke of power. Nor was he a Socrates. He was a fugitive murderer
and an outlaw — a man who commanded an infamous banditti, and at a time
when the war was at the most perilous stage. He committed the most cruel and
shocking barbarities. He was an enemy to the human name. Those who declare war
against the human race may be struck out of existence as soon as they are
apprehended. He was not executed according to those beautiful legal ceremonies
which are pointed out by the laws in criminal cases. The enormity of his crimes
did not entitle him to it. I am truly a friend to legal forms and methods; but,
sir, the occasion warranted the measure. A pirate, an outlaw, or a common enemy
to all mankind, may be put to death at any time. It is justified by the laws of
nature and nations.
The honorable member tells us, then, that there are burnings and
discontents in the hearts of our citizens in general, and that they are
dissatisfied with their government. I have no doubt the honorable member
believes this to be the case, because he says so. But I have the comfortable
assurance that it is certain fact that it is not so. The middle and lower ranks
of people have not those illuminated ideas which the well-born are so happily
possessed of; they cannot so readily perceive latent objects. The microscopic
eyes of modern statesmen can see abundance of defects in old systems; {141} and
their illuminated imaginations discover the necessity of a change. They are
captivated by the parade of the number ten — the charms of the ten miles
square. Sir, I fear this change will ultimately lead to our ruin. My fears are
not the force of imagination; they are but too well founded. I tremble for my
country; but, sir, I trust, I rely, and I am confident, that this political
speculation has not taken so strong a hold of men's minds as some would make us
believe.
The dangers which may arise from our geographical situation will be more
properly considered a while hence. At present, what may be surmised on the
subject, with respect to the adjacent states, is merely visionary. Strength,
sir, is a relative term. When I reflect on the natural force of those nations
that might be induced to attack us, and consider the difficulty of the attempt,
and uncertainty of the success, and compare thereto the relative strength of
our country, I say that we are strong. We have no cause to fear from that
quarter; we have nothing to dread from our neighboring states. The superiority
of our cause would give us an advantage over them, were they so unfriendly or
rash as to attack us. As to that part of the community, which the honorable
gentleman spoke of as being in danger of being separated from us, — what
excitement or inducement could its inhabitants have to wish such an event? It
is a matter of doubt, whether they would derive any advantage to themselves, or
be any loss to us, by such a separation. Time has been, and may yet come, when
they will find it their advantage and true interest to be united with us. There
is no danger of a dismemberment of our country, unless a Constitution be
adopted which will enable the government to plant enemies on our backs. By the
Confederation, the rights of territory are secured. No treaty can be made
without the consent of nine states. While the consent of nine states is
necessary to the cession of territory, you are safe. If it be put in the power
of a less number, you will most infallibly lose the Mississippi. As long as we
can preserve our unalienable rights, we are in safety. This new Constitution
will involve in its operation the loss of the navigation of that valuable
river.
The honorable gentleman cannot be ignorant of the
Spanish
transactions
. A treaty had been nearly entered into with Spain, to
relinquish that navigation. That relinquishment {142} would absolutely have
taken place, had the consent of seven states been sufficient. The honorable
gentleman told us then, that, eight states having adopted the system, we cannot
suppose they will recede on our account. I know not what they may do; but this
I know — that a people of infinitely less importance than those of
Virginia stood the terror of war. Vermont, sir, withstood the terror of
thirteen states. Maryland did not accede to the Confederation till the year
1781. These two states, feeble as they are comparatively to us, were not afraid
of the whole Union. Did either of these states perish? No, sir, they were
admitted freely into the Union. Will not Virginia, then, be admitted? I flatter
myself that those states which have ratified the new plan of government will
open their arms and cheerfully receive us, although we should propose certain
amendments as the conditions on which we should ratify it. During the late war,
all the states were in pursuit of the same object. To obtain that object, they
made the most strenuous exertions. They did not suffer trivial considerations
to impede its acquisition. Give me leave to say that, if the smallest states in
the Union were admitted into it, after having unreasonably procrastinated their
accession, the greatest and most mighty state in the Union will be easily
admitted, when her reluctance to an immediate accession to this system is
founded on the most reasonable grounds. When I call this the most mighty state
in the Union, do I not speak the truth? Does not Virginia surpass every state
in the Union, in number of inhabitants, extent of territory, felicity of
position, and affluence and wealth? Some infatuation hangs over men's minds,
that they will inconsiderately precipitate into measures the most important,
and give not a moment's deliberation to others, nor pay any respect to their
opinions. Is this federalism? Are these the beloved effects of the federal
spirit, that its votaries will never accede to the just propositions of others?
Sir, were there nothing objectionable in it but that, I would vote against it.
I desire to have nothing to do with such men as will obstinately refuse to
change their opinions. Are our opinions not to be regarded? I hope that you
will recollect that you are going to join with men who will pay no respect even
to this state.
Switzerland consists of thirteen cantons expressly confederated {143}
for national defence. They have stood the shock of four hundred years; that
country has enjoyed internal tranquillity most of that long period. Their
dissensions have been, comparatively to those of other countries, very few.
What has passed in the neighboring countries? War, dissensions, and intrigues;
— Germany involved in the most deplorable civil war thirty years
successively, continually convulsed with intestine divisions, and harassed by
foreign wars! France, with her mighty monarchy, perpetually at war. Compare the
peasants of Switzerland with those of any other mighty nation: you will find
them far more happy: for one civil war among them, there have been five or six
among other nations: their attachment to their country and freedom, their
resolute intrepidity in their defence, the consequent security and happiness
which they have enjoyed, and the respect and awe which these things produced in
the bordering nations, have signalized those republicans. Their valor, sir, has
been active; every thing that sets in motion the springs of the human heart
engaged them to that protection of their inestimable privileges. They have not
only secured their own liberty, but have been the arbiters of the fate of other
people. Here, sir, contemplate the triumph of the republican governments over
the pride of monarchy. I acknowledge, sir, that the necessity of national
defence has prevailed in invigorating their councils and arms, and has been, in
a considerable degree, the means of keeping these honest people together. But,
sir, they have had wisdom enough to keep together, and render themselves
formidable. Their heroism is proverbial. They would heroically fight for their
government and their laws. One of the illumined sons of these times would not
fight for those objects. Those virtuous and simple people have not a mighty and
splendid President, nor enormously expensive navies and armies, to support. No,
sir; those brave republicans have acquired their reputation no less by their
undaunted intrepidity than by the wisdom of their frugal and economical policy.
Let us follow their example, and be equally happy. The honorable member advises
us to adopt a measure which will destroy our bill of rights; for, after having
his picture of nations, and his reasons for abandoning all the powers retained
to the states by the Confederation, {144} I am more firmly persuaded of the
impropriety of adopting this new plan in its present shape.
I had doubts of the power of those who went to the Convention, but now
we are possessed of it, let us examine it. When we trusted the great object of
revising the Confederation to the greatest, and best, and most enlightened, of
our citizens, we thought their deliberations would have been solely confined to
that revision. Instead of this, a new system, totally different in its nature,
and vesting the most extensive powers in Congress, is presented. Will the ten
men you are to sent to Congress be more worthy than those seven were? If power
grew so rapidly in their hands, what may it not do in the hands of others? If
those who go from this state will find power accompanied with temptation, our
situation must be truly critical. When about forming a government, if we
mistake the principles, or commit any other error, the very circumstance
promises that power will be abused. The greatest caution and circumspection are
therefore necessary; nor does this proposed system, on its investigation here,
deserve the least charity.
The honorable gentleman says that the national government is without
energy. I perfectly agree with him; and when he cries out,
Union
, I
agree with him; but I tell him not to mistake the end for the means. The end is
union; the most capital means, I suppose, are an army and navy. On a
supposition, I will acknowledge this; still the bare act of agreeing to that
paper, though it may have an amazing influence, will not pay our millions.
There must be things to pay debts. What these things are, or how they are to be
produced, must be determined by our political wisdom and economy.
The honorable gentleman alleges that previous amendments will prevent
the junction of our riches from producing great profits and emoluments, which
would enable us to pay our public debts, by excluding us from the Union. I
believe, sir, that a previous ratification of a system notoriously and
confessedly defective will endanger our riches, our liberty, our all. Its
defects are acknowledged; they cannot be denied. The reason offered by the
honorable gentleman for adopting this defective system, is its adoption by the
eight states. I say, sir, that, if we present nothing but what is {145}
reasonable in the shape of amendments, they will receive us. Union is as
necessary for them as for us. Will they, then, be so unreasonable as not to
join us? If such be their disposition, I am happy to know it in time.
The honorable member then observed, that nations will expend millions
for commercial advantages; that is, that they will deprive you of every
advantage if they can. Apply this another way. Their cheaper way, instead of
laying out millions in making war upon you, will be to corrupt your senators. I
know that, if they be not above all price, they may make a sacrifice of our
commercial interests. They may advise your President to make a treaty that will
not only sacrifice all your commercial interests, but throw prostrate your bill
of rights. Does he fear that their ships will outnumber ours on the ocean, or
that nations whose interest comes in contact with ours, in the progress of
their guilt, will perpetrate the vilest expedients to exclude us from a
participation in commercial advantages? Does he advise us, in order to avoid
this evil, to adopt a Constitution, which will enable such nations to obtain
their ends by the more easy mode of contaminating the principles of our
senators? Sir, if our senators will not be corrupted, it will be because they
will be good men, and not because the Constitution provides against corruption;
for there is no real check secured in it, and the most abandoned and profligate
acts may with impunity be committed by them.
With respect to Maryland, what danger from thence? I know none. I have
not heard of any hostility premeditated or committed. Nine tenths of the people
have not heard of it. Those who are so happy as to be illumined have not
informed their fellow-citizens of it. I am so valiant as to say that no danger
can come, from that source, sufficient to make me abandon my republican
principles. The honorable gentleman ought to have recollected that there were
no tyrants in America, as there are in Europe. The citizens of republican
borders are only terrible to tyrants. Instead of being dangerous to one
another, they mutually support one another's liberties. We might be
confederated with the adopting states without ratifying this system. No form of
government renders a people more formidable. A confederacy of states joined
together becomes strong as the United Netherlands. The government of Holland,
execrated as it is, proves that {146} the present Confederation is adequate to
every purpose of human association. There are seven provinces confederated
together for a long time, containing numerous opulent cities, and many of the
finest ports in the world. The recollection of the situation of that country
would make me execrate monarchy. The singular felicity and success of that
people are unparalleled: freedom has done miracles there in reclaiming land
from the ocean. It is the richest spot on the face of the globe. Have they no
men or money? Have they no fleets or armies? Have they no arts or sciences
among them? How did they repel the attacks of the greatest nations in the
world? How have they acquired their amazing influence and power? Did they
consolidate government, to effect these purposes, as we do? No, sir, they have
trampled over every obstacle and difficulty, and have arrived at the summit of
political felicity, and of uncommon opulence, by means of a confederacy —
that very government which gentlemen affect to despise. They have, sir, avoided
a consolidation as the greatest of evils. They have lately, it is true, made
one advance to that fatal progression. This misfortune burst on them by
iniquity and artifice. That stadtholder, that executive magistrate, contrived
it, in conjunction with other European nations. It was not the choice of the
people. Was it owing to his energy that this happened? If two provinces have
paid nothing, what have not the rest done? And have not these two provinces
made other exertions? Ought they, to avoid this inconvenience, to have
consolidated their different states, and have a ten miles square? Compare that
little spot, nurtured by liberty, with the fairest country in the world. Does
not Holland possess a powerful navy and army, and a full treasury? They did not
acquire these by debasing the principles and trampling on the rights of their
citizens. Sir, they acquired these by their industry, economy, and by the
freedom of their government. Their commerce is the most extensive in Europe;
their credit is unequalled; their felicity will be an eternal monument of the
blessings of liberty: every nation in Europe is taught by them what they are,
and what they ought to be. The contrast between those nations and this happy
people is the most splendid spectacle for republicans — the greatest cause
of exultation and triumph to the sons of freedom. While other nations,
precipitated by the rage of {147} ambition or folly, have, in the pursuit of
the most magnificent projects, riveted the fetters of bondage on themselves and
descendants, these republicans secured their political happiness and freedom.
Where is there a nation to be compared to them? Where is there now, or where
was there ever, a nation of so small a territory, and so few in number, so
powerful, so wealthy, so happy? What is the cause of this superiority? Liberty,
sir, the freedom of their government. Though they are now, unhappily, in some
degree consolidated, yet they have my acclamations, when put in contrast with
those millions of their fellow-men who lived and died like slaves. The dangers
of a consolidation ought to be guarded against in this country. I shall exert
my poor talents to ward them off. Dangers are to be apprehended in whatever
manner we proceed; but those of a consolidation are the most destructive. Let
us leave no expedient untried to secure happiness. But, whatever be our
decision, I am consoled if American liberty will remain entire only for half a
century; and I trust that mankind in general, and our posterity in particular,
will be compensated for every anxiety we now feel.
Another gentleman tells us that no inconvenience will result from the
exercise of the power of taxation by the general government; that two shillings
out of ten may be saved by the impost; and that four shillings may be paid to
the federal collector, and four to the state collector. A change of government
will not pay money. If, from the probable amount of the imposts, you take the
enormous and extravagant expenses which will certainly attend the support of
this great consolidated government, I believe you will find no reduction of the
public burdens by this new system. The splendid maintenance of the President,
and of the members of both houses, and the salaries and fees of the swarm of
officers and dependants of the government, will cost this continent immense
sums. Double sets of collectors will double the expenses; to those are to be
added oppressive excisemen and custom-house officers. Sir, the people have an
hereditary hatred to custom-house officers. The experience of the mother
country leads me to detest them. They have introduced their baneful influence
into the administration, and destroyed one of the most beautiful systems that
ever the world saw. Our forefathers enjoyed liberty there while that system was
in its purity; but it is now contaminated by influence of every kind.
{148} The style of the government (
We, the people
) was introduced
perhaps to recommend it to the people at large; to those citizens who are to be
levelled and degraded to the lowest degree; who are likened to a
herd
;
[3]
and who, by the operation of
this blessed system, are to be transformed from respectable, independent
citizens, to abject, dependent subjects or slaves. The honorable gentleman has
anticipated what we are to be reduced to, by degradingly assimilating our
citizens to a herd.
[Here Governor Randolph arose, and declared that he did
not use that word to excite any odium, but merely to convey an idea of a
multitude.]
Mr. Henry replied, that it made a deep impression on his mind, and that
he verily believed that system would operate as he had said. He then continued:
I will exchange that
abominable
word for
requisitions
.
Requisitions, which gentlemen affect to despise, have nothing degrading in
them. On this depends our political prosperity. I never will give up that
darling
word
requisitions
: my country may give it up; a majority
may wrest it from me, but I will never give it up till my grave. Requisitions
are attended with one singular advantage. They are attended by deliberation.
They secure to the states the benefit of correcting oppressive errors. If our
Assembly thought requisitions erroneous, if they thought the demand was too
great, they might at least supplicate Congress to reconsider — that it was
a little too much. The power of direct taxation was called by the honorable
gentleman the
soul
of the government: another gentleman called it the
lungs
of the government. We all agree that it is the most important part
of the body politic. If the power of raising money be necessary for the general
government, it is no less so for the states. If money be the vitals of
Congress, is it not precious for those individuals from whom it is to be taken?
Must I give my soul, my lungs, to Congress? Congress must have our souls; the
state must have our souls. This is dishonorable and disgraceful. These two
coordinate, interfering, unlimited powers of harassing the community are
unexampled: it is unprecedented in history. They are the visionary projects of
modern politicians. Tell me not of imaginary means, but of reality; this
political {149} solecism will never tend to the benefit of the community. It
will be as oppressive in practice as it is absurd in theory. If you part from
this, which the honorable gentleman tells you is the soul of Congress, you will
be inevitably ruined. I tell you, they shall not have the soul of Virginia.
They tell us that one collector may collect the federal and state taxes. The
general government being paramount to the state legislatures, if the sheriff is
to collect for both, — his right hand for Congress, his left for the
state, — his right hand being paramount over the left, his collections
will go to Congress. We shall have the rest. Deficiencies in collections will
always operate against the states. Congress, being the paramount, supreme
power, must not be disappointed. Thus Congress will have an unlimited,
unbounded command over the soul of this commonwealth. After satisfying their
uncontrolled demands, what can be left for the states? Not a sufficiency even
to defray the expense of their internal administration. They must therefore
glide imperceptibly and gradually out of existence. This, sir, must naturally
terminate in a consolidation. If this will do for other people, it never will
do for me.
If we are to have one representative for every thirty thousand souls, it
must be by implication. The Constitution does not positively secure it. Even
say it is a natural implication, — why not give us a right to that
proportion in express terms, in language that could not admit of evasions or
subterfuges? If they can use implication for us, they can also use implication
against us. We are giving power; they are getting power; judge, then, on which
side the implication will be used! When we once put it in their option to
assume constructive power, danger will follow. Trial by jury, and liberty of
the press, are also on this foundation of implication. If they encroach on
these rights, and you give your implication for a plea, you are cast; for they
will be justified by the last part of it, which gives them full power "to make
all laws which shall be necessary and proper to carry their power into
execution." Implication is dangerous, because it is unbounded: if it be
admitted at all, and no limits be prescribed, it admits of the utmost
extension. They say that every thing that is not given is retained. The reverse
of the proposition is true by implication. They do not carry their implication
so far when they speak of the {150} general welfare — no implication when
the sweeping clause comes. Implication is only necessary when the existence of
privileges is in dispute. The existence of powers is sufficiently established.
If we trust our dearest rights to implication, we shall be in a very unhappy
situation.
Implication, in England, has been a source of dissension. There has been
a war of implication between the king and people. For a hundred years did the
mother country struggle under the uncertainty of implication. The people
insisted that their rights were implied; the monarch denied the doctrine. The
Bill of Rights, in some degree, terminated the dispute. By a bold implication,
they said they had a right to bind us in all cases whatsoever. This
constructive power we opposed, and successfully. Thirteen or fourteen years
ago, the most important thing that could be thought of was to exclude the
possibility of construction and implication. These, sir, were then deemed
perilous. The first thing that was thought of was a bill of rights. We were not
satisfied with your constructive, argumentative rights.
Mr. Henry then declared a bill of rights indispensably necessary; that a
general positive provision should be inserted in the new system, securing to
the states and the people every right which was not conceded to the general
government; and that every implication should be done away. It being now late,
he concluded by observing, that he would resume the subject another time.
1
. Alluding to a motion made in the
House of Delegates, in the year 1784, to enable Congress to compel the
delinquent states to pay their respective quotas, by means of an armed
force.
2
. Alluding to his excellency's
letter on that subject to the speaker of the House of Delegates, vol. i. p.
482.
3
. Governor Randolph had, cursorily,
mentioned the word "herd" in his second speech.
Next
|
Previous
|
Contents
|
Text
Version
|
Home
|
Constitution Society
x
x

Mr. HENRY. Mr. Chairman, I find myself again
constrained to trespass on the patience of this committee. I wish there was a
prospect of union in our sentiments: so much time would not then be taken up.
But when I review the magnitude of the subject under consideration, and of
dangers which appear to me in this new plan of government, and compare thereto
my poor abilities to secure our rights, it will take much more time, in my
poor, unconnected way, to traverse the objectionable parts of it; there are
friends here who will be abler than myself to make good those objections which
to us appear well founded. If we recollect, on last Saturday, I made some
observations on some of those dangers which these gentlemen would fain {151}
persuade us hang over the citizens of this commonwealth, to induce us to change
the government, and adopt the new plan. Unless there be great and awful
dangers, the change is dangerous, and the experiment ought not to be made. In
estimating the magnitude of these dangers, we are obliged to take a most
serious view of them — to see them, to handle them, and to be familiar
with them. It is not sufficient to feign mere imaginary dangers; there must be
a dreadful reality. The great question between us is, Does that reality exist?
These dangers are partially attributed to bad laws, execrated by the community
at large. It is said the people wish to change the government. I should be
happy to meet them on that ground. Should the people wish to change it, we
should be innocent of the dangers. It is a fact that the people do not wish to
change their government. How am I to prove it? It will rest on my bare
assertion, unless supported by an internal conviction in men's breasts. My poor
say-so is a mere nonentity. But, sir, I am persuaded that four fifths of the
people of Virginia must have amendments to the new plan, to reconcile them to a
change of their government. It is a slippery foundation for the people to rest
their political salvation on my or their assertions. No government can flourish
unless it be founded on the affection of the people. Unless gentlemen can be
sure that this new system is founded on that ground, they ought to stop their
career.
I will not repeat what the gentlemen say — I will mention one
thing. There is a dispute between us and the Spaniards about the right of
navigating the Mississippi. This dispute has sprung from the federal
government. I wish a great deal to be said on this subject. I wish to know the
origin and progress of the business, as it would probably unfold great dangers.
In my opinion, the preservation of that river calls for our most serious
consideration. It has been agitated in Congress. Seven states have voted, so
that it is known to the Spaniards that, under our existing system, the
Mississippi shall be taken from them. Seven states wished to relinquish this
river to them. The six Southern States opposed it. Seven states not being
sufficient to convey it away, it remains now ours. If I am wrong, there is a
number on this floor who can contradict the facts; I will readily retract. This
new government, I conceive, will enable those {152} states who have already
discovered their inclination that way, to give away this river. Will the
honorable gentleman advise us to relinquish its inestimable navigation, and
place formidable enemies on our backs? This weak, this poor Confederation
cannot secure us. We are resolved to take shelter under the shield of federal
authority in America. The southern parts of America have been protected by that
weakness so much execrated. I hope this will be explained. I was not in
Congress when these transactions took place. I may not have stated every fact.
I may have misrepresented matters. I hope to be fully acquainted with every
thing relative to the object. Let us hear how the great and important right of
navigating that river has been attended to, and whether I am mistaken in my
opinion that federal measures will lose it to us forever. If a bare majority of
Congress can make laws, the situation of our western citizens is dreadful.
We are threatened with danger for the non-payment of our debt due to
France. We have information come from an illustrious citizen of Virginia, who
is now in Paris, which disproves the suggestions of such danger. This citizen
has not been in the airy regions of theoretic speculation: our ambassador is
this worthy citizen. The ambassador of the United States of America is not so
despised as the honorable gentleman would make us believe. A servant of a
republic is as much respected as that of a monarch. The honorable gentleman
tells us that hostile fleets are to be sent to make reprisals upon us: our
ambassador tells you that the king of France has taken into consideration to
enter into commercial regulations, on reciprocal terms, with us, which will be
of peculiar advantage to us. Does this look like hostility? I might go farther;
I might say, not from public authority, but good information, that his opinion
is, that you reject this government. His character and abilities are in the
highest estimation; he is well acquainted, in every respect, with this country;
equally so with the policy of the European nations. This illustrious citizen
advises you to reject this government till it be amended. His sentiments
coincide entirely with ours. His attachment to, and services done for, this
country are well known. At a great distance from us, he remembers and studies
our happiness. Living in splendor and dissipation, he thinks yet of bills of
rights — thinks of those little, despised things called
maxims
. Let
us follow the sage advice {153} of this common friend of our happiness. It is
little usual for nations to send armies to collect debts. The house of Bourbon,
that great friend of America, will never attack her for her unwilling delay of
payment. Give me leave to say, that Europe is too much engaged about objects of
greater importance, to attend to us. On that great theatre of the world, the
little American matters vanish. Do you believe that the mighty monarch of
France, beholding the greatest scenes that ever engaged the attention of a
prince of that country, will divert himself from those important objects, and
now call for a settlement of accounts with America? This proceeding is not
warranted by good sense. The friendly disposition to us, and the actual
situation of France, render the idea of danger from that quarter absurd. Would
this countryman of ours be fond of advising us to a measure which he knew to be
dangerous? And can it be reasonably supposed that he can be ignorant of any
premeditated hostility against this country? The honorable gentleman may
suspect the account; but I will do our friend the justice to say, that he would
warn us of any danger from France.
Do you suppose the Spanish monarch will risk a contest with the United
States, when his feeble colonies are exposed to them? Every advance the people
make to the westward, makes him tremble for Mexico and Peru. Despised as we are
among ourselves, under our present government, we are terrible to that
monarchy. If this be not a fact, it is generally said so.
We are, in the next place, frightened by dangers from Holland. We must
change our government to escape the wrath of that republic. Holland groans
under a government like this new one. A stadtholder, sir, a Dutch president,
has brought on that country miseries which will not permit them to collect
debts with fleets or armies. The wife of a Dutch stadtholder brought one
hundred thousand men against that republic, and prostrated all opposition. This
President will bring miseries on us like those of Holland. Such is the
condition of European affairs, that it would be
unsafe for them to send
fleets
or armies to collect debts. But here, sir, they make a transition to
objects of another kind. We are presented with dangers of a very uncommon
nature. I am not acquainted with the arts of painting. Some gentlemen have a
peculiar talent for them. They are practised with {154} great ingenuity on this
occasion. As a counterpart to what we have already been intimidated with, we
are told that some lands have been sold, which cannot be found; and that this
will bring war on this country. Here the picture will not stand examination.
Can it be supposed, if a few land speculators and jobbers have violated the
principles of probity, that it will involve this country in war? Is there no
redress to be otherwise obtained, even admitting the delinquents and sufferers
to be numerous? When gentlemen are thus driven to produce imaginary dangers, to
induce this Convention to assent to this change, I am sure it will not be
uncandid to say that the change itself is really dangerous. Then the Maryland
compact is broken, and will produce perilous consequences. I see nothing very
terrible in this. The adoption of the new system will not remove the evil. Will
they forfeit good neighborhood with us, because the compact is broken? Then the
disputes concerning the Carolina line are to involve us in dangers. A strip of
land running from the westward of the Alleghany to the Mississippi, is the
subject to this pretended dispute. I do not know the length or breadth of this
disputed spot. Have they not regularly confirmed our right to it, and
relinquished all claims to it? I can venture to pledge that the people of
Carolina will never disturb us. The strength of this despised country has
settled an immense tract of country to the westward. Give me leave to remark,
that the honorable gentleman's observations on our frontiers, north and south,
east and west, are all inaccurate.
Will Maryland fight against this country for seeking amendments? Were
there not sixty members in that state who went in quest of amendments? Sixty,
against eight or ten, were in favor of pursuing amendments. Shall they fight us
for doing what they themselves have done? They have sought amendments, but
differently from the manner in which I wish amendments to be got. The honorable
gentleman may plume himself on this difference. Will they fight us for this
dissimilarity? Will they fight us for seeking the object they seek themselves?
When they do, it will be time for me to hold my peace. Then, sir, comes
Pennsylvania, in terrible array. Pennsylvania is to go in conflict with
Virginia. Pennsylvania has been a good neighbor heretofore. She is federal
— something terrible — Virginia cannot look her in the face. If we
sufficiently attend to the actual situation of things, we {155} shall conclude
that Pennsylvania will do what we do. A number of that country are strongly
opposed to it. Many of them have lately been convinced of its fatal tendency.
They are disgorged of their federalism. I beseech you to bring this matter home
to yourselves. Was there a possibility for the people of that state to know the
reasons of adopting that system, or understand its principles, in so very short
a period after its formation? This is the middle of June. Those transactions
happened last August. The matter was circulated by every effort of industry,
and the most precipitate measures taken to hurry the people into adoption. Yet
now, after having had several months to investigate it, a very large part of
this community, a great majority of this community, do not understand it. I
have heard gentlemen of respectable abilities declare they did not understand
it. If, after great pains, men of high learning, who have received the aids of
a regular education, do not understand it, — if the people of Pennsylvania
understood it in so short a time, it must have been from intuitive
understandings, and uncommon acuteness of perception. Place yourselves in their
situation; would you fight your neighbors for considering this great and awful
matter? If you wish for real amendments, such as the security of the trial by
jury, it will reach the hearts of the people of that state. Whatever may be the
disposition of the aristocratical politicians of that country, I know there are
friends of human nature in that state. If so, they will never make war on those
who make professions of what they are attached to themselves.
As to the danger arising from borderers, it is mutual and reciprocal. If
it be dangerous for Virginia, it is equally so for them. It will be their true
interest to be united with us. The danger of our being their enemies will be a
prevailing argument in our favor. It will be as powerful to admit us into the
Union, as a vote of adoption, without previous amendments, could possibly be.
Then the savage Indians are to destroy us. We cannot look them in the
face. The danger is here divided; they are as terrible to the other states as
to us. But, sir, it is well known that we have nothing to fear from them. Our
back settlers are considerably stronger than they. Their superiority increases
daily. Suppose the states to be confederated all around us; what we want in
numbers, we shall {156} make up otherwise. Our compact situation and natural
strength will secure us. But, to avoid all dangers, we must take shelter under
the federal government. Nothing gives a decided importance but this federal
government. You will
sip sorrow
, according to the vulgar phrase, if you
want any other security than the laws of Virginia.
A number of characters, of the greatest eminence in this country, object
to this government for its consolidating tendency. This is not imaginary. It is
a formidable reality. If consolidation proves to be as mischievous to this
country as it has been to other countries, what will the poor inhabitants of
this country do? This government will operate like an ambuscade. It will
destroy the state governments, and swallow the liberties of the people, without
giving previous notice. If gentlemen are willing to run the hazard, let them
run it; but I shall exculpate myself by my opposition and monitory warnings
within these walls. But then comes paper money. We are at peace on this
subject. Though this is a thing which that mighty federal Convention had no
business with, yet I acknowledge that paper money would be the bane of this
country. I detest it. Nothing can justify a people in resorting to it but
extreme necessity. It is at rest, however, in this commonwealth. It is no
longer solicited or advocated.
Sir, I ask you, and every other gentleman who hears me, if he can retain
his indignation at a system which takes from the state legislatures the care
and preservation of the interest of the people. One hundred and eighty
representatives, the choice of the people of Virginia, cannot be trusted with
their interests. They are a mobbish, suspected herd. This country has not
virtue enough to manage its own internal interests. These must be referred to
the chosen ten. If we cannot be trusted with the private contracts of the
citizens, we must be depraved indeed. If he can prove that, by one uniform
system of abandoned principles, the legislature has betrayed the rights of the
people, then let us seek another shelter. So degrading an indignity, so
flagrant an outrage on the states, so vile a suspicion, is humiliating to my
mind, and many others.
Will the adoption of this new plan pay our debts? This, sir, is a plain
question. It is inferred that our grievances are to be redressed, and the evils
of the existing system to {157} be removed, by the new Constitution. Let me
inform the honorable gentleman that no nation ever paid its debts by a change
of government, without the aid of industry. You never will pay your debts but
by a radical change of domestic economy. At present you buy too much, and make
too little, to pay. Will this new system promote manufactures, industry, and
frugality? If, instead of this, your hopes and designs will be disappointed,
you relinquish a great deal, and hazard indefinitely more, for nothing. Will it
enhance the value of your lands? Will it lessen your burdens? Will your looms
and wheels go to work by the act of adoption? If it will, in its consequence,
produce these things, it will consequently produce a reform, and enable you to
pay your debts. Gentlemen must prove it. I am a skeptic, an infidel, on this
point. I cannot conceive that it will have these happy consequences. I cannot
confide in assertions and allegations. The evils that attend us lie in
extravagance and want of industry, and can only be removed by assiduity and
economy. Perhaps we shall be told by gentlemen that these things will happen,
because the administration is to be taken from us, and placed in the hands of
the few, who will pay greater attention, and be more studiously careful than we
can be supposed to be.
With respect to the economical operation of the new government, I will
only remark, that the national expenses will be increased; if not doubled, it
will approach it very nearly. I might, without incurring the imputation of
illiberality or extravagance, say that the expense will be multiplied tenfold.
I might tell you of a numerous standing army, a great, powerful navy, a long
and rapacious train of officers and dependants, independent of the President,
senators, and representatives, whose compensations are without limitation. How
are our debts to be discharged unless the taxes are increased, when the
expenses of the government are so greatly augmented? The defects of this system
are so numerous and palpable, and so many states object to it, that no union
can be expected, unless it be amended. Let us take a review of the facts. New
Hampshire and Rhode Island have rejected it. They have refused to become
federal. New York and North Carolina are reported to be strongly against it.
From high authority, give me leave to tell that New York is in high opposition.
Will any gentleman say that {158} North Carolina is not against it? They may
say so; but I say that the adoption of it in those two states amounts to entire
uncertainty. The system must be amended before these four states will accede to
it; besides, there are several other states which are dissatisfied, and wish
alterations. Massachusetts has, in decided terms, proposed amendments; but, by
her previous ratification, has put the cart before the horse. Maryland
instituted a committee to propose amendments. It then appears that two states
have actually refused to adopt; two of those who have adopted have a desire of
amending; and there is a probability of its being rejected by New York and
North Carolina. The other states have acceded without proposing amendments.
With respect to them, local circumstances have, in my judgment, operated to
produce its unconditional, instantaneous adoption. The locality of the seat of
government, ten miles square, and the seat of justice, with all their
concomitant emoluments, operated so powerfully with the first adopting state,
that it was adopted without taking time to reflect. We are told that numerous
advantages will result, from the concentration of the wealth and grandeur of
the United States in one happy spot, to those who will reside in or near it.
Prospects of profits and emoluments have a powerful influence on the human
mind. We, sir, have no such projects as that of a grand seat of government for
thirteen states, and perhaps for one hundred states hereafter. Connecticut and
New Jersey have their localities also. New York lies between them. They have no
ports, and are not importing states. New York is an importing state, and,
taking advantage of its situation, makes them pay duties for all the articles
of their consumption: thus these two states, being obliged to import all they
want through the medium of New York, pay the particular taxes of that state. I
know the force and effect of reasoning of this sort, by experience. When the
impost was proposed, some years ago, those states which were not importing
states readily agreed to concede to Congress the power of laying an impost on
all goods imported, for the use of the Continental treasury. Connecticut and
New Jersey, therefore, are influenced by advantages of trade in their adoption.
The amount of all imposts is to go into one common treasury. This favors
adoption by the non-importing states, as they participate in the profits which
were before exclusively enjoyed by the importing states. {159} Notwithstanding
this obvious advantage to Connecticut, there is a formidable minority there
against it. After taking this general view of American affairs, as respecting
federalism, will the honorable gentleman tell me that he can expect union in
America? When so many states are pointedly against it; when two adopting states
have pointed out, in express terms, their dissatisfaction as it stands; and
when there is so respectable a body of men discontented in every state, —
can the honorable gentleman promise himself harmony, of which he is so fond? If
he can, I cannot. To me it appears unequivocally clear that we shall not have
that harmony. If it appears to the other states that our aversion is founded on
just grounds, will they not be willing to indulge us? If disunion will really
result from Virginia's proposing amendments, will they not wish the
reëstablishment of the union, and admit us, if not on such terms as we
prescribe, yet on advantageous terms? Is not union as essential to their
happiness as to ours? Sir, without a radical alteration, the states will never
be embraced in one federal pale. If you attempt to force it down men's throats,
and call it union, dreadful consequences must follow. He has said a great deal
of disunion, and the dangers that are to arise from it. When we are on the
subject of disunion and dangers, let me ask, how will his present doctrine hold
with what has happened? Is it consistent with that noble and disinterested
conduct which he displayed on a former occasion? Did he not tell us that he
withheld his signature? Where, then, were the dangers which now appear to him
so formidable? He saw all America eagerly confiding that the result of their
deliberations would remove their distresses. He saw all America acting under
the impulses of hope, expectation, and anxiety, arising from their situation,
and their partiality for the members of that Convention; yet his enlightened
mind, knowing that system to be defective, magnanimously and nobly refused its
approbation. He was not led by the illumined, the illustrious few. He was
actuated by the dictates of his own judgment; and a better judgment than I can
form. He did not stand out of the way of information. He must have been
possessed of every intelligence. What alteration has a few months brought
about? The eternal difference between right and wrong does not fluctuate. It is
immutable. I ask this question as {160} a public man, and out of no particular
view. I wish, as such, to consult every source of information, to form my
judgment on so awful a question. I had the highest respect for the honorable
gentleman's abilities. I considered his opinion as a great authority. He taught
me, sir, in despite of the approbation of that great federal Convention, to
doubt of the propriety of that system. When I found my honorable friend in the
number of those who doubted, I began to doubt also. I coincided with him in
opinion. I shall be a stanch and faithful disciple of his. I applaud that
magnanimity which led him to withhold his signature. If he thinks now
differently, he is as free as I am. Such is my situation, that, as a poor
individual, I look for information every where.
This government is so new, it wants a name. I wish its other novelties
were as harmless as this. He told us we had an American dictator in the year
1781. We never had an American President. In making a dictator, we followed the
example of the most glorious, magnanimous, and skilful nations. In great
dangers, this power has been given. Rome had furnished us with an illustrious
example. America found a person for that trust: she looked to Virginia for him.
We gave a dictatorial power to hands that used it gloriously; and which were
rendered more glorious by surrendering it up. Where is there a breed of such
dictators? Shall we find a set of American Presidents of such a breed? Will the
American President come and lay prostrate at the feet of Congress his laurels?
I fear there are few men who can be trusted on that head. The glorious republic
of Holland has erected monuments of her warlike intrepidity and valor; yet she
is now totally ruined by a stadtholder, a Dutch president.
The destructive wars into which that nation has been plunged, have since
involved her in ambition. The glorious triumphs of Blenheim and Ramillies were
not so conformable to the genius, nor so much to the true interest of the
republic, as those numerous and useful canals, and dikes, and other objects, at
which ambition spurns. That republic has, however, by the industry of its
inhabitants, and policy of its magistrates, suppressed the ill effects of
ambition. Notwithstanding two of their provinces have paid nothing, yet I hope
the example of Holland will tell us that we can live {161} happily without
changing our present despised government. Cannot people be as happy under a
mild as under an energetic government? Cannot content and felicity be enjoyed
in republics as well as in monarchies, because there are whips, chains, and
scourges, used in the latter? If I am not as rich as my neighbor, if I give my
mite — my all — republican forbearance will say that it is
sufficient. So said the honest confederates of Holland — You are poor, we
are rich. We will go on, and do better than be under an oppressive government.
Far better will it be for us to continue as we are, than to go under that
tight, energetic government.
I am persuaded of what the honorable gentleman says, that separate
confederacies will ruin us. In my judgment, they are evils never to be thought
of till a people are driven by necessity. When he asks my opinion of
consolidation, of one power to reign over America with a strong hand, I will
tell him I am persuaded of the rectitude of my honorable friend's opinion, (Mr.
Mason,) that one government cannot reign over so extensive a country as this
is, without absolute despotism. Compared to such a consolidation, small
confederacies are little evils; though they ought to be recurred to but in case
of necessity. Virginia and North Carolina are despised. They could exist
separated from the rest of America. Maryland and Vermont were not overrun when
out of the confederacy. Though it is not a desirable object, yet I trust that,
on examination, it will be found that Virginia and North Carolina would not be
swallowed up, in case it was necessary for them to be joined together.
When we come to the spirit of domestic peace, the humble genius of
Virginia has formed a government suitable to the genius of her people. I
believe the hands that formed the American Constitution triumph in the
experiment. It proves that the man who formed it, and perhaps by accident, did
what design could not do in other parts of the world. After all your reforms in
government, unless you consult the genius of its inhabitants, you will never
succeed; your system can have no duration. Let me appeal to the candor of the
committee, if the want of money be not the source of all our misfortunes. We
cannot be blamed for not making dollars. This want of money cannot be supplied
by changes in government. The only possible remedy, as I have before asserted,
is industry, aided by economy. Compare the {162} genius of the people with the
government of this country. Let me remark, that it stood the severest conflict,
during the war, to which ever human virtue has been called. I call upon every
gentleman here to declare, whether the king of England had any subjects so
attached to his family and government, so loyal, as we were? But the genius of
Virginia called on us for liberty — called us from those beloved
endearments, which, from long habits, we were taught to love and revere. We
entertained, from our earliest infancy, the most sincere regard and reverence
for the mother country. Our partiality extended to a predilection for her
customs, habits, manners, and laws. Thus inclined, when the deprivation of our
liberty was attempted, what did we do? What did the genius of Virginia tell us?
Sell all, and purchase liberty!
— This was a severe conflict.
Republican maxims were then esteemed. Those maxims, and the genius of Virginia,
landed you safe on the shore of freedom.
On this awful occasion, did you want a federal government? Did federal
ideas possess your minds? Did federal ideas lead you to the most splendid
victories? I must again repeat the favorite idea, that the genius of Virginia
did, and will again, lead us to happiness. To obtain the most splendid prize,
you did not consolidate. You accomplished the most glorious ends by the
assistance of the genius of your country. Men were then taught by that genius,
that they were fighting for what was most dear to them. View the most
affectionate father, the most tender mother, operated on by liberty, nobly
stimulating their sons — their dearest sons — sometimes their only
son — to advance to the defence of their country. We have seen sons of
Cincinnatus, without splendid magnificence or parade, going, with the genius of
their great progenitor, Cincinnatus, to the plough; men who served their
country without ruining it — men who had served it to the destruction of
their private patrimonies — their country owing them amazing amounts, for
the payment of which no adequate provision was then made. We have seen such men
throw prostrate their arms at your feet. They did not call for those emoluments
which ambition presents to some imaginations. The soldiers, who were able to
command every thing, instead of trampling on those laws which they were
instituted to defend, most strictly obeyed them. The hands of justice have not
been laid on a single American soldier.
{163} Bring them into contrast with Europeans. You will see an
astonishing superiority over the latter. There has been a strict subordination
to the laws. The honorable gentleman's office gave him an opportunity of
viewing if the laws were administered so as to prevent riots, routs, and
unlawful assemblies. From his then situation, he could have furnished us with
the instances in which licentiousness trampled on the laws. Among all our
troubles, we have paid almost to the last shilling for the sake of justice; we
have paid as well as any state: I will not say better. To support the general
government and our own legislature — to pay the interest of the public
debts and defray contingencies — we have been heavily taxed. To add to
these things, the distresses produced by paper money, and by tobacco contracts,
were sufficient to render any people discontented. These, sir, were great
temptations; but in the most severe conflict of misfortunes, this code of laws,
this genius of Virginia — call it what you will — triumphed over
every thing.
Why did it please the gentleman (Mr. Corbin) to bestow such epithets on
our country? Have the worms taken possession of the wood, that our strong
vessel — our political vessel — has sprung a leak? He may know better
than I, but I consider such epithets to be the most illiberal and unwarrantable
aspersions on our laws. The system of laws under which we have lived has been
tried and found to suit our genius. I trust we shall not change this happy
system. I cannot so easily take leave of an old friend. Till I see him
following after and pursuing other objects, which can pervert the great objects
of human legislation, pardon me if I withhold my assent.
Some here speak of the difficulty in forming a new code of laws. Young
as we were, it was not wonderful if there was a difficulty in forming and
assimilating one system of laws. I shall be obliged to the gentleman if he
would point out those glaring, those great faults. The efforts of assimilating
our laws to our genius have not been found altogether vain. I shall pass over
some other circumstances which I intended to mention, and endeavor to come to
the capital objection which my honorable friend made. My worthy friend said
that a republican form of government would not suit a very extensive country;
but that, if a government were judiciously organized, and limits prescribed to
it, an attention {164} to these principles might render it possible for it to
exist in an extensive territory. Whoever will be bold to say that a continent
can be governed by that system, contradicts all the experience of the world. It
is a work too great for human wisdom. Let me call for an example. Experience
has been called the best teacher. I call for an example of a great extent of
country, governed by one government, or Congress, call it what you will. I tell
him that a government may be trimmed up according to gentlemen's fancy, but it
never can operate; it would be but very short-lived. However disagreeable it
may be to lengthen my objections, I cannot help taking notice of what the
honorable gentleman said. To me it appears that there is no check in that
government. The President, senators, and representatives, all, immediately or
mediately, are the choice of the people. Tell me not of checks on paper; but
tell me of checks founded on self-love. The English government is founded on
self-love. This powerful, irresistible stimulus of self-love has saved that
government.
It has interposed that hereditary nobility between the king and commons.
If the host of lords assist or permit the king to overturn the liberties of the
people, the same tyranny will destroy them; they will therefore keep the
balance in the democratic branch. Suppose they see the commons encroach upon
the king: self-love, that great energetic check, will call upon them to
interpose; for, if the king be destroyed, their destruction must speedily
follow. Here is a consideration, which prevails, in my mind, to pronounce the
British government superior, in this respect, to any government that ever was
in any country. Compare this with your congressional checks. I beseech
gentlemen to consider whether they can say, when trusting power, that a mere
patriotic profession will be equally operative and efficacious as the check of
self-love. In considering the experience of ages, is it not seen that fair,
disinterested patriotism, and professions of attachment to rectitude, have
never been solely trusted to by an enlightened, free people? If you depend on
your President's and senators' patriotism, you are gone. Have you a
resting-place like the British government? Where is the rock of your salvation?
The real rock of political salvation is self-love, perpetuated from age to age
in every human breast, and manifested in every action. If {165} they can stand
the temptations of human nature, you are safe. If you have a good President,
senators, and representatives, there is no danger. But can this be expected
from human nature? Without real checks, it will not suffice that some of them
are good. A good President, or senator, or representative, will have a natural
weakness. Virtue will slumber.
The wicked will be continually watching: consequently you will be
undone. Where are your checks? You have no hereditary nobility — an order
of men to whom human eyes can be cast up for relief; for, says the
Constitution, there is no title of nobility to be granted — which, by the
by, would not have been so dangerous as the perilous cession of powers
contained in this paper; because, as Montesquieu says, when you give titles of
nobility, you know what you give; but when you give power, you know not what
you give. If you say that, out of this depraved mass, you can collect luminous
characters, it will not avail, unless this luminous breed will be propagated
from generation to generation; and even then, if the number of vicious
characters will preponderate, you are undone.
And that this will certainly be the case is, to my mind, perfectly
clear. In the British government there are real balances and checks: in this
system there are only ideal balances. Till I am convinced that there are actual
efficient checks, I will not give my assent to its establishment. The President
and senators have nothing to lose. They have not that interest in the
preservation of the government that the king and lords have in England. They
will, therefore, be regardless of the interests of the people. The Constitution
will be as safe with one body as with two. It will answer every purpose of
human legislation. How was the constitution of England when only the commons
had the power? I need not remark, that it was the most unfortunate era when
that country returned to king, lords, and commons, without sufficient
responsibility in the king. When the commons of England, in the manly language
which became freemen, said to their king,
You are our servant
, then the
temple of liberty was complete. From that noble source have we derived our
liberty: that spirit of patriotic attachment to one's country, that zeal for
liberty, and that enmity to tyranny, which signalized the then champions of
liberty, {166} we inherit from our British ancestors. And I am free to own
that, if you cannot love a republican government, you may love the British
monarchy; for, although the king is not sufficiently responsible, the
responsibility of his agents, and the efficient checks interposed by the
British Constitution, render it less dangerous than other monarchies, or
oppressive tyrannical aristocracies. What are the checks of exposing accounts?
The checks upon paper are inefficient and nugatory. Can you search your
President's closet? Is this a real check? We ought to be exceedingly cautious
in giving up this life, this soul, of money, this power of taxation, to
Congress. What powerful check is there here to prevent the most extravagant and
profligate squandering of the public money? What security have we in money
matters? Inquiry is precluded by this Constitution. I never wish to see
Congress supplicate the states. But it is more abhorrent to my mind to give
them an unlimited and unbounded command over our souls, our lives, our purses,
without any check or restraint. How are you to keep inquiry alive? How discover
their conduct? We are told, by that paper, that a regular statement and account
of the receipts and expenditures of all public money shall be published from
time to time. Here is a beautiful check! What time? Here is the utmost latitude
left. If those who are in Congress please to put that construction upon it, the
words of the Constitution will be satisfied by publishing those accounts once
in one hundred years. They may publish or not, as they please. Is this like the
present despised system, whereby the accounts are to be published monthly?
I come now to speak something of requisitions, which the honorable
gentleman thought so truly contemptible and disgraceful. That incorrigible
gentleman, being a child of the revolution, must recollect with gratitude the
glorious effects of requisitions. It is an idea that must be grateful to every
American. An English army was sent to compel us to pay money contrary to our
consent — to force us, by arbitrary and tyrannical coercion, to satisfy
their unbounded demands. We wished to pay with our own consent. Rather than pay
against our consent, we engaged in that bloody contest which terminated so
gloriously. By requisitions we pay with our own consent; by the means we have
triumphed in the most arduous struggle that ever tried the virtue of man. {167}
We fought then for what we are contending for now — to prevent an
arbitrary deprivation of our property, contrary to our consent and inclination.
I shall be told in this place that those who are to tax us are our
representatives. To this I answer, that there is no real check to prevent their
ruining us. There is no actual responsibility. The only semblance of a check is
the negative power of not reëlecting them. This, sir, is but a feeble
barrier, when their personal interest, their ambition and avarice, come to be
put in contrast with the happiness of the people. All checks founded on any
thing but self-love will not avail. The Constitution reflects in the most
degrading and mortifying manner on the virtue, integrity, and wisdom of the
state legislatures; it presupposes that the chosen few who go to Congress will
have more upright hearts, and more enlightened minds, than those who are
members of the individual legislatures. To suppose that ten gentlemen shall
have more real, substantial merit than one hundred and seventy, is humiliating
to the last degree. If, sir, the diminution of numbers be an augmentation of
merit, perfection must centre in one. If you have the faculty of discerning
spirits, it is better to point out at once the man who has the most illumined
qualities. If ten men be better than one hundred and seventy, it follows of
necessity that one is better than ten — the choice is more refined.
Such is the danger of the abuse of implied power, that it would be safer
at once to have seven representatives, the number to which we are now entitled,
than depend on the uncertain and ambiguous language of that paper. The number
may be lessened, instead of being increased; and yet, by argumentative,
constructive, implied power, the proportion of taxes may continue the same, or
be increased. Nothing is more perilous than constructive power, which gentlemen
are so willing to trust their happiness to.
If sheriffs prove now an overmatch for our legislature, if their
ingenuity has eluded the vigilance of our laws, how will the matter be amended
when they come clothed with federal authority? A strenuous argument offered by
gentlemen is, that the same sheriffs may collect for the Continental and state
treasuries. I have before shown that this must have an inevitable tendency to
give a decided preference to the federal treasury in the actual collections,
and to throw all deficiencies on the state. This imaginary remedy for the evil
of {168} congressional taxation will have another oppressive operation. The
sheriff comes to-day as a state collector. Next day he is federal. How are you
to fix him? How will it be possible to discriminate oppressions committed in
one capacity from those perpetrated in the other? Will not this ingenuity
perplex the simple and honest planter? This will at least involve in
difficulties those who are unacquainted with legal ingenuity. When you fix him,
where are you to punish him? for I suppose they will not stay in our courts:
they must go to the federal court; for, if I understand that paper right, all
controversies arising under that Constitution, or under the laws made in
pursuance thereof, are to be tried in that court. When gentlemen told us that
this part deserved the least exception, I was in hopes they would prove that
there was plausibility in their suggestions, and that oppression would probably
not follow. Are we not told that it shall be treason to levy war against the
United States? Suppose an insult offered to the federal laws at an immense
distance from Philadelphia, — will this be deemed treason? And shall a man
be dragged many hundred miles, to be tried as a criminal, for having, perhaps
justifiably, resisted an unwarrantable attack upon his person or property? I am
not well acquainted with federal jurisprudence; but it appears to me that these
oppressions must result from this part of the plan. It is at least doubtful;
and where there is even a possibility of such evils, they ought to be guarded
against.
There are to be a number of places fitted out for arsenals and dockyards
in the different states. Unless you sell to Congress such places as are proper
for these, within your state, you will not be consistent after adoption: it
results, therefore, clearly, that you are to give into their hands all such
places as are fit for strongholds. When you have these fortifications and
garrisons within your state, your legislature will have no power over them,
though they see the most dangerous insults offered to the people daily. They
are also to have magazines in each state. These depositories for arms, though
within the state, will be free from the control of its legislature. Are we at
last brought to such an humiliating and debasing degradation, that we cannot be
trusted with arms for our own defence? Where is the difference between having
our arms in our own possession and under our own direction, and having them
under the management of Congress? {169} If our defence be the real object of
having those arms, in whose hands can they be trusted with more propriety, or
equal safety to us, as in our own hands? If our legislature be unworthy of
legislating for every foot in this state, they are unworthy of saying another
word.
The clause which says that Congress shall "provide for arming,
organizing, and disciplining the militia, and for governing such part of them
as may be employed in the service of the United States, reserving to the states
respectively the appointment of the officers," seemed to put the states in the
power of Congress. I wished to be informed, if Congress neglected to discipline
them, whether the states were not precluded from doing it. Not being favored
with a particular answer, I am confirmed in my opinion, that the states have
not the power of disciplining them, without recurring to the doctrine of
constructive implied powers. If, by implication, the states may discipline
them, by implication, also, Congress may officer them; because, in a partition
of power, each has a right to come in for part; and because implication is to
operate in favor of Congress on all occasions, where their object is the
extension of power, as well as in favor of the states. We have not one fourth
of the arms that would be sufficient to defend ourselves. The power of arming
the militia, and the means of purchasing arms, are taken from the states by the
paramount powers of Congress. If Congress will not arm them, they will not be
armed at all.
There have been no instances shown of a voluntary cession of power,
sufficient to induce me to grant the most dangerous power; a possibility of
their future relinquishment will not persuade me to yield such powers.
Congress, by the power of taxation, by that of raising an army, and by
their control over the militia, have the sword in one hand, and the purse in
the other. Shall we be safe without either? Congress have an unlimited power
over both: they are entirely given up by us. Let him candidly tell me, where
and when did freedom exist, when the sword and purse were given up from the
people? Unless a miracle in human affairs interposed, no nation ever retained
its liberty after the loss of the sword and purse. Can you prove, by any
argumentative deduction, that it is possible to be safe without retaining one
of these? If you give them up, you are gone. Give us at least a plausible
apology why {170} Congress should keep their proceedings in secret. They have
the power of keeping them secret as long as they please, for the provision for
a periodical publication is too inexplicit and ambiguous to avail any thing.
The expression
from time to time
, as I have more than once observed,
admits of any extension. They may carry on the most wicked and pernicious of
schemes under the dark veil of secrecy. The liberties of a people never were,
nor ever will be, secure, when the transactions of their rulers may be
concealed from them. The most iniquitous plots may be carried on against their
liberty and happiness. I am not an advocate for divulging indiscriminately all
the operations of government, though the practice of our ancestors, in some
degree, justifies it. Such transactions as relate to military operations or
affairs of great consequence, the immediate promulgation of which might defeat
the interests of the community, I would not wish to be published, till the end
which required their secrecy should have been effected. But to cover with the
veil of secrecy the common routine of business, is an abomination in the eyes
of every intelligent man, and every friend to his country.
[Mr. Henry then, in a very animated manner, expatiated
on the evil and pernicious tendency of keeping secret the common proceedings of
government, and said that it was contrary to the practice of other free
nations. The people of England, he asserted, had gained immortal honor by the
manly boldness wherewith they divulged to all the world their political
disquisitions and operations, and that such a conduct inspired other nations
with respect. He illustrated his arguments by several quotations.]
He then continued: I appeal to this Convention if it would not be better
for America to take off the veil of secrecy.
Look at us — hear our
transactions!
If this had been the language of the federal Convention, what
would have been the result? Such a constitution would not have come out to your
utter astonishment, conceding such dangerous powers, and recommending secrecy
in the future transactions of government. I believe it would have given more
general satisfaction, if the proceedings of that Convention had not been
concealed from the public eye. This Constitution authorizes the same conduct.
There is not an English feature in it. The transactions of Congress may be
concealed a century from the public, consistently with the Constitution. This,
sir, is a laudable imitation of the transactions of the {171} Spanish treaty.
We have not forgotten with what a thick veil of secrecy those transactions were
covered.
We are told that this government, collectively taken, is without an
example; that it is national in this part, and federal in that part, &c. We
may be amused, if we please, by a treatise of political anatomy. In the brain
it is national; the stamina are federal; some limbs are federal, others
national. The senators are voted for by the state legislatures; so far it is
federal. Individuals choose the members of the first branch; here it is
national. It is federal in conferring general powers, but national in retaining
them. It is not to be supported by the states; the pockets of individuals are
to be searched for its maintenance. What signifies it to me that you have the
most curious anatomical description of it in its creation? To all the common
purposes of legislation, it is a great consolidation of government.
You are not to have the right to legislate in any but trivial cases; you
are not to touch private contracts; you are not to have the right of having
arms in your own defence; you cannot be trusted with dealing out justice
between man and man. What shall the states have to do? Take care of the poor,
repair and make highways, erect bridges, and so on, and so on? Abolish the
state legislatures at once. What purposes should they be continued for? Our
legislature will indeed be a ludicrous spectacle — one hundred and eighty
men marching in solemn, farcical procession, exhibiting a mournful proof of the
lost liberty of their country, without the power of restoring it. But, sir, we
have the consolation that it is a mixed government; that is, it may work sorely
on your neck, but you will have some comfort by saying, that it was a federal
government in its origin.
I beg gentlemen to consider: lay aside your prejudices. Is this a
federal government? Is it not a consolidated government for almost every
purpose? Is the government of Virginia a state government after this government
is adopted? I grant that it is a republican government, but for what purposes?
For such trivial domestic considerations as render it unworthy the name of a
legislature. I shall take leave of this political anatomy, by observing that it
is the most extraordinary that ever entered into the imagination of man. If our
political diseases demand a cure, this is an unheard-of medicine. The honorable
member, I am convinced, {172} wanted a name for it. Were your health in danger,
would you take new medicine? I need not make use of these exclamations: for
every member in this committee must be alarmed at making new and unusual
experiments in government. Let us have national credit and a national treasury
in case of war. You never can want national resources in time of war, if the
war be a national one — if it be necessary, and this necessity be obvious
to the meanest capacity. The utmost exertions will be used by the people of
America in that case. A republic has this advantage over a monarchy, that its
wars are generally founded on more just grounds. A republic can never enter
into a war, unless it be a national war — unless it be approved of, or
desired, by the whole community. Did ever a republic fail to use the utmost
resources of the community when war was necessary? I call for an example. I
call also for an example where a republic has been engaged in a war contrary to
the wishes of its people. There are thousands of examples where the ambition of
its prince has precipitated a nation into the most destructive war. No nation
ever withheld power when its object was just and right. I will hazard an
observation: I find fault with the paper before you, because the same power
that declares war has the power to carry it on. Is it so in England? The king
declares war; the House of Commons gives the means of carrying it on. This is a
strong check on the king. He will enter into no war that is unnecessary; for
the commons, having the power of withholding the means, will exercise that
power, unless the object of the war be for the interest of the nation. How is
it here? The Congress can both declare war and carry it on, and levy your
money, as long as you have a shilling to pay.
I shall now speak a little of the colonial confederacy which was
proposed at Albany. Massachusetts did not give her consent to the project at
Albany, so as to consolidate with the other colonies. Had there been a
consolidation at Albany, where would have been their charter? Would that
confederacy have preserved their charter from Britain? The strength and energy
of the then designed government would have crushed American opposition.
The American revolution took its origin from the comparative weakness of
the British government — not being concentrated in one point. A
concentration of the strength and {173} interest of the British government, in
one point, would have rendered opposition to its tyrannies fruitless. For want
of that consolidation do we now enjoy liberty, and the privilege of debating at
this moment. I am pleased with the colonial establishment. The example which
the honorable member has produced, to persuade us to depart from our present
confederacy, rivets me to my former opinion, and convinces me that
consolidation must end in the destruction of our liberties.
The honorable gentleman has told us of our ingratitude to France. She
does not intend to take payment by force. Ingratitude shall not be laid to my
charge. I wish to see the friendship between this country and that magnanimous
ally perpetuated. Requisitions will enable us to pay the debt we owe to France
and other countries. She does not desire us to go from our beloved republican
government. The change is inconsistent with our engagements with those nations.
It is cried out that those in opposition wish disunion. This is not true. They
are the most strenuous enemies to it. This government will clearly operate
disunion. If it be heard, on the other side of the Atlantic, that you are going
to disunite and dissolve the confederacy, what says France? Will she be
indifferent to an event that will so radically affect her treaties with us? Our
treaty with her is founded on the federation — we are bound to her as
thirteen states confederated. What will become of the treaty? It is said that
treaties will be on a better footing. How so? Will the President, Senate, and
House of Representatives, be parties to them? I cannot conceive how the
treaties can be as binding if the confederacy is dissolved as they are now.
Those nations will not continue their friendship then; they will become our
enemies. I look on the treaties as the greatest pillars of safety. If the house
of Bourbon keeps us, we are safe. Dissolve that confederacy — who has you?
The British. Federalism will not protect you from the British. Is a connection
with that country more desirable? I was amazed when gentlemen forgot the
friends of America. I hope that this dangerous change will not be effected. It
is safe for the French and Spaniards that we should continue to be thirteen
states; but it is not so that we should be consolidated into one government.
They have settlements in America: will they like schemes of popular {174}
ambition? Will they not have some serious reflections? You may tell them you
have not changed your situation; but they will not believe you. If there be a
real check intended to be left on Congress, it must be left in the state
governments. There will be some check, as long as the judges are incorrupt. As
long as they are upright, you may preserve your liberty. But what will the
judges determine when the state and federal authority come to be contrasted?
Will your liberty then be secure, when the congressional laws are declared
paramount to the laws of your state, and the judges are sworn to support them?
I am constrained to make a few remarks on the absurdity of adopting this
system, and relying on the chance of getting it amended afterwards. When it is
confessed to be replete with defects, is it not offering to insult your
understandings to attempt to reason you out of the propriety of rejecting it
till it be amended? Does it not insult your judgments to tell you, Adopt first,
and then amend! Is your rage for novelty so great, that you are first to sign
and seal, and then to retract? Is it possible to conceive a greater solecism? I
am at a loss what to say. You agree to bind yourselves hand and foot — for
the sake of what? Of being unbound. You go into a dungeon — for what? To
get out. Is there no danger, when you go in, that the bolts of federal
authority shall shut you in? Human nature never will part from power. Look for
an example of a voluntary relinquishment of power, from one end of the globe to
another: you will find none. Nine tenths of our fellowmen have been, and are
now, depressed by the most intolerable slavery, in the different parts of the
world, because the strong hand of power has bolted them in the dungeon of
despotism.
Review the present situation of the nations of Europe, which is
pretended to be the freest quarter of the globe. Cast your eyes on the
countries called free there. Look at the country from which we are descended, I
beseech you; and although we are separated by everlasting, insuperable
partitions, yet there are some virtuous people there, who are friends to human
nature and liberty. Look at Britain: see there the bolts and bars of power: see
bribery and corruption defiling the fairest fabric that ever human nature
reared! Can a gentleman who is an Englishman, or who is acquainted {175} with
the English history, desire to prove these evils? See the efforts of a man
descended from a friend of America — see the efforts of that man, assisted
even by the king, to make reforms. But you find the faults too strong to be
amended. Nothing but bloody war can alter them. See Ireland! That country
groaned, from century to century, without getting their government amended.
Previous adoption was the fashion there. They sent for amendments
from time
to time
, but never obtained them, though pressed by the severest
oppression, till eighty thousand volunteers demanded them, sword in hand —
till the power of Britain was prostrate; when the American resistance was
crowned with success. Shall we do so? If you judge by the experience of
Ireland, you must obtain the amendments as early as possible. But, I ask you
again, where is the example that a government was amended by those who
instituted it? Where is the instance of the errors of a government rectified by
those who adopted them?
I shall make a few observations to prove that the power over elections,
which is given to Congress, is contrived by the federal government, that the
people may be deprived of their proper influence in the government, by
destroying the force and effect of their suffrages. Congress is to have a
discretionary control over the time, place, and manner of elections. The
representatives are to be elected, consequently, when and where they please. As
to the time and place, gentlemen have attempted to obviate the objection by
saying, that the time is to happen once in two years, and that the place is to
be within a particular district, or in the respective counties. But how will
they obviate the danger of referring the
manner
of election to Congress?
Those illumined genii may see that this may not endanger the rights of the
people; but in my unenlightened understanding, it appears plain and clear that
it will impair the popular weight in the government. Look at the Roman history.
They had two ways of voting — the one by tribes, and the other by
centuries. By the former, numbers prevailed; in the latter, riches
preponderated. According to the mode prescribed, Congress may tell you that
they have a right to make the vote of one gentleman go as far as the votes of a
hundred poor men. The power over the manner admits of the most dangerous
latitude. They may modify it as they {176} please. They may regulate the number
of votes by the quantity of property, without involving any repugnancy to the
Constitution. I should not have thought of this trick or contrivance, had I not
seen how the public liberty of Rome was trifled with by the mode of voting by
centuries, whereby one rich man had as many votes as a multitude of poor men.
The plebeians were trampled on till they resisted. The patricians trampled on
the liberties of the plebeians till the latter had the spirit to assert their
right to freedom and equality. The result of the American mode of election may
be similar. Perhaps I may be told that I have gone through the regions of fancy
— that I deal in noisy exclamations and mighty professions of patriotism.
Gentlemen may retain their opinions; but I look on that paper as the most fatal
plan that could possibly be conceived to enslave a free people. If such be your
rage for novelty, take it, and welcome; but you never shall have my consent. My
sentiments may appear extravagant, but I can tell you that a number of my
fellow-citizens have kindred sentiments; and I am anxious, if my country should
come into the hands of tyranny, to exculpate myself from being in any degree
the cause, and to exert my faculties to the utmost to extricate her. Whether I
am gratified or not in my beloved form of government, I consider that the more
she has plunged into distress, the more it is my duty to relieve her. Whatever
may be the result, I shall wait with patience till the day may come when an
opportunity shall offer to exert myself in her cause.
But I should be led to take that man for a lunatic, who should tell me
to run into the adoption of a government avowedly defective, in hopes of having
it amended afterwards. Were I about to give away the meanest particle of my own
property, I should act with more prudence and discretion. My anxiety and fears
are great lest America, by the adoption of this system, should be cast into a
fathomless bottom. — Mr. Henry then concluded that, as he had not gone
through all he intended to say, he hoped he would be indulged another time.
Mr. LEE, (of Westmoreland.) Mr. Chairman, when I spoke before, and
called on the honorable gentleman (Mr. Henry) to come forward and give his
reasons for his opposition in a systematic manner, I did it from love of order,
{177} and respect for the character of the honorable gentleman; having no other
motives but the good of my country. As he seemed so solicitous that the truth
should be brought before the committee on this occasion, I thought I could not
do more properly than to call on him for his reasons for standing forth the
champion of opposition. I took the liberty to add, that the subject belonged to
the judgments of the gentlemen of the committee, and not to their passions. I
am obliged to him for his politeness in this committee; but as the honorable
gentleman seems to have discarded, in a great measure, solid argument and
strong reasoning, and has established a new system of throwing those bolts
which he has so peculiar a dexterity at discharging, I trust I shall not incur
the displeasure of the committee by answering the honorable gentleman in the
desultory manner in which he has treated the subject. I shall touch a few of
those
luminous
points which he has entertained us with. He told us, the
other day, that the enemies of the Constitution were firm supporters of
liberty, and implied that its friends were not republicans. This may have been
calculated to make impressions disadvantageous to those gentlemen who favor
this new plan of government; and impressions of this kind are not easily
eradicated. I conceive that I may say with truth that the friends of that paper
are true republicans, and by no means less attached to liberty than those who
oppose it. The verity of this does not depend on my assertion, but on the lives
and well-known characters of different gentlemen in different parts of the
continent. I trust the friends of that government will oppose the efforts of
despotism as firmly as its opposers.
Much is said by gentlemen out of doors. They ought to urge all their
objections here; I hope they will offer them here; I shall confine myself to
what is said here. In all his rage for democracy, and zeal for the rights of
the people, how often does he express his admiration of that king and
Parliament over the Atlantic! But we republicans are contemned and despised.
Here, sir, I conceive that
implication
might operate against himself.
He tells us that he is a stanch republican, and that he adores liberty.
I believe him; and when I do so, I wonder that he should say that a kingly
government is superior to that system which we admire. He tells you that it
cherishes {178} a standing army, and that militia alone ought to be depended
upon for the defence of every free country. There is not a gentleman in this
house, (not even the gentleman himself,) there is not man without these walls,
who admires the militia more than I do. Without vanity, I may say I have had
different experience of their service from that of the honorable gentleman. It
was my fortune to be a soldier of my country. In the discharge of my duty, I
knew the worth of militia. I have seen them perform feats that would do honor
to the first veterans, and submitting to what would daunt German soldiers. I
saw what the honorable gentleman did not see — our men fighting with the
troops of that king whom he so much admires. I have seen proofs of the wisdom
of that paper on your table. I have seen incontrovertible evidence that militia
cannot always be relied upon. I could enumerate many instances, but one will
suffice. Let the gentleman recollect the action of Guildford. The American
regular troops behaved there with the most gallant intrepidity. What did the
militia do? The greatest number of them fled. Their abandonment of the regulars
occasioned the loss of the field. Had the line been supported that day,
Cornwallis, instead of surrendering at Yorktown, would have laid down his arms
at Guildford.
This plan provides for the public defence as it ought to do. Regulars
are to be employed when necessary, and the service of the militia will always
be made use of. This, sir, will promote agricultural industry and skill, and
military discipline and science.
I cannot understand the implication of the honorable gentleman, that,
because Congress may arm the militia, the states cannot do it: nor do I
understand the reverse of the proposition. The states are, by no part of the
plan before you, precluded from arming and disciplining the militia, should
Congress neglect it. In the course of Saturday, and some previous harangues,
from the terms in which some of the Northern States were spoken of, one would
have thought that the love of an American was in some degree criminal, as being
incompatible with a proper degree of affection for a Virginian. The people of
America, sir, are one people. I love the people of the north, not because they
have adopted the Constitution, but because I fought with them as my countrymen,
and because I consider them as such. Does it {179} follow from hence that I
have forgotten my attachment to my native state? In all local matters I shall
be a Virginian: in those of a general nature, I shall not forget that I am an
American.
He has called on the house to expose the catalogue of evils which would
justify this change of the government. I appeal to gentlemen's candor —
has not a most mournful detail been unfolded here?
In the course of the debates, I have heard from those gentlemen who have
advocated the new system, an enumeration which drew groans from my very soul,
but which did not draw one sigh from the honorable gentleman over the way.
Permit me to ask if there be an evil which can visit mankind so injurious and
oppressive, in its consequence and operation, as a tender-law? If Pandora's box
were on one side of me, and a tender-law on the other, I would rather submit to
the box than to the tender-law. The principle, evil as it is, is not so base
and pernicious as the application. It breaks down the moral character of your
people, robs the widow of her maintenance, and defrauds the orphan of his food.
The widow and orphan are reduced to misery, by receiving, in a depreciated
value, money which the husband and father had lent out of friendship. This
reverses the natural course of things. It robs the industrious of the fruits of
their labor, and often enables the idle and rapacious to live in ease and
comfort at the expense of the better part of the community.
Was there not another evil but the possibility of continuing such
palpable injustice, I would object to the present system. But, sir, I will, out
of many more, mention another. How are your domestic creditors situated? I will
not go to the general creditors. I mean the military creditor — the man
who, by the vices of your system, is urged to part with his money for a trivial
consideration — the poor man, who has the paper in his pocket for which he
can receive little or nothing. There is a greater number of these meritorious
men than the honorable gentleman believes. These unfortunate men are compelled
to receive paper instead of gold — paper which nominally represents
something, but which in reality represents almost nothing. A proper government
could do them justice, but the present one cannot do it. They are therefore
forced to part from that paper which they {180} fought for, and get less than a
dollar for twenty shillings. I would, for my part, and I hope every other
gentleman here would, submit to the inconvenience; but when I consider that the
widows of gallant heroes, with their numerous offspring, are laboring under the
most distressing indigence, and that these poor, unhappy people will be
relieved by the adoption of this Constitution, I am still more impressed with
the necessity of this change.
But, says the honorable gentleman, we are in peace. Does he forget the
insurrection in Massachusetts? Perhaps he did not extend his philanthropy to
that quarter. I was then in Congress, and had a proper opportunity to know the
circumstances of this event. Had
Shays
been possessed of abilities, he
might have established that favorite system of the gentleman — king,
lords, and commons. Nothing was wanting to bring about a revolution but a great
man to head the insurgents; but, fortunately, he was a worthless captain. There
were thirty thousand stand of arms, nearly, in his power, which were defended
by a pensioner of this country. It would have been sufficient had he taken this
deposit. He failed in it; but, even after that failure, it was in the power of
a great man to have taken it. But he wanted design and knowledge. Will you
trust to the want of design and knowledge? Suppose another insurrection, headed
by a different man: what will follow? Under a man of capacity, the favorite
government of that gentleman might have been established in Massachusetts, and
extended to Virginia.
But, sir, this is a consolidated government, he tells us; and most
feelingly does he dwell on the imaginary dangers of this pretended
consolidation. I did suppose that an honorable gentleman, whom I do not now
see, (Mr. Madison,) had placed this in such a clear light that every man would
have been satisfied with it.
If this were a consolidated government, ought it not to be ratified by a
majority of the people as individuals, and not as states? Suppose Virginia,
Connecticut, Massachusetts, and Pennsylvania, had ratified it; these four
states, being a majority of the people of America, would be their adoption,
have made it binding on all the states, had this been a consolidated
government. But it is only the government of those seven states who have
adopted it. If the honorable gentleman will attend to this, we shall hear no
more of consolidation.
{181} Direct taxation is another objection on which the honorable
gentleman expatiates. This has been answered by several able gentleman; but as
honorable gentleman reverts to the subject, I hope I shall be excused in saying
a little on it. If union be necessary, direct taxes are also necessary for its
support. If it be an inconvenience, it results from the union; and we must take
its disadvantages with it: besides, it will render it unnecessary to recur to
the sanguinary method which some gentlemen are said to admire. Had the
Amphictyonic council had the power contained in that paper, would they have
sent armies to levy money? Will the honorable gentleman say that it is more
eligible and humane to collect money by carrying fire and sword through the
country, than by the peaceable mode of raising money of the people, through the
medium of an officer of peace, when it is necessary?
But says he, "The President will enslave you; Congress will trample on
your liberties; a few regiments will appear; Mr. Chief Justice must give way;
our mace-bearer is no match for a regiment." It was inhuman to place an
individual against a whole regiment. A
few
regiments will not avail; I
trust the supporters of the government would get the better of
many
regiments. Were so made an attempt made, the people would assemble in
thousands, and drive thirty times the number of their few regiments. We would
then do as we have already done with the regiments of that king whom he so
often tells us of.
The public liberty, says he, is designed to be destroyed. What does he
mean? Does he mean that we, who are friends to that government, are not friends
to liberty? No man dares to say so. Does he mean that he is a greater admirer
of liberty than we are? Perhaps so. But I undertake to say that, when it will
be necessary to struggle in the cause of freedom, he will find himself equalled
by thousands of those who support this Constitution. The purse of the people of
Virginia is not given up by that paper: they can take no more of our money than
is necessary to pay our share of the public debts, and provide for the general
welfare. Were it otherwise, no man would be louder against it than myself.
He has represented our situation as contradistinguished from the other
states. What does he mean? I ask if it be {182} fair to attempt to influence
gentlemen by particular applications to local interests? I say, it is not fair.
Am I to be told, when I come to deliberate on the interest of Virginia, that it
obstructs the interest of the county of Westmoreland? Is this obstruction a
sufficient reason to neglect the collective interests of Virginia? Were it of a
local nature, it would be right to prefer it; but, being of a general nature,
the local interest must give way. I trust, then, then, that gentlemen will
consider that the object of their deliberations is of a general nature. I
disregard the argument which insinuated the propriety of attending to
localities; and I hope that the gentlemen to whom it was addressed regard too
much the happiness of the community to be influenced by it.
But he tells you that the Mississippi is insecure unless you reject this
system, and that the transactions relating to it were carried on under a veil
of secrecy. His arguments on this subject are equally as defective as those I
have just had under consideration. But I feel myself called on by the honorable
gentleman to come forward and tell the truth about the transactions respecting
the Mississippi. In every action of my life in which I have been concerned,
whether as soldier or politician, the good of my country was my first wish. I
have attended not only to the good of the United States, but also to that of
particular districts. There are men of integrity and truth here who were also
then in Congress. I call on them to put me right with respect to those
transactions. As far as I could gather from what was then passing, I believe
there was not a gentleman in that Congress who had an idea of surrendering the
navigation of that river. They thought of the best mode of securing it: some
thought one way, and some another way. I was one of those men who thought the
mode which has been alluded to the best to secure it. I shall never deny that
it was my opinion. I was one peculiarly interested. I had a fortune in that
country, purchased, not by
paper money
, but by gold, to the amount of
eight thousand pounds. But private interest could not have influenced me. The
public welfare was my criterion in my opinion. I united private interest to
public interest, not of the whole people of Virginia, but of the United States.
I thought I was promoting the real interest of the people. But, says he, it was
under the veil of secrecy. There was no peculiar or uncommon {183} desire
manifested of concealing those transactions. They were carried on in the same
manner with others of the same nature, and consonant to the principles of the
Confederation. I saw no anxiety on the occasion. I wish he would send to the
president to know their secrets. He would be gratified fully.
The honorable member, this day, among other things, gave us a statement
of those states that have passed the new system, of those who have not, and of
those who would probably not pass it. He called his assertions
facts
;
but I expected he would show us something to prove their existence.
He tells us that New Hampshire and Rhode Island have refused it. Is that
a
fact
? It is not a
fact
. New Hampshire has not refused it. That
state postponed her ultimate decision till she could know what Massachusetts
would do; and whatever the gentleman may say of borderers, the people of that
state were very right in conducting themselves as they did. With respect to
Rhode Island, I hardly know any thing. That small state has so rebelled against
justice, and so knocked down the bulwarks of probity, rectitude, and truth,
that nothing rational or just can be expected from her.
She has not, however, I believe, called a convention to deliberate on
it, much less formally refused it. From her situation, it is evident that she
must adopt it, unless she departs from the primary maxims of human nature,
which are those of self-preservation. New York and North Carolina are so high
in opposition, he tells us, that they will certainly reject it. Here is another
of his facts; and he says he has the highest authority. As he dislikes the veil
of secrecy, I beg he would tell us that high authority from which he gets this
fact. Has he official communications? Have the executives of those states
informed him? Has our executive been apprized of it? I believe not. I hold his
unsupported authority in contempt.
Pennsylvania, Delaware, and New Jersey, have adopted; but, says he, they
were governed by local considerations. What are these local considerations? The
honorable gentleman draws advantages from every source; but his arguments
operate very often against himself. I admire the state of Pennsylvania; she
deserves the attachment of every lover {184} of his country. Poor Pennsylvania,
says he, has been tricked into it. What an insult! The honorable gentleman
would not say so of an individual: I know his politeness too well. Will he
insult the majority of a free country? Pennsylvania is a respectable state.
Though not so extensive as Virginia, she did as much as any state, in
proportion, during the war; and has done as much since the peace. She has done
as much in every situation, and her citizens have been as remarkable for their
virtue and science, as those of any state. The honorable gentleman has told you
that Pennsylvania has been tricked into it; and in so saying has been insulted
the majority of a free country, in a manner in which I would not dare to insult
any private gentleman. The other adopting states have not been tricked into it,
it seems. Why? The honorable gentleman cannot tell us why these have not been
tricked into it, any more than he can tell why Pennsylvania has been tricked
into it. Is it because of their superior power and respectability? or is it the
consequence of their local situation? But the state of New York has too much
virtue to be governed by local considerations. He insinuates this by his
assertion that she will not regard the examples of the other states. How can
he, without being inconsistent, and without perverting facts, pretend to say
that New York is not governed by local considerations in her opposition? Is she
not influenced by the local consideration of retaining that impost of which he
says Connecticut and New Jersey wish to get a participation? What does he say
of North Carolina? How will local considerations affect her? If the principle
be uniform, she will be led by the local consideration of wishing to get a
participation of the impost of the importing states. Is it to be supposed that
she will be so blind to her own interest as to depart from this principle?
When he attempted to prove that you ought not to adopt that paper which
I admire, he told you that it was untrodden ground. This objection goes to the
adoption of any government. The British government ought to be proposed
perhaps. It is trodden ground. I know not of any reason to operate against a
system, because it is untrodden ground.
The honorable gentleman objects to the publication from time to time, as
being ambiguous and uncertain. Does not
from time to time
signify
convenient time? If it admits of {185} an extension of time, does it not
equally admit of publishing the accounts at very short periods? For argument
sake, say they may postpone the publications of the public accounts to the
expiration of every ten year: will their constituents be satisfied with this
conduct? Will they not discard them, and elect other men, who will publish the
accounts as often as they ought? It is also in their power to publish every ten
days. Is it not more probable that they will do their duty than that they will
neglect it, especially as their interest is inseparably connected with their
duty? He says they may conceal them for a century. Did you ever hear so trivial
and so captious an argument? I
felt
when the great genius of the
gentleman nodded on that occasion. Another objection of the honorable gentleman
(whom I cannot follow through all his windings and turnings) is, that those
parts of the Constitution which are in favor of privileges, are not so clearly
expressed as those parts which concede powers. I beg your attention, because
this is a leading distinction. As long as the privilege of representation is
well secured, our liberties cannot be easily endangered. I conceive this is
secured in this country more fully than in any other. How are we, the people of
America, as landholders, compared to the people of all the world besides?
Vassalage is not know here. A small quantity of land entitles a man to a
freehold: land is pretty equally divided, and the law of descents, in this
country, will carry this division farther and farther — perhaps even to an
extreme. This, of itself, secures this great privilege. Is it so in any other
country? Is it so in England? We differ in this from all other countries. I
admire this paper in this respect. It does not impair our right of suffrage.
Whoever will have a right to vote for a representative to our legislature, will
also have a right to vote for a federal representative. This will render that
branch of Congress very democratic. We have a right to send a certain
proportion. If we do not exert that right, it will be our folly.
It was necessary to provide against licentiousness, which is so natural
to our climate. I dread more from the licentiousness of the people than from
the bad government of rulers. Our privileges are not, however, in danger: they
are better secured than any bill of rights could have secured them.
{186} I say that this new system shows, in stronger terms than words
could declare, that the liberties of the people are secure. It goes on the
principle that all power is in the people, and that rulers have no powers but
what are enumerated in that paper. When a question arises with respect to the
legality of any power, exercised or assumed by Congress, it is plain on the
side of the governed:
Is it enumerated in the Constitution?
If it be, it
is legal and just. It is otherwise arbitrary and unconstitutional. Candor must
confess that it is infinitely more attentive to the liberties of the people
than any state government.
[Mr. Lee then said, that, under the state governments,
the people reserved to themselves certain enumerated rights, and that the rest
were vested in their rulers; that, consequently, the powers reserved to the
people were but an inconsiderable exception from what were given to their
rulers; but that, in the federal government, the rulers of the people were
vested with certain defined powers, and that what were not delegated to those
rulers were retained by the people. The consequence of this, he said, was, that
the limited powers were only an exception to those which rested in the people,
and that they knew what they had given up, and could be in no danger. He
exemplified the proposition in a familiar manner. He observed, that, if a man
delegated certain powers to an agent, it would be an insult upon common sense
to suppose that the agent could legally transact any business for his principal
which was not contained in the commission whereby the powers were delegated;
but that, if a man empowered his representative or agent to transact all his
business except certain enumerated parts, the clear result was, that the agent
could lawfully transact every possible part of his principal's business except
the enumerated parts; and added, that these plain propositions were sufficient
to demonstrate the inutility and
folly
(were he permitted to use the
expression) of bills of rights.]
He then continued: I am convinced that that paper secures the liberty of
Virginia, and of the United States. I ask myself if there be a single power in
it which is not necessary for the support of the Union; and, as far as my
reasoning goes, I say that, if you deprive it of one single power contained in
it, it will be "
vox et præterea nihil
." Those who are to go to
Congress will be the servants of the people. They are created and deputed by
us, and removable by us. Is there a greater security than this in our state
government? To fortify this security, is there not a constitutional remedy in
the government, to reform any errors which shall be found inconvenient?
Although the honorable gentleman has dwelt so long upon it, he has not made it
appear otherwise. The Confederation can neither render us happy at home nor
respectable abroad. I conceive this system will {187} do both. The two
gentlemen who have been in the grand Convention have proved, incontestably,
that the fears arising from the powers of Congress are groundless. Having now
gone through some of the principal parts of the gentleman's harangue, I shall
take up but a few moments in replying to its conclusion.
I contend, for myself and the friends of the Constitution, that we are
as great friends to liberty as he or any other person, and that we will not be
behind in exertions in its defence when it is invaded. For my part, I trust
that, young as I am, I shall be trusted, in the support of freedom, as far as
the honorable gentleman. I feel that indignation and contempt, with respect to
his previous amendments, which he expresses against posterior amendments. I can
see no danger from a previous ratification. I see infinite dangers from
previous amendments. I shall give my suffrage for the former, because I think
the
happiness
of my country depends upon it. To maintain and secure that
happiness is the first object of my wishes. I shall brave all storms and
political dangers.
Gov. RANDOLPH. Having consumed heretofore so much of your time, I did
not intend to trouble you again so soon. But now I call on this committee, by
way of right, to permit me to answer some severe charges against the friends of
the new Constitution. It is a right I am entitled to, and shall have. I have
spoken twice in this committee. I have shown the principles which actuated the
general Convention; and attempted to prove that, after the ratification of the
proposed system by so many states, the preservation of the Union depended on
its adoption by us. I find myself attacked in the most illiberal manner by the
honorable gentleman, (Mr. Henry.) I disdain his aspersions and his
insinuations. His asperity is warranted by no principle of parliamentary
decency, nor compatible with the least shadow of friendship; and if our
friendship must fall,
let it fall, like Lucifer, never to rise again!
Let him remember that it is not to answer him, but to satisfy his respectable
audience, that I now get up. He has accused me of inconsistency in this very
respectable assembly. Sir, if I do not stand on the bottom of integrity, and
pure love for Virginia, as much as those who can be most clamorous, I wish to
resign my existence. Consistency consists in actions, {188} and not in empty,
specious words. Ever since the first entrance into that federal business, I
have been inevitably governed by an invincible attachment to the happiness of
the people of America. Federal measures had been before that time repudiated.
The augmentation of congressional powers was dreaded. The imbecility of the
Confederation was proved and acknowledged. When I had the honor of being
deputed to the federal Convention, to revise the existing system, I was
impressed with the necessity of a more energetic government, and thoroughly
persuaded that the salvation of the people of America depended on an intimate
and firm union. The honorable gentlemen there can say, that, when I went
thither, no man was a stronger friend to such a union than myself. I informed
you why I refused to sign.
I understand not him who wishes to give a full scope to licentiousness
and dissipation — who would advise me to reject the proposed plan, and
plunge us into anarchy.
[Here his excellency, Governor Randolph, read the
conclusion of his public letter, (wherein he says, that, notwithstanding his
objections to the Constitution, he would adopt it rather than lose the Union,)
and proceeded to prove the consistency of his present opinion with his former
conduct; when Mr. Henry arose, and declared that he had no personal intention
of offending any one; that he did his duty, but that he did not mean to wound
the feelings of any gentleman; that he was sorry if he offended the honorable
gentleman without intending it; and that every gentleman had a right to
maintain his opinion. His excellency then said that he was relieved by what the
honorable gentleman said; that, were it not for the concession of the
gentleman, he would have made some men's hair stand on end, by the disclosure
of certain facts. Mr. Henry then requested that, if he had any thing to say
against him, he would disclose it. His excellency then continued, that as there
were some gentlemen there who might not be satisfied by the recantation of the
honorable gentleman, without being informed, he should give them some
information on the subject; that his ambition had ever been to promote the
Union; that he was no more attached to it now than he always had been; and that
he could in some degree prove it by the paper which he held in his hand, which
was his public letter. He then read a considerable part of his letter, wherein
he expressed his friendship to the Union. He then informed the committee, that,
on the day of election of delegates for the Convention, for the county of
Henrico, it being incumbent upon him to give his opinion, he told the
respectable freeholders of that county his sentiments — that he wished not
to become a member of that Convention; that he had not attempted to create a
belief that he would vote against the Constitution; that he did really unfold
to them his actual opinion, which was perfectly reconcilable with the suffrage
he was going to give in favor of the Constitution. He then read part of a
letter which he {189} had written to his constituents on the subject, which was
expressive of sentiments amicable to a union with other states. He then threw
down the letter on the clerk's table, and declared that it might lie there for
the
inspection of the curious and malicious
.]
He then proceeded thus: I am asked why I have thought proper to
patronize this government. Not because I am one of those
illuminated
,
but because the felicity of my country requires it. The highest honors have no
allurements to charm me. If he be as little attached to public places as I am,
he must be free from ambition. It is true that I am now in an elevated
situation; but I consider it as a far less happy or eligible situation than
that of an inconsiderable landholder. Give me peace — I ask no more. I ask
no honor or gratification. Give me public peace, and I will carve the rest for
myself. The happiness of my country is my first wish. I think it necessary for
that happiness that this Constitution be now adopted; for, in spite of the
representation of the honorable gentleman, I see a storm growling over
Virginia. No man has more respect for Virginia, or a greater affection for her
citizens, than I have; but I cannot flatter you with a kinder or more agreeable
representation, while we are surrounded by so many dangers, and when there is
so much rancor in the hearts of your citizens.
I beg the honorable gentleman to pardon me for reminding him that his
historical references and quotations are not accurate. If he errs so much with
respect to his
facts
, as he has done in
history
, we cannot depend
on his information or assertions. He had, early in the debates, instanced
Holland as a happy democracy, highly worthy of our imitation. From thence he
went over the mountains to Switzerland, to find another democracy. He
represented all those cantons as being of the democratic kind. I wish he had
reflected a little more, and distinguished those that are democratical from
those which are aristocratical. He has already been reminded of his errors. I
should not now put him right with respect to history, had he not continued his
mistakes. Consult all writers — from Sir William Temple to those of modern
times — they will inform you, that the republic of Holland is an
aristocracy. He has inveighed against the stadtholder. I do not understand his
application of this to the American President. It is well known that, but for
the {190} stadtholder, the republic would have been ruined long ago. Holland,
it seems, has no ten miles square. But she has the Hague, where the deputies of
the states assemble. It has been found necessary to have a fixed place of
meeting. But the influence which it has given the province of Holland to have
the seat of the government within its territory, subject in some respects to
its control, has been injurious to the other provinces. The wisdom of the
Convention is therefore manifest in granting the Congress exclusive
jurisdiction over the place of their session. I am going to correct a still
greater error which he has committed, not in order to show any little knowledge
of history I have, (for I am by no means satisfied with its extent,) but to
endeavor to prevent any impressions from being made by improper and mistaken
representations.
He said that Magna Charta destroyed all implication. This was not the
object of Magna Charta, but to destroy the power of the king, and secure the
liberty of the people. The bill of rights was intended to restore the
government to its primitive principles.
We are harassed by quotations from Holland and Switzerland, which are
inapplicable in themselves, and not founded in fact.
I am surprised at his proposition of previous amendments, and his
assertion that subsequent ones will cause disunion. Shall we not lose our
influence and weight in the government to bring about amendments, if we propose
them previously? Will not the senators be chosen, and the electors of the
President be appointed, and the government brought instantly into action, after
the ratification of nine states? In this disunion, when will the effect
proposed be produced? But no man here is willing to believe what the honorable
gentleman says on this point. I was in hopes we should come to some degree of
order. I fear that order is no more. I believe that we should confine ourselves
to the particular clause under consideration, and to such other clauses as
might be connected with it.
Why have we been told that maxims can alone save nations; that our
maxims are our bill of rights; and that the liberty of the press, trial by
jury, and religion, are destroyed? Give me leave to say, that the maxims of
Virginia are union and justice.
{191} The honorable gentleman has passed by my observations with respect
to British debts. He has thought proper to be silent on this subject. My
observations must therefore have full force. Justice is, and ought to be, our
maxim; and must be that of every temperate, moderate, and upright man. I should
not say so much on this occasion, were it not that I perceive that the flowers
of rhetoric are perverted, in order to make impressions unfavorable and
inimical to an impartial and candid decision. What security can arise from a
bill of rights? The predilection for it has arisen from a misconception of its
principles. It cannot secure the liberties of this country. A bill of rights
was used in England to limit the king's prerogative; he could trample on the
liberties of the people in every case which was not within the restraint of the
bill of rights.
Our situation is radically different from that of the people of England.
What have we to do with bills of rights? Six or seven states have none.
Massachusetts has declared her bill of rights as no part of her Constitution.
Virginia has a bill of rights, but it is no part of her Constitution. By not
saying whether it is paramount to the Constitution or not, it has left us in
confusion. Is the bill of rights consistent with the Constitution? Why, then,
is it not inserted in the Constitution? Does it add any thing to the
Constitution? Why is it not in the Constitution? Does it except any thing from
the Constitution? Why not put the exceptions in the Constitution? Does it
oppose the Constitution? This will produce mischief. The judges will dispute
which is paramount. Some will say, the bill of rights is paramount: others will
say, that the Constitution, being subsequent in point of time, must be
paramount. A bill of rights, therefore, accurately speaking, is quite useless,
if not dangerous to a republic.
I had objections to this Constitution. I still have objections to it.
[Here he read the objections which appeared in his public letter.] The
gentleman asks, How comes it to pass that you are now willing to take it? I
answer, that I see Virginia in such danger, that, were its defects greater, I
would adopt it. These dangers, though not immediately present to our view, yet
may not be far distant, if we disunite from the other states I will join any
man in endeavoring {192} to get amendments, after the danger of disunion is
removed by a previous adoption.
The honorable gentleman says that the federal spirit leads to disunion.
The federal spirit is not superior to human nature, but it cannot be justly
charged with having a tendency to disunion. If we were to take the gentleman's
discrimination as our guide, the spirit of Virginia would be dictatorial.
Virginia dictates to eight states. A single amendment, proposed as the
condition of our accession, will operate total disunion. Where is the state
that shall conceive itself obliged to aid Virginia? The honorable gentleman
says there is no danger — great in imagination, but nothing in reality.
What is the meaning of this? What would this state do, if opposed alone to the
arms of France or Great Britain? Would there be no danger in such a case? Was
not the assistance of France necessary to enable the United States to repel the
attack of Great Britain? In the last war, by union and judicious concert of
measures, we were triumphant. Can this be the case in a future war, if we be
disunited from our sister states? What would have been the consequence, if, in
the late war, we had reposed on our arms, and depended on Providence alone?
Shall we ever be at peace, because we are so now? Is it unnecessary to provide
against future events? His objection goes to prove that Virginia can stand by
herself. The advice that would attempt to convince me of so pernicious an error
I treat with disdain. Our negroes are numerous, and are daily becoming more so.
When I reflect on their comparative number, and comparative condition, I am the
more persuaded of the great fitness of becoming more formidable than ever.
It seems that republican borderers are peaceable. This is another
lapse
in history. Did he never know that a number of men were as much
inspired with ambition as any individual? Had he consulted history, he would
have known that the most destructive wars have been carried on, with the most
implacable hatred, between neighboring republics. It is proved by his favorite
Roman history, that republican borderers are as apt to have rancor in their
hearts as any. The institutions of Lycurgus himself could not restrain
republican borderers from hostility. He treats the {193} idea of commercial
hostility as extravagant. History might inform him of its reality. Experience
might give him some instruction on the subject.
Go to the Potomac, and mark what you see. I had the mortification to see
vessels within a very little distance from the Virginian shore, belonging to
Maryland, driven from our ports by the badness of our regulations. I take the
liberty of a freeman in exposing what appears to me to deserve censure. I shall
take that liberty in reprehending the wicked act which attainted Josiah
Phillips. Because he was not a Socrates, is he to be attainted at pleasure? Is
hew be attainted because he is not among the high of reputation? After the use
the gentleman made of a word innocently used to express a crowd, I thought he
would be careful himself. We are all equal in this country. I hope that, with
respect to birth, there is no superiority. It gives me pleasure to reflect
that, though a man cannot trace up his lineage, yet he is not to be despised. I
shall always possess these sentiments and feelings. I shall never aspire at
high offices. If my country should ever think my services worth any thing, it
shall be in the humble capacity of a representative: higher than this I will
not aspire.
He has expatiated on the turpitude of the character of Josiah Phillips.
Has this any thing to do with the principle on which he was attainted? We all
agree that he was an abandoned man. But if you can prepare a bill to attaint a
man, and pass it through both houses in an instant, I ask you, who is safe?
There is no man on whom a cloud may not hang some time or other, if a demagogue
should think proper to take advantage of it to his destruction. Phillips had a
commission in his pocket at that time. He was, therefore, only a prisoner of
war. This precedent may destroy the best man in the community, when he was
arbitrarily attainted merely because he was not a Socrates.
He has perverted my meaning with respect to our government. I spoke of
the Confederation. He took no notice of this. He reasoned of the Constitution
of Virginia. I had said nothing of it on that occasion. Requisitions, however,
he said, were safe and advisable, because they give time for deliberation. Will
not taxation do this? Will not Congress, when laying a tax, bestow a thought
upon it? But he means to say, that the state itself ought to say {194} whether
she pleases to pay or not. Congress, by the Confederation, has power to make
any requisitions. The states are constitutionally bound to pay them. We have
seen their happy,effects. When the requisitions are right, and duly portioned,
it is in the power of any state to refuse to comply with them.
He says that he would give them the impost. I cannot understand him, as
he says he has an hereditary hatred to custom-house officers. Why despise them?
Why should the people hate them? I am afraid he has accidentally discovered a
principle that will lead him to make greater opposition than can be justified
by any thing in the Constitution. I would undertake to prove the fallacy of
every Observation he made on that occasion; but it is too late now to add any
more. At another opportunity I shall give a full refutation to all he has said.
Next
|
Previous
|
Contents
|
Text
Version
|
Home
|
Constitution Society
x
x

{294} On the subject, of government, the worthy member (Mr. Henry) and I
differ at the threshold. I think government necessary to protect liberty. He
supposes the American spirit all sufficient for the purpose. What say the most
respectable writers — Montesquieu, Locke, Sidney, Harrington, &c.?
They have presented us with no such idea. They properly discard from their
system all the severity of cruel punishment, such as tortures, inquisitions,
and the like — shocking to human nature, and only calculated to coerce the
dominion of tyrants over slaves. But they recommend making the ligaments of
government firm, and a rigid execution of the laws, as more necessary, than in
a monarchy, to preserve that virtue which they all declare to be the pillar on
which the government, and liberty, its object, must stand. They are not so
visionary as to suppose there ever did, or ever will, exist a society, however
large their aggregate fund of virtue may be, but hath among them persons of a
turbulent nature, restless in themselves and disturbing the peace of others
— sons of rapine and violence, who, unwilling to labor themselves, are
watching every opportunity to snatch from the industrious peasant the fruits of
his honest labor. Was I not, then, correct in my inference, that such a
government and liberty were friends and allies, and that their common enemies
were turbulence, faction, and violence? It is those, therefore, that will be
offended by good government; and for those I suppose no gentleman will profess
himself an advocate.
The writers just mentioned point out licentiousness as the natural
offspring of liberty, and that, therefore, all free governments Should endeavor
to suppress it, or else it will ultimately overthrow that liberty of which it
is the result. Is this speculation only? Alas! reason and experience too
fatally prove its truth in all instances. A republican government is the
nursery of science. It turns the bent of it to eloquence, as a qualification
for the representative character, which is, as it ought to be, the road to our
public offices. I have pleasure in beholding these characters already produced
in our councils — and a rising fund equal to a constant supply. May Heaven
prosper their endeavors, and direct their eloquence to the real good of their
country! I am unfortunate enough to differ from the worthy member in another
circumstance. He professes himself an advocate for {295} the middling and lower
classes of men. I profess to be a friend to the equal liberty of all men, from
the palace to the cottage, without any other distinction than that between good
and bad men. I appeal to my public life and private behavior, to decide whether
I have departed from this role. Since distinctions have been brought forth and
communicated to the audience, and will be therefore disseminated, I beg
gentlemen to take with them this observation — that distinctions have been
produced by the opposition. From the friends of the new government they have
heard none. None such are to be found in the organization of the paper before
you.
Why bring into the debate the whims of writers — introducing the
distinction of
well-born
from others? I consider every man
well-born
who comes into the world with an intelligent mind, and with
all his parts perfect. I am an advocate for fixing our government on true
republican principles, giving to the poor man free liberty in his person and
property.
Whether a man, be great or small he is equally dear to me. I wish, sir,
for a regular government, in order to secure and protect those honest citizens
who have been distinguished — I mean the industrious farmer and planter. I
wish them to be protected in the enjoyment of their honestly and industriously
acquired property. I wish commerce to be fully protected and encouraged, that
the people may have an opportunity of disposing of their crops at market, and
of procuring such supplies as they may be in want of. I presume that there can
be no political happiness, unless industry be cherished and protected, and
properly secured. Suppose a poor man becomes rich by honest labor, and
increases the public stock of wealth: shall his reward be the loss of that
liberty he set out with? Will you take away every stimulus to industry, by
declaring that he shall not retain the fruits of it? The idea of the poor
becoming rich by assiduity is not mere fancy. I am old enough, and have had
sufficient experience, to know the effects of it. I have often known persons,
commencing in life without any other stock but industry and economy, by the
mere efforts before, rise to opulence and wealth. This could not have been the
case without a government to protect their industry. In my mind the true
principle of republicanism, and the greatest {296} security of liberty, is
regular government. Perhaps I may not be a republican, but this is my idea. In
reviewing the history of the world, shall we find an instance where any Society
retained its liberty without government? As I before hinted, the smallest
society in extent, to the greatest empire, can only be preserved by a regular
government, to suppress that faction and turbulence so natural to many of our
species. What do men do with those passions when they come into society? Do
they leave them? No; they bring them with them. These passions, which they thus
bring into society, will produce disturbances, which, without any check, will
overturn it.
A distinction has been made, which surprised me, between the
illumined
mind and the
ignorant
. I have heard with pleasure, in
other places, that worthy gentleman expatiate on the advantages of learning
— among other things, as friendly to liberty. I have seen, in our code of
laws, the
public
purse applied to cherish
private
seminaries.
This is not strictly just; but with me the end sanctified the means, and I was
satisfied. But did we thus encourage learning, to set up those who attained its
benefits as butts of invidious distinction? Surely the worthy member, on
reflection, will disavow the idea. He learns to little purpose, indeed, who
vainly supposes himself become, from the circumstance, of an order of beings
superior to the honest citizens — peasants if you please to term them so
— who, in their labor, produce great good to the community. But those
illumined minds who apply their knowledge to promote and cherish liberty —
equal liberty to all, the peasant as well as others — give to society the
real blessings of learning.
I have seen learning used both ways; but have had pleasure in observing,
that lately the latter fruits only have generally appeared, which I attribute
to the influence of republican principles, and a regard for true liberty. Am I
still suspected of want of attachment for my worthy fellow citizens, whom the
gentleman calls peasants and cottagers? Let me add one more observation. I
cannot leave them in the state in which he has placed them — in the
parallel between them and those of Switzerland, the United Netherlands, and
Great Britain. The peasants of the Swiss cantons trade in war. Trained in arms,
they become the mercenaries of the best bidder, to carry on the destruction of
{297} mankind, as an occupation, where they have not even resentment. Are these
a fit people for a comparison with our worthy planters and farmers, in their
drawing food and raiment, and even wealth, by honest labor, from the bowels of
the earth, where an inexhaustible store is placed by a bountiful Creator?
The citizens of the United Netherlands have no right of suffrage. There,
they lost that distinguished badge of freedom. Their representation to their
state assemblies is of towns and cities, and not of the people at large.
The people of Britain have the fight of suffrage, but sell it for a mess
of pottage.
The happiness of the people is the object of this government, and the
people are therefore made the fountain of all power. They cannot act
personally, and must delegate powers. Here the worthy gentleman who spoke last,
and I travelling not together indeed, but in sight, are placed at an
immeasurable distance — as far as the poles asunder. He recommends a
government more energetic and strong than this, abundantly too strong ever to
receive my approbation, — a first magistrate borrowed from Britain, to
whom you are to make a surrender of your liberty; and you give him a separate
interest from yours. You intrench that interest by powers and prerogatives
undefined — implant in him self-love, from the influence of which he is to
do, what — to promote your interest in opposition to his own? An operation
of self-love which is new! Having done this, you accept from him a charter of
the rights you have parted with; present him a bill of fights, telling him,
Thus far shall you oppress us, and no farther.
It still depends on him whether he will give you that charter, or allow
the operation of the bill of rights. He will do it as long as he cannot do
otherwise, but no longer. Did ever any free people in the world, not dictated
to by the sword of a conqueror, or by circumstances into which licentiousness
may have plunged them, place themselves in so degrading a situation, or make so
disgraceful a sacrifice of their liberty? If they did, sure I am that the
example will not be followed by this Convention. This is not all: we are to
look somewhere for the chosen few to go into the ten miles square, with
extensive powers for life, and thereby destroy every degree of true
responsibility. Is there no medium, {298} or shall we recur to extremes? As a
republican, sir, I think that the security of the liberty and happiness of the
people, from the highest to the lowest, being the object of government, the
people are consequently the fountain of all power.
They must, however, delegate it to agents, because, from their number,
dispersed situation, and many other circumstances, they cannot exercise it in
person. They must therefore, by frequent and certain elections, choose
representatives to whom they trust it.
Is there any distinction in the exercise of this delegation of power?
The man who possesses twenty-five acres of land has an equal right of voting
for a representative with the man who has twenty-five thousand acres. This
equality of suffrage secures the people in their property. While we are in
pursuit of checks, and balances, and proper security in the delegation of
power, we ought never to lose sight of the representative character. By this we
preserve the great principle of the primary right of power in the people; and
should deviations happen from our interest, the spirit of liberty, in future
elections, will correct it — a security I esteem far superior to paper
bills of rights.
When the bands of our former society were dissolved, and we were under
the necessity of forming a new government, we established a constitution
founded on the principle of representation, preserving therein frequency of
elections, and guarding against inequality of suffrage. I am one of those who
are pleased with that Constitution, because it is built on that foundation. I
believe that, if the Confederation had the principles and efficacy of that
Constitution, we should have found that peace and happiness which we are all in
search of. In this state Constitution, to the executive you commit the sword;
to the legislative you commit the purse, and every thing else, without any
limitation. In both cases, the representative character is in full effect, and
thereby responsibility is secured. The judiciary is separate and distinct from
both the other branches, has nothing to do with either the purse or sword, and,
for obvious reasons, the judges hold their offices during good behavior.
There will be deviations even in our state legislatures thus
constituted. I say (and I hope to give no offence when I do) there have been
some. I believe every gentleman will see that it is unconstitutional to condemn
any man without {299} a fair trial. Such a condemnation is repugnant to the
principles of justice. It is contrary to the Constitution, and the spirit of
the common law. Look at the bill of rights. You find there that no man shall be
condemned without being confronted with his accusers and witnesses; that every
man has a right to call for evidence in his favor, and, above all, to a speedy
trial by an impartial jury of the vicinage, without whose unanimous consent he
cannot be found guilty. These principles have not been attended to; an instance
has been mentioned already, where they have been in some degree violated.
[Here Mr. Pendleton spoke so very low that he could not
be heard.]
My brethren in that department [
the judicial
] felt great
uneasiness in their minds to violate the Constitution by such a law. They have
prevented the operation of some unconstitutional acts. Notwithstanding those
violations, I rely upon the principles of the government — that it will
produce its own reform, by the responsibility resulting from frequent
elections. We are finally safe while we preserve the representative character.
I made these observations as introductory to the consideration of the paper on
your table. I conceive that, in those respects where our state Constitution has
not been disapproved of, objections will not apply against that on our table.
When we were forming our state Constitution, we were confined to local
circumstances. In forming a government for the Union, we must consider our
situation as connected with our neighboring states. We have seen the advantages
and blessings of the Union. Every intelligent and patriotic mind must be
convinced that it is essential to our happiness. God grant we may never see the
disadvantages of disunion!
To come to the great object of direct taxation, more immediately under
consideration: — If we find it our interest to be intimately connected
with the other twelve states, to establish one common government, and bind in
one ligament the strength of thirteen states, we shall find it necessary to
delegate powers proportionate to that end; for the delegation of adequate
powers in this government is no less necessary than in our state government. To
whom do we delegate these powers? To our own representatives. Why should we
fear so much greater dangers from our representatives {300} there, than from
those we have here? Why make so great a distinction between our representatives
here, and in the federal government, where every branch is formed on the same
principle — preserving throughout the representative, responsible
character? We have trusted our lives, and every thing, to our state
representatives. We have particularly committed our purse to them, with
unlimited confidence. I never heard any objection to it; I am sure I make none.
We ought to contribute our share of fixing the principles of the government.
Here the representative character is still preserved. We are to have an equal
share in the representation of the general government, should we ratify this
Constitution. We have hitherto paid more than our share of taxes for the
support of the government, &c. But by this system we are to pay our equal,
ratable share only. Where is the danger of confiding in our federal
representatives? We must choose those in whom we can put the greatest
confidence. They are only to remain two years in office. Will they in that time
lose all regard for the principles of honor, and their character, and become
abandoned prostitutes of our rights? I have no such fear. When power is in the
hands of my representatives, I care not whether they meet here or a hundred
miles off.
A gentleman (Mr. Monroe) has said that the power of direct taxation was
unnecessary, because the imposts and back lands would be abundantly sufficient
to answer all federal purposes. If so, what are we disputing about? I ask the
gentleman who made the observation, and this committee, if they believe that
Congress will ever lay direct taxes if the other funds are sufficient. It will
then remain a harmless power upon paper, and do no injury. If it should be
necessary, will gentlemen run the risk of the Union by withholding it? I was
sorry to hear the Subjects of requisitions and taxation misinterpreted. The
latter has been compared to taxation by Great Britain without our own consent.
The two cases are by no means similar. The king of Great Britain has not the
purse, though he holds the sword. He has no means of using the sword but by
requisitions on those who hold the purse. He applied to the British Parliament;
and they were pleased to trust him with our money. We declared, as we had a
right, that we ought to be taxed by our own representatives, and that therefore
their disposing {301} of our money without our consent was unjust. Here
requisitions are to be made by one body of our representatives to another. Why
should this be the case, when they are both possessed of our equal confidence
— both chosen in the same manner, and equally responsible to us?
But we are told that there will be a war between the two bodies equally
our representatives, and that the state government will be destroyed, and
consolidated into the general government. I stated before, that this could not
be so. The two governments act in different manners, and for different purposes
— the general government in great national concerns, in which we are
interested in common with other members of the Union; the state legislature in
out mere local concerns. Is it true, or merely imaginary, that the state
legislatures will be confined to the care of bridges and roads? I think that
they are still possessed of the highest powers. Our dearest rights, —
life, liberty, and property, — as Virginians, are still in the hands of
our state legislature. If they prove too feeble to protect us, we resort to the
aid of the general government for security. The true distinction is, that the
two governments are established for different purposes, and act on different
objects; so that, notwithstanding what the worthy gentleman said, I believe I
am still correct, and insist that, if each power is confined within its proper
bounds, and to its proper objects, an interference can never happen. Being for
two different purposes, as long as they are limited to the different objects,
they can no more clash than two parallel lines can meet. Both lay taxes, but
for different purposes. The same officers may be used by both governments,
which will prevent a number of inconveniences. If an invasion, or insurrection,
or other misfortune, should make it necessary for the general government to
interpose, this will be for the general purposes of the Union, and for the
manifest interest of the states.
I mentioned formerly that it would never be the interest of the general
government to destroy the state governments. From these it wilt derive great
strength: for if
they
be possessed of power, they will assist
it
;
if they become feeble, or decay, the general government must likewise become
weak, or moulder away.
But we are alarmed on account of Kentucky. We are told that the
Mississippi is taken away. When gentlemen say {302} that seven states are now
disposed to give it up, and that it
will
be given up by the operation of
this government, are the correct? It must be supposed that, on occasions of
great moment, the senators from all the states will attend. if they do, there
will be no difference between this Constitution and the Confederation in this
point. When they are all present, two thirds of them will consist of the
senators from nine states, which is the number required by the existing system
to form treaties. The consent of the President, who is the representative of
the Union, is also necessary. The right to that river must be settled by the
sword, or negotiation. I understood that the purpose of that negotiation which
has been on foot, was, that Spain should have the navigation of that river for
twenty-five years, after which we were peaceably to retain it forever. This, I
was told, was all that Spain required. If so, the gentleman who differed in
opinion from others, in wishing to gratify Spain, must have been actuated by a
conviction that it would be better to have the right fixed in that manner than
trust to uncertainty. I think the inhabitants of that country, as well as of
every other part of the Union, will he better protected by an efficient, firm
government, than by the present feeble one. We shall have also a much better
chance for a favorable negotiation, if our government be respectable, than we
have now. It is also suggested that the citizens of the western district run
the risk of losing their lands if this Constitution be adopted. I am not
acquainted with the circumstances of the title set up to those lands. But this
I know, that it is founded, not upon ally claim commenced during the
revolution, but on some latent claim that existed before that period. It was
brought before our Assembly, and rejected — I suppose because they thought
it would, at this late period, involve the just and unjust, indiscriminately,
in distress. I am bold to say that no assistance can be given by the
Constitution to the claimants. The federal legislature is not authorized to
pass any law affecting claims that existed before. If the claim is brought
forth, it must be before the court of the state, on the ground on which it now
stands, and must depend on the same principles on which it now depends. Whether
this Constitution be adopted or not, will not affect the parties in this case.
It will make no difference as to the principles on which the decision will be
made, {303} whether it will come before the state court or the federal court.
They will be both equally independent, and ready to decide in strict conformity
to justice. I believe the federal courts will be as independent as the state
courts. I should no more hesitate to trust my liberty and property to the one
than the other. Whenever, in any country in the world, the judges are
independent, property is secure. The existence of Great Britain depends on that
purity with which justice is administered. When gentlemen will therefore find
that the federal legislature cannot affect preexisting claims by their
legislation, and the federal courts are on the same ground with the state
courts, I hope there will be no ground of alarm.
Permit me to deliver a few sentiments on the great and important subject
of previous and subsequent amendments. When I sat down to read that paper, I
did not read it with an expectation that it was perfect, and that no man would
object to it. I had learned, sir, that an expectation of such perfection in any
institute devised by man, was as vain as the search for the philosopher's
stone. I discovered objections — I thought I saw there some sown seeds of
disunion — not in the immediate operation of the government, but which
might happen in some future time. I wish amendments to remove these. But these
remote possible errors may be eradicated by the amendatory clause in the
Constitution. I see no danger in making the experiment, since the system itself
points out an easy mode of removing any errors which shall have been
experienced. In this view, then, I think we may safely trust in the government.
With respect to the eight states who have already acceded to it, do gentlemen
believe that, should we propose amendments as the
sine qua non
of our
adoption, they would listen to our proposals? I conceive, sir, that they would
not retract. They would tell us —
No, gentlemen, we cannot accept of
your conditions. You put yourselves upon the ground of opposition. Your
amendments are dictated by local considerations. We, in our adoption, have been
influenced by considerations of general utility to the Union. We cannot abandon
principles, like these, to gratify you.
Thus, sir, by previous amendments,
we present a hostile countenance. If, on the contrary, we imitate the conduct
of those states, our language will be conciliatory and friendly. Gentlemen, we
put ourselves on the same ground that you are on. We are not actuated by local
consideration, {304} but by such as affect the people of America in general.
This conduct will give our amendments full weight.
I was surprised when I heard introduced the opinion of a gentleman (Mr.
Jefferson) whom I highly respect. I know He great abilities of that gentleman.
Providence has, for the good of mankind, accompanied those extensive abilities
with a disposition to make use of them for the good of his fellow-beings; and I
wish, with all my heart, that he was here to assist us on this interesting
occasion. As to his letter, impressed as I am with the force of his authority,
I think it was improper to introduce it on this occasion. The opinion of a
private individual, however enlightened, ought not to influence our decision.
But, admitting that this opinion ought to be conclusive with us, it strikes me
in a different manner from the honorable gentleman. I have seen the letter in
which this gentleman has written his opinion upon this subject. It appears that
he is possessed of that Constitution, and has in his mind the idea of amending
it — he has in his mind the very question, of subsequent or previous
amendments, which is now under consideration. His sentiments on this subject
are as follows: "I wish, with all my soul, that the nine first conventions may
accept the new Constitution, because it will secure to us the good it contains,
which I think great and important. I wish the four latest, whichever they be,
may refuse to accede to it till amendments are secured." He then enumerates the
amendments which he wishes to be secured, and adds, "We must take care,
however, that neither this nor any other objection to the form, produce a
schism in our Union. That would be an incurable evil; because friends falling
out never cordially reunite." Are these sentiments in favor of those who wish
to prevent its adoption by previous amendments? He wishes the first nine states
to adopt it. What are his reasons? Because he thinks it will secure to us the
good it contains, which he thinks
great
and
important
; and he
wishes the other four may refuse it, because he thinks it may tend to obtain
necessary amendments. But he would not wish that a schism should take place in
the Union on any consideration. If, then, we are to be influenced by his
opinion at all, we shall ratify it, and secure thereby the good it contains.
The Constitution points out a plain and ordinary method of reform, without any
disturbance or convulsions {305} whatever. I therefore think that we ought to
ratify it, in order to secure the Union, and trust to this method for removing
those inconveniences which experience shall point out.
[Mr. Pendleton added several other observations, but
spoke too low to be heard.]
Mr. MADISON. Mr. Chairman: finding, sir, that the clause more
immediately under consideration still meets with the disapprobation of the
honorable gentleman over the way, (Mr. Grayson,) and finding that the reasons
of the opposition, as further developed, are not satisfactory to myself and
others who are in favor of the clause, I wish that it may meet with the most
thorough and complete investigation. I beg the attention of the committee, in
order to obviate what fell from the honorable gentleman. He set forth that, by
giving up the power of taxation, we should give up every thing, and still
insists on requisitions being made on tad states, and then, if they be not
complied with, Congress shall lay direct taxes, by way of penalty. Let us
consider the dilemma which arises from this doctrine. Either requisitions will
be efficacious, or they will not. If they will be efficacious, then I say, sir,
we give up every thing as much as by direct taxation.
The same amount will be paid by the people as by direct taxes. If they
be not efficacious, where is the advantage of this plan? In what respect will
it relieve us from the inconveniences which we have experienced from
requisitions? The power of laying direct taxes by the general government is
supposed by the honorable gentleman to be chimerical and impracticable. What is
the consequence of the alternative he proposes? We are to rely upon this power
to be ultimately used as a penalty to compel the states to comply. If it be
chimerical and impracticable in the first instance, it will be equally so when
it will be exercised as a penalty. A reference was made to concurrent
executions as an instance of the possibility of interference between the two
governments.
[Here Mr. Madison spoke so low that he could not be
distinctly heard.]
This has been experienced under the state governments without involving
any inconvenience. But it may be answered that, under the state governments,
concurrent executions {306} cannot produce the inconvenience here dreaded,
because they are executed by the same officer. Is it not in the power of the
general government to employ the state officers? Is nothing to be left to
future legislation, or must every thing be immutably fixed in the Constitution?
Where exclusive power is given to the Union, there can be no interference.
Where the general and state legislatures have concurrent power, such
regulations will be made as shall be found necessary to exclude interferences
and other inconveniences. It will be their interest to make regulations.
It has been said that there is no similarity between petty corporations
and independent states. I admit that, in many points of view, there is a great
dissimilarity; but in others, there is a striking similarity between them,
which illustrates what is before us. Have we not seen, in our own country, (as
has been already suggested in the course of the debates,) concurrent
collections of taxes going on at once, without producing any inconvenience? We
have seen three distinct collections of taxes, for three distinct purposes. Has
it not been possible for collections of taxes, for parochial, county, and state
purposes, to go on at the same time? Every gentleman must know that this is now
the case; and though there be a subordination in these cases which will not be
ill the general government, yet in practice it has been found that these
different collections have been concurrently carried on, with convenience to
the people, without clashing with one another, and without deriving their
harmony from the circumstance of being subordinate to one legislative body. The
taxes will be laid for different purposes. The members of the one government,
as well as of the other, are the agents of, and subordinate to, the people. I
conceive that the collection of the taxes of the one will not impede that of
the other, and that there can be no interference. This concurrent collection
appears to me neither chimerical nor impracticable.
He compares resistance of the people to collectors to refusal of
requisitions. This goes against all government. It is as much as to urge that
there should be no legislature. The gentlemen, who favored us with their
observations on this subject, seemed to reason on a supposition that the
general government was confined, by the paper on your table, to lay general,
uniform taxes. Is it necessary that there should be {307} a tax on any given
article throughout the United States? It is represented to be oppressive, that
the states which have slaves, and make tobacco, should pay taxes on these for
federal wants, when other states, which have them not, would escape. But does
the Constitution on the table admit of this? On the contrary, there is a
proportion to be hid on each state, according to its population. The most
proper articles will be selected in each state. If one article, in any state,
should be deficient, it will be laid on another article. Our state is secured
on this foundation. Its proportion will be commensurate to its population. This
is a constitutional scale, which is an insuperable bar against disproportion,
and ought to satisfy all reasonable minds. If the taxes be not uniform, and the
representatives of some states contribute to lay a tax of which they bear no
proportion, is not this principle reciprocal? Does not the same principle hold
in our state government in some degree? It has been found inconvenient to fix
on uniform objects of taxation in this state, as the back parts are not
circumstanced like the lower parts of the country. In both cases, the
reciprocity of the principle will prevent a disposition in one part to oppress
the other. My honorable friend seems to suppose that Congress, by the
possession of this ultimate power as a penalty, will have as much credit, and
will be as able to procure any sums, on any emergency, as if they were
possessed of it in the first instance; and that the votes of Congress will be
as competent to procure loans as the votes of the British Commons. Would the
votes of the British House of Commons have that credit which they now have, if
they were liable to be retarded in their operation, and, perhaps, rendered
ultimately nugatory, as those of Congress must be by the proposed alternative?
When their vote passes, it usually receives the concurrence of the Other
branch; and it is known that there is sufficient energy in the government to
carry it into effect.
But here the votes of Congress are, in the first place, dependent on the
compliance of thirteen different bodies, and, after non-compliance, are liable
to be opposed and defeated by the jealousy of the states against the exercise
of this power, and by the opposition of the people, which may be expected if
this power be exercised by Congress after partial compliances. These
circumstances being known, Congress could not command one shilling. My
honorable friend {308} seems to think that we ought to spare the present
generation, and throw our burdens upon posterity. I will not contest the equity
of this reasoning; but I must say that good policy, as well as views of
economy, strongly urges us, even to distress ourselves to comply with our most
solemn engagements. We must take effectual provision for the payment of the
interest of our public debts. In order to do justice to our creditors, and
support our credit and reputation, we must lodge power somewhere or other for
this purpose. As yet the United States have not been able, by any energy
contained in the old system, to accomplish this end.
Our creditors have a right to demand the principal, but would be
satisfied with a punctual payment of the interest. If we have been unable to
pay the interest, much less shall we be able to discharge the principal. It
appears to me that the whole reasoning used on this occasion shows that we
ought to adopt this system, to enable us to throw our burdens on posterity. The
honorable member spoke of the decemviri at Rome as having some similitude to
the ten representatives who are to be appointed by this state. I can see no
point of similitude here, to enable us to draw any conclusion. For what purpose
were the
decemviri
appointed? They were invested with a plenipotentiary
commission to make a code of laws. By whom were they appointed? By the people
at large? My memory is not infallible, but it tells me they were appointed by
the senate, — I believe, in the name of the people. If they were appointed
by the senate, and composed of the most influential characters among the
nobles, can any thing be inferred from that against our federal
representatives? Who made a discrimination between the nobles and the people?
The senate.
Those men totally perverted the powers which were given them, for the
purpose above specified, to the subversion of the public liberty. Can we
suppose that a similar usurpation might be made by men appointed in a totally
different manner? As their circumstances were totally dissimilar, I conceive
that no arguments drawn from that source can apply to this government. I do not
thoroughly comprehend the reasoning of my honorable friend, when he tells us
that the federal government will predominate, and that the state interest will
be lost, when, at the same time, he tells us that it will be a faction of seven
states. If seven states will prevail, {309}
as states
, I conceive that
state influence will prevail. If state influence, under the present feeble
government, has prevailed, I think that a remedy ought to be introduced, by
giving the general government power to suppress it.
He supposed that my argument with respect to a future war between Great
Britain and France was fallacious. The other nations of Europe have acceded to
that neutrality, while Great Britain opposed it. We need not expect, in case of
such a war, that we should be suffered to participate in the profitable
emoluments of the carrying trade, unless we were in a respectable situation.
Recollect the last war. Was there ever a war in which the British nation stood
opposed to so many nations? All the belligerent nations in Europe, with nearly
one half of the British empire, were united against it. Yet that nation, though
defeated, and humbled beyond ally previous example, stood out against this.
From her firmness and spirit in such desperate circumstances, we may divine
what her future conduct may be.
I did not contend that it was necessary for the United States to
establish a navy for that sole purpose, but instanced it as one reason, out of
several, for rendering ourselves respectable. I am no friend to naval or land
armaments in time of peace; but if they be necessary, the calamity must be
submitted to. Weakness will invite insults. A respectable government will not
only entitle us to a participation of the advantages which are enjoyed by other
nations, but will be a security against attacks and insults. It is to avoid the
calamity of being obliged to have large armaments that we should establish this
government. The best way to avoid danger is to be in a capacity to withstand
it.
The impost, we are told, will not diminish, because the emigrations to
the westward will prevent the increase of population. He has reasoned on this
subject justly to certain degree. I admit that the imposts will increase, till
population becomes so great as to compel us to recur to manufactures. The
period cannot he very far distant when the unsettled parts of America will be
inhabited. At the expiration of twenty-five years hence, I conceive that, in
every part of the United States, there will be as great a population as there
is now in the settled parts. We see, already, that, in the most populous parts
of the Union, and where there is but a medium, manufactures are beginning to be
established. {310} Where this is the case, the amount of importation will begin
to diminish. Although the impost may even increase during the term of
twenty-five years, yet when we are preparing a government for perpetuity, we
ought to found it on permanent principles, and not on those of a temporary
nature.
Holland is a favorite quotation with honorable members on the other side
of the question. Had not their sentiments been discovered by other
circumstances, I should have concluded, from their reasonings on this occasion,
that they were friends of the Constitution. I should suppose that they had
forgotten which side of the question they were on. Holland has been called a
republic, and a government friendly to liberty. Though it may be greatly
superior to some other governments in Europe, still it is not a republic or a
democracy. Their legislature consists, in some degree, of men who legislate for
life. Their councils consist of men who hold their offices for life, who fill
up offices and appoint their salaries themselves. The people have no agency,
mediate or immediate, in the government. If we look at their history, we shall
find that every mischief which has befallen them has resulted from the existing
confederacy. If the stadtholder has been productive of mischiefs, if we ought
to guard against such a magistrate more than any evil, let me beseech the
honorable gentleman to take notice of what produced that, and those troubles
which have interrupted their tranquillity from time to time. The weakness of
their confederacy produced both.
When the French arms were ready to overpower their republic, and they
were feeble in the means of defence, which was principally owing to the
violence of parties, they then appointed a stadtholder, who sustained them. If
we look at more recent events, we shall have a more pointed demonstration that
their political infelicity, arises from the imbecility of their government. In
the late disorders, the states were almost equally divided — three
provinces on one side, three on the other, and the other divided. One party
inclined to the Prussians, and the other to the French. The situation of France
did not admit of her interposing immediately in their disputes by an army; that
of the Prussians did. A powerful and large army marched into Holland, and
compelled the other party to surrender. We know the distressing consequences to
the people. What produced {311} those disputes, and the necessity of foreign
interference, but the debility of their confederacy? We may be warned by their
example, and shun their fate, by removing the causes which produced their
misfortunes. My honorable friend has referred to the transaction of the federal
council with respect to the navigation of the Mississippi. I wish it was
consistent with delicacy and prudence to lay a complete view of the whole
matter before this committee. The history of it is singular and curious, and
perhaps its origin ought to be taken into consideration.
I will touch on some circumstances, and introduce nearly the substance
of most of the facts relative to it, that I may not seem to shrink from
explanation. It was soon perceived, sir, after the commencement of the war with
Britain, that, among the various objects that would affect the happiness of the
people of America, the navigation of the Mississippi was one. Throughout the
whole history of foreign negotiation, great stress was laid on its
preservation. In the time of our greatest distresses, and particularly when the
Southern States were the scene of war, the Southern States cast their eyes
around to be relieved from their misfortunes. It was supposed that assistance
might be obtained for the, relinquishment of that navigation. It was thought
that, for so substantial a consideration, Spain might be induced to afford
decisive succor. It was opposed by the Northern and Eastern States. They were
sensible that it might be dangerous to surrender this important right,
particularly to the inhabitants of the western country. But so it was, that the
Southern States were for it, and the Eastern States opposed to it. Since
obtaining that happy peace, which secures to us all our claims, this subject
has been taken again into consideration, and deliberated upon in the federal
government. A temporary relinquishment has been agitated. Several members from
the different states, but particularly from the Northern, were for a temporary
surrender, because it would terminate disputes, and, at the end of the short
period for which it was to be given, the right would revert, of course, to
those who had given it up; and for this temporary surrender some commercial
advantages were offered. For my part, I consider this measure, though founded
on considerations plausible and honorable, was yet not justifiable but on
grounds of inevitable necessity. I must declare, in justice {312} to many
characters who were in Congress, that they declared that they never would enter
into the measure, unless the situation of the United States was such as could
not prevent it.
I suppose that the adoption of this government wilt be favorable to the
preservation of the right to that navigation. Emigration will be made, from
those parts of the United States which are settled, to those parts which are
unsettled. If we afford protection to the western country, we shall see it
rapidly peopled. Emigrations from some of the Northern States have been lately
increased. We may conclude, as has been said by a gentleman on the same side,
(Mr. Nicholas,) that those who emigrate to that country will leave behind them
all their friends and connections as advocates for this right.
What was the cause of those states being the champions of this right
when the Southern States were disposed to surrender it? The preservation of
this right will be for the general interest of the Union. The western country
will be settled from the north as well as the south, and its prosperity will
add to the strength and security of the Union. I am not able to recollect all
those circumstances which would be necessary to give gentlemen a full view of
the subject. I can only add, that I conceive that the establishment of the new
government will be the best possible means of securing our rights, as well in
the western parts as elsewhere. I will not sit down till I make one more
observation on what fell from my honorable friend. He says that the true
difference between the states lies in this circumstance — that some are
carrying states and others productive, and that the operation of the new
government will be, that there will be a plurality of the former to combine
against the interest of the latter, and that consequently it will be dangerous
to put it in their power to do so. I would join with him in sentiments, if this
were the case. Were this within the bounds of probability, I should be equally
alarmed; but I think that those states, which are contradistinguished, as
carrying states, from the non-importing states, will be but few. I suppose the
Southern States will be considered by all asunder the latter description. Some
other states have been mentioned by an honorable member on the same side, which
are not considered as carrying states. New Jersey {313} and Connecticut can by
no means be enumerated among the carrying states. They receive their supplies
through New York. Here, then, is a plurality of non-importing states. I could
add another, if necessary. Delaware, though situated upon the water, is upon
the list of non-carrying states. I might say that a great part of New Hampshire
is so. I believe a majority of the people of that state receive their supplies
from Massachusetts, Rhode Island, and Connecticut. Might I not add all those
states which will be admitted hereafter into the Union? These will be
non-carrying states, and will support Virginia in case the carrying states will
attempt to combine against the rest. This objection must therefore fall to the
ground. My honorable friend has made several other remarks, but I will defer
saying any more till we come to those parts to which his objections refer.
Mr. HENRY. Mr. Chairman, once more I find it
necessary to trespass on your patience. An honorable gentleman, several days
ago, observed, that the great object of this government was justice. We were
told before, that the greater consideration was union. However, the
consideration of justice seems to have been what influenced his mind when he
made strictures on the proceedings of the Virginia Assembly. I thought the
reasons of that transaction had been sufficiently explained.
It is exceedingly painful to me to be objecting; but I must make a few
observations. I shall not again review the catalogue of dangers which the
honorable gentleman entertained us with. They appear to me absolutely
imaginary. They have, in my conception, been proved to be such.
But sure I am that the dangers of this system are real, when those who
have no similar interests with the people of this country are to legislate for
us — when our dearest interests are left in the power of those whose
advantage it may be to infringe them. How will the quotas of troops be
furnished?
Hated
as requisitions are, your federal officers cannot
collect troops, like dollars, and carry them in their pockets. You must make
those
abominable
requisitions for them, and the scale will be in
proportion to the number of your blacks, as well as your whites, unless they
violate the constitutional rule of apportionment. This is not calculated to
rouse the fears of the people. It is founded in truth. {314} How oppressive and
dangerous must this be to the Southern States, who alone have slaves! This will
render their proportion infinitely greater than that of the Northern States. It
has been openly avowed that this shall be the rule. I will appeal to the
judgments of the committee, whether there be danger. The honorable gentleman
said that there was no precedent for
this
American revolution. We have
precedents in abundance. They have been drawn from Great Britain. Tyranny has
arisen there in the same manner in which it was introduced among the Dutch. The
tyranny of Philadelphia may be like the tyranny of George III. I believe this
similitude will be incontestably proved before we conclude.
The honorable gentleman has endeavored to explain the opinion of Mr.
Jefferson, our common friend, into an advice to adopt this new government. What
are his sentiments? He wishes nine states to adopt, and that four states may be
found somewhere to reject it. Now, sir, I say, if we pursue his advice, what
are we to do? To prefer form to substance? For, give me leave to ask, what is
the substantial part of his counsel? It is, sir, that four states should
reject
. They tell us that, from the most authentic accounts, New
Hampshire will adopt it. When I denied this, gentlemen said they were
absolutely certain of it. Where, then, will four states be found to reject, if
we adopt it? If we do, the counsel of this enlightened and worthy countryman of
ours will be thrown away; and for what? He wishes to secure amendments and a
bill of rights, if I am not mistaken. I speak from the best information, and if
wrong, I beg to be put right. His amendments go to that despised thing, called
a bill of rights
, and all the rights which are dear to human nature
— trial by jury, the liberty of religion and the press, &c. Do not
gentlemen see that, if we adopt, under the idea of following Mr. Jefferson's
opinion, we amuse ourselves with the shadow, while the substance is given away?
If Virginia be for adoption, what states will be left, of sufficient
respectability and importance to secure amendments by their rejection? As to
North Carolina, it is
a poor, despised place
. Its dissent will not have
influence to introduce any amendments. Where is the American spirit of liberty?
Where will you find attachment to the rights of mankind, when Massachusetts,
the great northern state, Pennsylvania, {315} the great middle state, and
Virginia, the great southern state, shall have adopted this government? Where
will you find magnanimity enough to reject it? Should the remaining states have
this magnanimity, they will not have sufficient weight to have the government
altered. This state has weight and importance. Her example will have powerful
influence — her rejection will procure amendments. Shall we, by our
adoption, hazard the loss of amendments? Shall we forsake that importance and
respectability which our station in America commands, in hopes that relief will
come from an obscure part of the Union? I hope my countrymen will spurn at the
idea.
The necessity of amendments is universally admitted. It is a word which
is reechoed from every part of the continent. A majority of those who hear me
think amendments are necessary. Policy tells us they are necessary. Reason,
self-preservation, and every idea of propriety, powerfully urge us to secure
the dearest rights of human nature. Shall we, in direct violation of these
principles, rest this security upon the uncertainty of its being obtained by a
few States, more weak and less respectable than ourselves, and whose virtue and
magnanimity may be overborne by the example of so many adopting states?
Poor
Rhode Island, and North Carolina, and even New York, surrounded
with federal walls on every side, may not be magnanimous enough to reject; and
if they do reject it, they will have but little influence to obtain amendments.
I ask, if amendments be necessary, from whence can they be so properly proposed
as from this state? The example of Virginia is a powerful thing, particularly
with respect to North Carolina, whose supplies must come
through
Virginia. Every possible opportunity of procuring amendments is gone, our power
and political salvation are gone, if we ratify unconditionally. The important
right of making treaties is upon the most dangerous foundation. The President,
and a few senators, possess it in the most unlimited manner, without any real
responsibility, if, from sinister views, they should think proper to abuse it;
for they may keep all their measures in the most profound secrecy, as long as
they please. Were we not told that war was the case wherein secrecy was the
most necessary? But, by the paper on your table, their secrecy is not limited
to this case only. It is as unlimited and unbounded as their {316} powers.
Under the abominable veil of political secrecy and contrivance, your most
valuable rights may be sacrificed by a most corrupt faction, without having the
satisfaction of knowing who injured you. They are bound by honor and conscience
to act with integrity, but they are under no constitutional restraint. The
navigation of the Mississippi, which is of so much importance to the happiness
of the people of this country, may be lost by the operation of that paper.
There are seven states now decidedly opposed to this navigation. If it be of
the highest consequence to know who they are who shall have voted its
relinquishment, the federal veil of secrecy will prevent that discovery. We may
labor under the magnitude of our miseries without knowing or being able to
punish those who produced them. I did not wish that transactions relative to
treaties should, when unfinished, be exposed; but it should be known, after
they were concluded, who had advised them to be made, in order to secure some
degree of certainty that the public interest shall be consulted in their
formation.
We are told that all powers not given are reserved. I am sorry to bring
forth hackneyed observations. But, sir, important truths lose nothing of their
validity or weight, by frequency of repetition. The English history is
frequently recurred to by gentlemen. Let us advert to the conduct of the people
of that country. The people of England lived without a declaration of rights
till the war in the time of Charles I. That king made usurpations upon the
rights of the people. Those rights were, in a great measure, before that time
undefined. Power and privilege then depended on implication and logical
discussion. Though the declaration of rights was obtained from that king, his
usurpations cost him his life. The limits between the liberty of the people,
and the prerogative of the king, were still not clearly defined.
The rights of the people continued to be violated till the Stuart family
was banished, in the year 1688. The people of England magnanimously defended
their rights, banished the tyrant, and prescribed to William, Prince of Orange,
by the bill of rights, on what terms he should reign; and this bill of rights
put an end to all construction and implication. Before this, sir, the situation
of the public liberty of England was dreadful. For upwards of a century, the
nation was {317} involved in every kind of calamity, till the bill of rights
put an end to all, by defining the rights of the people, and limiting the
king's prerogative. Give me leave to add (if I can add any thing to so splendid
an example) the conduct of the American people. They, sir, thought a bill of
rights necessary. It is alleged that several states, in the formation of their
government, omitted a bill of rights. To this I answer, that they had the
substance of a bill of rights contained in their constitutions, which is the
same thing. I believe that Connecticut has preserved it, by her Constitution,
her royal charter, which clearly defines and secures the great rights of
mankind — secures to us the great, important rights of humanity; and I
care not in what form it is done.
Of what advantage is it to the American Congress to take away this great
and general security? I ask, Of what advantage is it to the public, or to
Congress, to drag an unhappy debtor, not for the sake of justice, but to
gratify the malice of the plaintiff, with his witnesses, to the federal court,
from a great distance? What was the principle that actuated the Convention in
proposing to put such dangerous powers in the hands of any one? Why the trial
by jury taken away? All the learned arguments that have been used on this
occasion do not prove that it is secured. Even the advocates for the plan do
not all concur in the certainty of its security. Wherefore is religious liberty
not secured? One honorable gentleman, who favors adoption, said that he had had
his fears on the subject. If I can well recollect, he informed us that he was
perfectly satisfied, by the powers of reasoning, (with which he is so happily
endowed,) that those fears were not well grounded. There is many a religious
man who knows nothing of argumentative reasoning; there are many of our most
worthy citizens who cannot go through all the labyrinths of syllogistic,
argumentative deductions, when they think that the rights of conscience are
invaded. This sacred right ought not to depend on constructive, logical
reasoning.
When we see men of such talents and learning compelled to use their
utmost abilities to convince themselves that there is no danger, is it not
sufficient to make us tremble? Is it not sufficient to fill the minds of the
ignorant part of men with fear? If gentlemen believe that the apprehensions of
men will be quieted, they are mistaken, {318} since our best informed men are
in doubt with respect to the security of our rights. Those who are not so well
informed will spurn at the government. When our common citizens, who are not
possessed with such extensive knowledge and abilities, are called upon to
change their bill of rights (which, in plain, unequivocal terms, secures their
most valuable rights and privileges) for construction and implication, will
they implicitly acquiesce? Our declaration of rights tells us that "all men are
by nature free and independent," &c. [Here Mr. Henry read the declaration
of rights.] Will they exchange these rights for logical reasons? If you had a
thousand acres of land dependent on this, would you be satisfied with logical
construction? Would you depend upon a title of so disputable a nature? The
present opinions of individuals will be buried in entire oblivion when those
rights will be thought of. That sacred and lovely thing, religion, ought not to
rest on the ingenuity of logical deduction. Holy religion, sir, will be
prostituted to the lowest purposes of human policy. What has been more
productive of mischief among mankind than religious disputes? Then here, sir,
is a foundation for such disputes, when it requires learning and logical
deduction to perceive that religious liberty is secure.
The honorable member told us that he had doubts with respect to the
judiciary department. I hope those doubts will be explained. He told us that
his object was union. I admit that the reality of union, and not the name, is
the object which most merits the attention of every friend to his country. He
told you that you should hear many great, sounding words on our side of the
question. We have heard the word union from him. I have heard no word so often
pronounced in this house as he did this. I admit that the American Union is
dear to every man. I admit that every man, who has three grains of information,
must know and think that union is the best of all things. But, as I said
before, we must not mistake the end for the means. If he can show that the
rights of the Union are secure, we will consent. It has been sufficiently
demonstrated that they are not secured. It sounds mighty prettily to gentlemen,
to curse paper money and honestly pay debts. But apply to the situation of
America, and you will find there are thousands and thousands of contracts,
whereof equity forbids an {319} exact literal performance. Pass that
government, and you will be bound hand and foot. There was an immense quantity
of depreciated Continental paper money in circulation at the conclusion of the
war. This money is in the hands of individuals to this day. The holders of this
money may call for the nominal value, if this government be adopted. This state
may be compelled to pay her proportion of that currency, pound for pound. Pass
this government, and you will be carried to the federal court, (if I understand
that paper right,) and you will be compelled to pay shilling for shilling. I
doubt on the subject: at least, as a public man, I ought to have doubts. A
state may be sued in the federal court, by the paper on your table. It appears
to me, then, that the holder of the paper money may require shilling for
shilling. If there be any latent remedy to prevent this, I hope it will be
discovered.
The precedent, with respect to the union between England and Scotland,
does not hold. The union of Scotland speaks in plain and direct terms. Their
privileges were particularly secured. It was expressly provided that they
should retain their own particular laws. Their nobles have a right to choose
representatives to the number of sixteen. I might thus go on and specify
particulars: but it will suffice to observe, generally, that their rights and
privileges were expressly and unequivocally reserved. The power of direct
taxation was not given up by the Scotch people. There is no trait in that union
which will maintain their arguments. In order to do this, they ought to have
proved that Scotland united without securing their rights, and afterwards got
that security by subsequent amendments. Did the people of Scotland do this? No,
sir: like a sensible people, they trusted nothing to hazard. If they have but
forty-five members, and those be often corrupted, these defects will be greater
here. The number will be smaller, and they will be consequently the more easily
corrupted. Another honorable gentleman advises us to give this power, in order
to exclude the necessity of going to war. He wishes to establish national
credit, I presume, and imagines that, if a nation has public faith, and shows a
disposition to comply with her engagements, she is safe among ten thousand
dangers. If the honorable gentleman can prove that this paper is calculated to
give us public faith, I will be satisfied. But if {320} you be in constant
preparation for war, on such airy and imaginary grounds as the mere possibility
of danger, your government must be military, which will be inconsistent with
the enjoyment of liberty.
But, sir, we must become formidable, and have a strong government, to
protect us from the British nation. Will the paper on the table prevent the
attacks of the British navy, or enable us to raise a fleet equal to the British
fleet? The British have the strongest fleet in Europe, and can strike any
where. It is the utmost folly to conceive that the paper can have such an
operation. It will be no less so to attempt to raise a powerful fleet. With
respect to requisitions, I beseech gentlemen to consider the importance of the
subject. We, who are for amendments, propose (as has been frequently mentioned)
that a requisition shall be made for two hundred thousand pounds, for instance,
instead of direct taxation, and that, if it be not complied with, then it shall
be raised by direct taxes. We do not wish to have strength, to refuse to pay
them, but to possess the power of raising the taxes in the most easy mode for
the people. But, says he, you may delay us by this mode. Let us see if there be
not sufficient to counterbalance this evil. The oppression arising from
taxation is not from the amount, but from the mode: a thorough acquaintance
with the condition of the people is necessary to a just distribution of taxes.
The whole wisdom of the science of government, with respect to taxation,
consists in selecting that mode of collection which will best accommodate the
convenience of the people. When you come to tax a great country, you will find
that ten men are too few to settle the manner of collection. One capital
advantage, which will result from the proposed alternative, is this — that
there will be necessary communications between your ten members in Congress and
your hundred and seventy representatives here. If it goes through the hands of
the latter, they will know how much the citizens can pay, and, by looking at
the paper on your table, they will know how much they ought to pay. No man is
possessed of sufficient information to know how much we can or ought to pay.
We might also remonstrate, if, by mistake or design, they should call
for a greater stun than our proportion. After a remonstrance, and a free
investigation between our representatives here and those in Congress, the error
would be removed.
{321} Another valuable thing which it will produce is, that the people
will pay the taxes cheerfully. It is supposed that this would occasion a waste
of time, and be an injury to public credit. This would only happen if
requisitions should not be complied with. In this case the delay would be
compensated by the payment of interest, which, with the addition of the credit
of the state to that of the general government, would in a great measure
obviate this objection. But if it had all the force which it is supposed to
have, it would not be adequate to the evils of direct taxation. But there is
every probability that requisitions would be then complied with. Would it not,
then, be our interest as well as duty to comply? After non-compliance, there
would be a general acquiescence in the exercise of this power. We are fond of
giving power, at least power which is constitutional. Here is an option to pay
according to your own mode or otherwise. If you give probability fair play, you
must conclude that they would be complied with, Would the Assembly of Virginia,
by refusal, destroy the country, and plunge the people in misery and distress?
If you give your reasoning faculty fair play, you cannot but know that payment
must be made, when the consequence of a refusal would be an accumulation of
inconveniences to the people. Then they say that, if requisitions be not
complied with, in case of a war, the destruction of the country may be the
consequence: that therefore we ought to give the power of taxation to the
government, to enable it to protect us. Would not this be another reason for
complying with requisitions, to prevent the country from being destroyed? You
tell us that, unless requisitions be complied with, your commerce is gone. The
prevention of this, also, will be an additional reason to comply.
He tells us that responsibility is secured by direct taxation.
Responsibility, instead of being increased, will be lost forever by it. In our
state government, our representatives may be severally instructed by their
constituents. There are no persons to counteract their operations. They can
have no excuse for deviating from our instructions. In the general government,
other men have power over the business. When oppressions may take place, our
representatives may tell us, — We contended for your interest: but we
could not carry our point, because the representatives from Massachusetts, New
Hampshire, Connecticut, &c., were against us. {322} Thus, sir, you may see
there is no real responsibility. He further said that there was such a
contrariety of interests as to hinder a consolidation. I will only make one
remark. There is a variety of interests. Some of the states owe a great deal on
account of paper money: others very little: some of the Northern States have
collected and barrelled up paper money. Virginia has sent thither her cash long
ago. There is little or none of the Continental paper money retained in this
state. Is it not their business to appreciate this money? Yes, and it will be
your business to prevent it. But there will be a majority against you, and you
will be obliged to pay your share of this money, in its nominal value. It has
been said, by several gentlemen, that the freeness of elections would be
promoted by throwing the country into large districts. I contend, sir, that it
will have a contrary effect. It will destroy that connection that ought to
subsist between the electors and the elected. If your elections be by
districts, instead of counties, the people will not be acquainted with the
candidates. They must, therefore, be directed in the elections by those who
know them. So that, instead of a confidential connection between the electors
and the elected, they will be absolutely unacquainted with each other. A common
man must ask a man of influence how he is to proceed, and for whom he must
vote. The elected, therefore, will be careless of the interest of the electors.
It will be a common job to extort the suffrages of the common people for the
most influential characters. I he same men may be repeatedly elected by these
means. This, sir, instead of promoting the freedom of election, leads us to an
aristocracy. Consider the mode of elections in England. Behold the progress of
an election in an English shire. A man of an enormous fortune will spend thirty
or forty thousand pounds to get himself elected. This is frequently the case.
Will the honorable gentleman say that a poor man, as enlightened as any man in
the island, has an equal chance with a rich man, to be elected? He will stand
no chance, though he may have the finest understanding of any man in the shire.
It will be so here. Where is the chance that a poor man can come forward with
the rich? The honorable gentleman will find that, instead of supporting
democratical principles, it goes absolutely to destroy them.
The state governments, says he, will possess greater advantages {323}
than the general government, and will consequently prevail. His opinion and
mine are diametrically opposite. Bring forth the federal allurements, and
compare them with the poor, contemptible things that the state legislatures can
bring forth. On the part of the state legislatures, there are justices of the
peace and militia officers: and even these justices and officers are bound by
oath in favor of the Constitution. A constable is the only man who is not
obliged to swear paramount allegiance to this beloved Congress. On the other
hand, there are rich, fat, federal emoluments. Your rich, snug, fine, fat,
federal officers — the number of collectors of taxes and excises —
will outnumber any thing from the states. Who can cope with the excisemen and
taxmen? There are none in this country who can cope with this class of men
alone. But, sir, is this the only danger? Would to Heaven that it were! If we
are to ask which will last the longest, the state or the general government,
you must take an army and a navy into the account. Lay these things together,
and add to the enumeration the superior abilities of those who manage the
general government.
Can, then, the state governments look it in the face? You dare not look
it in the face now, when it is but in embryo. The influence of this government
will be such, that you never can get amendments: for if you propose
alterations, you will affront them. Let the honorable gentleman consider all
these things, and say, whether the state governments will last as long as the
federal government. With respect to excises, I can never endure them. They have
been productive of the most intolerable oppressions every where. Make a
probable calculation of the expense attending the legislative, executive, and
judiciary. You will find that there must be an immense increase of taxes. We
are the same mass of people we were before: in the same circumstances: the same
pockets are to pay. The expenses are to be increased. What will enable us to
bear this augmentation of taxes? The me re form of government will not do it. A
plain understanding cannot conceive how the taxes can be diminished, when our
expenses are augmented, and the means of paying them not increased.
With respect to our tax laws, we have purchased a little knowledge by
sad experience upon the subject. Reiterated experiments have taught us what can
alleviate the distresses, {324} and suit the convenience, of the people. But we
are now to throw away that system by which we have acquired this knowledge, and
send ten men to legislate for us.
The honorable gentleman was pleased to say that the representation of
the people was the vital principle of this government. I will readily agree
that it ought to be so. But I contend that this principle is only nominally,
and not substantially, to be found there. We contended with the British about
representation. They offered us such a representation as Congress now does.
They called it a virtual representation. If you look at that paper, you will
find it so there. Is there but a virtual representation in the upper house? The
states are represented, as states, by two senators each. This is virtual, not
actual. They encounter you with Rhode Island and Delaware. This is not an
actual representation. What does the term
representation
signify? It
means that a certain district — a certain association of men — should
be represented in the government, for certain ends. These ends ought not to be
impeded or obstructed in any manner. Here, sir, this populous state has not an
adequate share of legislative influence. The two petty states of Rhode Island
and Delaware, which, together, are infinitely inferior to this state in extent
and population, have double her weight, and can counteract her interest. I say
that the representation in the Senate, as applicable to states, is not actual.
Representation is not, therefore, the vital principle of this government. So
far it is wrong.
Rulers are the servants and agents of the people: the people are their
masters. Does the new Constitution acknowledge this principle? Trial by jury is
the best appendage of freedom. Does it secure this? Does it secure the other
great rights of mankind? Our own Constitution preserves these principles. The
honorable gentleman contributed to form that Constitution. The applauses so
justly due to it should, in my opinion, go to the condemnation of that paper.
With respect to the failures and errors of our government, they might
have happened in any government. I do not justify what merits censure, but I
shall not degrade my country. As to deviations from justice, I hope they will
be attributed to the errors of the head, and not to those of the heart.
The honorable gentleman did our judiciary honor in saying {325} that
they had firmness to counteract the legislature in some cases. Yes, sir, our
judges opposed the acts of the legislature. We have this landmark to guide us.
They had fortitude to declare that they were the judiciary, and would oppose
unconstitutional acts. Are you sure that your federal judiciary will act thus?
Is that judiciary as well constructed, and as independent of the other
branches, as our state judiciary? Where are your landmarks in this government?
I will be bold to say you cannot find any in it. I take it as the highest
encomium on this country, that the acts of the legislature, if
unconstitutional, are liable to be opposed by the judiciary.
Then the honorable gentleman said that the two judiciaries and
legislatures would go in a parallel line, and never interfere: that, as long as
each was confined to its proper objects, there would be no danger of
interference: that, like two parallel lines, as long as they continued in their
parallel direction, they never Would meet. With submission to the honorable
gentleman's opinion, I assert that there is danger of interference, because no
line is drawn between the powers of the two governments, in many instances:
and, where there is a line, there is no check to prevent the one from
encroaching upon the powers of the other.
I therefore contend that they must interfere, and that this interference
must subvert the state government, as being less powerful. Unless your
government have checks, it must inevitably terminate in the destruction of your
privileges. I will be bold to say that the British government has real checks.
I was attacked by gentlemen, as if I had said that I loved the British
government better than our own. I never said so. I said that, if I were obliged
to relinquish a republican government, I would choose the British monarchy. I
never gave the preference to the British or any other government, when compared
to that which the honorable gentleman assisted to form. I was constrained to
say what I said. When two disagreeable objects present, themselves to the mind,
we choose that which has the least deformity.
As to the western country, notwithstanding our representation in
Congress, and notwithstanding any regulation that may be made by Congress, it
may be lost. The seven Northern States are determined to give up the
Mississippi. {326} We are told that, in order to secure the navigation of that
river, it was necessary to give it up, for twenty-five years, to the Spaniards,
and that thereafter we should enjoy it forever, without any interruption from
them. This argument resembles that which recommends adopting first and then
amending. I think the reverse of what the honorable gentleman said on the
subject. Those seven states are decidedly against it. He tells us that it is
the policy of the Whole Union to retain it. If men were wise, virtuous, and
honest, we might depend on an adherence to this policy. Did we not know of the
fallibility of human nature, we might rely on the present structure of this
government. We might depend that the rules of propriety, and the general
interest of the Union, would be observed. But the depraved nature of man is
well known. He has a natural bias towards his own interest, which will prevail
over every consideration, unless it be checked. It is the interest and
inclination of the seven Northern States to relinquish this river. If you
enable them to do so, will the mere propriety of consulting the interest of the
other six states refrain them from it? Is it imagined that Spain will, after a
peaceable possession of it for thirty years, give it up to you again? Can
credulity itself hope that the Spaniards, who wish to have it for that period,
wish to clear the river for you? What is it they wish? To clear the river! For
whom? America saw the time when she had the reputation of common sense at
least. Do you suppose they will restore it to you after thirty years? If you
do, you depart from that rule. Common observation fells you that it must be the
policy of Spain to get it first, and then retain it forever. If you give it up,
in my poor estimation they will never voluntarily restore it. Where is the man
who will believe that, after clearing the river, strengthening themselves, and
increasing the means of retaining it, the Spaniards will tamely surrender it?
With respect to the concurrent collection of parochial, county, and
state taxes, which the honorable gentleman has instanced as a proof of the
practicability of the concurrent collection of taxes by the general and state
governments, the comparison will not stand examination. As my honorable friend
has said, these concurrent collections come from one power. They radiate from
the same centre. They are not coëqual or coëxtensive. There is no
clashing {327} of power between them. Each is limited to its own particular
objects, and all subordinate to one supreme, controlling power — the
legislature. The county courts have power over the county and parish
collections, and can constantly redress any injuries or oppressions committed
by the collectors. Will this be the case in the federal Courts? I hope they
will not have federal courts in every county. If they will, the state courts
will be debased and stripped of their cognizance, and utterly abolished. Yet,
if there be no power in the country to call them to account, they will more
flagrantly trample on your rights. Does the honorable gentleman mean that the
thirteen states will have thirteen different tax laws? Is this the expedient
which is to be substituted for the unequal and unjust one of uniform taxes? If
so, many horrors present themselves to my mind. They may be imaginary, but it
appears to my mind to be the most abominable system that could be imagined. It
will destroy every principle of responsibility. It will be destructive of that
fellow-feeling, and consequent confidence, which ought to subsist between the
representatives and the represented. We shall then be taxed by those who bear
no part in the taxes themselves, and who, consequently, will be regardless of
our interest in imposing them upon us. The efforts of our ten men will avail
very little when opposed by the northern majority. If our ten men be disposed
to sacrifice our interest, we cannot detect them. Under the color of being
outnumbered by the northern representatives, they can always screen themselves.
When they go to the general government, they may make a bargain with the
northern delegates. They may agree to tax our citizens in any manner which may
be proposed by the northern members; in consideration of which, the latter may
make them some favorite concessions. The Northern States will never assent to
regulations promotive of southern aggrandizement. Notwithstanding what
gentlemen say of the probable virtue of our representatives, I dread the
depravity of human nature. I wish to guard against it by proper checks, and
trust nothing to accident or chance. I will never depend on so slender a
protection as the possibility of being represented by virtuous men.
Will not thirteen different objects of taxation in the thirteen
different states involve us in an infinite number of {328} inconveniences, and
absolute confusion? There is a striking difference, and great contrariety of
interests, between the State. They are naturally divided into carrying and
productive states. This is an actual, existing distinction, which cannot be
altered. The former are more numerous, and must prevail. What, then, will be
the consequence of their contending interests, if the taxation of America is to
go on in thirteen different shapes? This government subjects every thing to the
northern majority. Is there not, then, a settled purpose to check the southern
interest? We thus put unbounded power over our property in hands not having a
common interest with us. How can the southern members prevent the adoption of
the most oppressive mode of taxation in the Southern States, as there is a
majority in favor of the Northern States? Sir, this is a picture so horrid, so,
wretched, so dreadful, that I need no longer dwell upon it, Mr. Henry then
concluded by remarking, that he dreaded the most iniquitous speculation and
stock-jobbing, from the operation of such a system.
Mr. MADISON. Mr. Chairman, pardon me for making a few remarks on what
fell from the honorable gentleman last up. I am sorry to follow the example of
gentlemen in deviating from the rule of the house. But as they have taken the
utmost latitude in their objections, it is necessary that those who favor the
government should answer them. But I wish, as soon as possible, to take up the
subject regularly. I will therefore take the liberty to answer some
observations which have been irregularly made, though they might be more
properly answered when we come to discuss those parts of the Constitution to
which they respectively refer. I will, however, postpone answering some others
till then, If there be that terror in direct taxation, that the states would
comply with requisitions to guard against the federal legislature; and if, as
gentlemen say, this state will always have it in her power to make her
collections speedily and fully, — the people will be compelled to pay the
same amount as quickly and punctually as if raised by the general government.
It has been amply proved that the general government can lay taxes as
conveniently to the people as the state governments, by imitating the state
systems of taxation. If the general government have not the power of collecting
{329} its own revenues, in the first instance, it will be still dependent on
the state governments in some measure; and the exercise of this power, after
refusal, will be inevitably productive of injustice and confusion, if partial
compliances be made before it is driven to assume it. Thus, sir, without
relieving the people in the smallest degree, the alternative proposed will
impair the efficacy of file government, and will perpetually endanger the
tranquillity of the Union.
The honorable member's objection with respect to requisitions of troops
will be fully obviated at another time. Let it suffice now to say that it is
altogether unwarrantable, and founded upon a misconception of the paper before
you. But the honorable member, in order to influence our decision, has
mentioned the opinion of a citizen who is an ornament to this state. When the
name of this distinguished character was introduced, f was much surprised. Is
it come to this, then, that we are not to follow our own reason? Is it proper
to introduce the opinions of respectable men not within these walls? If the
opinion of an important character were to weigh on this occasion, could we not
adduce a character equally great on our side? Are we, who (in the honorable
gentleman's opinion) are not to be governed by an erring world, now to submit
to the opinion of a citizen beyond the Atlantic? I believe that, were that
gentleman now on this floor, he would be for the adoption of this Constitution.
I wish his name had never been mentioned. I wish every thing spoken here,
relative to his opinion, may be suppressed, if our debates should be published.
I know that the delicacy of his feelings will be wounded, when he will see in
print what has and may be said concerning him on this occasion. I am, in some
measure, acquainted with his sentiments on this subject: It is not right for me
to unfold what he has informed me; but I will venture to assert that the clause
now discussed is not objected to Mr. Jefferson. He approves of it, because it
enables the government to carry on its operations. He admires several parts of
it, which have been reprobated with vehemence in this house. He is captivated
with the equality of suffrage in the Senate, which the honorable gentleman (Mr.
Henry) Calls the rotten part of this Constitutions. But, Whatever be the
opinion of that illustrious citizen, considerations {330} of personal delicacy
should dissuade us from introducing it here.
The honorable member has introduced the subject of religion. Religion is
not guarded; there is no bill of rights declaring that religion should be
secure. Is a bill of rights a security for religion? Would the bill of rights,
in this state, exempt the people from paying for the support of one particular
sect, if such sect were exclusively: established by law? If there were a
majority of one sect, a bill of rights would be a poor protection for liberty.
Happily for the states, they enjoy the utmost freedom of religion. This freedom
arises from that multiplicity of sects which pervades America, and which is the
best and only security for religions liberty in any society; for where there is
such a variety of sects, there cannot be a majority of any one sect to oppress
and persecute the rest, Fortunately for this commonwealth, a majority of the
people are decidedly against any exclusive establishment. I believe it to be so
in the other states. There is not a shadow of right in the general government
to intermeddle with religion. Its least interference with it would be a most
flagrant usurpation. I can appeal to my uniform conduct on this subject, that I
have warmly supported religious freedom. It is better that this security should
be depended upon from the general legislature, than from one particular state.
A particular state might concur in one religious project. But the United States
abound in such a variety of sects, that it is a strong security against
religious persecution; and it is sufficient to authorize a conclusion, that no
one sect will ever be able to outnumber or depress the rest.
I will not travel over that extensive tract which the honorable member
has traversed. I shall not now take notice of all his desultory objections. As
occasions arise, I shall answer them.
It is worthy of observation, on this occasion, that the honorable
gentleman himself seldom fails to contradict the arguments of gentlemen on that
side of the question. For example, he strongly complains that the federal
government, from the number of its members, will make an addition to the public
expense too formidable to be borne; and yet he, and other gentlemen on the same
side, object that the number of representatives is too small, though ten men
are more {331} than we are entitled to under the existing system! How can these
contradictions be reconciled? If we are to adopt any efficient government at
all, how can we discover or establish such a system, if it be thus, attacked?
Will it be possible to form a rational conclusion upon contradictory
principles? If arguments of a contradictory nature were to be brought against
the wisest and most admirable system to the formation of which human
intelligence is competent, it never could stand them.
He has acrimoniously inveighed against the government, because such
transactions as Congress think require secrecy, may be concealed; and
particularly those which relate to treaties. He admits that, when a treaty is
forming, secrecy is proper; but urges that, when actually made, the public
ought to be made acquainted with every circumstance relative to it. The policy
of not divulging the most important transactions, and negotiations of nations,
such as those which relate to warlike arrangements and treaties, is universally
admitted. The congressional proceedings are to be occasionally published,
including all receipts and expenditures of public money, of which no part can
be used but in consequence of appropriations made by law. This is a security
which we do not enjoy under the existing system. That part which authorizes the
government to withhold from the public knowledge what in their judgment may
require secrecy, is imitated from the Confederation — that very system
which the gentleman advocates.
No treaty has been formed, and I will undertake to say that none will be
formed, under the old system, which will secure to us the actual enjoyment of
the navigation of the Mississippi. Our weakness precludes us from it. We are
entitled to it; but it is not under an inefficient government that we shall be
able to avail ourselves fully of that right. I most conscientiously believe
that it will be far better secured under the new government than the old, as we
shall be more able to enforce our right. The people of Kentucky will have an
additional safeguard from the change of system. The strength and respectability
of the Union will secure them in the enjoyment of that right till that country
becomes sufficiently populous. When this happens, they will be able to retain
it in spite of every opposition.
I can never admit that seven states are disposed to surrender {332} that
navigation. Indeed, it never was the case. Some of their most distinguished
characters are decidedly opposed to its relinquishment. When its cession was
proposed by the Southern States, the Northern States opposed it. They still
oppose it. New Jersey directed her delegates to oppose in, and is strenuously
against it. The same Sentiments pervade Pennsylvania: at least, I am warranted
to say so from the best information which I have. Those states, added to the
Southern States, would be a majority against it.
The honorable gentleman, to obviate the force of my observations with
respect to concurrent collection of taxes under different authorities, said
that there was no interference between the concurrent collection of parochial,
county, and state taxes, because they all radiated from the same centre; but
that this was not the case with the general government. To make use of the
gentleman's own terms, the concurrent collections under the authorities of the
general government and state governments all radiate from the people at large;
The people is their common superior. The sense of the people at large is to be
the predominating spring of their actions. This is a sufficient security
against interference.
Our attention was called to our commercial interest, and at the same
time the landed interest was said to be in danger. If those ten men, who were
to be chosen, be elected by landed men, and have land themselves, can the
electors have any thing to apprehend? If the commercial interests be in danger,
why are we alarmed about the carrying trade? Why is it said that the carrying
states will preponderate, if commerce be in danger? With respect to
speculation, I will remark that stock-jobbing has prevailed more or less in all
countries, and ever will, in some degree, notwithstanding any exertions to
prevent it. If you judge from what has happened under the existing system, any
change would render a melioration probable.
Next
|
Previous
|
Contents
|
Text
Version
|
Home
|
Constitution Society
x
x

Mr. HENRY opposed the motion as to taking up the subject clause by
clause. He thought it ought to be considered {333} at large. He observed that,
among a great variety of subjects, the business of the Mississippi had taken up
a great deal of time. He wished, before they should take leave of that subject,
that the transactions of Congress relative to the navigation of that river
should be communicated to the Convention, in order that they might draw their
conclusions from the best source. For this purpose, he hoped that those
gentlemen who had been then in Congress, and the present members of Congress
who were in Convention, would communicate what they knew on the subject. He
declared that he did not wish to hurt the feelings of the gentlemen who had
been in Congress, or to reflect on any private character; but that, for the
information of the Convention, he was desirous of having the most authentic and
faithful account of facts.
Mr. NICHOLAS had no objection to Mr. Henry's proposal.
Mr. MADISON then declared that, if the honorable gentleman thought that
he
had given an incorrect account of the transactions relative to the
Mississippi, he would, on a thorough and complete investigation, find himself
mistaken; that he had his information from his own knowledge, and from a
perusal of the documents and papers which related to those transactions; that
it had always been his opinion that the policy which had for its object the
relinquishment of that river was unwise, and the mode of conducting it was
still more exceptionable. He added, that he had no objection to have every
light on the subject that could tend to elucidate it.
Mr. NICHOLAS hoped that, after the information should be given
respecting that river, they would confine themselves to the order of the
house.
The Convention then resolved itself into a committee of the whole
Convention, to take into further consideration the proposed Constitution, and
more particularly for the purpose of receiving information concerning the
transactions of Congress relative to the Mississippi. — Mr. WYTHE in the
chair.
On motion, the acts and resolutions of Assembly relative to the
Mississippi were read.
Mr. LEE (of Westmoreland) then, in a short speech, related several
congressional transactions respecting that fiver, and strongly asserted that it
was the inflexible and determined resolution of Congress never to give it up;
that the secretary of foreign affairs, who was authorized to form a {334}
treaty with Gardoqui, the Spanish ambassador, had positive directions not to
assent to give up that navigation, and that it never had been their intention
or wish to relinquish it; that, on the contrary, they earnestly wished to adopt
the best plan of securing it.
After some desultory conversation, Mr. MONROE spoke as follows: Mr.
Chairman, my conduct respecting the transactions of Congress, upon this
interesting subject, since my return to the state, has been well known to many
worthy gentlemen here. I have often been called upon before this, in a public
line, and particularly in the last Assembly, whilst I was present, for
information of these transactions; but have heretofore declined it, and for
reasons that were held satisfactory. Being amenable, upon the principles of the
federal compact, to the legislature for my conduct in Congress, it cannot be
doubted, if required, it was my duty to obey their directions; but that
honorable body thought it best to dispense with such demand. The right in this
assembly is unquestionably more complete, having powers paramount to that; but
even here I could wish it had not been exerted, as I understand it to be, by
going into committee for that purpose. Before, however, I enter into this
subject, I cannot but observe it has given me pain to hear it debated, by
honorable gentlemen, in a manner that has appeared not altogether free from
exception. For they have not gone into it fully, and given a proper view of the
transactions in every part, but of those only which preceded and were
subsequent to that which has been the particular object of inquiry — a
conduct that has Seemed so much calculated to make an impression favorable to
their wishes in the present instance. But, in making this observation, I owe it
to those gentlemen to declare that it is my opinion such omission has proceeded
not from intention, but their having forgotten facts, or from some cause not
obvious to me, and which I make no doubt they will readily explain.
The policy of this state respecting this river has always been the same.
It has contemplated but one object — the opening it for the use of the
inhabitants whose interest depended on it; and in this she has, in my opinion,
shown her wisdom and magnanimity. I may, I believe, with propriety say that all
the measures that have at any time been taken by Congress for that purpose were
adopted at the instance {335} of this state. There was a time, it is true, sir,
when even this state in some measure abandoned the object, by authorizing this
cession to the court of Spain. But let us take all circumstances rate view, as
they were at that time, and I am persuaded it will by no means show a departure
from this liberal and enlightened system of policy, although it may manifest an
accommodation to the exigencies which pressed on us at the time. The Southern
States were overrun, and in possession of the enemy. The governments of South
Carolina and Georgia were prostrate, and opposition there an end. North
Carolina made but a feeble resistance; and Virginia herself was greatly
harassed by the enemy in force at that time in the heart of the country, and by
impressments for her own and the defence of the Southern States. In addition to
this, the finances of the United States were in a deplorable condition, if not
totally exhausted; and France, our ally, seemed anxious for peace; and, as the
means of bringing the war to a more happy and speedy conclusion, the object of.
this cession was the hopes of uniting Spain in it, with all her forces, If I
recollect aright, me, at this moment the minister of the United States at the
court of Madrid, informed Congress of the difficulty he found in prevailing
upon that court to acknowledge our independence, or take any measure in our
favor: and suggested the jealousy with which it viewed our settlements in the
western country, and the probability of better success provided we would cede
the navigation of this river, as the consideration. The latter circumstances
were made known to the legislature, and they had their weight. All inferior
objects must yield to the safety of society itself. A resolution passed to that
effect. An act of Congress likewise passed, and the minister of the United
States had full authority to relinquish this valuable right to that court, upon
the condition above stated. But what was the issue of this proposition? Was any
treaty made with Spain that obtained an acknowledgment of our independence,
although at war with Great Britain, and such acknowledgment would have cost her
nothing? Was a loan of money accomplished? In short does it appear that even
Spain herself thought it an object of any importance? So soon as the war ended,
this resolution was rescinded. The power to make such a treaty was revoked. So
that this system of policy was departed from, only for a short {336} time, for
the most important object that can be conceived, and resumed again as soon as
it possibly could be.
After the peace, it became the business of Congress to investigate the
relation of these states to the different powers of the earth; in a more
extensive view than they had hitherto done, and particularly in the commercial
line, and to make arrangements for entering into treaties with them on such
terms as might be mutually beneficial for each party. As the result of the
deliberations of that day, it was resolved, "That commercial treaties be
formed, if possible, with said powers, (those of Europe in particular, Spain
included,) upon similar principles, and three commissioners, Mr. Adams, Mr.
Franklin, and Mr. Jefferson, be appointed for that purpose." So that an
arrangement for a treaty of commerce with Spain had already been taken, Whilst
these powers were in force, a representative from Spain arrived, authorized to
treat with the United States on the interfering claims of the two nations
respecting the Mississippi, and the boundaries, and other concerns wherein they
were respectively interested. A similar commission was given to the honorable
the secretary of foreign affairs, on the part of the United States, with these
ultimata
: "That he enter into no treaty, compact, or convention
whatever, with the said representative of Spain, which did not stipulate our
right to the navigation of the Mississippi, and the boundaries as established
in our treaty with Great Britain." And thus the late negotiation commenced, and
under auspices, as I supposed, very favorable to the wishes of the United
States; for Spain had become sensible of the propriety of cultivating the
friendship of the states. Knowing our claim to the navigation of this river,
she had sent a minister hither principally to treat on that point; and the time
would not be remote when, under the increasing population of that country, the
inhabitants would be able to open it without our assistance or her consent.
These circumstances being considered, was it not presumable she intended to
make a merit of her concession to our wishes, and to agree to an accommodation
upon that subject, that would not only be satisfactory, but highly pleasing to
the United States?
But what was the issue of this negotiation? How was it terminated? Has
it forwarded the particular object in view, or otherwise promoted the interest
and the harmony of {337} the states, or any of them? Eight or ten months
elapsed without any communications of its progress to Congress. At length a
letter was received from the secretary, stating that difficulties had arisen in
his negotiation with the representative of Spain, which, in his opinion, should
be so managed, as that even their existence should remain a secret for the
present; and proposing that a committee be appointed, with full power to direct
and instruct him in every case relative to the proposed treaty. As the only
ultimata
in his instructions respected the Mississippi and the
boundaries, it readily occurred that these occasioned the difficulties alluded
to, and were those he wished to remove. And for many reasons this appeared, at
least to me, an extraordinary proposition. By the Articles of Confederation,
nine states are necessary, to enter into treaties. The instruction is the
foundation of the treaty; for, if it is formed agreeably thereto, good faith
requires that it be ratified. The practice of Congress hath also been always, I
believe, in conformity to this idea. The instructions under which our
commercial treaties have been made were carried by nine states. Those under
which the secretary now acted were passed by.nine states. The proposition then
would be, that the powers which, under the Constitution, nine states only were
competent to, should be transferred to a committee, and the object, thereby to
disengage himself from the
ultimata
already mentioned in his existing
instructions. In this light the subject was taken up, and on these principles
discussed. The secretary, Mr. Jay, being at length called before Congress to
explain the difficulties mentioned in his letter, presented to their view the
project of a treaty of commerce, containing, as he supposed, advantageous
stipulations in our favor, in that line; in consideration for which, we were to
contract to forbear the use of the navigation of the River Mississippi for the
term of twenty-five or thirty years; and he earnestly advised our adopting it.
The subject now took a decided form: there was no further ambiguity in
it; and we were surprised, for reasons that have been already given, that he
had taken up the subject of commerce at all. We were greatly surprised that it
should, form the, principal object of the project, and that partial or
temporary sacrifice of that interest, for the advancement of which the
negotiation was set on foot, should {338} be the consideration proposed to be
given for it. But the honorable secretary urged that it was necessary to stand
well with Spain; that the commercial project was a beneficial one, and should
not be neglected; that a stipulation to forbear the use contained an
acknowledgment, on her part, of the right in the United States; that we were in
no condition to take the river, and therefore gave nothing for it; with other
reasons, which, perhaps, I have forgotten; for the subject in detail has nearly
escaped my memory. We differed with the honorable secretary almost in every
respect. We admitted, indeed, the propriety of standing well with Spain, but
supposed we might accomplish that end at least on equal terms. We considered
the stipulation to forbear the use as a species of barter that should never be
countenanced in the Councils of the American states, since it might tend to the
destruction of society itself; for a forbearance of the use of one river might
lead to more extensive consequences — to the Chesapeake, the Potomac, or
any other of the rivers that emptied into it. In short, that the councils of
the confederacy should be conducted with more magnanimity and candor —
they should contemplate the benefit of all parts upon common principles, and
not the sacrifice of one part for that of another. There appeared to us a
material difference between stipulating by treaty to forbear the use, and not
being able to open the river: the former would be considered by the inhabitants
of the western country as an act of hostility; the latter might be justified by
our inability. And with respect to the commercial part of the project, we
really thought it an ill-advised one, on its own merits solely.
Thus was this project brought before Congress, and, so far as I
recollect, in this form, and upon these principles. It was subject of tedious
and lengthy discussion in that honorable body. Every distinct measure that was
taken I do not remember, nor do I suppose it of consequence. I have shown the
outlines of the transaction, which is, if I apprehend rightly, all that the
committee wish to possess. The communications of the secretary were referred to
a committee of the whole house. The delegates of the seven easternmost states
voted that the
ultimatum
in the secretary's instructions be repealed;
which was reported to the house, and entered on the journal, by the secretary
of Congress, that the question was Carried. Upon this entry, a constitutional
{339} question arose to this effect: "Nine states belong necessary, by the
federal Constitution, to give an instruction, and seven having repealed a part
of an instruction so given, for the formation of a treaty with a foreign power,
so as to alter its import, and authorize, under the remaining part thereof, the
formation of a treaty, on principles altogether different from what the said
instruction originally contemplated, — can such remaining part be
considered as in force, and constitutionally obligatory?" We pressed on
Congress for a decision on this point often, but without effect.
Notwithstanding this, I understood it was the intention of the secretary
to proceed, and conclude a treaty, in conformity to his project, with the
minister of Spain. In this situation I left Congress. What I have since heard
belongs not to me to discover. Other gentlemen have more complete information
of this business, in the course it has taken, than I can possibly have been
able to obtain; for having done my duty whilst there, I left it for others who
succeeded me to perform theirs, and I have made but little further inquiry
respecting it. The animated pursuit that was made of this object, required,
and, I believe, received, as firm an opposition. The Southern States were on
their guard, and warmly opposed it. For my part, I thought it my duty to use
every effort in Congress for the interest of the Southern States. But so far as
depended on me, with my official character it ceased. With many of those
gentlemen, to whom I always considered it as my particular misfortune to be
opposed, I am now in habits of correspondence and friendship, and I am
concerned for the necessity which has given birth to this relation.
Whether the delegates of those states spoke the language of their
constituents — whether it may be considered as the permanent interest of
such states to depress the growth and increasing population of the western
country — are points which I cannot pretend to determine. I must observe,
however, that I always supposed k would, for a variety of reasons, prove
injurious to every part of the confederacy. These are well understood, and need
not be dilated on here. If, however, such should be the interest of seven
states, let gentlemen contemplate the consequences in the operation of the
government, as it applies to this subject. I have always been of opinion, sir,
that the American states, as to all national objects, had, in every respect, a
common interest, Few persons {340} would be willing to bind them together by a
stronger or more indissoluble bond, or give the national government more
powers, than myself. I only wish to prevent it from doing harm, either to
states or individuals; and the rights and interests of both, in a variety of
instances in which they are now left unprotected, might, in my opinion, be
better guarded. If I have mistaken any facts, honorable gentlemen will correct
me. If I have omitted any, as it has not been intentional, so I shall be happy
with their assistance to supply the defect.
Mr. Monroe added several other observations, the purport of which was,
that the interest of the western country would not be as secure, under the
proposed Constitution, as under the Confederation; because, under the latter
system, the Mississippi could not be relinquished without the consent of nine
states — whereas, by the former, he said, a majority, or Seven states,
could yield it. His own opinion was, that it would be given up by a majority of
the senators present in the Senate, with the President, which would put it in
the power of less than seven states to surrender it; that the Northern States
were inclined to yield it; that it was their interest to prevent an
augmentation of the southern influence and power; and that, as mankind in
general, and states in particular, were governed by interest, the Northern
States would not fail of availing themselves of the opportunity, given them by
the Constitution, of relinquishing that river, in order to depress the western
country, and prevent the southern interest from preponderating.
Mr. GRAYSON. Mr. Chairman, the honorable gentleman was mistaken when he
supposed that I said seven states had absolutely voted to surrender the
navigation of the Mississippi. I only spoke of the general disposition of the
states, which I alleged to be actuated by interest; that consequently the
Carrying states were necessarily inclined against the extension of the interest
and influence of the productive states; and that, therefore, they would not
favor any measure to extend the settlements to the westward.
I wished not to enter into this discussion, for the reasons mentioned by
my honorable friend. Secrecy was required on this subject. I told Congress that
imposing secrecy, on such a great occasion, was unwarrantable. However, as it
was not given up, I conceived myself tinder some restraint. {341} But since it
has come before the committee, and they desire to develop the subject, I shall
stand excused for mentioning what I know of it. My honorable friend gave a very
just account of it, when he said that the Southern States were on their guard,
and opposed every measure tending to relinquish or waive that valuable right.
They would not agree to negotiate, but on condition that no proposition
whatever should be made to surrender that great right. There was a dispute
between this country and Spain, who claimed one half of Georgia, and one half
of Kentucky, or, if not that proportion, a very considerable part, as well as
the absolute and exclusive navigation of the Mississippi. The Southern States
thought that the navigation of the Mississippi should not be trusted to any
hands but those in which the Confederation had placed the right of making
treaties. That system required the consent of nine states for that purpose. The
secretary for foreign affairs was empowered to adjust the interfering claims of
Spain and the United States with the Spanish minister; but, as my honorable
friend said, with an express prohibition of entering into any negotiation that
would lead to the surrender of that river. Affairs continued in this state for
some time. At length a proposition was made to Congress, not directly, but by a
side wind. The first proposal was, to take off the fetters of the secretary.
When the whole came out, it was found to be a proposal to cede the Mississippi
to Spain for twenty-five or thirty years, (for it was in the disjunctive,) in
consideration of certain commercial stipulations. In support of this proposal,
it was urged that the right was in him who surrendered; and that their
acceptance of a temporary relinquishment was an acknowledgment of our right,
(which would revert to us at the expiration of that period,) that we could not
take by war: that the thing was useless to us, and that it would be wise and
politic to give it up, as we were to receive a beneficial compensation for that
temporary cession. Congress, after a great deal of animosity, came to a
resolution which, in my opinion, violated the Confederation. It was resolved,
by seven states, that the prohibition in the secretary's instruction should be
repealed; whereby the unrepealed part of his instructions authorized him to
make a treaty, yielding that inestimable navigation, although, by the
Confederation, nine states were necessary to concur in the formation of a
treaty! {342} How, then, could seven states constitutionally adopt any measure,
to which, by the Constitution, nine states alone were competent? It was entered
on the journals and transmitted to the secretary of foreign affairs, for his
direction in his negotiation with the Spanish minister.
If I recollect rightly, by the law of nations, if a negotiator makes a
treaty, in consequence of a power received from a sovereign authority,
non-compliance with his stipulations is a just cause of war. The opposition
suggested (whether wrong or not let this house determine) that this was the
case; that the proceedings were repugnant to the principles and express letter
of the Constitution; and that, if the compact which the secretary might form
with the Spanish minister should not he complied with, it would be giving Spain
a just cause of quarrel; so that we should be reduced to the dilemma of either
violating the Constitution by a compliance, or involving us in a war by a
non-compliance. The opposition remonstrated against these transactions, (and
their remonstrance was entered on the journal,) and took every step for
securing this great national right. In the course of the debates in Congress on
this subject, which were warm and animated, it was urged that Congress, by the
law of nations, had no right, even with the consent of nine states, to
dismember the empire, or relinquish any part of the territory, appertaining to
the aggregate society, to any foreign power. Territorial dismemberment, or the
relinquishment of any other privilege, is the highest act of a sovereign power.
The right of territory has ever been considered as most sacred, and ought to be
guarded in the most particular and cautious manner. Whether that navigation be
secure on this principle, by the new Constitution, I will not pretend to
determine. I will, however, say one thing. It is not well guarded under the old
system. A majority of seven states are disposed to yield it. I speak not of any
particular characters. I have the charity to suppose that all mankind act on
the best motives. Suffice it for me to tell direct and plain facts, and leave
the conclusion with this honorable house.
It has been urged, by my honorable friend on the other side, (Mr.
Madison,) that the Eastern States were averse to surrender it during the war,
and that the Southern States proposed it themselves, and wished to yield it. My
honorable {343} friend last up has well accounted for this disgraceful offer,
and I will account for the refusal of the Eastern States to surrender it.
Mr. Chairman, it is no new thing to you to discover these reasons. It is
well known that the Newfoundland fisheries and the Mississippi are balances for
one another; that the possession of one tends to the preservation of the other.
This accounts for the eastern policy. They thought that, if the Mississippi was
given up, the Southern States would give up the right of the fishery, on which
their existence depends. It is not extraordinary, therefore, while these great
rights of the fishery depend on such a variety of circumstances, — the
issue of war, the success of negotiations, and numerous other causes, —
that they should wish to preserve this great counterbalance. What has been
their conduct since the peace? When relieved from the apprehensions of losing
that great advantage, they are solicitous of securing a superiority of
influence in the national councils. They look at the true interest of nations.
Their language has been, "Let us prevent any new states from rising in the
western world, or they will outvote us — we shall lose our importance, and
become as nothing in the scale of nations. If we do not prevent it, our
countrymen will remove to those places, instead of going to sea, and we shall
receive no particular tribute or advantage from them."
This, sir, has been the language and spirit of their policy, and I
suppose ever will be. The Mississippi is not secured under the old
Confederation; but it is better secured by that system than by the new
Constitution. By the existing system, nine states are necessary to yield it. A
few states can give it away by the paper on your table. But I hope it will
never be put in the power of a less number than nine states. Jersey, we are
told, changed her temper on that great occasion. I believe that that mutability
depended on characters. But we have lost another state — Maryland. For,
from fortuitous circumstances, those states deviated from their natural
character — Jersey in not giving up the right of the Mississippi, and
Maryland in giving it up. Whatever be their object, each departed from her
natural disposition. It is with great reluctance I have said any thing on the
subject, and it I have misrepresented facts, I wish to be corrected.
{344} Mr. HENRY then arose, and requested that the honorable gentleman
(Mr. Monroe) would discover the rest of the project, and what Spain was to do,
on her part, as an equivalentfor the cession of the Mississippi.
Mr. MONROE. Mr. Chairman, I do not thoroughly recollect every
circumstance relative to this project. But there was to be a commercial
intercourse between the United States and Spain. We are to be allowed to carry
our produce to the ports of Spain, and the Spaniards to have an equal right of
trading hither. It was stipulated that there should be a reciprocity of
commercial intercourse and benefits between the subjects of Spain and the
citizens of the United States. The manufactures of Spain were to be freely
imported and rended in this country, and our manufactures to be carried to
Spain, &c., without obstruction; and both parties were to have mutual
privileges in point of commercial intercourse and connection. This, sir, is the
amount of the project of Spain, which was looked upon as advantageous to us. I
thought myself that it was not. I considered Spain as being without
manufactures — as the most slow in the progress of arts, and the most
unwise with respect to commerce, of all nations under the sun, (in which
respect I thought Great Britain the wisest.) Their gentlemen and nobles look on
commerce with contempt. No man of character among them will undertake it. They
make little discrimination with any nation. Their character is to shut out all
nations, and exclude every intercourse with them; and this would be the case
with respect to us. Nothing is given to us, by this project, but what is given
to all other nations. It is bad policy, and unjustifiable, on such terms to
yield that valuable right. Their merchants have great stocks in trade. It is
not so with our merchants. Our people require encouragement. Mariners must be
encouraged. On a review of these circumstances, I thought the project unwise
and impolitic.
Mr. MADISON. Mr. Chairman, it is extremely disagreeable to me to enter
into this discussion, as it is foreign to the object of our deliberations here,
and may, in the opinion of some, tend to sully the reputation of our public
councils. As far as my memory will enable me, I will develop the subject. We
shall not differ, from one another with respect to facts: perhaps we may differ
with respect to principles. {345} I will take the liberty to observe that I was
led, before, to make some observations which had no relation to the subject
under consideration, as relative to the western country, to obviate suggestions
of gentlemen which seemed to me to be groundless. I stated that there was a
period when the Southern States were advocates for the alienation, or
suspension, of the right to the Mississippi, (I will not say which,) and the
Eastern States were against both. I mention this to show that there was no
disposition in that part to surrender that right, or dispose of that country. I
do suppose that the fishery had its influence on those states. No doubt it was
the case.
For that and other reasons, they still continue against the alienation;
for it might lessen the security of retaining the fishery. From the best
information, it never was the sense of the people at large, or the prevailing
character of the Eastern States, to approve of the measure. If interest, sir,
should continue to operate on them, I humbly conceive that they will derive
more advantage from holding the Mississippi than even the Southern States; for,
if the carrying business be their natural province, how can it be so much
extended and advanced as by giving encouragement to agriculture in the western
country, and having the emolument of carrying their produce to market? The
carrying trade must depend on agriculture, for its support, in a great measure.
In what place is agriculture so capable of improvement and great extension as
in the western country? But whatever considerations may prevail in that
quarter, or any other, respecting their interest, I think we may fairly suppose
that the consideration which the honorable member mentioned, and which has been
repeated, — I mean the emigrations which are going on to the westward,
— must produce the same effect as to them which it may produce with
respect to us. Emigrations are now going on from that quarter, as well as from
this state.
I readily confess that neither the old Confederation nor the new
Constitution involves a right to give up the navigation of the Mississippi. It
is repugnant to the taw of nations. I have always thought and said so. Although
the right be denied, there may be emergencies which will make it necessary to
make a sacrifice. But there is a material difference between emergencies of
safety in time of war, and those {346} which may relate to mere commercial
regulations. You might, one solid grounds, deny, in peace, what you give up in
war. I do not conceive, however, that there is that extreme aversion, in the
minds of the people of the Eastern States, to emigrate to the westward, which
was insinuated by my honorable friend. Particular citizens, it cannot be
doubted, may be averse to it; but it is the sense of the people at large which
will direct the public measures. We find, from late arrangements made between
Massachusetts and New York, that a very considerable country to the westward of
New York was disposed of to Massachusetts, and by Massachusetts to some
individuals, to conduct emigrants to that country.
There were seven states who thought it right to give up the navigation
of the Mississippi, for twenty-five years, for several reasons which have been
mentioned. As far as I can recollect, it was nearly as my honorable friend
said. But they had no idea of absolutely alienating it. I think one material
consideration which governed them was, that there were grounds of serious
negotiation between Great Britain and Spain, which might bring on a coalition
between those nations, which might enable them to bind us on different sides,
permanently withhold that navigation from us, and injure us in other respects
materially. The temporary cession, it was supposed, would fix the permanent
right in our favor, and prevent that dangerous coalition. It is but justice to
myself to say that, however plausible the reasons urged for its temporary
cession may have been, they never convinced me of its utility. I have uniformly
disapproved of it, and do now.
With respect to the secretary of foreign affairs, I am intimately
connected with him. I shall say nothing of his abilities, and attachment to his
country. His character is established in both respects. He has given a train of
reasoning which governed him in his project. If he was mistaken, his integrity
and probity more than compensate for the error. I am led to think there is no
settled disposition in seven states to give up that object, because New Jersey,
on a further consideration of the subject, actually gave instructions to her
delegates to oppose it. And what was the ground of this? I do not know the
extent and particular reasons of her instructions. But I recollect that a
material consideration {347} was, that the cession of that river would diminish
the value of the western country, (which was a common fund for the United
States,) and would, consequently, tend to impoverish their public treasury.
These, sir, were rational grounds.
Give me leave, sir, — as I am upon this subject, and as the
honorable gentleman has raised a question whether it be not more secure under
the old than the new Constitution, — to differ from him. I shall enter
into the reasoning which, in my mind, renders it more secure under the new
system. Two thirds of the senators present, (which will be nine states, if all
attend to their duty,) and the President, must concur in every treaty which can
be made. Here are two distinct and independent branches, which must agree to
every treaty. Under the existing system, two thirds of the states must concur
to form a treaty. But it is but one body. Gentlemen may reason and conclude
differently on this subject. I own that, as far as I have any rights, which are
but trivial, I would rather trust them to the new than the old government.
Besides, let me observe that the House of Representatives will have a material
influence on the government, and will be additional security in this respect.
But there is one thing which he mentioned which merits attention. If commercial
policy be a source of great danger, it will have less influence in the new
system than in the old; for, in the House of Representatives, it will have
little or no influence. They are drawn from the landed interest, taken from the
states at large, and many of them from the western country; whereas the present
members of Congress have been taken from the Atlantic side of the continent.
When we calculate the dangers that may arise in any case, we judge from the
rules of proportion and chances of numbers. The people at large choose those
who elect the President. The weight of population will be to the southward, if
we include the western country. There will then be a majority of the people in
favor of this right. As the President must be influenced by the sense and
interest of his electors, as far as it depends on him, (and his agency in
making treaties is equal to that of the Senate,) he will oppose the cession of
that navigation. As far as the influence of the representatives goes, it will
also operate in favor of this right. The power of treaties is not lodged in the
senators of particular states. Every state has an equal weight. If {348} ten
senators can make a treaty, ten senators can prevent one from being made. It is
from a supposition that all the southern delegates will be absent, that ten
senators, or two thirds of a majority, can give up this river. The possibility
of absence operates equally as much against the Northern States. If one fifth
of the members present think the measure erroneous, the votes of the states are
to be taken upon it, and entered on the journals. Every gentleman here ought to
recollect that this is some security, as the people will thereby know those who
advocate iniquitous measures. If we consider the number of changes in the
members of the government, we shall find it another security. But, after all,
sir, what will this policy signify, which tends to surrender the navigation of
the Mississippi? Resolutions of Congress to retain it may be repeated, and
reechoed from every part of the United States. It is not resolutions of this
sort which the people of this country wish for. They want an actual possession
of the right, and protection in its enjoyment. Similar resolutions have been
taken, under the existing system, on many occasions. But they have been
heretofore, and will be hereafter, in my opinion, nugatory and fruitless,
unless a change takes place which will give energy to the acts of the
government.
I will take the liberty to touch once more on the several considerations
which produced the question, because perhaps the committee may not yet
thoroughly comprehend it. In justice to those gentlemen who concluded in favor
of the temporary cession, I mention their reasons, although I think the measure
wrong. The reasons for so doing under the old system will be done away by the
new system. We could not, without national dishonor, assert our right to the
Mississippi, and suffer any other nation to deprive us of it. This
consideration, with others before mentioned, influenced them. I admit it was
wrong. But it is sufficient to prove that they acted on principles, of
integrity. Will they not be bound by honor and conscience, when we are able to
enjoy and retain our right, not to give it up, or suffer it to be interrupted?
A weak system produced this project. A strong system will remove the
inducement. For may we not suppose it will be reversed by a change of system? I
was called up to say what was its present situation. There are some
circumstances within my knowledge which I am not at liberty {349} to
communicate to this house. I will not go farther than to answer the objections
of gentlemen. I wish to conceal no circumstance which I can relate consistently
with my duty. As to matters of fact, I have advanced nothing which I presume
will be contradicted. On matters of opinion we may differ. Were I at liberty, I
could develop some circumstances which would convince this house that this
project will never be revived in Congress, and that, therefore, no danger is to
be apprehended.
Mr. GRAYSON. Mr. Chairman, the honorable gentleman last up concluded by
leaving impressions that there were some circumstances which, were he at
liberty to communicate, would induce this house to believe that the matter
would never be revived. Were we to exclude from facts and opinions, or were we
to appeal to the resolutions of Congress, a very different conclusion would
result. When I was in Congress last, there was a resolution to apologize to his
Catholic Majesty for not making the treaty, and intimating that, when the
situation of things was altered, it might be done. Had it not been for one
particular circumstance, it would have been concluded on the terms my honorable
friend mentioned. When I was last in Congress, the project was not given over.
Its friends thought it would be renewed.
With respect to the Mississippi and back lands, the Eastern States are
willing to relinquish that great and essential right; for they consider the
consequences of governing the Union as of more importance than those
considerations which he mentioned should induce them to favor it.
But, says the honorable gentleman, there is a great difference between
actually giving it up altogether, and a temporary cession. If the right was
given up for twenty-five years, would this country be able to avail herself of
her right, and resume it at the expiration of that period? If ever the house of
Bourbon should be at war with all Europe, then would be the golden opportunity
of regaining it. Without this, we never could wrest it from the house of
Bourbon, the branches of which always support each other.
If things continue as they are now, emigrations will continue to that
country. The hope that this great national right will be retained, will induce
them to go thither. But take away that hope, by giving up the Mississippi for
twenty-five years, and the emigrations will cease. As interest {350} actuates
mankind, will they go thither when they know they cannot enjoy the privilege of
navigating that river, or find a ready market for their produce? There is a
majority of states which look forward with anxiety to the benefits of the
commercial project with Spain. In the course of the Spanish negotiation, our
delegation thought of a project which would be accommodated to their particular
interest. It was proposed, by way of compromise, as being suitable to the
interest of all the states, that the Spanish crown should make New Orleans a
general depository, and that the growth of the American states should be sent
down for the use of the Spanish troops; Spain being obliged to foreign nations
for provisions. This was throwing out a lure to the Eastern States to carry the
produce of that whole country. But this temptation did not succeed. It was
thought no object in their view, when greater objects presented themselves.
It was alleged that the emigration from the Eastern States will have the
same effect as emigration from this country. I know every step will be taken to
prevent emigration from thence, as it will be transferring their population to
the Southern States. They will coincide in no measure that will tend to
increase the weight or influence of the Southern States. There is, therefore, a
wide line of distinction between migrations from thence and from hence.
But we are told, in order to make that paper acceptable to the Kentucky
people, that this high act of authority cannot, by the law of nations, be
warrantable, and that this great right cannot be given up. I think so also. But
how will the doctrine apply to America? After it is actually given away, can it
be reclaimed? If nine states give it away, what will the Kentucky people do?
Will Grotius and Puffendorf relieve them? If we reason what was done — if
seven states attempted to do what nine states ought to have done — you may
judge of the attention which will be paid to the law of nations. Should
Congress make a treaty to yield the Mississippi, that people will find no
redress in the law of nations.
But, says he, Massachusetts is willing to protect emigration. When the
act of Congress passed respecting the settlement of the western country, and
establishing a state there, it passed in a lucky moment. I was told that that
state was extremely uneasy about it; and that, in order to retain her {351}
inhabitants, lands in the province of Maine were lowered to the price of one
dollar per acre. As to the tract of country conveyed by New York to
Massachusetts, neither of them had a right to it. Perhaps that great line of
policy, of keeping the population on that side of the continent, in
contradistinction to the emigration to the westward of us, actuated
Massachusetts in that transaction. There is no communication between that
country and the Mississippi. The two great northern communications are by the
North Rivers and by the River St. Lawrence, to the Mississippi. But there is no
communication between that country, where the people of Massachusetts emigrate,
and the Mississippi; nor do I believe that there ever will be one traveller
from it thither.
I have a great regard for the secretary of foreign affairs. In my
opinion, all America is under great obligations to him. But I differed in
opinion with him.
But the Mississippi is said to be more secure under the new than the old
government. It is infinitely more secure under the latter than the former, How
is the fact? Seven states wished to pass an affirmative act ceding it, They
repealed part of the instructions given the secretary, to enable him to
conclude a compact for its cession, and wished to get nine states to agree to
it. Nine states, by the Confederation, must concur in the formation of
treaties. This saved it. Only seven states were willing to yield it. But, by
this Constitution, two thirds of the senators present, with the President, can
make any treaty. A quorum is fourteen, two thirds of which are ten. We find,
then, that ten members can, at any time, surrender that great and valuable
right. As seven states are willing to yield it now, how the gentleman can
reason in the manner he does, I cannot conceive.
Mr. HENRY. Mr. Chairman: I hope, sir, as the
honorable gentleman on my left set the example of debating the merits, that
whatever may result as consequences of that example, it may not be attributed
to me. I hope that I shall be indulged in offering a few words in addition to
what has been said. Gentlemen may do what they will. Their reflections will
have no influence on me. It is said that we are scuffling for Kentucky votes,
and attending to local circumstances. But if you consider the interests of this
country, you will find that the interests of Virginia and Kentucky are most
intimately {352} and vitally connected. When I see the great rights of the
community in real danger, the ideal dangers which gentlemen speak of dissipate.
A union with our western brethren is highly desirable, almost on any terms; a
union with them, alone, can lessen or annihilate the dangers arising from that
species of population of which we have been reminded in the catalogue of
dangers which were dwelt upon. They are at present but few in number, but may
be very numerous hereafter. If that fatal policy shall take place, you throw
them into the arms of Spain. If Congress should, for abase purpose, give away
this dearest right of the people, your western brethren will be ruined. We
ought to secure to them that navigation which is necessary to their very
existence. If we do not, they will look upon us as betrayers of their interest.
Shall we appear to care less for their interest than for that of distant
people? When gentlemen tell us that the change of system will render our
western brethren more secure, and that this system will not betray them, they
ought to prove it. When a matter which respects the great national interests of
America is concerned, we expect the most decided proofs. Have they given any?
Unless you keep open the Mississippi, you never can increase in number.
Although your population should go on to an infinite degree, you will be in the
minority in Congress; and although you should have a right to be the majority,
yet so unhappily is this system of politics constituted, that you will ever be
a contemptible minority. To preserve the balance of American power, it is
essentially necessary that the right of the Mississippi should be secured.
But, said the honorable gentleman, the Eastern States will wish to
secure their fishery, and will, therefore, favor this right. How does he draw
the inference? Is it possible that they can act on that principle? The
principle which led the Southern States to admit of the cession, was to avoid
the most dreadful perils of war. But their difficulties are now ended by peace.
Is there any thing like this that can influence the minds of the people of the
north? Since the peace, those states have discovered a determined resolution to
give it away. There was no similar danger to compel them to yield it. No, sir,
they wished to relinquish it. Without any kind of necessity, they acted in
conformity to their natural disposition, with respect to emigrations going
{353} on in that quarter. This, thought improbable, may be so. But to say that,
because some settlements are going on in New York, Massachusetts will form a
connection with the Mississippi, is, to my mind, most wonderful indeed. The
great balance will be in the southern parts of America. There is the most
extensive and fertile territory. There is the happiest geographical position,
situated contiguously to that valuable and inestimable river. But the
settlement of that country will not be warranted by the new Constitution, if it
will not be forbidden by it.
No constitution under heaven, founded on principles of justice, can
warrant the relinquishment of the most sacred rights of society, to promote the
interest of one part of it. Do you not see the danger into which you are going,
to throw away one of your dearest and most valuable rights? The people of that
country now receive great and valuable emoluments from that right being
protected by the existing government. But they must now abandon them. For is
there any actual security? Show me any clause in that paper which secures that
great right. What was the calculation which told you that it would be safer
under the new than under the old government? In my mind, it was erroneous. The
honorable gentleman told you that there were two bodies, or branches, which
must concur to make a treaty. Sir, the President, as distinguished from the
Senate, is nothing. They will combine, and be as one. My honorable friend said
that ten men, the senators of five states, could give it up. The present system
requires the consent of nine states. Consequently, its security will be much
diminished. The people of Kentucky, though weak now, will not let the President
and Senate take away this right. Look right, and see this abominable policy
— consider seriously its fatal and pernicious tendency! Have we not that
right guarantied to us by the most respectable power in Europe? France has
guarantied to us our sovereignty and all its appendages. What are its
appendages? Are not the rivers and waters, that wash the shores of the country,
appendages inseparable from our right of sovereignty? France has guarantied
this fight to us in the most full and extensive manner. What would have been
the consequences had this project with Spain been completed and agreed to?
France would have told you, "You have {354} given it up yourselves; you have
put it on a different footing; and if your bad policy has done this, it is your
own folly. You have drawn it on your own heads; and, as you have bartered away
this valuable right, neither policy nor justice will dell on me to guaranty
what you gave up yourselves." This language would satisfy the most sanguine
American.
Is there an opinion that any future projects will better secure you? If
this strong government contended for be adopted, seven states will give it up
forever; for a temporary cession is, in my opinion, perfectly the same thing.
The thing is so obviously big with danger, that the blind man himself might see
it.
As to the American secretary, the goodness of his private character is
not doubted. It is public conduct which we are to inspect. The public conduct
of this secretary goes against the express authority of nine states. Although
he may be endowed with the most brilliant talents, I have a right to consider
his politics as abandoned. Yet his private virtues may merit applause. You see
many attempts made, which, when brought into actual experiment, are found to
result from abandoned principles. The states are geographically situated so and
so. Their circumstances are well known. It is suggested, this expedient was
only to temporize till a more favorable opportunity. Will any gentleman tell me
that the business was taken up hastily, when that vote was taken in Congress?
When you consider the ability of the gentlemen who voted in Congress on that
question, you must be persuaded that they knew what they were about. American
interest was fully understood. New Jersey called her delegates from Congress
for having voted against this right. Delegates may be called and instructed
under the present system, but not by the new Constitution. The measure of the
Jersey delegates was adverse to the interest of that state, and they were
recalled for their conduct.
The honorable gentleman has said that the House of Representatives would
give some curb to this business of treaties respecting the Mississippi. This is
to me incomprehensible. He will excuse me if I tell him he is exercising his
imagination and ingenuity. Will the honorable gentleman say that the House of
Representatives will break through their balances {355} and checks, and break
into the business of treaties? He is obliged to support this opinion of his, by
supposing that the checks and balances of this Constitution are to be an
impenetrable wall for some purposes, and a mere cobweb for some other purposes.
What kind of Constitution, then, can this be? I leave gentlemen to draw the
inference. I may have misunderstood the gentleman, but my notes tell me that he
said the House of Representatives might interfere, and prevent the Mississippi
from being given away. They have no power to do this by the Constitution. There
will be a majority against it there also. Can you find on the journals the
names of those who sacrifice your interest? Will they act so imprudently as to
discover their own nefarious project? At present you may appeal to the voice of
the people, and send men to Congress positively instructed to obey your
instructions. You can recall them if their system of policy be ruinous. But can
you in this government recall your senators? Or can you instruct them? You
cannot recall them. You may instruct them, and offer your opinions; but if they
think them improper, they may disregard them. If they give away or sacrifice
your most valuable rights, can you impeach or punish them? If you should see
the Spanish ambassador bribing one of your senators with gold, can you punish
him? Yes, you can impeach him before the Senate. A majority of the Senate may
be sharers in the bribe. Will they pronounce him guilty who is in the same
predicament with themselves? Where, then, is the security? I ask not this out
of triumph, but anxiously to know if there be any real security.
The gentleman here observed, what I would not give a single pin for. The
doctrine of chances, it seems, will operate in our favor. This ideal,
figurative doctrine will satisfy no rational people. I have said enough to
answer the gentleman as to retaining the navigation.
Give me leave to tell you that, when the great branch of the house of
Bourbon has guarantied to us this right, I wish not to lean on American
strength, which may be employed to sacrifice it. This present despised system
alone has reserved it. It rests on strong grounds — on the arms of France.
The honorable member then told us that he thought the project would not be
revived. Here, again, the doctrine of chances is introduced. I will admit that
the honorable gentleman {356} can calculate as to future events. But it is too
much for him to say that it will not be taken up again. The same disposition
may again revive that nefarious project. I can inform him of this — that
the American ambassador advises
to let it rest for the present
, which
insinuates that it will be resumed at a more favorable opportunity. If this be
the language or spirit which causes its suspension, this nefarious, abominable
project will be again introduced the first favorable opportunity. We cannot
fortify the Atlantic Ocean. The utmost we can do, is to become formidable to
the westward. This will be prevented, if this abominable project be adopted.
Mr. Henry then added, that, in treating the subject at large, he followed the
example of other gentlemen, and that he trusted he should be permitted to
consider it generally again.
Mr. MADISON arose, and observed, that the particular ground, on which
the abandonment of that project was founded, was, that it was repugnant to the
wishes of a great part of America. This reason, says he, becomes stronger and
stronger every day, and the sense of America will be more and more known, and
more and more understood. The project, therefore, will, in all probability,
never be revived. [He added some other observations, which could not be heard.]
Mr. NICHOLAS. Mr. Chairman, the arguments used to-day, on this occasion,
astonish me exceedingly. The most valuable right of a part of the community has
been invaded. By whom? By Congress, under the existing system — the worthy
members favorite Confederation. Is this an argument to continue that
Confederation? Does it not prove that that Confederation is not sufficient for
the purposes for which it was instituted? It was doubted what proportion had a
right, on that occasion, to repeal the prohibitory part of the secretary's
instructions. The Confederation, which makes it a doubt whether they had a
right to sacrifice this right, — whether seven states, and not nine, had
aright to make the temporary cession, — is the system which merits
censure. Yet, by an ingenious and subtile deviation, this instance is brought
against this Constitution. We have been alarmed about the loss of the
Mississippi, in and out of doors. What does it all amount to? It amounts to an
attempt, under the present Confederation, to yield it {357} up. Why have we
been told of the great importance of this valuable right? Every man knows it.
No man has a greater regard for it than I have. But what is the question which
the honorable gentleman ought to ask himself?
Is this right better secured
under the present Confederation than the new government?
This is the sole
question. I beg leave to draw the attention of the committee to this subject.
It is objected, by my friend to my left, that two thirds of the Senate present
may advise the President to give up this right by a treaty, by which five
states may relinquish it. It is provided, in the first article, that a majority
of each house shall constitute a quorum to do business; and then, in the second
article, that the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate,
shall have power to make treaties. What part of the Senate? It adds, "Provided
two thirds of the senators concur." What is the inference? That there must be a
quorum, and
two thirds of the whole
must agree. I shall be told,
perhaps, that this construction is not natural, not the positive construction
of the clause. If the right construction be, that two thirds of a quorum, or
ten senators, may, with the President, make a treaty, — to justify the
conclusion, that the Mississippi may be given away by five states, two most
improbable things must concur: first, that, on the important occasion of
treaties; ten senators will neglect to attend; and in the next place, that the
senators whose states are most interested in being fully represented, will be
those who will fail to attend. I mean those from the Southern States. How
natural this supposition is, I refer to the candor of the committee. But we are
told that we have every thing to fear from the Northern States, because they
will prevent an accession of states to the south. The policy of states will
sometimes change. This is the case with those states, if, indeed, they were
enemies to the right; and therefore, as I am informed by very good authority,
Congress has admitted Kentucky, as a state, into the Union. Then the law of
nations will secure it to them, as the deprivation of territorial rights is
obviously repugnant to that law.
But we are told that we may not trust them, because self-interest will
govern them. To that interest I will appeal. You have been told that there was
a difference between the states — that they were naturally divided into
{358} carrying and non-carrying states. It is not reasonable to presume that
the advancement of population and agriculture, in the western country, will
mostly operate in favor of those states, who, from their situation, are best
calculated to carry the produce of America to foreign markets. Besides, as
members of the Union, they will be materially affected by the sale of the back
lands, which will be greatly diminished in case of the relinquishment of that
right. The same reason which induced them to erect states there, will also
actuate them on every future occasion.
But Congress has violated the Confederation. Shall we continue, then,
under a government which warrants, or cannot prevent violations? Shall we
hesitate to embrace a government which will check them? But, says the honorable
gentleman over the way, (Mr. Grayson,) the Eastern States were interested,
during the war, in retaining the Mississippi. But now they have nothing to
fear. Will war not return? A great part of his argument turns upon that
supposition: —
We shall always have peace, and need make no provision
against wars
. Is not this deceiving ourselves? Is it not fallacious? Did
there ever exist a nation which, at some period or other, was not exposed to
war? As there is no security against future wars, the New England States will
be as much interested in the possession of the Mississippi hereafter, as they
were during the war. But, says he, the Confederation affords greater security
to the western country than the new government. Consider it maturely, and you
will find the contrary to be a fact. The security arising from the
Confederation is said to be this, that nine states must concur in the formation
of a treaty. If, then, hereafter thirty states should come into the Union, yet
nine states will still be able to make a treaty. Where, then, is your boasted
security, if nine states can make a treaty, although ever so many states should
come into the Union? On the other hand, how is this guarded under the new
Constitution? No
certain limited number of states
is required to form a
treaty. As the number of states will be increasing in the Union, the security
will be increased. Every new state will bring an accession of security, because
two thirds of the senators must concur. Let the number of states increase ever
so much, two thirds of the senators must concur. According to the present
system, nine states may make a treaty. It will {359} therefore take five states
to prevent a treaty from being made. If five states oppose a treaty, it cannot
be made. Let us see how it is in the new Constitution. Two thirds of the
senators must agree. Kentucky, added to the other states, will make fourteen
states. Twenty-eight senators will be the representation of the states, two
thirds of which will be nineteen; and if nine members concur in opposition, the
Senate can do no act. Five states, you are told, have concurred in opposing the
relinquishment of that right. Kentucky has come into the Union. She will oppose
it naturally. It may be naturally concluded, then, that there will be at least
twelve members in the Senate against it; so that there will be several persons
in the Senate more than will be sufficient to prevent the alienation or
suspension of that river. From this true representation, it will at least be as
secure under the new as under the old government.
But, says he, the concurrence of the President to the formation of
treaties will be no security. Why so? Will he not injure himself, if he injures
the states, by concurring in an injudicious treaty? How is he elected? Where
will the majority of the people be? He told you that the great weight of
population will be in the southern part of the United States. Their numbers
will weigh in choosing the President, as he is elected by electors chosen by
the people in proportion to their numbers. If the Southern States be interested
in having the Mississippi, and have weight in choosing the President, will he
not be a great check in favor of this right? Another thing is treated with
great contempt. The House of Representatives, it seems, can have no influence
in making treaties. What is the House of Representatives? Where, says he, are
your checks and balances, your rope-dancers, &c.? How is this business done
in his favorite government? The king of Great Britain can make what treaties he
pleases. But, sir, do not the House of Commons influence them? Will he make a
treaty manifestly repugnant to their interest? Will they not tell him he is
mistaken in that respect, as in many others? Will they not bring the minister
who advises a bad treaty to punishment? This gives them such influence that
they can dictate in what manner they shall be made. But the worthy member says
that this strong government is such a one as Kentucky ought to dread. Is this
just, Mr. Chairman? Is it just by general {360} assertions, without arguments
or proofs, to cast aspersions on it?
What is the situation of that country? If she has a right, and is in
possession of the river, I ask the gentleman why she does not enjoy the fruits
of her right. I wish, if she has the river, she would give the people passports
to navigate it. What do they want? They want a government which will force from
Spain the navigation of that river. I trust, sir, that, let the situation,
government, and politics, of America be what they may, I shall live to see the
time when the inhabitants of that country will wrest from that nation that
right which she is so justly entitled to. If we have that government which we
ought to have, they will have ability to enforce their right. But he treats
with ridicule the situation of the territory settled by Massachusetts. They can
have no connection with the Mississippi. Sir, they are materially affected by
the navigation of that river. The facility of disposing of their produce, and
intercourse with other people, are essential interests.
But, sir, we have the guaranty of France under the existing system. What
avails this guaranty? If dependence be put upon it, why did they not put us in
possession, and enable us to derive benefits from it? Our possession of it is
such that we dare not use it. But the opinion and characters of private men
ought to have nothing to do in our discussion. I wish the gentleman had always
thought so. If he had, these debates would not have been thus lengthened. But
we are not to calculate any thing on New Jersey. You are told she gave
instructions to her delegates to vote against the cession of that right. Will
not the same principles continue to operate on the minds of the people of that
state?
We cannot recall our senators. We can give them instructions; and if
they manifestly neglect our interest, we have sufficient security against them.
The dread of being recalled would impair their independence and firmness.
I think that Kentucky has nothing to expect from any one state alone in
America. She can expect support and succor alone from a strong, efficient
government, which can command the resources of the Union when necessary. She
can receive no support from the old Confederation. Consider the present state
of that country. Declared independent of Virginia, to whom is she to look up
for succor? No sister {361} state can help her. She may call on the present
general government; but, whatever may be the wish of Congress, they can give
them no relief. That country contains all my wishes and prospects. There is my
property, and there I intend to reside. I should be averse to the establishment
of any system which would be injurious to it. I flatter myself that this
government will secure their happiness and liberty.
Gov. RANDOLPH. Since I have seen so many attempts made, and so many
wrong inducements offered, to influence the delegation from Kentucky, I must,
from a regard to justice and truth, give my opinion on the subject. If I have
no interest in that country, I hope they will consider what I have to say as
proceeding from an impartial mind. — That the people of Kentucky have an
unequivocal right to the navigation of the Mississippi, by the law of nature
and nations, is clear and undoubted; though, to my own knowledge, a question
has arisen, whether the former connection of America with Great Britain has not
taken it away from them. There was a dispute respecting the right of Great
Britain to that river, and the United States have only the same right which the
original possessor had, from whom it was transferred. I am willing to declare
that the right is complete; but where is the danger of losing it by the
operation of the new government? The honorable gentleman tells us that France
has guarantied to us the possession of that river.
We
need not trouble
ourselves about it. France, he supposes, will do every thing for us. Does this
pretended security enable us to make use of it? Is there any reasonable motive
to induce the government to give it up? If it be not given up, if the guaranty
of France be any security now, it will be so then. I wish an honorable
gentleman over the way had known certain facts. If he had, they must have
operated on his mind to refrain from making such observations. [Here his
excellency read the treaty of peace with Great Britain, defining the boundaries
of the United States.]
He then declared, that, from the most liberal interpretation, it would
never give the inhabitants a fight to pass through the middle of New Orleans. I
appeal to what the French ambassador said, in 1781, in Congress — that
America had no right to the Mississippi. If the opinion of the ambassador {362}
of his Most Christian Majesty, and the treaty, have any influence, why are we
told such things? There is not a greater or less degree of power, given by this
Constitution, than is necessary to be given; but whether the power of treaties
be improper to he given, or not, to the general government, I only now ask
whether there be any real danger of losing this right. How many senators are
there? Twenty-six, supposing the United States remain as they are. We are told
that there never were more than seven states willing to give it up; so that
there were six states against it. There can be little danger, then, of the loss
of that navigation. Pennsylvania is interested to maintain the Mississippi. Her
interest will stimulate her to do it. She has settlements near Fort Pitt, on
the Ohio, which must be affected greatly by that cession. If his own arguments
be credited, New Jersey is against it. There is no danger of her voting the
alienation of that right, as she instructed her delegates to oppose it. The
Southern States are naturally opposed to it. There will, therefore, be a
majority in favor of the Mississippi — a majority that does not depend on
the doctrine of chances. There will be fourteen senators against twelve,
admitting the states to remain as they are. It will, moreover, be contrary to
the law of nations to relinquish territorial rights. To make a treaty to
alienate any part of the United States, will amount to a declaration of war
against the inhabitants of the alienated part, and a general absolution from
allegiance. They will never abandon this great right. Are not the states
interested in the back lands, as has been repeatedly observed? Will not the
connection between the emigrants and those they leave behind them, serve to
strengthen opposition to it? The gentleman wishes us to show him a clause which
shall preclude Congress from giving away this right. It is first incumbent upon
him to show where the right is given up. There is a prohibition naturally
resulting from the nature of things, it being contradictory and repugnant to
reason, and the law of nature and nations, to yield the most valuable right of
a community, for the exclusive benefit of one particular part of it.
But there is an expression which clearly precludes, the general
government from ceding the navigation of this river. In the 2d clause of the 3d
section of the 4th article, Congress is empowered "to dispose of, and make all
needful {363} rules and regulations respecting the territory or other property
belonging to the United States." But it goes on, and provides that "nothing in
this Constitution shall be so construed as to prejudice any claims of the
United States, or any particular state." Is this a claim of the particular
state of Virginia? If it be, there is no authority in the Constitution to
prejudice it. If it be not, then we need not be told of it. This is a
sufficient limitation and restraint. But it has been said that there is no
restriction with respect to making treaties. The various contingencies which
may form the object of treaties, are, in the nature of things, incapable of
definition. The government ought to have power to provide for every
contingency. The territorial rights of the states are sufficiently guarded by
the provisions just recited. If you say that, notwithstanding the most express
restriction, they may sacrifice the rights of the states, then you establish
another doctrine — that the creature can destroy the creator, which is the
most absurd and ridiculous of all doctrines.
The honorable gentleman has warned us from taking rash measures that may
endanger the rights of that country. Sir, if this navigation be given up, the
Country adjacent will also be given up to Spain; for the possession of the one
must be inseparable from that of the other. Will not this be a sufficient check
on the general government? This you will admit to be true, unless you carry
your suspicion to such an unlimited length as to imagine that they will, among
their iniquitous acts, destroy and dismember the Union. As to the objection of
my friend over the way, (Mr. Monroe,) that so few states could by treaty yield
that navigation, it has been sufficiently answered, and its futility fully
detected, by the gentleman who spoke last.
Another mistake, which my friend over the way has committed, is, that
the temporary forbearance of the use of the Mississippi might lead to the
absolute cession of the Chesapeake. The gentleman has a mind to make up his
climax of imaginary objections, or he never would have suffered such an idea to
obtrude on his mind. Were the Mississippi, as he says, in danger of being
ceded, — which I deny, — yet it could not be a precedent for the
relinquishment of the Chesapeake. It never can be put in such a jeopardy. All
the Atlantic states will oppose a measure of this sort, lest it should destroy
their commerce.
{364} The consanguinity between the western people and the inhabitants
of the other states would alone have a powerful operation to prevent any
measures injurious to them from being adopted.
Let me, in a few words, endeavor to obviate the strong observations made
to the gentlemen from that country. I contend that there is no power given to
the general government to surrender that navigation. There is a positive
prohibition, in the words I have already mentioned, against it. I consider that
the policy of the states, and disposition of the people, make it impossible;
and I conclude that their safety is at least as great under the new as under
the old government. Let me entreat those gentlemen, whose votes will be
scuffled for, to consider in what character they are here. For what have they
come hither? To deliberate on a Constitution, which some have said will secure
the liberty and happiness of America, and which others represent as not
calculated for that purpose. They are to decide on a Constitution for the
collective society of the United States. Will they, as honest men, not disdain
all applications made to them from local interests? Have they not far more
valuable rights to secure? The present general government has much higher
powers than that which has been so long contested. We allow them to make war
and requisitions without any limitation. That paper contains much higher
powers. Let it not be said that we have been actuated from local interests. I
wish it may not be said that partial considerations governed any gentleman
here, when we are investigating a system for the general utility and happiness
of America. I know such narrow views will not influence the gentlemen from that
country, because I know their characters. I hope this subject is sufficiently
discussed, and that we shall proceed regularly.
Mr. CORBIN. Mr. Chairman, all attempts made to bias the opinion of any
gentleman on this great occasion, are, in my opinion, very reprehensible. No
member of this committee can be a more zealous supporter of the right of
navigating the Mississippi, and the other rights of the aggregate community,
than I am. But that right, sir, is in no danger. This has been proven with much
ability by my friend to the left, and other gentlemen. We are told that five
states may make a treaty. I say that five states can prevent a treaty from
being made.
{365} Will not, my argument be of equal force with theirs? How can five
states make a treaty? This presupposes that the members from every other state
will be absent when the important subject of treaties will be on the carpet. Is
this plausible, or does it not amount to an impossibility? He says that the
House of Representatives can have no influence in the formation of treaties. I
say, they can. Treaties are generally of a commercial nature, being a
regulation of commercial intercourse between different nations. In all
commercial treaties, it will be necessary to obtain the consent of the
representatives.
[Here a storm arose, which was so violent as to compel
Mr. Corbin to desist, and the committee to rise.]
Next
|
Previous
|
Contents
|
Text
Version
|
Home
|
Constitution Society
x
x

Mr. HENRY. Mr. Chairman, our burden should, if
possible, be rendered more light. I was in hopes some other gentleman would
have objected to this part. The pay of the members is, by the Constitution, to
be fixed by themselves, without limitation or restraint. They may therefore
indulge themselves in the fullest extent. They may make their compensation as
high as they please. I suppose, if they be good men, their own delicacy will
lead them to be satisfied with moderate salaries. But there is no security for
this, should they be otherwise inclined. I really believe that, if the state
legislatures were to fix their pay, no inconvenience would result from it, and
the public mind would be better satisfied. But in the same section there is a
defect of a much greater consequence. There is no restraint on corruption. They
may be appointed to offices without any material restriction, and the principal
source of corruption in representatives is the hope or expectation of offices
and emoluments. After the first organization of offices, and the government is
put in motion, they may be appointed to any existing offices which become
vacant, and they may create a multiplicity of offices, in order thereafter to
be appointed to them. What says the clause? "No senator or representative
shall, during the time for which he was elected, be appointed to any civil
office, under the authority of the United States, which shall have been
created, or the emoluments {369} whereof shall have been increased, during such
time." This is an idea strangely expressed.
He shall not accept of any office created during the time he is elected
for, or of any office whereof the emoluments have been increased in that time.
Does not this plainly say that, if an office be not created during the time for
which he is elected, or if its emoluments be not increased during such time, he
may accept of it? I can see it in no other light. If we wish to preclude the
enticement to getting offices, there is a clear way of expressing it. If it be
better that Congress should go out of their representative offices by accepting
other offices, then it ought to be so. If not, we require an amendment in the
clause, that it shall not be so. I may be wrong. Perhaps the honorable member
may be able to give a satisfactory answer on this subject.
Mr. MADISON. Mr. Chairman, I most sincerely wish to give a proper
explanation on this subject, in such a manner as may be to the satisfaction of
every one. I shall suggest such considerations as led the Convention to approve
of this clause. With respect to the right of ascertaining their own pay, I will
acknowledge that their compensations, if practicable, should be fixed in the
Constitution itself, so as not to be dependent on Congress itself, or on the
state legislatures. The various vicissitudes, or rather the gradual diminution,
of the value of all coins and circulating medium, is one reason against
ascertaining them immutably; as what may be now an adequate compensation,
might, by the progressive reduction of the value of our circulating medium, be
extremely inadequate at a period not far distant.
It was thought improper to leave it to the state legislatures, because
it is improper that one government should be dependent on another; and the
great inconveniences experienced under the old Confederation show the states
would be operated upon by local considerations, as contradistinguished from
general and national interests. Experience shows us that they have been
governed by such heretofore, and reason instructs us that they would be
influenced by them again. This theoretic inconvenience of leaving to Congress
the fixing their compensations is more than counterbalanced by this in the
Confederation — that the state legislatures had a right to determine the
pay of the members of Congress, {370} which enabled the states to destroy the
general government. There is no instance where this power has been abused. In
America, legislative bodies have reduced their own wages lower, rather than
augmented them. This is a power which cannot be abused without rousing
universal attention and indignation. What would be the consequence of the
Virginian legislature raising their pay to four or five pounds each per day?
The universal indignation of the people. Should the general Congress annex
wages disproportionate to their service, or repugnant to the sense of the
community, they would be universally execrated. The certainty of incurring the
general detestation of the people will prevent abuse.
It was conceived that the great danger was in creating new offices,
which would increase the burdens of the people; and not in a uniform admission
of all meritorious characters to serve their country in the old offices. There
is no instance of any state constitution which goes as far as this. It was
thought to be a mean between two extremes. It guards against abuse by taking
away the inducement to create new offices, or increase the emolument of old
offices; and it gives them an opportunity of enjoying, in common with other
citizens, any of the existing offices which they may be capable of executing.
To have precluded them from this, would have been to exclude them from a common
privilege to which every citizen is entitled, and to prevent those who had
served their country with the greatest fidelity and ability from being on a par
with their fellow-citizens. I think it as well guarded as reason requires; more
so than the constitution of any other nation.
Mr. NICHOLAS thought it sufficiently guarded, as it prevented the
members of the general government from holding offices which they created
themselves, or of which they increased the emoluments; and as they could not
enjoy any office during their continuance in Congress, to admit them to old
offices when they left Congress, was giving them no exclusive privilege, but
such as every citizen had an equal right to.
Mr. TYLER was afraid that, as their compensations were not fixed in the
Constitution, Congress might fix them so low, that none but rich men could go;
by which the government might terminate in an aristocracy. The states {371}
might choose men noted for their wealth and influence, and state influence
would govern the Senate. This, though not the most capital objection, he
thought was considerable, when joined to others of greater magnitude. He
thought the gentleman's account of it was by no means satisfactory. A parallel
had been drawn between this power in Congress of fixing their compensations,
and that of our Assembly fixing the quantum of their salaries. He was of
opinion the comparison did not apply, as there was less responsibility in the
former than in the latter case. He dreaded that great corruption would take
place, and wished to have it amended so as to prevent it.
Mr. GRAYSON. Mr. Chairman, it strikes me that they may fix their wages
very low. From what has happened in Great Britain, I am warranted to draw this
conclusion. I think every member of the House of Commons formerly had a right
to receive twenty shillings, or a guineas a day. But I believe that this salary
is taken away since the days of corruption. The members of the House of
Commons, if I recollect rightly, get nothing for their services as such. But
there are some noble emoluments to be derived from the minister, and some other
advantages to be obtained. Those who go to Parliament form an idea of
emoluments. They expect something besides wages. They go in with the wishes and
expectations of getting offices. This, sir, may be the case in this government.
My fears are increased from the inconveniences experienced under the
Confederation.
Most of the great officers have been taken out of Congress, such as
ambassadors to foreign courts, &c. A number of offices have been
unnecessarily created, and ambassadors have been unnecessarily sent to foreign
countries — to countries with which we have nothing to do. If the present
Congress exceeded the limits of propriety, though extremely limited with
respect to power in the creation of offices, what may not the future Congress
do, when they have, by this system, a full scope of creating what offices and
annexing what salaries they please? There are but few members in the Senate and
lower house. They may all get offices at different times, as they are not
excluded from being appointed to existing offices for the time for which they
shall have been elected. Considering the corruption of human {372} nature, and
the general tendency of mankind to promote their own interest, I think there is
great danger. I am confirmed in my opinion from what I have seen already in
Congress, and among other nations. I wish this part, therefore, to be amended,
by prohibiting any senator or representative from being appointed to any office
during the time for which he was elected, and by fixing their emoluments;
though I would not object to the Constitution on this account solely, were
there no other defect.
Mr. MADISON. Mr. Chairman, let me ask those who oppose this part of the
system, whether any alteration would not make it equally, or more liable to
objections. Would it be better to fix their compensations. Would not this
produce inconveniences? What authorizes us to conclude that the value of coins
will continue always the same? Would it be prudent to make them dependent on
the state governments for their salaries — on those who watch them with
jealous eyes, and who consider them as encroaching, not on the people, but on
themselves? But the worthy member supposes that Congress will fix their wages
so low, that only the rich can fill the offices of senators and
representatives. Who are to appoint them? The rich? No, sir; the people are to
choose them. If the members of the general government were to reduce their
compensations to a trifle, before the evil suggested could happen, the people
could elect other members in their stead, who would alter that regulation. The
people do not choose them for their wealth. If the state legislatures choose
such men as senators, it does not influence the people at large in their
election of representatives. They can choose those who have the most merit and
least wealth. If Congress reduce their wages to a trifle, what shall prevent
the states from giving a man of merit so much as will be an adequate
compensation? I think the evil very remote; and if it were now to happen, the
remedy is in our own hands, and may by ourselves be applied.
Another gentleman seems to apprehend infinite mischief from a
possibility that any member of Congress may be appointed to an office, although
he ceases to be a member the moment he accepts it. What will be the consequence
of precluding them from being so appointed? If you have in your country one man
whom you could, in time of danger, {373} trust, above all others, with an
office of high importance, he cannot undertake it till two years expire if he
be a representative, or till six years elapse if a senator. Suppose America was
engaged in war, and the man of the greatest military talents and approved
fidelity was a member of either house; would it be right that this man, who
could lead us to conquer, and who could save his country from destruction,
could not be made general till the term of his election expired? Before that
time we might be conquered by our enemies. This will apply to civil as well as
military officers. It is impolitic to exclude from the service of his country,
in any office, the man who may be most capable of discharging its duties, when
they are most wanting.
The honorable gentleman said, that those who go to Congress will look
forward to offices, as a compensation for their services, rather than salaries.
Does he recollect that they shall not fill offices created by themselves? When
they go to Congress, the old offices will be filled. They cannot make any
probable calculation that the men in office will die, or forfeit their offices.
As they cannot get any new offices, one of these contingencies must happen
before they can get ally office at all. The chance of getting an office is,
therefore, so remote, and so very distant, that it cannot be considered as a
sufficient reason to operate on their minds to deviate from their duty.
Let any man calculate in his own mind the improbability of a member of
the general government getting into an office, when he cannot fill any office
newly created, and when he finds all the old offices filled at the time he
enters into Congress. Let him view the danger and impolicy of precluding a
member of Congress from holding existing offices, and the danger of making one
government dependent on another, and he will find that both clauses deserve
applause.
The observations made by several honorable members illustrate my
opinion, that it is impossible to devise any system agreeable to all. When
objections so contradictory are brought against it, how shall we decide? Some
gentlemen object to it because they may make their wages too high; others
object to it because they may make them too low. If it is to be perpetually
attacked by principles so repugnant, we may cease to discuss. For what is the
object of our discussion? Truth, sir. To draw a true and just conclusion. {374}
Can this be done without rational premises and syllogistic reasoning?
As to the British Parliament, it is nearly as he says. But how does it
apply to this case? Suppose their compensations had been appointed by the state
governments, or fixed in the Constitution; would it be a safe government for
the Union, if its members depended on receiving their salaries from other
political bodies at a distance, and fully competent to withhold them? Its
existence would, at best, be but precarious. If they were fixed in the
Constitution, they might become extremely inadequate, and produce the very evil
which gentlemen seem to fear; for then a man of the highest merit could not act
unless he were wealthy. This is the most delicate part in the organization of a
republican government. It is the most difficult to establish on unexceptionable
grounds. It appears to me most eligible as it is. The Constitution has taken a
medium between the two extremes, and perhaps with more wisdom than either the
British or the state governments, with respect to their eligibility to office.
They can fill no new offices created by themselves, nor old ones of which they
increased the salaries. If they were excluded altogether, it is possible that
other disadvantages might accrue from it, besides the impolicy and injustice of
depriving them of a common privilege. They will not relinquish their
legislative, in order to accept other offices. They will more probably confer
them on their friends and connections. If this be an inconvenience, it is
incident to all governments. After having heard a variety of principles
developed, I thought that on which it is established the least exceptionable,
and it appears to me sufficiently well guarded.
Mr. GRAYSON. Mr. Chairman, I acknowledge that the honorable gentleman
has represented the clause rightly as to their exclusion from new offices; but
is there any clause to hinder them from giving offices to uncles, nephews,
brothers, and other relations and friends? I imagine most of the offices will
be created the first year, and then gentlemen will be tempted to carry on this
accommodation.
A worthy member has said — what had been often said before —
that, suppose a war took place, and the most experienced and able man was
unfortunately in either house, he could not be made general, if the proposed
amendment was {375} adopted. Had he read the clause, he would have discovered
that it did not extend to military offices, and that the restriction extends to
civil offices only. No case can exist, with respect to civil offices, that
would occasion a loss to the public, if the members of both houses were
precluded from holding any office during the time for which they were elected.
The old Confederation is so defective in point of power, that no danger can
result from creating offices under it; because those who hold them cannot be
paid The power of making paper money will not be exercised. This country is so
thoroughly sensible of the impropriety of it, that no attempt will be made to
make any more. So that no danger can arise, as they have not power to pay, if
they appoint, officers. Why not make this system as secure as that, in this
respect? A great number of offices will be created, to satisfy the wants of
those who shall be elected. The worthy member says, the electors can alter
them. But have the people the power of making honest men be elected? If he be
an honest man, and his wages so low that he could not pay for his expenses, he
could not serve them if elected. But there are many thirsting after offices
more than public good. Political adventurers go up to Congress solely to
advance their own particular emoluments. It is so in the British House of
Commons. There are two sets always in that house — one, the landed
interest, the most patriotic and respectable; the other, a set of dependants
and fortune-hunters, who are elected for their own particular interest, and are
willing to sell the interest of their constituents to the crown. The same
division may happen among our representatives. This clause might as well not be
guarded at all, as in this flimsy manner. They cannot he elected to offices for
the terms for which they were elected, and continue to be members of Congress.
But as they can create as many offices as they please for the particular
accommodation of their friends, it might as well not be guarded at all. Upon
the whole, I consider it entirely imperfect.
[The 7th section read.]
Mr. GRAYSON objected to the power of the Senate to propose or concur
with amendments to money bills. He looked upon the power of proposing
amendments to be equal, in principle, to that of originating, and that they
were, in {376} fact, the same. As this was, in his opinion, a departure from
that great principle which required that the immediate representatives of the
people only should interfere with money bills, he wished to know the reasons on
which it was founded. The lords in England had never been allowed to
intermeddle with money bills. He knew not why the Senate should. In the lower
house, said he, the people are represented according to their numbers. In the
upper house, the states are represented in their political capacities.
Delaware, or Rhode Island, has as many representatives here as Massachusetts.
Why should the Senate have a right to intermeddle with money, when the
representation is neither equal nor just?
Mr. MADISON. Mr. Chairman, the criticism made by the honorable member
is, that there is an ambiguity in the words, and that it is not clearly
ascertained where the origination of money bills may take place. I suppose the
first part of the clause is sufficiently expressed to exclude all doubts. The
gentlemen who composed the Convention divided in opinion concerning the utility
of confining this to any particular branch. Whatever it be in Great Britain,
there is a sufficient difference between us and them to render it inapplicable
to this country. It has always appeared to me to be a matter of no great
consequence, whether the Senate had a right of originating or proposing
amendments to money bills, or not. To withhold it from them would create
disagreeable disputes. Some American constitutions make no difference. Virginia
and South Carolina are, I think, the only states where this power is
restrained. In Massachusetts, and other states, the power of proposing
amendments is vested, unquestionably, in their senates. No inconvenience has
resulted from it. On the contrary, with respect to South Carolina, this clause
is continually a source of disputes. When a bill comes from the other house,
the Senate entirely rejects it, and this causes contentions. When you send a
bill to the Senate, without the power of making any alteration, you force them
to reject the bill altogether, when it would be necessary and advantageous that
it should pass.
The power of proposing alterations removes this inconvenience, and does
not appear to me at all objectionable. I should have no objection to their
having a right of originating {377} such bills. People would see what was done,
and it would add the intelligence of one house to that of the other. It would
be still in the power of the other house to obstruct any injudicious measure
proposed by them.
There is no landmark or constitutional provision in Great Britain, which
prohibits the House of Lords from intermeddling with money bills; but the House
of Commons have established this rule. Yet the lords insist on their having a
right to originate them, as they possess great property, as well as the
commons, and are taxed like them. The House of Commons object to their claim,
lest they should too lavishly make grants to the crown, and increase the taxes.
The honorable member says that there is no difference between the right of
originating bills and proposing amendments. There is some difference, though
not considerable. If any grievances should happen in consequence of unwise
regulations in revenue matters, the odium would be divided, which will now be
thrown on the House of Representatives. But you may safely lodge this power of
amending with the Senate. When a bill is sent with proposed amendments to the
House of Representatives, if they find the alterations defective, they are not
conclusive. The House of Representatives are the judges of their propriety, and
the recommendation of the Senate is nothing. The experience of this state
justifies this clause. The House of Delegates has employed weeks in forming a
money bill; and because the Senate had no power of proposing amendments, the
bill was lost altogether, and a new bill obliged to be again introduced, when
the insertion of one line by the Senate would have done. Those gentlemen who
oppose this clause will not object to it when they recollect that the senators
are appointed by the states, as the present members of Congress are appointed;
for, as they will guard the political interests of the states in other
respects, they will attend to them very probably in their amendments to money
bills. I think this power, for these considerations, is useful and necessary.
Mr. GRAYSON still considered the power of proposing amendments to be the
same, in effect, as that of originating. The Senate could strike out every word
of the bill, except the word whereas, or any other introductory word, and might
substitute new words of their own. As the state of Delaware was not so large as
the county of Augusta, and Rhode {378} Island was still less, and yet had an
equal suffrage in the Senate, he could not see the propriety of giving them
this power, but referred it to the judgment of the house.
[The 8th section read.]
Mr. CLAY wished to be informed why the Congress were to have power to
provide for calling forth the militia, to put the laws of the Union into
execution.
Mr. MADISON supposed the reasons of this power to be so obvious that
they would occur to most gentlemen. If resistance should be made to the
execution of the laws, he said, it ought to be overcome. This could be done
only in two ways — either by regular forces or by the people. By one or
the other it must unquestionably be done. If insurrections should arise, or
invasions should take place, the people ought unquestionably to be employed, to
suppress and repel them, rather than a standing army. The best way to do these
things was to put the militia on a good and sure footing, and enable the
government to make use of their services when necessary.
Mr. GEORGE MASON. Mr. Chairman, unless there be some restrictions on the
power of calling forth the militia, to execute the laws of the Union, suppress
insurrections, and repel invasions, we may very easily see that it will produce
dreadful oppressions. It is extremely unsafe, without some alterations. It
would be to use the militia to a very bad purpose, if any disturbance happened
in New Hampshire, to call them from Georgia. This would harass the people so
much that they would agree to abolish the use of the militia, and establish a
standing army. I conceive the general government ought to have power over the
militia, but it ought to have some bounds. If gentlemen say that the militia of
a neighboring state is not sufficient, the government ought to have power to
call forth those of other states, the most convenient and contiguous. But in
this case, the consent of the state legislatures ought to be had. On
real
emergencies, this consent will never be denied, each state being
concerned in the safety of the rest. This power may be restricted without any
danger. I wish such an amendment as this — that the militia of any state
should not be marched beyond the limits of the adjoining state; and if it be
necessary to draw them from one end of the continent to {379} the other, I wish
such a check, as the consent of the state legislature, to be provided.
Gentlemen may say that this would impede the government, and that the state
legislatures would counteract it by refusing their consent. This argument may
be applied to all objections whatsoever. How is this compared to the British
constitution? Though the king may declare war, the Parliament has the means of
carrying it on. It is not so here. Congress can do both. Were it not for that
check in the British government, the monarch would be a despot. When a war is
necessary for the benefit of the nation, the means of carrying it on are never
denied. If any unjust requisition be made on Parliament, it will be, as it
ought to be, refused. The same principle ought to be observed in our
government. In times of real danger, the states will have the same enthusiasm
in aiding the general government, and granting its demands, which is seen in
England, when the king is engaged in a war apparently for the interest of the
nation. This power is necessary; but we ought to guard against danger. If ever
they attempt to harass and abuse the militia, they may abolish them, and raise
a standing army in their stead. There are various ways of destroying the
militia. A standing army may be perpetually established in their stead. I
abominate and detest the idea of a government, where there is a standing army.
The militia may be here destroyed by that method which has been practised in
other parts of the world before; that is, by rendering them useless — by
disarming them. Under various pretences, Congress may neglect to provide for
arming and disciplining the militia; and the state governments cannot do it,
for Congress has an exclusive right to arm them, &c. Here is a line of
division drawn between them — the state and general governments. The power
over the militia is divided between them. The national government has an
exclusive right to provide for arming, organizing, and disciplining the
militia, and for governing such part of them as may be employed in the service
of the United States. The state governments have the power of appointing the
officers, and of training the militia, according to the discipline prescribed
by Congress, if they should think proper to prescribe any. Should the national
government wish to render the militia useless, they may neglect them, and let
them perish, in order to have a pretence of establishing a standing army.
{380} No man has a greater regard for the military gentlemen than I
have. I admire their intrepidity, perseverance, and valor. But when once a
standing army is established in any country, the people lose their liberty.
When, against a regular and disciplined army, yeomanry are the only defence,
— yeomanry, unskilful and unarmed, — what chance is there for
preserving freedom? Give me leave to recur to the page of history, to warn you
of your present danger. Recollect the history of most nations of the world.
What havoc, desolation, and destruction, have been perpetrated by standing
armies! An instance within the memory of some of this house will show us how
our militia may be destroyed. Forty years ago, when the resolution of enslaving
America was formed in Great Britain, the British Parliament was advised by an
artful man,
[1]
who was governor of
Pennsylvania, to disarm the people; that it was the best and most effectual way
to enslave them; but that they should not do it openly, but weaken them, and
let them sink gradually, by totally disusing and neglecting the militia. [Here
Mr. Mason quoted sundry passages to this effect.] This was a most iniquitous
project. Why should we not provide against the danger of having our militia,
our real and natural strength, destroyed? The general government ought, at the
same time, to have some such power. But we need not give them power to abolish
our militia. If they neglect to arm them, and prescribe proper discipline, they
will be of no use. I am not acquainted with the military profession. I beg to
be excused for any errors I may commit with respect to it. But I stand on the
general principles of freedom, whereon I dare to meet any one. I wish that, in
case the general government should neglect to arm and discipline the militia,
there should be an express declaration that the state governments might arm and
discipline them. With this single exception, I would agree to this part, as I
am conscious the government ought to have the power.
They may effect the destruction of the militia, by rendering the service
odious to the people themselves, by harassing them from one end of the
continent to the other, and by keeping them under martial law.
The English Parliament never pass a mutiny bill but for {381} one year.
This is necessary; for otherwise the soldiers would be on the same footing with
the officers, and the army would be dissolved. One mutiny bill has been here in
force since the revolution. I humbly conceive there is extreme danger of
establishing cruel martial regulations. If, at any time, our rulers should have
unjust and iniquitous designs against our liberties, and should wish to
establish a standing army, the first attempt would be to render the service and
use of militia odious to the people themselves — Subjecting them to
unnecessary severity of discipline in time of peace, confining them under
martial law, and disgusting them so much as to make them cry out, "Give us a
standing army!" I would wish to have some check to exclude this danger; as,
that the militia should never be subject to martial law but in time of war. I
consider and fear the natural propensity of rulers to oppress the people. I
wish only to prevent them from doing evil. By these amendments I would give
necessary powers, but no unnecessary power. If the clause stands as it is now,
it will take from the state legislatures what divine Providence has given to
every individual — the means of self-defence. Unless it be moderated in
some degree, it will ruin us, and introduce a standing army.
Mr. MADISON. Mr. Chairman, I most cordially agree, with the honorable
member last up, that a standing army is one of the greatest mischiefs that can
possibly happen. It is a great recommendation for this system, that it provides
against this evil more than any other system known to us, and, particularly,
more than the old system of confederation. The most effectual way to guard
against a standing army, is to render it unnecessary. The most effectual way to
render it unnecessary, is to give the general government full power to call
forth the militia, and exert the whole natural strength of the Union, when
necessary. Thus you will furnish the people with sure and certain protection,
without recurring to this evil; and the certainty of this protection from the
whole will be a strong inducement to individual exertion. Does the organization
of the government warrant a belief that this power will be abused? Can we
believe that a government of a federal nature, consisting of many coëqual
sovereignties, and particularly having one branch chosen from the people, would
drag the militia unnecessarily to an immense distance? This, sir, would be
unworthy the most arbitrary despot. {382} They have no temptation whatever to
abuse this power; such abuse could only answer the purpose of exciting the
universal indignation of the people, and drawing on themselves the general
hatred and detestation of their country.
I cannot help thinking that the honorable gentleman has not considered,
in all its consequences, the amendment he has proposed. Would this be an equal
protection, sir, or would it not be a most partial provision? Some states have
three or four states in contact. Were this state invaded, as it is bounded by
several states, the militia of three or four states would, by this proposition,
be obliged to come to our aid; and those from some of the states would come a
far greater distance than those of others. There are other states, which, if
invaded, could be assisted by the militia of one state only, there being
several states which border but on one state. Georgia and New Hampshire would
be infinitely less safe than the other states. Were we to adopt this amendment,
we should set up those states as butts for invasions, invite foreign enemies to
attack them, and expose them to peculiar hardships and dangers. Were the
militia confined to any limited distance from their respective places of abode,
it would produce equal, nay, more inconveniences. The principles of equality
and reciprocal aid would be destroyed in either case.
I cannot conceive that this Constitution, by giving the general
government the power of arming the militia, takes it away from the state
governments. The power is concurrent, and not exclusive. Have we not found,
from experience, that, while the power of arming and governing the militia has
been solely vested in the state legislatures, they were neglected and rendered
unfit for immediate service? Every state neglected too much this most essential
object. But the general government can do it more effectually. Have we not also
found that the militia of one state were almost always insufficient to secure
its harassed neighbor? Did all the states furnish their quotas of militia with
sufficient promptitude? The assistance of one state will be of little avail to
repel invasion. But the general head of the whole Union can do it with effect,
if it be vested with power to use the aggregate strength of the Union. If the
regulation of the militia were to be committed to the executive authority
alone, there might be reason for providing {383} restrictions. But, sir, it is
the legislative authority that has this power. They must make a law for the
purpose.
The honorable member is under another mistake. He wishes martial law to
be exercised only in time of war, under an idea that Congress can establish it
in time of peace. The states are to have the authority of training the militia
according to the congressional discipline; and of governing them at all times
when not in the service of the Union. Congress is to govern such part of them
as may be employed in the actual service of the United States; and such part
only can be subject to martial law. The gentlemen in opposition have drawn a
most tremendous picture of the Constitution in this respect. Without
considering that the power was absolutely indispensable, they have alarmed us
with the possible abuse of it, but have shown no inducement or motive to tempt
them to such abuse. Would the legislature of the state drag the militia of the
eastern shore to the western frontiers, or those of the western frontiers to
the eastern shore, if the local militia were sufficient to effect the intended
purpose? There is something so preposterous, and so full of mischief, in the
idea of dragging the militia unnecessarily from one end of the continent to the
others that I think there can be no ground of apprehension, If you limit their
power over the militia, you give them a pretext for substituting a standing
army. If you put it in the power of the state governments to refuse the
militia, by requiring their consent, you destroy the general government, and
sacrifice particular states. The same principles and motives which produce
disobedience to requisitions, will produce refusal in this case.
The restrictions which the honorable gentleman mentioned to be in the
British constitution are all provisions against the power of the executive
magistrate; but the House of Commons may, if they be so disposed, sacrifice the
interest of their constituents in all those cases. They may prolong the
duration of mutiny bills, and grant supplies to the king to carry on an
impolitic war. But they have no motives to do so; for they have strong motives
to do their duty. We halve more ample security than the people of Great
Britain. The powers of the government are more limited and guarded, and our
representatives are more responsible than the members of the British House of
Commons.
{384} Mr. CLAY apprehended that, by this power, our militia might be
sent to the Mississippi. He observed that the sheriff might raise the
posse
comitatus
to execute the laws. He feared it would lead to the establishment
of a military government, as the militia were to be called forth to put the
laws into execution. He asked why this mode was preferred to the old,
established custom of executing the laws.
Mr. MADISON answered, that the power existed in all countries; that the
militia might be called forth, for that purpose, under the laws of this state
and every other state in the Union; that public force must be used when
resistance to the laws required it, otherwise society itself must be destroyed;
that the mode referred to by the gentleman might not be sufficient on every
occasion, as the sheriff must be necessarily restricted to the
posse
of
his own county. If the
posse
of one county were insufficient to overcome
the resistance to the execution of the laws, this power must be resorted to. He
did not, by any means, admit that the old mode was superseded by the
introduction of the new one. And it was obvious to him, that, when the civil
power was sufficient, this mode would never be put in practice.
Mr. HENRY. Mr. Chairman, in my judgment the
friends of the opposition have to act cautiously. We must make a firm stand
before we decide. I was heard to say, a few days ago, that the sword and purse
were the two great instruments of government; and I professed great repugnance
at parting with the purse, without any control, to the proposed system of
government. And now, when we proceed in this formidable compact, and come to
the national defence, the sword, I am persuaded we ought to be still more
cautious and circumspect; for I feel still more reluctance to surrender this
most valuable of rights.
The honorable member who has risen to explain several parts of the
system was pleased to say, that the best way of avoiding the danger of a
standing army, was, to have the militia in such a way as to render it
unnecessary; and that, as the new government would have power over the militia,
we should have no standing army — it being unnecessary. This argument
destroys itself. It demands a power, and denies the probability of its
exercise. There are suspicions of power on one hand, and absolute and unlimited
confidence {385} on the other. I hope to be one of those who have a large share
of suspicion. I leave it to this house, if there be not too small a portion on
the other side, by giving up too much to that government. You can easily see
which is the worst of two extremes. Too much suspicion may be corrected. If you
give too little power to-day, you may give more to-morrow. But the reverse of
the proposition will not hold. If you give too much power to-day, you cannot
retake it to-morrow: for to-morrow will never come for that purpose. If you
have the fate of other nations, you will never see it. It is easier to supply
deficiencies of power than to take back excess of power. This no man can
deny.
But, says the honorable member, Congress will keep the militia armed;
or, in other words, they will do their duty. Pardon me if I am too jealous and
suspicious to confide in this remote possibility. My honorable friend went on a
supposition that the American rulers, like all others, will depart from their
duty without bars and checks. No government can be safe without checks. Then he
told us they had no temptation to violate their duty, and that it would be
their interest to perform it. Does he think you are to trust men who cannot
have separate interests from the people? It is a novelty in the political world
(as great a novelty as the system itself) to find rulers without private
interests, and views of personal emoluments, and ambition. His supposition,
that they will not depart from their duty, as having no interest to do so, is
no satisfactory answer to my mind. This is no check. The government may be most
intolerable and destructive, if this be our only security.
My honorable friend attacked the honorable gentleman with universal
principles — that, in all nations and ages, rulers have been actuated by
motives of individual interest and private emoluments, and that in America it
would be so also. I hope, before we part with this great bulwark, this noble
palladium of safety, we shall have such checks interposed as will render us
secure. The militia, sir, is our ultimate safety. We can have no security
without it. But then, he says that the power of arming and organizing the
militia is concurrent, and to be equally exercised by the general and state
governments. I am sure, and I trust in the candor of that gentleman, that he
will recede from that {386} opinion, When his recollection will be called to
the particular clause which relates to it.
As my worthy friend said, there is a positive partition of power between
the two governments. To Congress is given the power of "arming, organizing, and
disciplining the militia, and governing such part of them as may be employed in
the service of the United States." To the state legislatures is given the power
of appointing the officers, and training the militia according to the
discipline prescribed by Congress." I observed before, that, if the power be
concurrent as to arming them, it is concurrent in other respects. If the states
have the right of arming them, &c., concurrently, Congress, has a
concurrent power of appointing the officers, and training the militia. If
Congress have that power, it is absurd. To admit this mutual concurrence of
powers will carry on into endless absurdity — that Congress has nothing
exclusive on the one hand, nor the states on the other. The rational
explanation is, that Congress shall have exclusive power of arming them,
&c., and that the State governments shall have exclusive power of
appointing the officers, &c. Let me put it in another light.
May we not discipline and arm them, as well as Congress, if the power be
concurrent? so that our militia shall have two sets of arms, double sets of
regimentals, &c.; and thus, at a very great cost, we shall be doubly armed.
The great object is, that every man be armed.
But
can the people afford to pay for double sets of arms, &c.? Every one Who is
able may have a gun. But we have learned, by experience, that, necessary as it
is to have arms, and though our Assembly has, by a succession of laws for many
years, endeavored to have the militia completely armed, it is still far from
being the case. When this power is given up to Congress without. limitation or
bounds, how will your militia be afraid? You trust to chance; for sure I am
that that nation which shall trust its liberties in other hands cannot long
exist. If gentlemen are serious when they suppose a concurrent power, where can
be the impolicy to amend it? Or, in other words, to say that Congress shall not
arm or discipline them, till the states Shall have refused or neglected to do
it? This is my object. I only wish to bring it to what they themselves say is
implied. Implication is to be the foundation of our civil liberties; and when
you speak of arming the militia by a {387} concurrence of power, you use
implication. But implication will not save you, when a strong army of veterans
comes upon you. You would be laughed at by the whole world, for trusting your
safety implicitly to implication.
The argument of my honorable friend was, that rulers might tyrannize.
The answer he received was, that they will not. In saying that they would not,
he admitted they might. In this great, this essential part of the Constitution,
if you are safe, it is not from the Constitution, but from the virtues of the
men in government. If gentlemen are willing to trust themselves and posterity
to so slender and improbable a chance, they have greater strength of nerves
than I have.
The honorable gentleman, in endeavoring to answer the question why the
militia were to be called forth to execute the laws, said that the civil power
would probably do it. He is driven to say, that the civil power may do it
instead of the militia. Sir, the military power ought not to interpose till the
civil power refuse. If this be the spirit of your new Constitution, that the
laws are to be enforced by military coercion, we may easily divine the happy
consequences which will result from it. The civil power is not to be employed
at all. If it be, show me it. I read inattentively, and could see nothing to
warrant a belief that the civil power can be called for. I should be glad to
see the power that authorizes Congress to do so. The sheriff will be aided by
military force. The most wanton excesses may be committed under color of this;
for every man in office, in the states, is to take an oath to support it in all
its operations. The honorable gentleman said, in answer to the objection that
the militia might be marched from New Hampshire to Georgia, that the members of
the government would not attempt to excite the indignation of the people. Here,
again, we have the general unsatisfactory answer, that they will be virtuous,
and that there is no danger.
Will gentlemen be satisfied with an answer which admits of dangers and
abuses if they be wicked? Let us put it of their power to do mischief. I am
convinced, there is no safety in the paper on the table as it stands now. I am
sorry to have an occasion to pass a eulogium on the British government, as
gentlemen may object to it. But how natural it is, when comparing deformities
to beauty, to be {388} struck with the superiority of the British government to
that system! In England, self-love — self-interest — powerfully
stimulates the executive magistrate to advance the prosperity of the nation. In
the most distant part, he feels the loss of his subjects. He will see the great
advantage of his posterity inseparable from the felicity of his people. Man is
a fallen creature, a fallible being, and cannot be depended on without
self-love. Your President will not have the same motives of self-love to impel
him to favor your interests. His political character is but transient, and he
will promote, as much as possible, his own private interests. He will conclude,
the constant observation has been that he will abuse his power, and that it is
expected. The king of England has a more permanent interest. His stock, his
family, is to continue in possession of the same emolument. The more
flourishing his nation, the more formidable and powerful is he. The sword and
purse are not united, in that government, in the same hands, as in this system.
Does not infinite security result from a separation?
But it is said that our Congress are more responsible than the British
Parliament. It appears to me that there is no real, but there may be some
specious responsibility. If Congress, in the execution of their unbounded
powers, shall have done wrong, how will you come at them to punish them, if
they are at the distance of five hundred miles? At such a great distance, they
will evade responsibility altogether. If you have given up your militia, and.
Congress shall refuse to arm them, you have lost every thing. Your existence
will be precarious, because you depend on others, whose interests are not
affected by your infelicity. If Congress are to arm us exclusively, the man of
New Hampshire may vote for or against it, as well as the Virginian. The great
distance and difference between the two places render it possible that the
people of that country can know or pursue what will promote our convenience. I
therefore contend that, if, Congress do not arm the militia, we ought to
provide for it ourselves.
Mr. NICHOLAS. Mr. Chairman, the great object of government, in every
country, is security and public defence. I suppose, therefore, that what we
ought to attend to here, is, what is the best mode of enabling the general
government to protect us. One of three ways must be pursued {389} for this
purpose. We must either empower them to employ, and rely altogether on, a
standing army; or depend altogether on militia; or else we must enable them to
use the one or the other of these two ways, as may be found most expedient. The
least reflection will satisfy us that the Convention has adopted the only
proper method. If a standing army were alone to be employed, such an army must
be kept up in time of peace as would be sufficient in war. The dangers of such
an army are so striking that every man would oppose the adoption of this
government, had it been proposed by it as the only mode of defence. Would it be
safe to depend on militia alone, without the agency of regular forces, even in
time of war? Were we to be invaded by a powerful, disciplined army, should we
be safe with militia? Could men unacquainted with the hardships, and unskilled
in the discipline of war, — men only inured to the peaceable occupations
of domestic life, — encounter with success the most skilful veterans,
inured to the fatigues and toils of campaigns? Although some people are pleased
with the theory of reliance on militia, as the sole defence of a nation, yet I
think it will be found, in practice, to be by no means adequate. Its inadequacy
is proved by the experience of other nations. But were it fully adequate, it
would be unequal. If war be supported by militia, it is by personal service.
The poor man does as much as the rich. Is this just? What is the consequence
when war is carried on by regular troops? They are paid by taxes raised from
the people, according to their property; and then the rich man pays an adequate
share.
But, if you confine yourselves to militia alone, the poor man is
oppressed. The rich man exempts himself by furnishing a substitute. And,
although it be oppressive to the poor, it is not advantageous to the rich? For
what he gives would pay regular troops. It is therefore neither safe nor just
to depend entirely on militia. As these two ways are ineligible, let us
consider the third method. Does this Constitution put this on a proper footing?
It enables Congress to raise an army when necessary, or to call forth the
militia when necessary. What will be the consequence of their having these two
powers? Till there be a necessity for an army to be raised, militia will do.
And when an army will be raised, the militia will still be employed, which
{390} will render a less numerous army sufficient. By these means, there will
be a sufficient defence for the country, without having a standing army
altogether, or oppressing the people. The worthy member has said, that it ought
to be a part of the Constitution that the militia ought not to go out of the
state without the consent of the state legislature. What would be the
consequence of this? The general defence is trusted to the general government.
How is it to protect the Union? It must apply to the state governments before
it can do it. Is this right? Is it not subjecting the general will to the
particular will, and exposing the general defence to the particular caprice of
the members of the state governments? This would entirely defeat the power
given to Congress to provide for the general defence; and unless the militia
were to aid in the execution of the laws when resisted, the other powers of
Congress would be nugatory. But he has said that this idea is justified by the
English history; for that the king has the power of the sword, but must apply
to the commons for the means of using it — for the purse. This is not a
similar case. The king and commons are parts of the same government. But the
general government is separate and perfectly distinct from the individual
governments of the states. Should Congress be obliged to apply to the
particular states for the militia, they may be refused, and the government
overturned. To make the case similar, he ought to show us that the king and
Parliament were obliged to call on some other power to raise forces, and
provide for the means of carrying on war; for, otherwise, there is no
similitude.
If the general government be obliged to apply to the states, a part will
be thereby rendered superior to the whole. What are to be the effects of the
amendments proposed? To destroy one of the most beneficial parts of the
Constitution, put an obstacle in the way of the general government, and put it
in the power of the state governments to take away the aid of the militia. Who
will be most likely to want the aid of the militia? The Southern States, from
their situation. Who are the most likely to be called for? The Eastern States,
from their strength, &c. Should we put it in the power of particular states
to refuse the militia, it ought to operate against ourselves. It is the height
of bad policy to alter this part of the system. But it is said, the {391}
militia are to be disarmed. Will they be worse armed than they are now? Still,
as my honorable friend said, the states would have power to arm them. The power
of arming them is concurrent between the general and state governments; for the
power of arming them rested in the state governments before; and although the
power be given to the general government, yet it is not given exclusively; for,
in every instance where the Constitution intends that the general government
shall exercise any power exclusively of the state governments, words of
exclusion are particularly inserted. Consequently, in every case where such
words of exclusion are not inserted, the power is concurrent to the state
governments and Congress, unless where it is impossible that the power should
be exercised by both. It is, therefore, not an absurdity to say, that Virginia
may arm the militia, should Congress neglect to arm them. But it would be
absurd to say that we should arm them after Congress had armed them, when it
would be unnecessary; or that Congress should appoint the officers, and train
the militia, when it is expressly excepted from their powers.
But his great uneasiness is, that the militia may be under martial law
when not on duty. A little attention will be sufficient to remove this
apprehension. The Congress is to have power "to provide for the arming,
organizing, and disciplining the militia, and for governing such part of them
as may be employed in the service of the United States." Another part tells you
that they are to provide for calling them forth, to execute the laws of the
Union, suppress insurrections, and repel invasions. These powers only amount to
this — that they can only call them forth in these three cases, and that
they can only govern such part of them as may be in the actual service of the
United States. This causes a sufficient security that they will not be under
martial law but when in actual service. If, sir, a mutiny bill has continued
since the revolution, recollect that this is done under the present happy
government. Under the new government, no appropriation of money, to the use of
raising or supporting an army, shall be for a longer term than two years. The
President is to command. But the regulation of the army and navy is given to
Congress. Our representatives will be a powerful check here. The influence of
the commons, in England, in this case, is very predominant. But the worthy
member {392} on the other side of the house has said that the militia are the
great bulwark of the nation, and wishes to take no step to bring them into
disuse. What is the inference? He wishes to see the militia employed. The
Constitution provides what he wants. This is, to bring them frequently into
use. If he expects that, by depriving the general government of the power of
calling them into more frequent use, they will be rendered more useful and
expert, he is greatly deceived. We ought to part with the power to use the
militia to somebody. To whom? Ought we not to part with it for the general
defence? If you give it not to Congress, it may be denied by the states. If you
withhold it, you render a standing army absolutely necessary; for if they have
not the militia, they must have such a body of troops as will be necessary for
the general defence of the Union.
It was said, by the gentleman, that there was something singular in this
government, in saying that the militia shall be called forth to execute the
laws of the Union. There is a great difference between having the power in
three cases, and in all cases. They cannot call them forth for any other
purpose than to execute the laws, suppress insurrections, and repel invasions.
And can any thing be more demonstrably obvious, than that the laws ought to be
enforced if resisted, and insurrections quelled, and foreign invasions
repelled? But it is asked, Why has not the Constitution declared that the civil
power shall be employed to execute the laws? Has it said that the civil power
shall not be employed? The civil officer is to execute the laws on all
occasions; and, if he be resisted, this auxiliary power is given to Congress of
calling forth the militia to execute them, when it shall be found absolutely
necessary.
From his argument on this occasion, and his eulogium on the executive
magistrate of Britain, it might be inferred that the executive magistrate here
was to have the power of calling forth the militia. What is the idea of those
gentlemen who beard his argument on this occasion? Is it not that the President
is to have this power — that President, who, he tells us, is not to have
those high feelings, and that fine sensibility, which the British monarch
possesses? No, sir, the President is not to have this power. God forbid we
should ever see a public man in this country who should {393} have this power.
Congress only are to have the power of calling forth the militia. And will the
worthy member say that he would trust this power to a prince, governed by the
dictates of ambition, or mere motives of personal interest, sooner than he
would trust it in the hands of Congress? I will trust Congress, because they
will be actuated by motives of fellow-feeling. They can make no regulations but
what will affect themselves, their friends, and relations. But I would not
trust a prince, whose ambition and private views would be the guide of his
actions. When the government is carried on by representatives, and persons of
my own choice, whom I can follow when far removed, who can be displaced at
stated and short periods, — I can safely confide the power to them. It
appears to me that this power is essentially necessary; for, as the general
defence is trusted to Congress, we ought to intrust fully the means. This
cannot be fully done without giving the power of calling forth the militia; and
this power is sufficiently guarded.
Mr. MADISON. Mr. Chairman, the honorable gentleman has laid much stress
on the maxim, that the purse and sword ought not to be put in the same hands,
with a view of pointing out the impropriety of vesting this power in the
general government. But it is totally inapplicable to this question. What is
the meaning of this maxim? Does it mean that the sword and purse ought not to
be trusted in the hands of the same government? This cannot be the meaning; for
there never was, and I can say there never will be, an efficient government, in
which both are not vested. The only rational meaning is, that the sword and
purse are not to be given to the same member. Apply it to the British
government, which has been mentioned. The sword is in the hands of the British
king; the purse in the hands of the Parliament. It is so in America, as far as
any analogy can exist. Would the honorable member say that the sword ought to
be put in the hands of the representatives of the people, or in other hands
independent of the government altogether? If he says so, it will violate the
meaning of that maxim. This would be a novelty hitherto unprecedented. The
purse is in the hands of the representatives of the people. They have the
appropriation of all moneys. They have the direction and regulation of land and
naval forces. They are to provide for calling forth the militia; and the {394}
President is to have the command, and, in conjunction with the Senate, to
appoint the officers. The means ought to be commensurate to the end. The end is
general protection. This cannot be effected without a general power to use the
strength of the Union.
We are told that both sides are distinguished by these great traits,
confidence and distrust. Perhaps there may be a less or greater tincture of
suspicion on one side than the other. But give me leave to say that, where
power can be safely lodged, if it be necessary, reason commands its cession. In
such case, it is imprudent and unsafe to withhold it. It is universally
admitted that it must be lodged in some hands or other. The question, then, is,
in what part of the government it ought to be placed; and not whether any other
political body, independent of the government, should have it or not. I profess
myself to have had a uniform zeal for a republican government. If the honorable
member, or any other person, conceives that my attachment to this system arises
from a different source, he is greatly mistaken. From the first moment that my
mind was capable of contemplating political subjects, I never, till this
moment, ceased wishing success to a well-regulated republican government. The
establishment of such in America was my most ardent desire. I have considered
attentively (and my consideration has been aided by experience) the tendency of
a relaxation of laws and a licentiousness of manners.
If we review the history of all republics, we are justified in the
supposition that, if the bands of the government be relaxed, confusion will
ensue. Anarchy ever has produced, and I fear ever will produce, despotism. What
was the state of things that preceded the wars and revolutions in Germany?
Faction and confusion. What produced the disorders and commotions of Holland?
The like causes. In this commonwealth, and every state in the Union, the
relaxed operation of the government has been sufficient to alarm the friends of
their country. The rapid increase of population in every state is an additional
reason to cheek dissipation and licentiousness. Does it not strongly call for
the friends of republican government to endeavor to establish a republican
organization? A change is absolutely necessary. I can see no danger in
submitting to practice an experiment which seems to be founded on the best
theoretic principles.
{395} But the honorable member tells us there is not an equal
responsibility delineated, on that paper, to that which is in the English
government. Calculations have been made here, that, when you strike off those
entirely elected by-the influence of the crown, the other part does not bear a
greater proportion to the number of their people, than the number fixed in that
paper bears to the number of inhabitants in the United States. If it were
otherwise, there is still more responsibility in this government. Our
representatives are chosen for two years. In Great Britain, they are Chosen for
seven years. Any citizen may be elected here. In Great Britain, no one can be
elected, to represent a county, without having an estate of the value of six
hundred pounds sterling a year; nor to represent a corporation, without an
annual estate of three hundred pounds. Yet we are told, there is no sympathy or
fellow-feeling between the people here and their representatives; but that in
England they have both. A just comparison will show that, if confidence be due
to the government there, it is due tenfold here.
[Mr. Madison made many other observations, but spoke so
very low that he could not be distinctly heard.]
Mr. HENRY. Mr. Chairman, it is now confessed that
this is a national government. There is not a single federal feature in it. It
has been alleged, within these walls, during the debates, to be national and
federal, as it suited the arguments of gentlemen.
But now, when we have heard the definition of it, it is purely national.
The honorable member was pleased to say that the sword and purse included every
thing of consequence. And shall we trust them out of our hands without checks
and barriers? The sword and purse are essentially necessary for the government.
Every essential requisite must be in Congress. Where are the parse and sword of
Virginia? They must go to Congress. What is become of your country? The
Virginian government is but a name. It clearly results, from his last argument,
that we are to be consolidated. We should be thought unwise indeed to keep two
hundred legislators in Virginia, when the government is, in fact, gone to
Philadelphia or New York. We are, as a state, to form no part of the
government. Where are your checks? The most essential objects of government are
to be administered {396} by Congress. How, then, can the state governments be
any cheek upon them? If we are to be a republican government, it will be
consolidated, not confederated.
The means, says the gentleman, must be commensurate to the end. How does
this apply? All things in common are left with this government. There being an
infinitude in the government, there must be an infinitude of means to carry it
on. This is a sort of mathematical government that may appear well on paper,
but cannot sustain examination, or be safely reduced to practice. The
delegation of power to an adequate number of representatives, and an unimpeded
reversion of it back to the people, at short periods, form the principal traits
of a republican government. The idea of a republican government, in that paper,
is something superior to the poor people. The governing persons are the
servants of the people. There, the servants are greater than their masters;
because it includes infinitude, and infinitude excludes every idea of
subordination. In this the creature has destroyed and soared above the creator.
For if its powers be infinite, what rights have the people remaining? By that
very argument, despotism has made way in all countries where the people
unfortunately have been enslaved by it. We are told, the sword and purse are
necessary for the national defence. The junction of these, without limitation,
in the same hands, is, by logical and mathematical conclusions, the description
of despotism.
The reasons adduced here to-day have long ago been advanced in favor of
passive obedience and non-resistance. In 1688, the British nation expelled
their monarch for attempting to trample on their liberties. The doctrine of
divine right and passive obedience was said to be commanded by Heaven — it
was inculcated by his minions and adherents. He wanted to possess, without
control, the sword and purse. The attempt cost him his crown. This government
demands the same powers. I see reason to be more and As more alarmed. I fear it
will terminate in despotism. As to his objection of the abuse of liberty, it is
denied. The political inquiries and promotions of the peasants are a happy
circumstance. A foundation of knowledge is a great mark of happiness. When the
spirit of inquiry after political discernment goes forth among the lowest of
the people, it rejoices my heart. Why such fearful apprehensions? I {397} defy
him to show that liberty has been abused. There has been no rebellion here,
though there was in Massachusetts. Tell me of any country which has been so
long without a rebellion. Distresses have been patiently borne, in this
country, which would have produced revolutions in other countries. We strained
every nerve to make provisions to pay off our soldiers and officers. They,
though not paid, and greatly distressed at the conclusion of the war,
magnanimously acquiesced. The depreciation of the circulating currency very
much involved many of them, and thousands of other citizens, in absolute ruin;
but the same patient fortitude and forbearance marked their conduct. What would
the people of England have done in such a situation? They would have resisted
the government, and murdered the tyrant. But in this country, no abuse of power
has taken place. It is only a general assertion, unsupported, which suggests
the contrary. Individual licentiousness will show its baneful consequences in
every country, let its government be what it may.
But the honorable gentleman says, responsibility will exist more in this
than in the British government. It exists here more in name than any thing
else. I need not speak of the executive authority. But consider the two houses
— the American Parliament. Are the members of the Senate responsible? They
may try themselves, and, if found guilty on impeachment, are to be only removed
from office. In England, the greatest characters are brought to the block for
their sinister administration. They have a power there, not to dismiss them
from office, but from life, for mal-practices. The king himself cannot pardon
in this case. How does it stand with respect to your lower house? You have but
ten. Whatever number may be there, six is a majority. Will your country afford
no temptation, no money to corrupt them? Cannot six fat places be found to
accommodate them? They may, after the first Congress, take any place. There
will be a multiplicity of places. Suppose they corruptly obtain places. Where
will you find them, to punish them? At the farthest parts of the Union; in the
ten miles square, or within a state where there is a stronghold. What are you
to do when these men return from Philadelphia? Two things are to be done. To
detect the offender and bring him to punishment. You will find it difficult to
do either.
{398} In England, the proceedings are openly transacted. They deliver
their opinions freely and openly. They do not fear all Europe. Compare it to
this. You cannot detect the guilty. The publication from time to time is merely
optional in them. They may prolong the period, or suppress it altogether, under
pretence of its being necessary to be kept secret. The yeas and nays will avail
nothing. Is the publication daily? It may be a year, or once in a century. I
know this would be an unfair construction in the common concerns of life. But
it would satisfy the words of the Constitution. It would be some security were
it once a year, or even once in two years. When the new election comes on,
unless you detect them, what becomes Of your responsibility? Will they discover
their guilt when they wish to be reëlected? This would suppose them to be
not only bad, but foolish men, in pursuit of responsibility. Have you a right
to scrutinize into the conduct of your representatives? Can any man, who
conceives himself injured, go and demand a sight of their journals? But it will
be told that I am suspicious. I am answered, to every question, that they will
be good men. In England, they see daily what is doing in Parliament. They will
hear from their Parliament in one thirty-ninth part of the time that we shall
hear from Congress in this scattered country. Let it be proposed, in England,
to lay a poll tax, or enter into any measure, that will injure one part and
produce emoluments to another, intelligence will fly quickly as the rays of
light to the people. They will instruct their representatives to oppose it, and
will petition against it, and get it prevented Or redressed instantly.
Impeachment follows quickly a violation of duty. Will it be so here? You must
detect the offence, and punish the defaulter. How will this be done When you
know not the offender, even though he had a previous design to commit the
misdemeanor? Your Parliament will consist of Sixty-five. Your share will be ten
out of the sixty-five. Will they not take shelter, by saying they were in the
minority — that the men from New Hampshire and Kentucky outvoted them?
Thus will responsibility, that great pillar of a free government, be taken
away.
The honorable gentleman wished to try the experiment. Loving his country
as he does, he would not surely wish to trust his happiness to an experiment,
from which much harm, but no good, may result.
{399} I will speak another time, and will not fatigue the committee now.
I think the friends of the opposition ought to make a pause here; for I can see
no safety to my country, if you give up this power.
Mr. MADISON. Mr. Chairman, the honorable member expresses surprise that
I wished to see an experiment made of a republican government, or that I would
risk the happiness of my country on an experiment. What is the situation of
this country at this moment? Is it not rapidly approaching to anarchy? Are not
the bands of the Union so absolutely relaxed as almost to amount to a
dissolution? What has produced despotism and tyranny in other parts of the
world? Is it not agreed, upon all hands, that a reform is necessary? If any
takes place, will it not be an experiment, as well as this system? He
acknowledges the existing system to be defective. He admits the necessity of
some change. Would not the change he would choose himself be also an
experiment? He has repeated objections which have already been clearly refuted,
and which, therefore, I will pass over.
With respect to responsibility, still the honorable member thinks that
the House of Representatives and Senate will suffer by a comparison with the
British Parliament. I will not repeat the contrast made before, which he has
mentioned. He tells us what may be done by our representatives with respect to
the admission to offices, and insinuates that less may be done in Great Britain
by the members of Parliament. In this country, by this system, no new office
can be taken by a member of the government, and if he takes an old one, he
loses his seat. If the emoluments of any existing office be increased, he
cannot take it. How is it in Great Britain? Any member may have any place; for
Parliament may create any new offices they please, or increase the emoluments
of existing offices, and yet the members may accept any such places. Any member
may accept any office whatever, and go again into Parliament. Does this
comparison militate against this system? He tells us the affairs of our country
are not alarming. I wish this assertion was well founded. I concur with him in
rejoicing to see the people enlightened and vigilant. I should be happy to see
the people paying respect to the laws and magistracy. But is respect paid to
our laws? Every man's experience will tell him more, perhaps, than any thing I
could say. {400} Public and private confidence daily and rapidly decrease.
Experiments must be made, and in that form which we must find most to the
interest of our country.
Gov. RANDOLPH. Mr. Chairman, our attention is summoned to this clause
respecting the militia, and alarms are thrown out to persuade us that it
involves a multiplicity of danger. It is supposed by the honorable gentleman
lately up, and another gentleman, that the clause for calling forth the militia
to suppress insurrections, repel invasions, and execute the laws of the Union;
implies that, instead of using civil force in the first instance, the militia
are to be called forth to arrest petty offenders against the laws. Ought not
common sense to be the rule of interpreting this Constitution? Is there an
exclusion of the civil power? Does it provide that the laws are to be enforced
by military coercion in all cases? No, sir. All that we are to infer is, that
when the civil power is not sufficient, the militia must be drawn out. Who are
they? He says (and I cheerfully acquiesce in the rectitude of the assertion)
that they are the bulwarks of our liberties. Shall we be afraid that the
people, this bulwark of freedom, will turn instruments of slavery? The officers
are to be appointed by the states. Will you admit that they will act so
criminally as to turn against their country? The officers of the general
government are attached to it, because they derive their appointment from it.
Admitting the militia officers to be corrupt, what is to make them be in favor
of the general government? Will not the same reason attach them to the state
governments? But it is feared that the militia are to be subjected to martial
law when not in service. They are only to be called out in three cases, and
only to be governed by the authority of Congress when in the actual service of
the United States; so that their articles of war can no longer operate upon
them than when in the actual service of the Union.
Can it be presumed that you can vest the supreme power of the United
States with the power of defence, and yet take away this natural defence from
them? You risk the general defence by withholding this power.
The honorable gentleman, speaking of responsibility, has mistaken facts.
He says the king cannot pardon offenders found guilty on impeachment. The king
can pardon after {401} impeachment, though not before. He says, further, that
in America every thing is concealed, whereas in England the operations of the
government are openly transacted. In England, those subjects which produce
impeachments are not opinions. No man ever thought of impeaching a man for an
opinion. It would be impossible to discover whether the error in opinion
resulted from a wilful mistake of the heart, or an involuntary fault of the
head. What are the occasions of impeachments most commonly? Treaties. Are these
previously known? No. Till after they are presented to the public eye, they are
not known. Those who advised a treaty are not known till then. There ought not
to be a publication on the subject of negotiations till they are concluded. So
that, when he thinks there is a greater notoriety in this case in England than
here, I say he is mistaken. There will be as much notoriety in America as in
England. The spirit of the nation occasions the notoriety of their political
operations, and not any constitutional requisition. The spirit of liberty will
not be less predominant in America, I hope, than there. With respect to a
standing army, I believe there was not a member in the federal Convention, who
did not feel indignation at such an institution. What remedy, then, could be
provided? Leave the country defenceless? In order to provide for our defence,
and exclude the dangers of a standing army, the general defence is left to
those who are the objects of defence. It is left to the militia, who will
suffer if they become the instruments of tyranny. The general government must
have power to call them forth when the general defence requires it. In order to
produce greater security, the state governments are to appoint the officers.
The President, who commands them when in actual service of the Union, is
appointed secondarily by the people. This is a further security. Is it not
incredible that men who are interested in the happiness of their country —
whose friends, relations, and connections, must be involved in the fate of
their country — should turn against their country? I appeal to every man
whether, if any of our own officers were called upon to destroy the liberty of
their country, he believes they would assent to such an act of suicide. The
state governments, having the power of appointing them, may elect men who are
the most remarkable for their virtue of attachment to their country.
{402} Mr. GEORGE MASON, after having read the clause which gives
Congress power to provide for arming, organizing, and disciplining the militia,
and governing those in actual service of the Union, declared it as his firm
belief, that it included the power of annexing punishments, and establishing
necessary discipline, more especially as the construction of this, and every
other part of the Constitution, was left to those who were to govern. If so, he
asked if Congress could not inflict the most ignominious punishments on the
most worthy citizens of the community. Would freemen submit to such indignant
treatment? It might be thought a strained construction, but it was no more than
Congress might put upon it. He thought such severities might be exercised on
the militia as would make them wish the use of the militia to be utterly
abolished, and assent to the establishment of a standing army. He then adverted
to the representation, and said it was not sufficiently full to take into
consideration the feelings and sentiments of all the citizens. He admitted that
the nature of the country rendered a full representation impracticable. But he
strongly urged that impracticability as a conclusive reason for granting no
powers to the government but such as were absolutely indispensable, and these
to be most cautiously guarded.
He then recurred to the power of impeachment. On this subject he
entertained great suspicions. He apologized for being suspicious. He entered
into the world with as few suspicious as any man. Young men, he said, were apt
to think well of every one, till time and experience taught them better. After
a treaty manifestly repugnant to the interests of the country was made, he
asked how they were to be punished. Suppose it had been made by the means of
bribery and corruption. Suppose they had received one hundred thousand guineas,
or louis d'ors, from a foreign nation, for consenting to a treaty, how was the
truth to be come at? Corruption and bribery of that kind had happened in other
governments, and might in this. The House of Representatives were to impeach
them. The senators were to try themselves. If a majority of them were guilty of
the crime, would they pronounce themselves guilty? Yet, says he, this is called
responsibility. He wished to know in what court the members of the government
were to be tried for the commission of indictable offences, or injuries to
individuals. {403} He acknowledged himself to be no lawyer; but he thought he
could see that they could be tried neither in the state nor federal courts. The
only means, therefore, of bringing them to punishment, must be by a court
appointed by law; and the law to punish them must also be made by themselves.
By whom is it to be made? demanded he. By the very men who are interested in
not inflicting punishment. Yet, says he, though they make the law, and fix the
punishment to be inflicted on themselves, it is called responsibility. If the
senators do not agree to the law, it will not he made, and thus they will
escape altogether.
[Mr. Mason then animadverted on the ultimate control of
Congress over the elections, and was proceeding to prove that it was dangerous,
when he was called to order, by Mr. Nicholas, for departing from the clause
under consideration. A desultory conversation ensued, and Mr. Mason was
permitted to proceed. He was of opinion that the control over elections tended
to destroy responsibility. He declared he had endeavored to discover whether
this power was really necessary, or what was the necessity of vesting it in the
government, but he could find no good reason for giving it; that the reasons
suggested were that, in case the states should refuse or neglect to make
regulations, or in case they should be prevented from making regulations by
rebellion or invasion, then the general government should interpose.]
Mr. Mason then proceeded thus: If there be any other cases, I should be
glad to know them; for I know them not. If there be no other, why not confine
them to these cases? But the power here, as in a thousand other instances, is
without reason. I have no power which any other person call take from me. I
have no right of representation, if they can take it from me. I say, therefore,
that Congress may, by this claim, take away the right of representation, or
render it nugatory, despicable, or oppressive. It is at least argumentative,
that what may be done will be done, and that a favorite point will be done by
those who can.
Suppose the state of Virginia should adopt such regulations as gentlemen
say, (and in which I accord with all my heart,) and divide the state into ten
districts. Suppose, then, that Congress should order, instead of this, that the
elections should be held in the borough of Norfolk. Will any man say that any
man in Frederick or Berkely county would have any share in this representation,
if the members were chosen in Norfolk? Nay, I might go farther, and say that
{404} the elections for all the states might be had in New York, and then we
should have to go so far that the privilege would be lost altogether; for but
few gentlemen could afford to go thither. Some of the best friends of the
Constitution have advocated that the elections should be in one place. This
power is not necessary, and is capable of great abuse. It ought to be confined
to the particular cases in which they assert it to be necessary. Whatever
gentlemen may think of the opposition, I will never agree to give any power
which I conceive to be dangerous.
I have doubts on another point. The 5th section of the 1st article
provides, "that each house shall keep a journal of its proceedings, and from
time to time publish the same, excepting such parts as may, in their judgment,
require secrecy." This enables them to keep the negotiations about treaties
secret. Under this veil they may conceal any thing and every thing. Why not
insert words that would exclude ambiguity and danger? The words of the
Confederation, that defective system, are, in this respect, more eligible. What
are they? In the last clause of the 9th article it is provided, "that Congress
shall publish the journal of their proceedings monthly, except such parts
thereof, relating to treaties, alliances, or military operations, as, in their
judgment, require secrecy." The proceedings, by that system, are to be
published monthly, with certain exceptions. These are proper guards. It is not
so here. On the contrary, they may conceal what they please.
Instead of giving information, they will produce suspicion. You cannot
discover the advocates of their iniquitous acts. This is an additional defect
of responsibility. Neither house can adjourn, without the consent of the other,
for more than three days. This is no parliamentary rule. It is untrodden
ground, and it appears to me liable to much exception.
The senators are chosen for six years. They are not recallable for those
six years, and are reëligible at the end of the six years. It stands on a
very different ground from the Confederation. By that system, they were only
elected for one year, might be recalled, and were incapable of reëlection.
But in the new Constitution, instead of being elected for one, they are chosen
for six years. They cannot be recalled, in all that time, for any misconduct,
and at the end of that long term may again be elected. What will be {405} the
operation of this? Is it not probable that those gentlemen, who will be elected
senators, will fix themselves in the federal town, and become citizens of that
town more than of our state? They will purchase a good seat in or near the
town, and become inhabitants of that place. Will it not be, then, in the power
of the Senate to worry the House of Representatives into any thing? They will
be a continually existing body. They will exercise those machinations and
contrivances which the many have always to fear from the few. The House of
Representatives is the only check on the Senate, with their enormous powers.
But, by that clause, you give them the power of worrying the House of
Representatives into a compliance with any measure. The senators, living on the
spot, will feel no inconvenience from long sessions, as they will vote
themselves handsome pay, without incurring any additional expenses. Your
representatives are on a different ground, from their shorter continuance in
office. The gentlemen from Georgia are six or seven hundred miles from home,
and wish to go home. The Senate, taking advantage of this, by stopping the
other house from adjourning, may worry them into ally thing. These are my
doubts, and I think the provision not consistent with the usual parliamentary
modes.
Mr. LEE, (of Westmoreland.) Mr. Chairman, I am anxious to know the truth
on this great occasion. I was in hopes of receiving true information, but have
been disappointed. I have heard suspicions against possibility, and not against
probability. As to the distinction which lies between the gentlemen for and
against the Constitution, — in the first place, most of the arguments the
latter use pay no regard to the necessity of the Union, which is our object. In
the next place, they use contradictory arguments. It may be remembered that we
were told there was great danger of an aristocracy governing this country; for
that their wages would be so low, that the rich alone could serve. And what
does another gentleman say? That the price will be so high, that they will fix
themselves comfortably in office, and, by their power and extravagant
emoluments, ruin us. Ought we to adduce arguments like these, which imply a
palpable contradiction? We ought to use arguments capable of discussion.
I beg leave to make some reply to what the honorable {406} gentleman
over the way said. He rose with great triumph and exultation, saying that we
had conceded that the government was national. The honorable gentleman is so
little used to triumph on the grounds of reasoning, that he suffers himself to
be quite captivated by the least appearance of victory. What reason had he to
say that we admitted it to be a national government? We agree that the sword
and the purse are in the hands of the general government for different
designated purposes. What had the honorable member conceded? That the objects
of the government were general, as designated in that system, equally affecting
the interests of the people of every state. This was the sole concession, and
which by no means warrants his conclusion. Then why did the honorable gentleman
seize it as a victory? Does he mean to object to the Constitution by putting
words into our mouths which we never uttered? Did that gentleman say that the
happiness of the people depended on the private virtues of the members of the
government, and not on its construction? Did any gentleman admit this, as he
insinuated? No, sir, we never admitted such a conclusion. Why, then, take up
the time of this house in declaiming on words we never said? We say that it
will secure our liberty and happiness, and that it is so constructed and
organized, that we need apprehend no danger.
But, says he, the creature destroys the creator. How has he proved it?
By his bare assertion. By ascribing infinitude to powers clearly limited and
defined, for certain designated purposes. I shall not repeat the arguments
which have fully refuted this idea of the honorable gentleman.
But gentlemen say that we must apply to the militia to execute the
constitutional laws, without the interposition of the civil power, and that a
military officer is to be substituted for the sheriff in all cases. This
unwarrantable objection is urged, like many others, to produce the rejection of
this government, though contrary to reason. What is the meaning of the clause
under debate? Does not their explanation violate the natural meaning of
language? Is it to be inferred that, when the laws are not opposed, judgments
must be executed by the militia? Is this the right and liberal way of
discussing the general national objects? I am astonished that gentlemen should
attempt to impose so absurd a construction upon us.
{407} The honorable gentleman last up says, that organizing the militia
gives Congress power to punish them when not in the actual Service of the
government. The gentleman is mistaken in the meaning of the word
organization
, to explain which would unnecessarily take up time. Suffice
it to say, it does not include the infliction of punishments. The militia will
be subject to the common regulations of war when in actual service; but not in
time of peace.
But the honorable gentleman said there is danger of an abuse of the
power, and attempted to exemplify. And delegated power may be abused. It would
be civil and candid in those gentlemen, who inveigh against this Constitution
with such malignity, to show in what manner adequate powers can be given
without a possibility of being abased. It appears to me to be as well secured
as it can be, and that the alterations he proposes would involve many
disadvantages. I cannot, then, but conclude that this government will, in my
opinion, secure our liberty and happiness, without any alteration.
Mr. CLAY made several remarks; but he spoke too low. He admitted that he
might be mistaken with respect to the exclusion of the civil power in executing
the laws. As it was insinuated that he was not under the influence of common
sense in making the objection, his error might result from his deficiency in
that respect. But he thought that another gentleman was as deficient in common
decency as he was in common sense. He was not, however, convinced that the
civil power would be employed. If it was meant that the militia should not be
called out to execute the laws in all cases, why were they not satisfied with
the words, "repel invasions, suppress insurrections"? He thought the word
insurrection
included every opposition to the laws; and if so, it would
be sufficient to call them forth to suppress insurrections, without mentioning
that they were to execute the laws of the Union. He added that, although the
militia officers were appointed by the state governments, yet, as they were
sworn to obey the superior power of Congress, no check or security would result
from their nomination of them.
Mr. MADISON. Mr. Chairman, I cannot think that the explanation of the
gentleman last up is founded in reason. It does not say that the militia shall
be called out in all cases, {408} but in certain cases. There are cases in
which the execution of the laws may require the operation of militia, which
cannot be said to be an invasion or insurrection. There may be a resistance to
the laws which cannot be termed an insurrection.
My honorable friend over the way has opened a new source of argument. He
has introduced the assertions of gentlemen out of doors. If we thus depart from
regularity, we shall never be able to come to a decision.
If there be any gentleman who is a friend to the government, and says
that the elections may or ought to be held in one place, he is an enemy to it
on that ground. With respect to the time, place, and manner of elections, I
cannot think, notwithstanding the apprehensions of the honorable gentleman,
that there is any danger, or, if abuse should take place, that there is not
sufficient security. If all the people, of the United States should be directed
to go to elect in one place, the members of the government would be execrated
for the infamous regulation. Many would go to trample them under foot for their
conduct; and they would be succeeded by men who would remove it. They would not
dare to meet the universal hatred and detestation of the people, and run the
risk of the certain dreadful consequences. We must keep within the compass of
human probability. If a possibility be the cause of objection, we must object
to every government in America. But the honorable gentleman may say that better
guards may be provided. Let us consider the objection. The power of regulating
the time, place, and manner of elections, must be vested somewhere. It could
not be fixed in the Constitution without involving great inconveniences. They
could then have no authority to adjust the regulation to the changes of
circumstances. The question then is, whether it ought to be fixed unalterably
in the state governments, or be subject to the control of the general
government. Is it not obvious that the general government would be destroyed
without this control? It has already been demonstrated that it will produce
many conveniences. Have we not sufficient security against abuse? Consider
fully the principles of the government. The sum of the powers given up by the
people of Virginia is divided into two classes — one to the federal and
the other to the state government. Each is subdivided into three branches.
These {409} may be kept independent of each other in the one as well as the
other. In this system, they are as distinct as is consistent with good policy.
This, in my opinion, instead of diminishing, increases the security of liberty
more than any government that ever was; for the powers of government which, in
every other country, are given to one body, are here given to two, and are
favorable to public liberty. With respect to secrecy, if every thing in which
it is necessary could be enumerated, I would have no objection to mention them.
All the state legislatures can keep secret what they think ought to be
concealed. The British House of Commons can do it. They are in this respect
under much less restraint than Congress. There never was any legislative
assembly without a discretionary power of concealing important transactions,
the publication of which might be detrimental to the community. There can be no
real danger as long as the government is constructed on such principles.
He objects also to the clause respecting adjournment — that neither
house shall, without the consent of the other, adjourn for more than three
days. It was before remarked that, if a difference should take place between
the houses about the time of adjournment, the President could still determine
it; from which no danger could arise, as he is chosen in a secondary degree by
the people, and would consequently fix no time which would be repugnant to the
sense of the representatives of the people. Another and more satisfactory
answer is this: Suppose the Senate wished to chain down the House of
Representatives; what is to hinder them from going home? How bring them back
again? It would be contrary to the spirit of the Constitution to impede the
operations of the government, perhaps at a critical period. I cannot conceive
that such difference will often happen. Were the Senate to attempt to prevent
an adjournment, it would but serve to irritate the representatives without
having the intended effect, as the President could adjourn them. There will not
be occasion for the continual residence of the senators at the seat of
government. What business have they more than the House of Representatives? The
appointment of officers and treaties. With respect to the appointment of
officers, a law may be made to grant it to the President alone. It must be
supposed there will be but few and subordinate officers to be appointed, as the
principal {410} offices will be filled. It is observed that the President, when
vacancies happen during the recess of the Senate, may fill them till it meets.
With respect to treaties, the occasions of forming them will not be many, and
will make but a small porportion of the time of session.
Mr. CLAY wished to know the instances where an opposition to the laws
did not come within the idea of an insurrection.
Mr. MADISON replied, that a riot did not come within the legal
definition of an insurrection. There might be riots, to oppose the execution of
the laws, which the civil power might not be sufficient to quell. This was one
case, and there might probably be other cases. He referred to the candor of the
committee, whether the militia could ever be used to destroy themselves.
1
. Sir William Keith.
Next
|
Previous
|
Contents
|
Text
Version
|
Home
|
Constitution Society
x
x

Mr. HENRY thought it necessary and proper that
they should take a collective view of this whole section, and revert again to
the first clause. He adverted to the clause which gives Congress the power of
raising armies, and proceeded as follows: To me this appears a very alarming
power, when unlimited. They are not only to raise, but to support, armies; and
this support is to go to the utmost abilities of the United States. If Congress
shall say that the general welfare requires it, they may keep armies
continually on foot. There is no control on Congress in raising or stationing
them. They may billet them on the people at pleasure. This unlimited authority
is a most dangerous power: its principles are despotic. If it be unbounded, it
must lead to despotism; for the power of a people in a free government is
supposed to be paramount to the existing power.
We shall be told that, in England, the king, lords, and commons, have
this power; that armies can be raised by the prince alone, without the consent
of the people. How does this apply here? Is this government to place us in the
situation of the English? Should we suppose this government to resemble king,
lords, and commons, we of this state {411} should be like an English county. An
English county Cannot control the government. Virginia cannot control the
government of Congress any more than the county of Kent can control that of
England. Advert to the power thoroughly. One of our first complaints, under the
former government, was the quartering of troops upon us. This was one of the
principal reasons for dissolving the connection with Great Britain. Here we may
have troops in time of peace. They may be billeted in any manner — to
tyrannize, oppress, and crush us.
We are told, we are afraid to trust ourselves; that our own
representatives — Congress — will not exercise their powers
oppressively; that we shall not enslave ourselves; that the militia cannot
enslave themselves, &c. Who has enslaved France, Spain, Germany, Turkey,
and other countries which groan under tyranny? They have been enslaved by the
hands of their own people. If it will be so in America, it will be only as it
has been every where else. I am still persuaded that the power of calling forth
the militia, to execute the laws of the Union, &c., is dangerous. We
requested the gentleman to show the cases where the militia would be wanting to
execute the laws. Have we received a satisfactory answer? When we consider this
part, and compare it to other parts, which declare that Congress may declare
war, and that the President shall command the regular troops, militia, and
navy, we shall find great danger. Under the order of Congress, they shall
suppress insurrections. Under the order of Congress, they shall be called to
execute the laws. It will result, of course, that this is to be a government of
force. Look at the part which speaks of excises, and you will recollect that
those who are to collect excises and duties are to be aided by military force.
They have power to call them out, and to provide for arming, organizing,
disciplining, them. Consequently, they are to make militia laws for this
state.
The honorable gentleman said that the militia should be called forth to
quell riots. Have we not seen this business go on very well to-day without
military force? It is a long-established principle of the common law of
England, that civil force is sufficient to quell riots. To what length may it
not be carried? A law may be made that, if twelve men assemble, if they do not
disperse, they may be fired upon. {412} I think it is so in England. Does not
this part of the paper bear a strong aspect? The honorable gentleman, from his
knowledge, was called upon to show the instances, and he told us the militia
may be called out to quell riots. They may make the militia travel, and act
under a colonel, or perhaps under a constable. Who are to determine whether it
be a riot or not? Those who are to execute the laws of the Union? If they have
power to execute their laws in this manner, in what situation are we placed!
Your men who go to Congress are not restrained by a bill of rights. They are
not restrained from inflicting unusual and severe punishments, though the bill
of rights of Virginia forbids it. What will be the consequence? They may
inflict the most cruel and ignominious punishments on the militia, and they
will tell you that it is necessary for their discipline.
Give me leave to ask another thing. Suppose an exciseman will demand
leave to enter your cellar, or house, by virtue of his office; perhaps he may
call on the militia to enable him to go. If Congress be informed of it, will
they give you redress? They will tell you that he is executing the laws under
the authority of the continent at large, which must be obeyed, for that the
government cannot be carried on without exercising severity. It, without any
reservation of rights or control, you are contented to give up your rights, I
am not. There is no principle to guide the legislature to restrain them from
inflicting the utmost severity of punishment. Will gentlemen voluntarily give
up their liberty? With respect to calling the militia to enforce every
execution indiscriminately, it is unprecedented. Have we ever seen it done in
any free country? Was it ever so in the mother country? It never was so in any
well-regulated country. It is a government of force, and the genius of
despotism expressly. It is not proved that this power is necessary, and if it
be unnecessary, shall we give it up?
Mr. MADISON. Mr. Chairman, I will endeavor to follow the rule of the
house, but must pay due attention to the observations which fell from the
gentleman. I should conclude, from abstracted reasoning, that they were ill
founded I should think that, if there were any object which the general
government ought to command, it would be the direction of the national forces.
And as the force which lies in militia is most safe, the direction of that part
ought to be {413} submitted to, in order to render another force unnecessary.
The power objected to is necessary, because it is to be employed for national
purposes. It is necessary to be given to every government. This is not opinion,
but fact. The highest authority may be given, that the want of such authority
in the government protracted the late war, and prolonged its calamities.
He says that one ground of complaint, at the beginning of the
revolution, was, that a standing army was quartered upon us. This was not the
whole complaint. We complained because it was done without the local authority
of this country — without the consent of the people of America. As to the
exclusion of standing armies in the bill of rights of the states, we shall find
that though, in one or two of them, there is something like a prohibition, yet,
in most of them, it is only provided that no armies shall be kept without the
legislative authority; that is, without the consent of the community itself.
Where is the impropriety of saying that we shall have all army, if necessary?
Does not the notoriety of this constitute security? If inimical nations were to
fall upon us when defenceless, what would be the consequence? Would it be wise
to say, that we should have no defence? Give me leave to say, that the only
possible way to provide against standing armies is to make them unnecessary.
The way to do this is to organize and discipline our militia, so as to
render them capable of defending the country against external invasions and
internal insurrections. But it is urged that abuses may happen. How is it
possible to answer objections against the possibility of abuses? It must strike
every logical reasoner, that these cannot be entirely provided against. I
really thought that the objection in the militia was at an end. Was there ever
a constitution, in which if authority was vested, it must not have been
executed by force, if resisted? Was it not in the contemplation of this state,
when contemptuous proceedings were expected, to recur to something of this
kind? How is it possible to have a more proper resource than this? That the
laws of every country ought to be executed, cannot be denied. That force must
be used if necessary, cannot be denied. Can any government be established, that
will answer any put, pose whatever, unless force be provided for executing its
{414} laws? The Constitution does not say that a standing army shall be called
out to execute the laws. Is not this a more proper way? The militia ought to be
called forth to suppress smugglers. Will this be denied? The case actually
happened at Alexandria. There were a number of smugglers, who were too
formidable for the civil power to overcome. The military quelled the sailors,
who otherwise would have perpetrated their intentions. Should a number of
smugglers have a number of ships, the militia ought to be called forth to quell
them. We do not know but what there may be a combination of smugglers in
Virginia hereafter. We all know the use made of the Isle of Man. It was a
general depository of contraband goods. The Parliament found the evil so great,
as to render it necessary to wrest it out of the hands of its possessor.
The honorable gentleman says that it is a government of force. If he
means military force, the clause under consideration proves the contrary. There
never was a government without force. What is the meaning of government? An
institution to make people do their duty. A government leaving it to a man to
do his duty or not, as he pleases, would be a new species of government, or
rather no government at all. The ingenuity of the gentleman is remarkable in
introducing the riot act of Great Britain. That act has no connection, or
analogy, to any regulation of the militia; nor is there any thing in the
Constitution to warrant the general government to make such an act. It never
was a complaint, in Great Britain, that the militia could be called forth. If
riots should happen, the militia are proper to quell it, to prevent a resort to
another mode. As to the infliction of ignominious punishments, we have no
ground of alarm, if we consider the circumstances of the people at large. There
will be no punishments so ignominious as have been inflicted already. The
militia law of every state to the north of Maryland is less rigorous than the
particular law of this state. If a change be necessary to be made by the
general government, it will be in our favor. I think that the people of those
states would not agree to be subjected to a more harsh punishment than their
own militia laws inflict. An observation fell from a gentleman, on the same
side with myself, which deserves to be attended to. If we be dissatisfied with
the national government, if we should choose to renounce {415} it, this is an
additional safeguard to our defence. I conceive that we are peculiarly
interested in giving the general government as extensive means as possible to
protect us. If there be a particular discrimination between places in America,
the Southern States are, from their situation and circumstances, most
interested in giving the national government the power of protecting its
members.
[Here Mr. Madison made some other observations, but
spoke so very low, that his meaning could not be comprehended.]
An act passed, a few years ago, in this state, to enable the government
to call forth the militia to enforce the laws when a powerful combination
should take place to oppose them. This is the same power which the Constitution
is to have. There is a great deal of difference between calling forth the
militia, when a combination is formed to prevent the execution of the laws, and
the sheriff or constable carrying with him a body of militia to execute them in
the first instance; which is a construction not warranted by the clause. There
is an act, also, in this state, empowering the officers of the customs to
summon any persons to assist them when they meet with obstruction in executing
their duty. This shows the necessity of giving the government power to call
forth the militia when the laws are resisted. It is a power vested in every
legislature in the Union, and which is necessary to every government. He then
moved that the clerk should read those acts — which were accordingly
read.
Mr. GEORGE MASON asked to what purpose the laws were read. The objection
was, that too much power was given to Congress — power that would finally
destroy the state governments more effectually by insidious, underhanded means,
than such as could be openly practised. This, said he, is the opinion of many
worthy men, not only in this Convention, but in all parts of America. These
laws could only show that the legislature of this state could pass such acts.
He thought they militated against the cession of this power to Congress,
because the state governments could call forth the militia when necessary, so
as to compel a submission to the laws; and as they were competent to it,
Congress ought not to have the power. The meeting of three or four persons
might be called an insurrection, and the militia might be called out to
disperse them. He was not satisfied with {416} the explanation of the word
organization by the gentleman in the military line, (Mr. Lee.)
He thought they were not confined to the technical explanation, but that
Congress could inflict severe and ignominious punishments on the militia, as a
necessary incident to the power of organizing and disciplining them. The
gentleman had said there was no danger, because the laws respecting the militia
were less rigid in the other states than this. This was no conclusive argument.
His fears, as he had before expressed, were, that grievous punishments would be
inflicted, in order to render the service disagreeable to the militia
themselves, and induce them to wish its abolition, which would afford a
pretence for establishing a standing army. He was convinced the state
governments ought to have the control of the militia, except when they were
absolutely necessary for general purposes. The gentleman had said that they
would be only subject to martial law when in actual service. He demanded what
was to hinder Congress from inflicting it always, and making a general law for
the purpose. If so, said he, it must finally produce, most infallibly, the
annihilation of the state governments. These were his apprehensions; but he
prayed God they might be groundless.
Mr. MADISON replied, that the obvious explanation was, that the states
were to appoint the officers, and govern all the militia except that part which
was called into the actual service of the United States. He asked, if power
were given to the general governmet, if we must not give it executive power to
use it. The vice of the old system was, that Congress could not execute the
powers nominally vested in them. If the contested clause were expunged, this
system would have nearly the same defect.
Mr. HENRY wished to know what authority the state governments had over
the militia.
Mr. MADISON answered, that the state governments might do what they
thought proper with the militia, when they were not in the actual service of
the United States. They might make use of them to suppress insurrections, quell
riots, &c., and call on the general government for the militia of any other
state, to aid them, if necessary.
Mr. HENRY replied that, as the clause expressly vested the general
government with power to call them out to suppress {417} insurrections,
&c., it appeared to him, most decidedly, that the power of suppressing
insurrections was exclusively given to Congress. If it remained in the states,
it was by implication.
Mr. CORBIN, after a short address to the chair, in which he expressed
extreme reluctance to get up, said, that all contentions on this subject might
be ended, by adverting to the 4th section of the 4th article, which provides,
"that the United States shall guaranty to every state in the Union a republican
form of government, and shall protect each of them against invasion, and, on
application of the legislature, or of the executive, (when the legislature
cannot be convened,) against domestic violence." He thought this section gave
the states power to use their own
militia
, and call on Congress for the
militia of other states. He observed that our representatives were to return
every second year to mingle with their fellow-citizens. He asked, then, how, in
the name of God, they would make laws to destroy themselves. The gentleman had
told us that nothing could be more humiliating than that the
state
governments
could not control the general government. He thought the
gentleman might as well have complained that one county could not control the
state at large. Mr. Corbin then said that all confederate governments had the
care of the national defence, and that Congress ought to have it. Animadverting
on Mr. Henry's observations, that the French had been the instruments of their
own slavery, that the Germans had enslaved the Germans, and the Spaniards the
Spaniards, &c., he asked if those nations knew any thing of representation.
The want of this knowledge was the principal cause of their bondage. He
concluded by observing that the general government had no power but such as the
state government had, and that arguments against the one held against the
other.
Mr. GRAYSON, in reply to Mr. Corbin, said he was mistaken when he
produced the 4th section of the 4th article, to prove that the state
governments had a right to intermeddle with the militia. He was of opinion that
a previous application must be made to the federal head, by the legislature
when in session, or otherwise by the executive of any state, before they could
interfere with the militia. In his opinion, no instance could be adduced where
the states could employ the militia; for, in all the cases wherein they could
be {418} employed, Congress had the exclusive direction and control of them.
Disputes, he observed, had happened in many countries, where this power should
be lodged. In England, there was a dispute between the Parliament and King
Charles who should have power over the militia. Were this government well
organized, he would not object to giving it power over the militia. But as it
appeared to him to be without checks, and to tend to the formation of an
aristocratic body, he could not agree to it. Thus organized, his imagination
did not reach so far as to know where this power should be lodged. He conceived
the state governments to be at the mercy of the generality. He wished to be
open to conviction, but he could see no case where the states could command the
militia. He did not believe that it corresponded with the intentions of those
who formed it, and it was altogether without an equilibrium. He humbly
apprehended that the power of providing for organizing and disciplining the
militia, enabled the government to make laws for regulating them, and
inflicting punishments for disobedience, neglect, &c. Whether it would be
the spirit of the generality to lay unusual punishments, he knew not; but he
thought they had the power, if they thought proper to exercise it. He thought
that, if there was a constructive implied power left in the states, yet, as the
line was not clearly marked between the two governments, it would create
differences. He complained of the uncertainty of the expression, and wished it
to be so clearly expressed that the people might see where the states could
interfere.
As the exclusive power of arming, organizing, &c., was given to
Congress, they might entirely neglect them; or they might be armed in one part
of the Union, and totally neglected in another. This he apprehended to be a
probable circumstance. In this he might be thought suspicious; but he was
justified by what bad happened in other countries. He wished to know what
attention had been paid to the militia of Scotland and Ireland since the union,
and what laws had been made to regulate them. There is, says Mr. Grayson, an
excellent militia law in England, and such as I wish to be established by the
general government. They have thirty thousand select militia in England. But
the militia of Scotland and Ireland are neglected. I see the necessity of the
concentration of the forces of the Union. {419} I acknowledge that militia are
the best means of quelling insurrections, and that we have an advantage over
the English government, for their regular forces answer the purpose. But I
object to the want of checks, and a line of discrimination between the state
governments and the generality.
Mr. JOHN MARSHALL asked if gentlemen were serious when they asserted
that, if the state governments had power to interfere with the militia, it was
by implication. If they were, he asked the committee whether the least
attention would not show that they were mistaken. The state governments did not
derive their powers from the general government; but each government derived
its powers from the people, and each was to act according to the powers given
it. Would any gentleman deny this? He demanded if powers not given were
retained by implication. Could any man say so? Could any man say that this
power was not retained by the states, as they had not given it away? For, says
he, does not a power remain till it is given away? The state legislatures had
power to command and govern their militia before, and have it still,
undeniably, unless there be something in this Constitution that takes it
away.
For Continental purposes Congress may call forth the militia, — as
to suppress insurrections and repel invasions. But the power given to the
states by the people is not taken away; for the Constitution does not say so.
In the Confederation Congress had this power; but the state legislatures had it
also. The power of legislating given them within the ten miles square is
exclusive of the states, because it is expressed to be exclusive. The truth is,
that when power is given to the general legislature, if it was in the state
legislature before, both shall exercise it; unless there be an incompatibility
in the exercise by one to that by the other, or negative words precluding the
state governments from it. But there are no negative words here. It rests,
therefore, with the states. To me it appears, then, unquestionable that the
state governments can call forth the militia, in case the Constitution should
be adopted, in the same manner as they could have done before its adoption.
Gentlemen have said that the states cannot defend themselves without an
application to Congress, because Congress can interpose! Does not every man
feel a refutation of the argument in his own breast? I will show {420} that
there could not be a combination, between those who formed the Constitution, to
take away this power. All the restraints intended to be laid on the state
governments (besides where an exclusive power is expressly given to Congress)
are contained in the 10th section of the 1st article. This power is not
included in the restrictions in that section. But what excludes every
possibility of doubt, is the last part of it — that "no state shall engage
in war, unless actually invaded, or in such imminent danger as will not admit
of delay." When invaded, they call engage in war, as also when in imminent
danger. This clearly proves that the states can use the militia when they find
it necessary. The worthy member last up objects to the Continental government's
possessing the power of disciplining the militia, because, though all its
branches be derived from the people, he says they will form an aristocratic
government, unsafe and unfit to be trusted.
Mr. GRAYSON answered, that he only said it was so constructed as to form
a great aristocratic body.
Mr. MARSHALL replied, that he was not certain whether he understood him;
but he thought he had said so. He conceived that, as the government was drawn
from the people, the feelings and interests of the people would be attended to,
and that we should be safe in granting them power to regulate the militia. When
the government is drawn from the people, continued Mr. Marshall, and depending
on the people for its continuance, oppressive measures will not be attempted,
as they will certainly draw on their authors the resentment of those on whom
they depend. On this government, thus depending on ourselves for its existence,
I will rest my safety, notwithstanding the danger depicted by the honorable
gentleman. I cannot help being surprised that the worthy member thought this
power so dangerous. What government is able to protect you in time of war? Will
any state depend on its own exertions? The consequence of such dependence, and
withholding this power from Congress, will be, that state will fall after
state, and be a sacrifice to the want of power in the general government.
United we are strong, divided we fall.
Will you prevent the general
government from drawing the militia of one state to another, when the
consequence would be, that every state must depend on itself? The enemy,
possessing {421} the water, can quickly go from one state to another. No state
will spare to another its militia, which it conceives necessary for itself. It
requires a Superintending power, in order to call forth the resources of all to
protect all. If this be not done, each state will fall a sacrifice. This system
merits the highest applause in this respect. The honorable gentleman said that
a general regulation may be made to inflict punishments. Does he imagine that a
militia law is to be ingrafted on the scheme of government, so as to render it
incapable of being changed? The idea of the worthy member supposes that men
renounce their own interests. This would produce general inconveniences
throughout the Union, and would be equally opposed by all the states. But the
worthy member fears, that in one part of the Union they will be regulated and
disciplined, and in another neglected. This danger is enhanced by leaving this
power to each state; for some states may attend to their militia, and others
may neglect them. If Congress neglect our militia, we can arm them ourselves.
Cannot Virginia import arms? Cannot she put them into the hands of her
militia-men?
He then concluded by observing, that the power of governing the militia
was not vested in the states by implication, because, being possessed of it
antecedent to the adoption of the government, and not being divested of it by
any grant or restriction in the Constitution, they must necessarily be as fully
possessed of it as ever they had been. And it could not be said that the states
derived any powers from that system, but retained them, though not acknowledged
in any part of it.
Mr. GRAYSON acknowledged that all power was drawn from the people. But
he could see none of those checks which ought to characterize a free
government. It had not such checks as even the British government had. He
thought it so organized as to form an aristocratic body. If we looked at the
democratic branch, and the great extent of country, he said, it must be
considered, in a great degree, to be an aristocratic representation. As they
were elected with craving appetites, and wishing for emoluments, they might
unite with the other two branches. They might give reciprocally good offices to
one another, and mutually protect each other; for he considered them all as
united in interest, and as but one branch. There was no check to prevent such
{422} a combination; nor, in cases of concurrent powers, was there a line drawn
to prevent interference between the state governments and the generality.
Mr. HENRY still retained his opinion, that the
states had no right to call forth the militia to suppress insurrections,
&c. But the right interpretation (and such as the nations of the earth had
put upon the concession of power) was that, when power was given, it was given
exclusively. He appealed to the committee, if power was not confined in the
hands of a
few
in almost all countries of the world. He referred to
their candor, if the construction of conceded power was not an exclusive
concession, in nineteen twentieth parts of the world. The nations which
retained their liberty were comparatively few. America would add to the number
of the oppressed nations, if she depended on constructive rights and
argumentative implication. That the powers given to Congress were exclusively
given, was very obvious to him. The rights which the states had must be founded
on the restrictions on Congress. He asked, if the doctrine which had been so
often circulated, that rights not given were retained, was true, why there were
negative clauses to restrain Congress. He told gentlemen that these clauses
were sufficient to shake all their implication; for, says he, if Congress had
no power but that given to them, why restrict them by negative words? Is not
the clear implication this — that, if these restrictions were not
inserted, they could have performed what they prohibit?
The worthy member had said that Congress ought to have power to protect
all, and had given this system the highest encomium. But he insisted that the
power over the militia was concurrent. To obviate the futility of this
doctrine, Mr. Henry alleged that it was not reducible to practice. Examine it,
says he; reduce it to practice. Suppose an insurrection in Virginia, and
suppose there be danger apprehended of an insurrection in another state, from
the exercise of the government; or suppose a national war, and there be
discontents among the people of this state, that produce, or threaten, an
insurrection; suppose Congress, in either case, demands a number of militia,
— will they not be obliged to go? Where are your reserved rights, when
your militia go to a neighboring state? Which call is to be obeyed, the
congressional call, or the call of the state legislature? The call of Congress
must be obeyed. I need not remind this {423} committee that the sweeping clause
will cause their demands to be submitted to. This clause enables them "to make
all laws which shall be necessary and proper to carry into execution all the
powers vested by this Constitution in the government of the United States, or
in any department or officer thereof." Mr. Chairman, I will turn to another
clause, which relates to the same subject, and tends to show the fallacy of
their argument.
The 10th section of the 1st article, to which reference was made by the
worthy member, militates against himself. It says, that "no state shall engage
in war, unless actually invaded." If you give this clause a fair construction,
what is the true meaning of it? What does this relate to? Not domestic
insurrections, but war. If the country be invaded, a state may go to war, but
cannot suppress insurrections. If there should happen an insurrection of
slaves, the country cannot be said to be invaded. They cannot, therefore,
suppress it without the interposition of Congress. The 4th section of the 4th
article expressly directs that, in case of domestic violence, Congress shall
protect the states on application of the legislature or executive; and the 8th
section of the 1st article gives Congress power to call forth the militia to
quell insurrections: there cannot, therefore, be a concurrent power. The state
legislatures ought to have power to call forth the efforts of the militia, when
necessary. Occasions for calling them out may be urgent, pressing, and
instantaneous. The states cannot now call them, let an insurrection be ever so
perilous, without an application to Congress. So long a delay may be fatal.
There are three clauses which prove, beyond the possibility of doubt,
that Congress, and
Congress only
, can call forth the militia. The clause
giving Congress power to call them out to suppress insurrections, &c.; that
which restrains a state from engaging in war except when actually invaded; and
that which requires Congress to protect the states against domestic violence,
— render it impossible that a state can have power to intermeddle with
them. Will not Congress find refuge for their actions in these clauses? With
respect to the concurrent jurisdiction, it is a political monster of absurdity.
We have passed that clause which gives Congress an unlimited authority over the
national wealth; and here is an unbounded control over the national strength.
Notwithstanding {424} this clear, unequivocal relinquishment of the power of
controlling the militia, you say the states retain it, for the very purposes
given to Congress. Is it fair to say that you give the power of arming the
militia, and at the same time to say you reserve it? This great national
government ought not to be left in this condition. If it be, it will terminate
in the destruction of our liberties.
Mr. MADISON. Mr. Chairman, let me ask this committee, and the honorable
member last up, what we are to understand from this reasoning. The power must
be vested in Congress, or in the state governments; or there must be a division
or concurrence. He is against division. It is a political monster. He will not
give it to Congress for fear of oppression. Is it to be vested in the state
governments? If so, where is the provision for general defence? If ever America
should be attacked, the states would fall successively. It will prevent them
from giving aid to their sister states; for, as each state will expect to be
attacked, and wish to guard against it, each will retain its own militia for
its own defence. Where is this power to be deposited, then, unless in the
general government, if it be dangerous to the public safety to give it
exclusively to the states? If it must be divided, let him show a better manner
of doing it than that which is in the Constitution. I cannot agree with the
other honorable gentleman, that there is no check. There is a powerful check in
that paper. The state governments are to govern the militia when not called
forth for general national purposes; and Congress is to govern such part only
as may be in the actual service of the Union. Nothing can be more certain and
positive than this. It expressly empowers Congress to govern them when in the
service of the United States. It is, then, clear that the states govern them
when they are not. With respect to suppressing insurrections, I say that those
clauses which were mentioned by the honorable gentleman are compatible with a
concurrence of the power. By the first, Congress is to call them forth to
suppress insurrections, and repel invasions of foreign powers. A concurrence in
the former case is necessary, because a whole state may be in insurrection
against the Union. What has passed may perhaps justify this apprehension. The
safety of the Union and particular states requires that the general government
should have power to {425} repel foreign invasions. The 4th section of the 4th
article is perfectly consistent with the exercise of the power by the states.
The words are, "The United States shall guaranty to every state in this Union a
republican form of government, and shall protect each of them against invasion,
and, on application of the legislature, or of the executive, (when the
legislature cannot be convened,) against domestic violence." The word invasion
here, after power had been given in the former clause to repel invasions, may
be thought tautologous, but it has a different meaning from the other. This
clause speaks of a particular state. It means that it shall be protected from
invasion by other states. A republican government is to be guarantied to each
state, and they are to be protected from invasion from other states, as well as
from foreign powers; and, on application by the legislature or executive, as
the case may be, the militia of the other states are to be called to suppress
domestic insurrections. Does this bar the states from calling forth their own
militia? No; but it gives them a supplementary security to suppress
insurrections and domestic violence.
The other clause runs in these words: "No state shall, without the
consent of Congress, lay any duty on tonnage, keep troops or ships of war in
time of peace, enter into any agreement or compact with another state, or with
a foreign power, or engage in war, unless actually invaded, or in such imminent
danger as will not admit of delay." They are restrained from making war, unless
invaded, or
in imminent danger
. When in such danger, they are not
restrained. I can perceive no competition in these clauses. They cannot be said
to be repugnant to a concurrence of the power. If we object to the Constitution
in this manner, and consume our time in verbal criticism, we shall never put an
end to the business.
Mr. GEORGE MASON. Mr. Chairman, a worthy member has asked who are the
militia, if they be not the
people
of this country, and if we are not to
be protected from the fate of the Germans, Prussians, &c., by our
representation? I ask,
Who are the militia? They consist
now of the whole people, except a few public officers.
But I cannot say
who will be the militia of the future day. If that paper on the table gets no
alteration, the militia of the future day may not consist of all classes, high
and low, and {426} rich and poor; but they may be confined to the lower and
middle classes of the people, granting exclusion to the higher classes of the
people. If we should ever see that day, the most ignominious punishments and
heavy fines may be expected. Under the present government, all ranks of people
are subject to militia duty. Under such a full and equal representation as
ours, there can be no ignominious punishment inflicted. But under this
national, or rather consolidated government, the case will be different. The
representation being so small and inadequate, they will have no fellow-feeling
for the people. They may discriminate people in their own predicament, and
exempt from duty all the officers and lowest creatures of the national
government. If there were a more particular definition of their powers, and a
clause exempting the militia from martial law except when in actual service,
and from fines and punishments of an unusual nature, then we might expect that
the militia would be what they are. But, if this be not the case, we cannot say
how long all classes of people will be included in the militia. There will not
be the same reason to expect it, because the government will be administered by
different people. We know what they are now, but know not how soon they may be
altered.
Mr. GEORGE NICHOLAS. Mr. Chairman, I feel apprehensions lest the subject
of our debates should be misunderstood. Every one wishes to know the true
meaning of the system; but I fear those who hear us will think we are
captiously quibbling on words. We have been told, in the course of this
business, that the government will operate like a screw. Give me leave to say
that the exertions of the opposition are like that instrument. They catch at
every thing, and take it into their vortex. The worthy member says that this
government is defective, because it comes from the people. Its greatest
recommendation, with me, is putting the power in the hands of the people. He
disapproves of it because it does not say in what particular instances the
militia shall be called out to execute the laws. This is a power of the
Constitution, and particular instances must be defined by the legislature. But,
says the worthy member, those laws which have been read are arguments against
the Constitution, because they show that the states are now in possession of
the power, and competent to its execution. {427} Would you leave this power in
the states, and by that means deprive the general government of a power which
will be necessary for its existence? If the state governments find this power
necessary, ought not the general government to have a similar power? But, sir,
there is no state check in this business. The gentleman near me has shown that
there is a very important check.
Another worthy member says there is no power in the states to quell an
insurrection of slaves. Have they it now? If they have, does the Constitution
take it away? If it does, it must be in one of the three clauses which have
been mentioned by the worthy member. The first clause gives the general
government power to call them out when necessary. Does this take it away from
the states? No. But it gives an additional security; for, besides the power in
the state governments to use their own militia, it will be the duty of the
general government to aid them with the strength of the Union when called for.
No part of this Constitution can show that this power is taken away.
But an argument is drawn from that clause which says "that no state
shall engage in war unless actually invaded, or in such imminent danger as will
not admit of delay." What does this prohibition amount to? It must be a war
with a foreign enemy that the states are prohibited from making; for the
exception to the restriction proves it. The restriction includes only offensive
hostility, as they are at liberty to engage in war when invaded, or in imminent
danger. They are, therefore, not restrained from quelling domestic
insurrections, which are totally different from making war with a foreign
power. But the great thing to be dreaded is that, during an insurrection, the
militia will be called out from the state. This is his kind of argument. Is it
possible that, at such a time, the general government would order the militia
to be called? It is a groundless objection, to work on gentlemen's
apprehensions within these walls. As to the 4th article, it was introduced
wholly for the particular aid of the states. A republican form of government is
guarantied, and protection is secured against invasion and domestic violence on
application. Is not this a guard as strong as possible? Does it not exclude the
unnecessary interference of Congress in business of this sort?
The gentleman over the way cannot tell who will be the {428} militia at
a future day, and enumerates dangers of select militia. Let me attend to the
nature of gentlemen's objections. One objects because there will be select
militia; another objects because there will be no select militia; and yet both
oppose it on these contradictory principles. If you deny the general government
the power of calling out the militia, there must be a recurrence to a standing
army. If you are really jealous of your liberties, confide in Congress.
Mr. MASON rose, and said that he was totally misunderstood. The contrast
between his friend's objection and his was improper. His friend had mentioned
the propriety of having select militia, like those of Great Britain, who should
be more thoroughly exercised than the militia at large could possibly be. But
he, himself, had not spoken of a selection of militia, but of the exemption of
the highest classes of the people from militia service; which would justify
apprehensions of severe and ignominious punishments.
Mr. NICHOLAS wished to know whether the representatives of the people
would consent to such exemptions, as every man who had twenty-five acres of
land could vote for a federal representative.
Mr. GRAYSON. Mr. Chairman, I conceive that the power of providing and
maintaining a navy is at present dangerous, however warmly it may be urged by
gentlemen that America ought to become a maritime power. If we once give such
power, we put it in the hands of men whose interest it will be to oppress us.
It will also irritate the nations of Europe against us. Let us consider the
situation of the maritime powers of Europe: they are separated from us by the
Atlantic Ocean. The riches of all those countries come by sea. Commerce and
navigation are the principal sources of their wealth. If we become a maritime
power, we shall be able to participate in their most beneficial business. Will
they suffer us to put ourselves in a condition to rival them? I believe the
first step of any consequence, which will be made towards it, will bring war
upon us. Their ambition and avarice most powerfully impel them to prevent our
becoming a naval nation. We should, on this occasion, consult our ability. Is
there any gentleman here who can say that America can support a navy? The
riches of America are not sufficient to bear the enormous expense it must
certainly occasion. I may be supposed to exaggerate, {429} but I leave it to
the committee to judge whether my information be right or not.
It is said that shipwrights can be had on better terms in America than
in Europe; but necessary materials are so much dearer in America than in
Europe, that the aggregate sum would be greater. A seventy-four gun ship will
cost you ninety-eight thousand pounds, including guns, tackle, &c.
According to the usual calculation in England, it will cost you the further sum
of forty-eight thousand pounds to mail it, furnish provisions, and pay officers
and men. You must pay men more here than in Europe, because, their governments
being arbitrary, they can command the services of their subjects without an
adequate compensation; so that, in all, the expenses of such a vessel would be
one hundred and forty thousand pounds in one year. Let gentlemen consider,
then, the extreme difficulty of supporting a navy, and they will concur with
me, that America cannot do it. I have no objection to such a navy as will not
excite the jealousy of the European countries. But I would have the
Constitution to say, that no greater number of ships should be had than would
be sufficient to protect our trade. Such a fleet would not, probably, offend
the Europeans. I am not of a jealous disposition; but when I consider that the
welfare and happiness of my country are in danger, I beg to be excused for
expressing my apprehensions. Let us consider how this navy shall be raised.
What would be the consequence under those general words, "to provide and
maintain a navy"? All the vessels of the intended fleet would be built and
equipped in the Northern States, where they have every necessary material and
convenience for the purpose. Will any gentleman say that any ship of war can be
raised to the south of Cape Charles? The consequence will be that the Southern
States will be in the power of the Northern States.
We should be called upon for our share of the expenses, without having
equal emoluments. Can it be supposed, when this question comes to be agitated
in Congress, that the Northern States will not take such measures as will throw
as much circulating money among them as possible, without any consideration as
to the other states? If I know the nature of man, (and I believe I do,) they
will have no consideration for us. But, supposing it were not so, America {430}
has nothing at all to do with a fleet. Let us remain for some time in
obscurity, and rise by degrees. Let us not precipitately provoke the resentment
of the maritime powers of Europe. A well-regulated militia ought to be the
defence of this country. In some of our constitutions it is said so. This
Constitution should have inculcated the principle, Congress ought to be under
some restraint in this respect. Mr. Grayson then added, that the Northern
States would be principally benefited by having a fleet; that a majority of the
states could vote the raising a great navy, or enter into any commercial
regulation very detrimental to the other states. In the United Netherlands
there was much greater security, as the commercial interest of no state could
be sacrificed without its own consent. The raising a fleet was the daily and
favorite subject of conversation in the Northern States. He apprehended that,
if attempted, it would draw us into a war with Great Britain or France. As the
American fleet would not be competent to the defence of all the states, the
Southern States would be most exposed. He referred to the experience of the
late war, as a proof of what he said. At the period the Southern States were
most distressed, the Northern States, he said, were most happy. They had
privateers in abundance, whereas we had but few. Upon the whole, he thought we
should depend on our troops on shore, and that it was very impolitic to give
this power to Congress without any limitation.
Mr. NICHOLAS remarked that the gentleman last up had made two
observations — the one, that we ought not to give Congress power to raise
a navy; and the other, that we had not the means of supporting it. Mr. Nicholas
thought it a false doctrine. Congress, says he, has a discretionary power to do
it when necessary. They are not hound to do it in five or ten years, or at any
particular time. It is presumable, therefore, that they will postpone it until
it be proper.
Mr. GRAYSON had no objection to giving Congress the power of raising
such a fleet as suited the circumstances of the country. But he could not agree
to give that unlimited power which was delineated in that paper.
Adverting to the clause investing Congress with the power of exclusive
legislation in a district not exceeding ten miles square, he said he had before
expressed his doubts that this {431} district would be the favorite of the
generality, and that it would be possible for them to give exclusive privileges
of commerce to those residing within it. He had illustrated what he said by
European examples. It might be said to be impracticable to exercise this power
in this manner. Among the various laws and customs which pervaded Europe, there
were exclusive privileges and immunities enjoyed in many places. He thought
that this ought to be guarded against; for should such exclusive privileges be
granted to merchants residing within the ten miles square, it would be highly
injurious to the inhabitants of other places.
Mr. GEORGE MASON thought that there were few clauses in the Constitution
so dangerous as that which gave Congress exclusive power of legislation within
ten miles square. Implication, he observed, was capable of any extension, and
would probably be extended to augment the congressional powers. But here there
was no need of implication. This clause gave them an unlimited authority, in
every possible case, within that district. This ten miles square, says Mr.
Mason, may set at defiance the laws of the surrounding states, and may, like
the custom of the superstitious days of our ancestors, become the sanctuary of
the blackest crimes. Here the federal courts are to sit. We have heard a good
deal said of justice.
It has been doubted whether jury trial be secured in civil eases. But I
will suppose that we shall have juries in civil cases. What sort of a jury
shall we have within the ten miles square? The immediate creatures of the
government. What chance will poor men get, where Congress have the power of
legislating in all cases whatever, and where judges and juries may be under
their influence, and bound to support their operations? Even with juries the
chance of justice may here be very small, as Congress have unlimited authority,
legislative, executive, and judicial. Lest this power should not be sufficient,
they have it in every case. Now, sir, if an attempt should be made to establish
tyranny over the people, here are ten miles square where the greatest offender
may meet protection. If any of their officers, or creatures, should attempt to
oppress the people, or should actually perpetrate the blackest deed, he has
nothing to do but get into the ten miles square. Why was this dangerous power
given? Felons may receive an asylum there and in {432} their strongholds.
Gentlemen have said that it was dangerous to argue against possible abuse,
because there could be no power delegated but might be abused. It is an
incontrovertible axiom, that, when the dangers that may arise from the
abuse
are greater than the benefits that may result from the use, the
power ought to be withheld. I do not conceive that this power is at all
necessary, though capable of being greatly abused.
We are told by the honorable gentleman that Holland has its Hague. I
confess I am at a loss to know what inference he could draw from that
observation. This is the place where the deputies of the United Provinces meet
to transact the public business. But I do not recollect that they have any
exclusive jurisdiction whatever in that place, but are subject to the laws of
the province in which the Hague is. To what purpose the gentleman mentioned
that Holland has its Hague, I cannot see.
Mr. MASON then observed that he would willingly give them exclusive
power, as far as respected the police and good government of the place; but he
would give them no more, because he thought it unnecessary. He was very willing
to give them, in this as well as in all other cases, those powers which he
thought indispensably necessary.
Mr. MADISON. Mr. Chairman: I did conceive, sir, that the clause under
consideration was one of those parts which would speak its own praise. It is
hardly necessary to say any thing concerning it. Strike it out of the system,
and let me ask whether there would not be much larger scope for those dangers.
I cannot comprehend that the power of legislating over a small district, which
cannot exceed ten miles square, and may not be more than one mile, will involve
the dangers which he apprehends. If there be any knowledge in my mind of the
nature of man, I should think it would be the last thing that would enter into
the mind of any man to grant exclusive advantages, in a very circumscribed
district, to the prejudice of the community at large. We make suppositions, and
afterwards deduce conclusions from them, as if they were established axioms.
But, after all, bring home this question to ourselves. Is it probable that the
members from Georgia, New Hampshire, &c., will concur to sacrifice the
privileges of their friends? I believe that, whatever state may become the seat
of the general {433} government, it will become the object of the jealousy and
envy of the other states. Let me remark, if not already remarked, that there
must be a cession, by particular states, of the district to Congress, and that
the states may settle the terms of the cession. The states may make what
stipulation they please in it, and, if they apprehend any danger, they may
refuse it altogether. How could the general government be guarded from the
undue influence of particular states, or from insults, without such exclusive
power? If it were at the pleasure of a particular state to control the session
and deliberations of Congress, would they be secure from insults, or the
influence of such state? If this commonwealth depended, for the freedom of
deliberation, on the laws of any state where it might be necessary to sit,
would it not be liable to attacks of that nature (and with more indignity)
which have been already offered to Congress? With respect to the government of
Holland, I believe the States General have no jurisdiction over the Hague; but
I have heard that mentioned as a circumstance which gave undue influence to
Holland over the rest. We must limit our apprehensions to certain degrees of
probability. The evils which they urge must result from this clause are
extremely improbable; nay, almost impossible.
Mr. GRAYSON. Mr. Chairman, one answer which has been given is, the
improbability of the evil — that it will never be attempted, and that it
is almost impossible. This will not satisfy us, when we consider the great
attachments men have to a great and magnificent capital. It would be the
interest of the citizens of that district to aggrandize themselves by every
possible means in their power, to the great injury of the other states. If we
travel all over the world, we shall find that people have aggrandized their own
capitals. Look at Russia and Prussia. Every step has been taken to aggrandize
their capitals. In what light are we to consider the ten miles square? It is
not to be a fourteenth state. The inhabitants will in no respect whatever be
amenable to the laws of any state. A clause in the 4th article, highly extolled
for its wisdom, will be rendered nugatory by this exclusive legislation. This
clause runs thus: "No person held to service or labor in one state, under the
laws thereof, escaping into another, shall, in consequence of any law or
regulation therein, be discharged from such {434} service or labor, but shall
be delivered up on the claim of the party to whom such labor or service may be
due." Unless you consider the ten miles square as a state, persons bound to
labor, who shall escape thither, will not be given up; for they are only to be
delivered up after they shall have escaped into a state. As my honorable friend
mentioned, felons, who shall have fled from justice to the ten miles square,
cannot be apprehended. The executive of a state Is to apply to that of another
for the delivery of a felon. He cannot apply to the ten miles square. It was
often in contemplation of Congress to have power of regulating the police of
the seat of government; but they never had an idea of exclusive legislation in
all cases. The power of regulating the police and good government of it will
secure Congress against insults. What originated the idea of the exclusive
legislation was, some insurrection in Pennsylvania, whereby Congress was
insulted, — on account of which, it is supposed, they left the state.
It is answered that the consent of the state must be required, or else
they cannot have such a district, or places for the erecting of forts, &c.
But how much is already given them! Look at the great country to the north-west
of the Ohio, extending to and commanding the lakes.
Look at the other end of the Ohio, towards South Carolina, extending to
the Mississippi. See what these, in process of time, may amount to. They may
grant exclusive privileges to any particular part of which they have the
possession. But it may be observed that those extensive countries will be
formed into independent states, and that their consent will be necessary. To
this I answer, that they may still grant such privileges as, in that country,
are already granted to Congress by the states. The grants of Virginia, South
Carolina, and other states, will be subservient to Congress in this respect. Of
course, it results from the whole, that requiring the consent of the states
will be no guard against this abuse of power.
[A desultory conversation
ensued.]
Mr. NICHOLAS insisted that as the state, within which the ten miles
square might be, could prescribe the terms on which Congress should hold it, no
danger could arise, as no state would consent to injure itself: there was the
same {435} security with respect to the places purchased for the erection of
forts, magazines, &c.; and as to the territory of the United States, the
power of Congress only extended to make needful rules and regulations
concerning it, without prejudicing the claim of any particular state, the right
of territory not being given up; that the grant of those lands to the United
States was for the general benefit of all the states, and not to be perverted
to their prejudice; that, consequently, whether that country were formed into
new states or not, the danger apprehended could not take place; that the seat
of government was to be still a part of the state, and, as to general
regulations, was to be considered as such.
Mr. GRAYSON, on the other hand, contended that the ten miles square
could not be viewed as a state; that the state within which it might be would
have no power of legislating over it; that, consequently, persons bound to
labor, and felons, might receive protection there; that exclusive emoluments
might he granted to those residing within it; that the territory of the United
States, being a part of no state or states, might be appropriated to what use
Congress pleased, without the consent of any state or states; and that,
consequently, such exclusive privileges and exemptions might be granted, and
such protection afforded to fugitives, within such places, as Congress should
think proper; that, after mature consideration, he could not find that the ten
miles square was to be looked upon even as a part of a state, but to be totally
independent of all, and subject to the exclusive legislation of Congress.
Mr. LEE strongly expatiated on the impossibility of securing any human
institution from possible abuse. He thought the powers conceded in the paper on
the table not so liable to be abused as the powers of the state governments.
Gentlemen had suggested that the seat of government would become a sanctuary
for state villains, and that, in a short time, ten miles square would subjugate
a country of eight hundred miles square. This appeared to him a most improbable
possibility; nay, he might call it impossibility. Were the place crowded with
rogues, he asked if it would be an agreeable place of residence for, the
members of the general government, who were freely chosen by the people and the
state governments. Would the people be so lost to honor and virtue, as to
select men who would willingly {436} associate with the most abandoned
characters? He thought the honorable gentleman's objections against remote
possibility of abuse went to prove that government of no sort was eligible, but
that a state of nature was preferable to a state of civilization. He
apprehended no danger; and thought that persons bound to labor, and felons,
could not take refuge in the ten miles square, or other places exclusively
governed by Congress, because it would be contrary to the Constitution, and a
palpable usurpation, to protect them.
Mr. HENRY entertained strong suspicions that
great dangers must result from the clause under consideration. They were not
removed, but rather confirmed, by the remarks of the honorable gentleman, in
saying that it was extremely improbable that the members from New Hampshire and
Georgia would go and legislate exclusively for the ten miles square. If it was
so improbable, why ask the power? Why demand a power which was not to be
exercised? Compare this power, says he, with the next clause, which gives them
power to make all laws which shall be necessary to carry their laws into
execution. By this they have a right to pass any law that may facilitate the
execution of their acts. They have a right, by this clause, to make a law that
such a district shall be set apart for any purpose they please, and that any
man who shall act contrary to their commands, within certain tell miles square,
or any place they may select, and strongholds, shall be hanged without benefit
of clergy. If they think any law necessary for their personal safety, after
perpetrating the most tyrannical and oppressive deeds, cannot they make it by
this sweeping clause? If it be necessary to provide, not only for this, but for
any department or officer of Congress, does not this clause enable them to make
a law for the purpose? And will not these laws, made for those purposes, be
paramount to the laws of the states? Will not this clause give them a right to
keep a powerful army continually on foot, if they think it necessary to aid the
execution of their laws? Is there any act, however atrocious, which they cannot
do by virtue of this clause? Look at the use which has been made, in all parts
of the world, of that human thing called power. Look at the predominant thirst
of dominion which has invariably and uniformly prompted rulers to abuse their
powers. Can you say that you will be safe when you give such unlimited powers,
{437} without any real responsibility? Will you be safe when you trust men at
Philadelphia with power to make any law that will enable them to carry their
acts into execution? Will not the members of Congress have the same passions
which other rulers have had? They will not be superior to the frailties of
human nature. However cautious you may be in the selection of your
representatives, it will be dangerous to trust them with such unbounded powers.
Shall we be told, when about to grant such illimitable authority, that it will
never be exercised!
I conjure you once more to remember the admonition of that sage man who
told you that, when you give power, you know not what you give. I know the
absolute necessity of an energetic government. But is it consistent with any
principle of prudence or good policy to grant unlimited, unbounded authority,
which is so totally unnecessary that gentlemen say it will never be exercised?
But gentlemen say that we must make experiments. A wonderful and unheard-of
experiment it will be, to give unlimited power unnecessarily! I admit my
inferiority in point of historical knowledge; but I believe no man can produce
an instance of an unnecessary and unlimited power, given to a body independent
of the legislature, within a particular district. Let any man in this
Convention show me an instance of such separate and different powers of
legislation in the same country — show me an instance where a part of the
community was independent of the whole.
The people within that place, and the strongholds, may be excused from
all the burdens imposed on the rest of the society, and may enjoy exclusive
emoluments, to the great injury of the rest of the people. But gentlemen say
that the power will not he abused. They ought to show that it is necessary. All
their powers may be fully carried into execution, without this exclusive
authority in the ten miles square. The sweeping clause will fully enable them
to do what they please. What could the most extravagant and boundless
imagination ask, but power to do every thing? I have reason to suspect
ambitious grasps at power. The experience of the world teaches me the jeopardy
of giving enormous power. Strike this clause out of the form of the government,
and how will it stand? Congress will still have power, by the sweeping clause,
to make laws within that {438} place and the strongholds, independently of the
local authority of the state. I ask you, if this clause be struck out, whether
the sweeping clause will not enable them to protect themselves from insult. If
you grant them these powers, you destroy every degree of responsibility. They
will fully screen them from justice, and preclude the possibility of punishing
them. No instance can be given of such a wanton grasp of power as an exclusive
legislation in all cases whatever.
Mr. MADISON. Mr. Chairman, I am astonished that the honorable member
should launch out into such strong descriptions without any occasion. Was there
ever a legislature in existence that held their sessions at a place where they
had not jurisdiction? I do not mean such a legislature as they have in Holland;
for it deserves not the name. Their powers are such as Congress have now, which
we find not reducible to practice. If you be satisfied with the shadow and
form, instead of the substance, you will render them dependent on the local
authority. Suppose the legislature of this country should sit in Richmond,
while the exclusive jurisdiction of the place was in some particular county;
would this country think it safe that the general good should be subject to the
paramount authority of a part of the community?
The honorable member asks, Why ask for this power, and if the subsequent
clause be not fully competent for the same purpose. If so, what new terrors can
arise from this particular clause? It is only a superfluity. If that latitude
of construction which he contends for were to take place with respect to the
sweeping clause, there would be room for those horrors. But it gives no
supplementary power. It only enables them to execute the delegated powers. If
the delegation of their powers be safe, no possible inconvenience can arise
from this clause. It is at most but explanatory. For when any power is given,
its delegation necessarily involves authority to make laws to execute it. Were
it possible to delineate on paper all those particular cases and circumstances
in which legislation by the general legislature would be necessary, and leave
to the states all the other powers, I imagine no gentleman would object to it.
But this is not within the limits of human capacity. The particular powers
which are found necessary to be given {439} are therefore delegated generally,
and particular and minute specification is left to the legislature.
[Here Mr. Madison spoke of the distinction between
regulation of police and legislation, but so low he could not be heard.]
When the honorable member objects to giving the general government
jurisdiction over the place of their session, does he mean that it should be
under the control of any particular state, that might, at a critical moment,
seize it? I should have thought that this clause would have met with the most
cordial approbation. As the consent of the state in which it may be must be
obtained, and as it may stipulate the terms of the grant, should they violate
the particular stipulations it would be an usurpation; so that, if the members
of Congress were to be guided by the laws of their country, none of those
dangers could arise.
[Mr. Madison made several other remarks, which could not
be heard]
Mr. HENRY replied that, if Congress were vested with supreme power of
legislation, paramount to the constitution and laws of the states, the dangers
he had described might happen; for that Congress would not be confined to the
enumerated powers. This construction was warranted, in his opinion, by the
addition of the word
department
, at the end of the clause, and that they
could make any laws which they might think necessary to execute the powers of
any department or officer of the government.
Mr. PENDLETON. Mr. Chairman, this clause does not give Congress power to
impede the operation of any part of the Constitution, or to make any regulation
that may affect the interests of the citizens of the Union at large. But it
gives them power over the local police of the place, so as to be secured from
any interruption in their proceedings. Notwithstanding the violent attack upon
it, I believe, sir, this is the fair construction of the clause. It gives them
power of exclusive legislation in any case within that district. What is the
meaning of this? What is it opposed to? Is it opposed to the general powers of
the federal legislature, or to those of the state legislatures? I understand it
as opposed to the legislative power of that state where it shall be. What,
then, is the power? It is, that Congress shall exclusively legislate there, in
order to preserve {440} serve the police of the place and their own personal
independence, that they may not be overawed or insulted, and of course to
preserve them in opposition to any attempt by the state where it shall be. This
is the fair construction. Can we suppose that, in order to effect these
salutary ends, Congress will make it an asylum for villains and the vilest
characters from all parts of the world? Will it not degrade their own dignity
to make it a sanctuary for villains? I hope that no man that will ever compose
that Congress will associate with the most profligate characters.
Why oppose this power? Suppose it was contrary to the sense of their
constituents to grant exclusive privileges to citizens residing within that
place; the effect would be directly in opposition to what he says. It could
have no operation without the limits of that district. Were Congress to make a
law granting them an exclusive privilege of trading to the East Indies, it
could have no effect the moment it would go without that place; for their
exclusive power is confined to that district. Were they to pass such a law, it
would be nugatory; and every member of the community at large could trade to
the East Indies as well as the citizens of that district. This exclusive power
is limited to that place solely, for their own preservation, which all
gentlemen allow to be necessary.
Will you pardon me when I observe that their construction of the
preceding clause does not appear to me to be natural, or warranted by the
words.
They say that the state governments have no power at all over the
militia. The power of the general government to provide for arming and
organizing the militia is to introduce a uniform system of discipline to
pervade the United States of America. But the power of
governing
the
militia, so far as it is in Congress, extends only to such parts of them as may
be employed in the service of the United States. When not in their service,
Congress has no power to govern them. The states then have the sole government
of them; and though Congress
may
provide for arming them, and prescribe
the mode of discipline, yet the states have the authority of training them,
according to the uniform discipline prescribed by Congress. But there is
nothing to preclude them from arming and disciplining them, should Congress
neglect to, do it. As to calling the militia to execute the laws of the {441}
Union, I think the fair construction is directly opposite to what the honorable
member says. The 4th section of the 4th article contains nothing to warrant the
supposition that the states cannot call them forth to suppress domestic
insurrections. [
Here he read the section.
] All the restraint here
contained is, that Congress may, at their pleasure, on application of the state
legislature, or (in vacation) of the executive, protect each of the states
against domestic violence. This is a restraint on the general government not to
interpose. The state is in full possession of the power of using its own
militia to protect itself against domestic violence; and the power in the
general government cannot be exercised, or interposed, without the application
of the state itself. This appears to me to be the obvious and fair
construction.
With respect to the necessity of the ten miles square being superseded
by the subsequent clause, which gives them power to make all laws which shall
be necessary and proper for carrying into execution the foregoing powers, and
all other powers vested by this Constitution in the government of the United
States, or in any department or officer thereof, I understand that clause as
not going a single step beyond the delegated powers. What can it act upon? Some
power given by this Constitution. If they should be about to pass a law in
consequence of this clause, they must pursue some of the delegated powers, but
can by no means depart from them, or arrogate any new powers; for the plain
language of the clause is, to give them power to pass laws in order to give
effect to the delegated powers.
Mr. GEORGE MASON. Mr. Chairman, gentlemen say there is no new power
given by this clause. Is there any thing in this Constitution which secures to
the states the powers which are said to be retained? Will powers remain to the
states which are not expressly guarded and reserved? I will suppose a case.
Gentlemen may call it an impossible case, and suppose that Congress will act
with wisdom and integrity. Among the enumerated powers, Congress are to lay and
collect taxes, duties, imposts, and excises, and to pay the debts, and to
provide for the general welfare and common defence; and by that clause (so
often called the
sweeping clause
) they are to make all laws necessary to
execute those laws. Now, suppose oppressions {442} should arise under this
government, and any writer should dare to stand forth, and expose to the
community at large the abuses of those powers; could not Congress, under the
idea of providing for the general welfare, and under their own construction,
say that this was destroying the general peace, encouraging sedition, and
poisoning the minds of the people? And could they not, in order to provide
against this, lay a dangerous restriction On the press? Might they not even
bring the trial of this restriction within the ten miles square, when there is
no prohibition against it? Might they not thus destroy the trial by jury? Would
they not extend their implication? It appears to me that they may and will. And
shall the support of our rights depend on the bounty of men whose interest it
may be to oppress us? That Congress should have power to provide for the
general welfare of the Union, I grant. But I wish a clause in the Constitution,
with respect to all powers which are not granted, that they are retained by the
states. Otherwise, the power of providing for the general welfare may be
perverted to its destruction.
Many gentlemen, whom I respect, take different sides of this question.
We wish this amendment to be introduced, to remove our apprehensions. There was
a clause in the Confederation reserving to the states respectively every power,
jurisdiction, and right, not expressly delegated to the United States. This
clause has never been complained of, but approved by all Why not, then, have a
similar clause in this Constitution, in which it is the more indispensably
necessary than in the Confederation, because of the great augmentation of power
vested in the former? In my humble apprehension, unless there be some such
clear and finite expression, this clause now under consideration will go to any
thing our rulers may think proper. Unless there be some express declaration
that every thing not given is retained, it will be carried to any power
Congress may please.
Mr. HENRY moved to read from the 8th to the 13th article of the
declaration of rights; which was done.
Mr. GEORGE NICHOLAS, in reply to the gentlemen opposed to the clause
under debate, went over the same grounds, and developed the same principles,
which Mr. Pendleton and Mr. Madison had done. The opposers of the {443} clause,
which gave the power of providing for the general welfare, supposed its dangers
to result from its connection with, and extension of, the powers granted in the
other clauses. He endeavored to show the committee that it only empowered
Congress to make such laws as would be necessary to enable them to pay the
public debts and provide for the common defence; that this general welfare was
united, not to the general power of legislation, but to the particular power of
laying and collecting taxes, imposts, and excises, for the purpose of paying
the debts and providing for the common defence, — that is, that they could
raise as much money as would pay the debts and provide for the common defence,
in consequence of this power. The clause which was affectedly called the
sweeping
clause contained no new grant of power. To illustrate this
position, he observed that, if it had been added at the end of every one of the
enumerated powers, instead of being inserted at the end of all, it would be
obvious to any one that it was no augmentation of power. If, for instance, at
the end of the clause granting power to lay and collect taxes, it had been
added that they should have power to make necessary and proper laws to lay and
collect taxes, who could suspect it to be an addition of power? As it would
grant no new power if inserted at the end of each clause, it could not when
subjoined to the whole.
He then proceeded thus: But, says he, who is to determine the extent of
such powers? I say, the same power which, in all well-regulated communities,
determines the extent of legislative powers. If they exceed these powers, the
judiciary will declare it void, or else the people will have a right to declare
it void. Is this depending on any man? But, says the gentleman, it may go to
any thing. It may destroy the trial by jury; and they may say it is necessary
for providing for the general defence. The power of providing for the general
defence only extends to raise any sum of money they may think necessary, by
taxes, imposts, &c. But, says he, our only defence against oppressive laws
consists in the virtue of our representatives. This was misrepresented. If I
understand it right, no new power can be exercised. As to those which are
actually granted, we trust to the fellow-feelings of our representatives; and
if we are deceived, we then trust to altering our {444} government. It appears
to me, however, that we can confide in their discharging their powers rightly,
from the peculiarity of their situation, and connection with us. If, sir, the
powers of the former Congress were very inconsiderable, that body did not
deserve to have great powers.
It was so constructed that it would be dangerous to invest it with such.
But why were the articles of the bill of rights read? Let him show us that
those rights are given up by the Constitution. Let him prove them to be
violated. He tells us that the most worthy characters of the country differ as
to the necessity of a bill of rights. It is a simple and plain proposition. It
is agreed upon by all that the people have all power. If they part with any of
it, is it necessary to declare that they retain the rest? Liken it to any
similar case. If I have one thousand acres of land, and I grant five hundred
acres of it, must I declare that I retain the other five hundred? Do I grant
the whole thousand acres, when I grant five hundred, unless I declare that the
five hundred I do not give belong to me still? It is so in this case. After
granting some powers, the rest must remain with the people.
Gov. RANDOLPH observed that he had some objections to the clause. He was
persuaded that the construction put upon it by the gentlemen, on both sides,
was erroneous; but he thought any construction better than going into anarchy.
Mr. GEORGE MASON still thought that there ought to be some express
declaration in the Constitution, asserting that rights not given to the general
government were retained by the states. He apprehended that, unless this was
done, many valuable and important rights would be concluded to be given up by
implication. All governments were drawn from the people, though many were
perverted to their oppression. The government of Virginia, he remarked, was
drawn from the people; yet there were certain great and important rights, which
the people, by their bill of rights, declared to be paramount to the power of
the legislature. He asked, Why should it not be so in this Constitution? Was it
because we were more substantially represented in it than in the state
government? If, in the state government, where the people were substantially
and fully represented, it was necessary that the great rights of human nature
should {445} be secure from the encroachments of the legislature, he asked if
it was not more necessary in this government, where they were but inadequately
represented? He declared that artful sophistry and evasions could not satisfy
him. He could see no clear distinction between rights relinquished by a
positive grant, and lost by implication. Unless there were a bill of rights,
implication might swallow up all our rights.
Mr. HENRY. Mr. Chairman, the necessity of a bill
of rights appears to me to be greater in this government than ever it was in
any government before. I have observed already, that the sense of the European
nations, and particularly Great Britain, is against the construction of rights
being retained which are not expressly relinquished. I repeat, that all nations
have adopted this construction — that all rights not expressly and
unequivocally reserved to the people are impliedly and incidentally
relinquished to rulers, as necessarily inseparable from the delegated powers.
It is so in Great Britain; for every possible right, which is not reserved to
the people by some express provision or compact, is within the king's
prerogative. It is so in that country which is said to be in such full
possession of freedom. It is so in Spain, Germany, and other parts of the
world. Let us consider the sentiments which have been entertained by the people
of America on this subject. At the revolution, it must be admitted that it was
their sense to set down those great rights which ought, in all countries, to be
held inviolable and sacred. Virginia did so, we all remember. She made a
compact to reserve, expressly, certain rights.
When fortified with full, adequate, and abundant representation, was she
satisfied with that representation? No. She most cautiously and guardedly
reserved and secured those invaluable, inestimable rights and privileges, which
no people, inspired with the least glow of patriotic liberty, ever did, or ever
can, abandon. She is called upon now to abandon them, and dissolve that compact
which secured them to her. She is called upon to accede to another compact,
which most infallibly supersedes and annihilates her present one. Will she do
it? This is the question. If you intend to reserve your unalienable rights, you
must have the most express stipulation; for, if implication be allowed, you are
ousted of those rights. If the people do not think it necessary to {446}
reserve them, they will be supposed to be given up. How were the congressional
rights defined when the people of America united by a confederacy to defend
their liberties and rights against the tyrannical attempts of Great Britain?
The states were not then contented with implied reservation. No, Mr. Chairman.
It was expressly declared in our Confederation that every right was retained by
the states, respectively, which was not given up to the government of the
United States. But there is no such thing here. You, therefore, by a natural
and unavoidable implication, give up your rights to the general government.
Your own example furnishes an argument against it. If you give up these
powers, without a bill of rights, you will exhibit the most absurd thing to
mankind that ever the world saw — government that has abandoned all its
powers — the powers of direct taxation, the sword, and the purse. You have
disposed of them to Congress, without a bill of rights — without check,
limitation, or control. And still you have checks and guards; still you keep
barriers — pointed where? Pointed against your weakened, prostrated,
enervated state government! You have a bill of rights to defend you against the
state government, which is bereaved of all power, and yet you have none against
Congress, though in fill and exclusive possession of all power! You arm
yourselves against the weak and defenceless, and expose yourselves naked to the
armed and powerful. Is not this a conduct of unexampled absurdity? What
barriers have you to oppose to this most strong, energetic government? To that
government you have nothing to oppose. All your defence is given up. This is a
real, actual defect. It must strike the mind of every gentleman. When our
government was first instituted in Virginia, we declared the common law of
England to be in force.
That system of law which has been admired, and has protected us and our
ancestors, is excluded by that system. Added to this, we adopted a bill of
rights. By this Constitution, some of the best barriers of human rights are
thrown away. Is there not an additional reason to have a bill of rights? By the
ancient common law, the trial of all facts is decided by a jury of impartial
men from the immediate vicinage. This paper speaks of different juries from the
common law in criminal cases; and in civil controversies {447} excludes trial
by jury altogether. There is, therefore, more occasion for the supplementary
check of a bill of rights now than then. Congress, from their general, powers,
may fully go into business of human legislation. They may legislate, in
criminal cases, from treason to the lowest offence — petty larceny. They
may define crimes and prescribe punishments. In the definition of crimes, I
trust they will be directed by what wise representatives ought to be governed
by. But when we come to punishments, no latitude ought to be left, nor
dependence put on the virtue of representatives. What says our bill of rights?
— "that excessive bail ought not to be required, nor excessive fines
imposed, nor cruel and unusual punishments inflicted." Are you not, therefore,
now calling on those gentlemen who are to compose Congress, to prescribe trials
and define punishments without this control? Will they find sentiments there
similar to this bill of rights? You let them loose; you do more you depart from
the genius of your country. That paper tells you that the trial of crimes shall
be by jury, and held in the state where the crime shall have been committed.
Under this extensive provision, they may proceed in a manner extremely
dangerous to liberty: a person accused may be carried from one extremity of the
state to another, and be tried, not by an impartial jury of the vicinage,
acquainted with his character and the circumstances of the fact, but by a jury
unacquainted with both, and who may be biased against him. Is not this
sufficient to alarm men? How different is this from the immemorial practice of
your British ancestors, and your own! I need not tell you that, by the common
law, a number of hundredors were required on a jury, and that afterwards it was
sufficient if the jurors came from the same county. With less than this the
people of England have never been satisfied. That paper ought to have declared
the common law in force.
In this business of legislation, your members of Congress will loose the
restriction of not imposing excessive fines, demanding excessive bail, and
inflicting cruel and unusual punishments. These are prohibited by your
declaration of rights. What has distinguished our ancestors? — That they
would not admit of tortures, or cruel and barbarous punishment. But Congress
may introduce the practice of the civil law, in preference to that of the
common law. They may {448} introduce the practice of France, Spain, and Germany
— of torturing, to extort a confession of the crime. They will say that
they might as well draw examples from those countries as from Great Britain,
and they will tell you that there is such a necessity of strengthening the arm
of government, that they must have a criminal equity, and extort confession by
torture, in order to punish with still more relentless severity. We are then
lost and undone. And can any man think it troublesome, when we can, by a small
interference, prevent our rights from being lost? If you will, like the
Virginian government, give them knowledge of the extent of the rights retained
by the people, and the powers of themselves, they will, if they be honest men,
thank you for it. Will they not wish to go on sure grounds? But if you leave
them otherwise, they will not know how to proceed; and, being in a state of
uncertainty, they will assume rather than give up powers by implication.
A bill of rights may be summed up in a few words. What do they tell us?
— That our rights are reserved. Why not say so? Is it because it will
consume too much paper? Gentlemen's reasoning against a bill of rights does not
satisfy me. Without saying which has the right side, it remains doubtful. A
bill of rights is a favorite thing with the Virginians and the people of the
other states likewise. It may be their prejudice, hut the government ought to
suit their geniuses; otherwise, its operation will be unhappy. A bill of
rights, even if its necessity be doubtful, will exclude the possibility of
dispute; and, with great submission, I think the best way is to have no
dispute. In the present Constitution, they are restrained from issuing general
warrants to search suspected places, or seize persons not named, without
evidence of the commission of a fact, &c. There was certainly some
celestial influence governing those who deliberated on that Constitution; for
they have, with the most cautious and enlightened circumspection, guarded those
indefeasible rights which ought ever to be held sacred! The officers of
Congress may come upon you now, fortified with all the terrors of paramount
federal authority. Excisemen may come in multitudes; for the limitation of
their numbers no man knows. They may, unless the general government be
restrained by a bill of rights, or some similar restriction, go into your
cellars and rooms, and search, ransack, and {449} measure, every thing you eat,
drink, and wear. They ought to be restrained Within proper bounds. With respect
to the freedom of the press, I need say nothing; for it is hoped that the
gentlemen who shall compose Congress will take care to infringe as little as
possible the rights of human nature. This will result from their integrity.
They should, from prudence, abstain from violating the rights of their
constituents. They are not, however, expressly restrained. But whether they
will intermeddle with that palladium of our liberties or not, I leave you to
determine.
Mr. GRAYSON thought it questionable whether rights not given up were
reserved. A majority of the states, he observed, had expressly reserved certain
important rights by bills of rights, and that in the Confederation there was a
clause declaring expressly that every power and right not given up was retained
by the states. It was the general sense of America that such a clause was
necessary; other, wise, why did they introduce a clause which was totally
unnecessary? It had been insisted, he said, in many parts of America, that a
bill of rights was only necessary between a prince and people, and not in such
a government as this, which was a compact between the people themselves. This
did not satisfy his mind; for so extensive was the power of legislation, in his
estimation, that he doubted whether, when it was once given up,
any
thing
was retained. He further remarked, that there were some negative
clauses in the Constitution, which refuted the doctrine contended for by the
other side. For instance; the 2d clause of the 9th section of the 1st article
provided that "the privilege of the writ of
habeas corpus
shall not be
suspended, unless when, in cases of rebellion or invasion, the public safety
may require it." And, by the last clause of the same section, "no title of
nobility shall be granted by the United States." Now, if these restrictions had
not been here inserted, he asked whether Congress would not most clearly have
had a right to suspend that great and valuable right, and to grant titles of
nobility. When, in addition to these considerations, he saw they had an
indefinite power to provide for the general welfare, he thought there were
great reasons to apprehend great dangers. He thought, therefore, that there
ought to be a bill of rights.
Mr. GEORGE NICHOLAS, in answer to the two gentlemen {450} last up,
observed that, though there was a declaration of rights in the government of
Virginia, it was no conclusive reason that there should be one in this
Constitution; for, if it was unnecessary in the former, its omission in the
latter could be no defect. They ought, therefore, to prove that it was
essentially necessary to be inserted in the Constitution of Virginia. There
were five or six states in the Union which had no bill of rights, separately
and distinctly as such; but they annexed the substance of a bill of rights to
their respective constitutions. These states, he further observed, were as free
as this state, and their liberties as secure as ours. If so, gentlemen's
arguments from the precedent were not good. In Virginia, all powers were given
to the government without any exception. It was different in the general
government, to which certain special powers were delegated for certain
purposes. He asked which was the more safe. Was it safer to grant general
powers than certain limited powers? This much as to the theory, continued he.
What is the practice of this invaluable government? Have your citizens been
bound by it? They have not, sir. You have violated that maxim, "that no man
shall be condemned without a fair trial." That man who was killed, not
secundum artem
, was deprived of his life without the benefit of law, and
in express violation of this declaration of rights, which they confide in so
much. But, sir, this bill of rights was no security. It is but a paper check.
It has been violated in many other instances. Therefore, from theory and
practice, it may be concluded that this government, with special powers,
without any express exceptions, is better than a government with general powers
and special exceptions. But the practice of England is against us. The rights
there reserved to the people are to limit and check the king's prerogative. It
is easier to enumerate the exceptions to his prerogative, than to mention all
the cases to which it extends. Besides, these reservations, being only formed
in acts of the legislature, may be altered by the representatives of the people
when they think proper. No comparison can be made of this with the other
governments he mentioned. There is no stipulation between the king and people.
The former is possessed of absolute, unlimited authority.
But, sir, this Constitution is defective because the common {451} law is
not declared to be in force! What would have been the consequence if it had? It
would be immutable. But now it can be changed or modified as the legislative
body may find necessary for the community. But the common law is not excluded.
There is nothing in that paper to warrant the assertion. As to the exclusion of
a jury from the vicinage, he has mistaken the fact. The legislature may direct
a jury to come from the vicinage. But the gentleman says that, by this
Constitution, they have power to make laws to define crimes and prescribe
punishments; and that, consequently, we are not free from torture. Treason
against the United States is defined in the Constitution, and the forfeiture
limited to the life of the person attainted. Congress have power to define and
punish piracies and felonies committed on the high seas, and offences against
the laws of nations; but they cannot define or prescribe the punishment of any
other crime whatever, without violating the Constitution. If we had no security
against torture but our declaration of rights, we might be tortured to-morrow;
for it has been repeatedly infringed and disregarded. A bill of rights is only
an acknowledgment of the preëxisting claim to rights in the people. They
belong to us as much as if they had been inserted in the Constitution. But it
is said that, if it be doubtful, the possibility of dispute ought to be
precluded. Admitting it was proper for the Convention to have inserted a bill
of rights, it is not proper here to propose it as the condition of our
accession to the Union. Would you reject this government for its omission,
dissolve the Union, and bring miseries on yourselves and posterity? I hope the
gentleman does not oppose it on this ground solely. Is there another reason? He
said that it is not only the general wish of this state, but all the states, to
have a bill of rights. If it be so, where is the difficulty of having this done
by way of subsequent amendment? We shall find the other states willing to
accord with their own favorite wish. The gentleman last up says that the power
of legislation includes every thing. A general power of legislation does. But
this is a special power of legislation. Therefore, it does not contain that
plenitude of power which he imagines. They cannot legislate in any case but
those particularly enumerated. No gentleman, who is a friend to the government,
ought to withhold his assent from it for this reason.
{452} Mr. GEORGE MASON replied that the worthy gentleman was mistaken in
his assertion that the bill of rights did not prohibit torture; for that one
clause expressly provided that no man can give evidence against himself; and
that the worthy gentleman must know that, in those countries where torture is
used, evidence was extorted from the criminal himself. Another clause of the
bill of rights provided that no cruel and unusual punishments shall be
inflicted; therefore, torture was included in the prohibition.
Mr. NICHOLAS acknowledged the bill of rights to contain that
prohibition, and that the gentleman was right with respect to the practice of
extorting confession from the criminal in those countries where torture is
used; but still he saw no security arising from the bill of rights as separate
from the Constitution, for that it had been frequently violated with
impunity.
[
1
. Elliot misprinted this as Monday, June 14,
1788.]
Next
|
Previous
|
Contents
|
Text
Version
|
Home
|
Constitution Society
x
x

Mr. HENRY begged gentlemen to consider the
condition this country would be in if two thirds of a quorum should be
empowered to make a treaty: they might relinquish and alienate territorial
rights, and our most valuable commercial advantages. In short, if any thing
should be left us, it would be because the President and senators were pleased
to admit it. The power of making treaties, by this Constitution, ill-guarded as
it is, extended farther than it did in any country in the world. Treaties were
to have more force here than in any part of Christendom; for he defied any
gentleman to show any thing so extensive in any strong, energetic government in
Europe. Treaties rest, says he, on the laws and usages of nations. To say that
they are municipal is, to me, a doctrine totally novel. To make them paramount
to the Constitution and laws of the states, is unprecedented. I would give them
the same force and obligation they have in Great Britain, or any other country
in Europe. Gentlemen are going on in a fatal career; but I hope they will stop
before they concede this power unguarded and unaltered.
Mr. MADISON, instead of being alarmed, had no doubt but the Constitution
would increase, rather than decrease, the security of territorial rights and
commercial advantages, as it would augment the strength and respectability of
the country. The honorable gentleman, says he, has said we are making {501}
great innovations in extending the force of treaties. Are not treaties the law
of the land in England? I will refer you to a book which is in every man's hand
— Blackstone's Commentaries. It will inform you that the treaties made by
the king are to be the supreme law of the land. If they are to have any
efficacy, they must be the law of the land: they are so in every country. He
thinks that, by the power of making treaties, the empire may be dismembered in
time of peace. The king of Great Britain has the power of making peace, but he
has no power of dismembering the empire, or alienating any part of it. Nay, the
king of France has no right of alienating part of his dominions to any power
whatsoever. The power of making treaties does not involve a right of
dismembering the Union.
Mr. HENRY asked how the power of the king of Great Britain, with respect
to dismembering the empire, would stand, if the constitution had declared that
treaties would be effectual, notwithstanding any thing in the constitution or
laws of the country. He would confess his error, if the gentleman could prove
that the power of the king of Great Britain, and that of Congress, in making
treaties, were similar.
Mr. MADISON conceived that, as far as the king of Great Britain had a
constitutional power of making a treaty, such a treaty was binding. He did not
say that his power was unlimited. One exception was, that he could not
dismember the empire.
Mr. GRAYSON, after discriminating the difference of what was called the
law of nations in different countries, and its different operations, said he
was exceedingly alarmed about this clause. His apprehensions were increased
from what he had seen. He went over the grounds which had been before
developed, of the dangers to which the right of navigating the Mississippi
would be exposed, if two thirds of the senators present had a right to make a
treaty to bind the Union. Seven states had already discovered a determined
resolution of yielding it to Spain. There was every reason, in his opinion, to
believe they would avail themselves of the power as soon as it was given them.
The prevention of emigrations to the westward, and consequent superiority of
the southern power and influence, would be a powerful motive to impel them to
relinquish that river. He warmly expatiated on the utility of that navigation,
and the {502} impolicy of surrendering it up. The consent of the President he
considered as a trivial check, if, indeed, it was any; for the election would
be so managed that he would always come from a particular place, and he would
pursue the interest of such place. Gentlemen had said that the senators would
attend from all the states. This, says he, is impracticable, if they be not
nailed to the floor. If the senators of the Southern States be gone but one
hour, a treaty may be made by the rest, yielding that inestimable right. This
paper will be called the law of nations in America; it will be the Great
Charter of America; it will be paramount to every thing. After having once
consented to it, we cannot recede from it. Such is my repugnance to the
alienation of a right which I esteem so important to the happiness of my
country, that I would object to this Constitution if it contained no other
defect.
Mr. NICHOLAS, in answer to the observations of the gentleman last up, on
the law of nations, said he thought it was dictated by no particular nation;
that there was no such thing as a particular law of nations, but that the law
of nations was permanent and general. It was superior to any act or law of any
nation; it implied the consent of all, and was mutually binding on all, being
acquiesced in for the common benefit of all. Gentlemen recurred to their
favorite business again — their scuffle for Kentucky votes. He compared
the king of England's power to make treaties to that given by this clause. He
insisted they resembled each other. If a treaty was to be the supreme law of
the land here, it was so in England. The power was as unlimited in England as
it was here. Let gentlemen, says he, show me that the king can go so far, and
no farther, and I will show them a like limitation in America. But, say they,
the President has no check. The worthy member says the weight of power ought to
be in this part of the continent, because the number of inhabitants will be
greater here. If so, every freeholder having a right to vote for the President,
by the interposition of electors, will attend to his interests. This is a
sufficient check.
Mr. HENRY. Mr. Chairman, gentlemen say that the
king of Great Britain has the same right of making treaties that our President
has here. I will have no objection to this, if you make your president a king.
But I will adduce {503} a difference between an American treaty and an English
treaty. Recollect the case of the Russian ambassador: he was arrested contrary
to the rights of his master. The Russian emperor demanded the man, at whose
instance his ambassador was arrested, to be given up to him, to be put to
instant death. What did the queen say? She wrote him that that was something
paramount to what she could do; that it exceeded her power to comply with his
demand, because it was contrary to the constitution and laws. But how is it
here? Treaties are binding, notwithstanding our laws and constitutions. Let us
illustrate this fatal instance. Suppose the case of the Russian ambassador to
happen here. The President can settle it by a treaty, and have the man
arrested, and punished according to the Russian manner. The constitutions of
these states may be most flagrantly violated without remedy. And still will
gentlemen compare the two cases? So great was the anxiety of Queen Anne, that
she wrote a letter to the Russian prince with her own hand, apologizing for her
inability to comply with his demands. The Parliament was consulted, and a law
made to prevent such arrests for the future. I say again that, if you consent
to this power, you depend on the justice and equity of those in power. We may
be told that we shall find ample refuge in the law of nations. When you
yourselves have your necks so low that the President may dispose of your rights
as he pleases, the law of nations cannot be applied to relieve you. Sure I am,
if treaties are made infringing our liberties, it will be too late to say that
our constitutional rights are violated. We are in contact with two powers
— Great Britain and Spain. They may claim our most valuable territories,
and treaties may be made to yield them. It is easy on our part to define our
unalienable rights, and expressly secure them, so as to prevent future claims
and disputes. Suppose you be arraigned as offenders and violators of a treaty
made by this government. Will you have that fair trial which offenders are
entitled to in your own government? Will you plead a right to the trial by
jury? You will have no right to appeal to your own Constitution. You must
appeal to your Continental Constitution. A treaty may be made giving away your
rights, and inflicting unusual punishments on its violators. It is contended
that, if the king of Great Britain makes a treaty {504} within the line of his
prerogative, it is the law of the land. I agree that this is proper, and, if I
could see the same cheeks in that paper which I see in the British government,
I would consent to it. Can the English monarch make a treaty which shall
subvert the common law of England, and the constitution? Dare he make a treaty
that shall violate Magna Charta, or the bill of rights? Dare he do any thing
derogatory to the honor, or subversive of the great privileges, of his people?
No, sir. If he did, it would be nugatory, and the attempt would endanger his
existence.
The king of France calls his Parliament to give him power to make what
regulations, with regard to treaties, they may think conducive to the interest
of the nation. In the time of Henry IV., a treaty with Sigismund, king of
Poland, was ratified by the Parliament. You have not even as much security as
that. You prostrate your rights to the President and Senate. This power is
therefore dangerous and destructive.
Gov. RANDOLPH. Mr. Chairman, I conceive that neither the life nor
property of any citizen, nor the particular right of any state, can be affected
by a treaty. The lives and properties of European subjects are not affected by
treaties, which are binding on the aggregate community in its political, social
capacity.
The honorable gentleman says that, if you place treaties on the same
footing here as they are in England, he will consent to the power, because the
king is restrained in making treaties. Will not the President and Senate be
restrained? Being creatures of that Constitution, can they destroy it? Can any
particular body, instituted for a particular purpose, destroy the existence of
the society for whose benefit it is created? It is said there is no limitation
of treaties. I defy the wisdom of that gentleman to show how they ought to be
limited. When the Constitution marks out the powers to be exercised by
particular departments, I say no innovation can take place. An honorable
gentleman says that this is the Great Charter of America. If so, will not the
last clause of the 4th article of the Constitution secure against
dismemberment? It provides that "nothing in this Constitution shall be so
construed as to prejudice any claims of the United States, or of any particular
state." And if this did not constitute security, it {505} follows, from the
nature of civil association, that no particular part shall sacrifice the
whole.
Next
|
Previous
|
Contents
|
Text
Version
|
Home
|
Constitution Society
x
x

Mr. HENRY. Mr. Chairman, this great national
concern is handled in a manner quite new to me. When arguments are used which
are calculated in their nature to mislead men, — when I reflect on the
subject, I dread that our rights are about to be given away, though I may
possibly be mistaken. I said yesterday, and not without thinking much on the
subject, that my mind would be at ease were we on the same grounds, in this
respect, as the English are. Gentlemen think that Great Britain was adduced by
me, in this instance, unfortunately for myself, because the learned Judge
Blackstone says that treaties are binding on the nation, and the king can make
treaties. That learned judge says there is one thing which operates as a guard.
That thing we have not in this paper — it is responsibility. He tells you
that the minister who will sacrifice the interest of the nation is subject to
parliamentary impeachment. This has been ever found to be effectual. But I beg
gentlemen to consider the American impeachment. What is it? It is a mere sham
— a mere farce. When they do any thing derogatory to the honor or interest
of their country, they are to try themselves. Is it so in England? The history
of that country shows that they have blocks and gibbets. The violators of the
public interest have been tried justly and impartially, and perished by those
necessary instruments of justice. Can there be any security where offenders
mutually try one another? I hope gentlemen will consider the necessity of
amendment in this clause.
We are told that the state rights are preserved. Suppose the state right
to territory be preserved; I ask and demand, How do the rights of persons
stand, when they have power to make any treaty, and that treaty is paramount to
constitutions, laws, and every thing? When a person shall be treated in the
most horrid manner, and most cruelly and inhumanly tortured, will the security
of territorial rights grant him redress? Suppose an unusual punishment in
consequence of an arrest similar to that of the Russian ambassador; can it be
said to be contrary to the state rights?
I might go on in this discrimination; but it is too obvious {513} that
the security of territory is no security of individual safety. I ask, How are
the state rights, individual rights, and national rights, secured? Not as in
England; for the authority quoted from Blackstone would, if stated right,
prove, in a thousand instances, that, if the king of England attempted to take
away the rights of individuals, the law would stand against him. The acts of
Parliament would stand in his way. The bill and declaration of rights would be
against him. The common law is fortified by the bill of rights. The rights of
the people cannot be destroyed, even by the paramount operation of the law of
nations, as the case of the Russian ambassador evinces. If you look for a
similar security in the paper on your table, you look in vain. That paper is
defective without such a declaration of rights. It is unbounded without such
restrictions. If the Constitution be paramount, how are the constitutions and
laws of the states to stand? Their operation will be totally controlled by it;
for it is paramount to every thing, unless you can show some guard against it.
The rights of persons are exposed as it stands now.
The calculation of the honorable gentleman (Mr. Corbin) was wrong. I am
sure he spoke from the best of his recollection, when he referred to our treaty
of peace with Great Britain, and said that it was binding on the nation, though
disapproved of by Parliament. Did not an act of Parliament pass, acknowledging
the independence of America? If the king of England wished to dismember the
empire, would he dare to attempt it without the advice of Parliament? The most
hardy minister would not dare to advise him to attempt it without a previous
consultation of Parliament. No cession of territory is binding on the nation
unless it be fortified by an act of Parliament. Will it be so in your American
government? No. They will tell you that they are omnipotent as to this point.
We are so used to speak of enormity of powers, that we are familiarized
with it. To me this power appears still destructive; for they can make any
treaty. If Congress forbears to exercise it, you may thank them; but they may
exercise it if they please, and as they please. They have a right, from the
paramount power given them, to do so. Will the gentleman say that this power is
paramount to the state laws only? Is it not paramount to the Constitution and
{514} every thing? Can any thing be paramount to what is paramount? Will not
the laws of Congress be binding on Congress, as well as on any particular
state? Will they not be bound by their own acts? The worthy gentleman must
seethe impropriety of his assertion. To render this safe, I conceive we must
adopt my honorable friend's amendment. The component part of this supreme power
are the President, senators, and House of Representatives. The latter is the
most material part. They ought to interpose in the formation of treaties. When
their consent is necessary, there will be a certainty of attending to the
public interests.
Mr. Henry then contended that there was real responsibility in the
British government, and sufficient security arising from the common law,
declaration of rights, &c.; whereas, in this government, there was no
barrier to stop their mad career. He hoped to obtain the amendments which his
honorable friend had proposed.
Mr. MADISON. Mr. Chairman, I am persuaded that, when this power comes to
be thoroughly and candidly viewed, it will be found right and proper. As to its
extent, perhaps it will be satisfactory to the committee that the power is,
precisely, in the new Constitution as it is in the Confederation. In the
existing confederacy, Congress are authorized indefinitely to make treaties.
Many of the states have recognized the treaties of Congress to be the supreme
law of the land. Acts have passed, within a year, declaring this to be the
case. I have seen many of them. Does it follow, because this power is given to
Congress, that it is absolute and unlimited? I do not conceive that power is
given to the President and Senate to dismember the empire, or to alienate any
great, essential right. I do not think the whole legislative authority have
this power. The exercise of the power must be consistent with the object of the
delegation.
One objection against the amendment proposed is this, that, by
implication, it would give power to the legislative authority to dismember the
empire — a power that ought not to be given, but by the necessity that
would force assent from every man. I think it rests on the safest foundation as
it is. The object of treaties is the regulation of intercourse with foreign
nations, and is external. I do not think it possible to enumerate all the cases
in which such external regulations would be necessary. Would it be right to
define all {515} the cases in which Congress could exercise this authority? The
definition might, and probably would, be defective. They might be restrained,
by such a definition, from exercising the authority where it would be essential
to the interest and safety of the community. It is most safe, therefore, to
leave it to be exercised as contingencies may arise.
It is to be presumed that, in transactions with foreign countries, those
who regulate them will feel the whole force of national attachment to their
country. The contrast being between their own nation and a foreign nation, is
it not presumable they will, as far as possible, advance the interest of their
own country? Would it not be considered as a dangerous principle in the British
government were the king to have the same power in internal regulations as he
has in the external business of treaties? Yet as, among other reasons, it is
natural to suppose he will prefer the interest of his own to that of another
country, it is thought proper to give him this external power of making
treaties. This distinction is well worthy the consideration of gentlemen. I
think the argument of the gentleman who restrained the supremacy of these to
the laws of particular states, and not to Congress, is rational. Here the
supremacy of a treaty is contrasted with the supremacy of the laws of the
states. It cannot be otherwise supreme. If it does not supersede their existing
laws, as far as they contravene its operation, it cannot be of any effect. To
counteract it by the supremacy of the state laws, would bring on the Union the
just charge of national perfidy, and involve us in war.
Suppose the king of Great Britain should make a treaty with France,
where he had a constitutional right; if the treaty should require an internal
regulation, and the Parliament should make a law to that effect, that law would
be binding on the one, though not on the other nation. Suppose there should be
a violation of right by the exercise of this power by the President and Senate;
if there was apparent merit in it, it would be binding on the people; for where
there is a power for any particular purpose, it must supersede what may oppose
it, or else it can be no power. For instance, where there is a power of
declaring wary that power, as to declaring war, supersedes every thing. This
would be an unfortunate case, should it happen; but should it happen, there is
a remedy; and there being a remedy, they will be restrained against abuses.
{516} But let us compare the responsibility in this government to that
of the British government. If there be an abuse of this royal prerogative, the
minister who advises him is liable to impeachment. This is the only restraint
on the sovereign. Now, sir, is not the minister of the United States under
restraint? Who is the minister? The President himself, who is liable to
impeachment. He is responsible in person. But for the abuse of the power of the
king, the responsibility is in his advisers. Suppose the Constitution had said,
that this minister alone could make treaties, and, when he violated the
interest of the nation, he would be impeached by the Senate; then the
comparison would hold good between the two governments. But is there not an
additional security by adding to him the representatives and guardians of the
political interest of the states? If he should seduce a part of the Senate to a
participation in his crimes, those who were not seduced would pronounce
sentence against him; and there is this supplementary security, that he may be
convicted and punished afterwards, when other members come into the Senate, one
third being excluded every second year; so that there is a twofold security
— the security of impeachment and conviction by those senators that may be
innocent, should no more than one third be engaged with the President in the
plot; and should there be more of them engaged in it, he may be tried and
convicted by the succeeding senators, and the upright senators who were in the
Senate before.
As to the case of the Russian ambassador, I shall say nothing. It is as
inapplicable as many other quotations made by the gentleman. I conceive that,
as far as the bills of rights in the states do not express ally thing foreign
to the nature of such things, and express fundamental principles essential to
liberty, and those privileges which are declared necessary to all free people,
these rights are not encroached on by this government. [Mr. Madison added other
remarks. which could not be heard.]
Mr. CORBIN begged leave to explain what he had said. He acknowledged
that an act of Parliament passed, acknowledging the independence of America:
but though there was nothing in that act respecting the Newfoundland fishery,
and we were, by the treaty, to enjoy a right to that fishery unmolested, yet
that part of the treaty was binding on the nation.
{517} After some desultory conversation, concerning the mode of
considering the judiciary, the 1st and 2d sections of the 3d article were
read.
Mr. PENDLETON. Mr. Chairman, on a former occasion, when I was
considering the government at large, I mentioned the necessity of making a
judiciary an essential part of the government. It is necessary, in order to
arrest the executive arm, prevent arbitrary punishments, and give a fair trial,
that the innocent may be guarded, and the guilty brought to just punishment,
and that honesty and industry be protected, and injustice and fraud be
prevented. Taking it for granted, then, that a judiciary is necessary, the
power of that judiciary must be coextensive with the legislative power, and
reach to all parts of society intended to be governed. They must be so
arranged, that there must be some court which shall be the central point of
their operations; and because cause all the business cannot be done in that
part, there must be inferior courts to carry it on. The first clause contains
an arrangement of the courts — one supreme, and such inferior as Congress
may ordain and establish. This seems to me to be proper. Congress must be the
judges, and may find reasons to change and vary them as experience shall
dictate. It is, therefore, not only improper, but exceedingly inconvenient, to
fix the arrangement in the Constitution itself, and not leave it to laws which
may be changed according to circumstances. I think it highly probable that
their first experiment will be, to appoint the state courts to have the
inferior federal jurisdiction, because it would be best calculated to give
general satisfaction, and answer economical purposes; since a small additional
salary may in that case suffice, instead of competent provision for the judges.
But even this eligible mode experience may furnish powerful reasons for
changing, and a power to make such changes ought to rest with Congress. This
clause also secures an important point — the independency of the judges,
both as to tenure of offices and fixing of salary. I wish the restraint had
been applied to increase as well as diminution.
The 2d section points out the subjects of their jurisdiction.
1. Cases arising under the Constitution.
2.         the laws of
the federal legislature.
3.         treaties
made by them.
{518}
4. All cases affecting ambassadors, ministers, and
consuls.
5. All cases of maritime or admiralty jurisdiction.
6. Controversies wherein the United States shall be a
party.
7.         between two
or more states.
8.         between a
state and citizens of another state.
9.         between
citizens of different states.
10.         between citizens
of the same state, claiming lands under grants of different states.
11.         between a state,
or its citizens, and foreign states, citizens, or subjects.
Without entering into a distinction of all its parts, I believe it will
be found that they are all cases of general and not local concern. The
necessity and propriety of a federal jurisdiction, in all such cases, must
strike every gentleman.
The next clause settles the original jurisdiction of the Supreme Court,
confining it to two cases — that of ambassadors, ministers, and consuls,
and those in which a state shall be a party. It excludes its original
jurisdiction in all other cases. But it appears to me that it will not restrain
Congress from regulating even these, so as to permit foreign ambassadors to sue
in the inferior courts, or even to compel them to do so, where their causes may
be trivial, or they have no reason to expect a partial trial. Notwithstanding
this jurisdiction is given to the Supreme Court, yet Congress may go further by
their laws, so as to exclude its original jurisdiction, by limiting the cases
wherein it shall be exercised. They may require some satisfactory evidence that
the party could not expect a fair trial in the inferior court. I am struck with
this view, from considering that the legislature is not excluded, by the
general jurisdiction in the Constitution, from regulating it, to accommodate
the convenience of the people. Yet the legislature cannot extend its original
jurisdiction, which is limited to these cases only.
The next branch brings me to the appellate jurisdiction. And first, I
say it is proper and necessary, in all free governments, to allow appeals,
under certain restrictions, in order to prevent injustice by correcting the
erroneous decisions of local subordinate tribunals, and introduce uniformity in
decision. {519} The appellate jurisdiction is, therefore, undoubtedly proper,
and would not have been objected to if they had not introduced, unfortunately,
in this clause, the words "both as to law and fact." Though I dread no danger,
I wish these words had been buried in oblivion. If they had, it would have
silenced the greatest objections against the section. I will give my free and
candid sentiments on it. We find them followed by words which remove a great
deal of doubt — "with such exceptions, and under such regulations, as
Congress shall make;" so that Congress may make such regulations as they may
think conducive to the public convenience.
Let us consider the appellate jurisdiction if these words had been left
out. The general jurisdiction must embrace decrees in chancery and admiralty,
and judgments in courts of common law, in the ordinary practice of this
appellate jurisdiction. When there is an appeal from the inferior court to the
Court of Chancery, the appellate jurisdiction goes to law and fact, because the
whole testimony appears in the record. The court proceeds to consider the
circumstances of both law and fact blended together, and then decrees according
to equity. This must be unexceptionable to every body. How is it in appeals
from the admiralty? That court, except in some cases, proceeds as a court of
chancery. In some cases they have trials by jury. But in most cases they
proceed as in chancery. They consider all the circumstances, and determine as
well what the fact, as what the law, is. When this goes to the superior court,
it is determined the same way.
Appeals from the common-law courts involve the consideration of facts by
the superior court, when there is a special verdict. They consider the fact and
law together, and decide accordingly. But they cannot introduce new testimony,
When a jury proceeds to try a cause in an inferior court, a question may arise
on the competency of a witness, or some other testimony. The inferior court
decides that question; it either admits or rejects that evidence. The party
intending to object states the matter in a bill of exceptions. The jury then
proceeds to try the cause, according to, the judgment of the inferior court;
and, on appeal, the superior court determines upon the judgment of the inferior
court. They do not touch the testimony. If they determine that {520} the
evidence was either improperly admitted or rejected, they set aside the
judgment, and send back the cause to be tried again by a jury in the same
court. These are the only cases, in appeals from inferior courts of common law,
where the superior court can even consider facts incidentally. I feel the
danger, as much as any gentleman in this committee, of carrying a party to the
federal court, to have a trial there. But it appears to me that it will not be
the case, if that be the practice which I have now stated; and that it is the
practice must be admitted. The appeals may be limited to a certain sum. I make
no doubt it will be so. You cannot prevent appeals without great
inconveniences; but Congress can prevent that dreadful oppression which would
enable many men to have a trial in the federal court, which is ruinous. There
is a power which may be considered as a great security. The power of making
what regulations and exceptions in appeals they may think proper may be so
contrived as to render appeals, as to law and fact, proper, and perfectly
inoffensive. How will this power be exercised? If I thought there was a
possibility of danger, I should be alarmed.
But when I consider who this Congress are, — that they are the
representatives of thirteen states, (which may become fourteen or fifteen, or a
much greater number of states,) who cannot be interested, in the most remote
degree, to subject their citizens to oppressions of that dangerous kind, but
will feel the same inclination to guard their citizens from them, I am not
alarmed. I consider them as secured from it by the arrangement of these courts
by Congress. To carry the citizens a great distance from their respective
states can be of no advantage, but a great hardship to every state, except that
wherein the seat of government may be. I conceive it probable that they will,
as far as they may consistently with the national good, confine these cases.
But when I cast my eyes to the Southern and Eastern States, every one of which
is at a greater distance than we are, I cannot entertain a doubt but what this
point will be perfectly secure. Every state being concerned almost equally, we
have sufficient security that, when they come to organize the Supreme Court,
they will regulate it so as to exclude this danger.
The fourth branch secures two important points in criminal cases —
1st, that the trial shall be by jury; 2d, that it {521} shall be in the state
where the offence is committed. It does not point out where it shall be within
the state, or the more exact minutiæ respecting it; but laws will be made
by which it will be regulated fully and minutely. I cannot conceive what
motives they can have, in forming these trials, to render them oppressive. We
have this security — that our citizens shall not be carried out of the
state, and that no other trial can be substituted for that by jury.
[Mr. Pendleton made many other remarks;
but he spoke too low to be comprehended distinctly.]
Mr. GEORGE MASON. Mr. Chairman, I had some hopes that the candor and
reason of the warmest friends of this Constitution would have led them to point
out objections so important. They must occur, more or less, to the mind of
every one. It is with great reluctance I speak of this department, as it lies
out of my line. I should not tell my sentiments upon it, did I not conceive it
to be so constructed as to destroy the dearest rights of the community. After
having read the first section, Mr. Mason asked, What is there left to the state
courts? Will any gentleman be pleased, candidly, fairly, and without sophistry,
to show us what remains? There is no limitation. It goes to every thing. The
inferior courts are to be as numerous as Congress may think proper. They are to
be of whatever nature they please. Read the 2d section, and contemplate
attentively the extent of the jurisdiction of these courts, and consider if
there be any limits to it.
I am greatly mistaken if there be any limitation whatsoever, with
respect to the nature or jurisdiction of these courts. If there be any limits,
they must be contained in one of the clauses of this section; and I believe, on
a dispassionate discussion, it will be found that there is none of any check.
All the laws of the United States are paramount to the laws and constitution of
any single state. "The judicial power shall extend to all cases in law and
equity arising under this Constitution." What objects will not this expression
extend to? Such laws may be formed as will go to every object of private
property. When we consider the nature of these courts, we must conclude that
their effect and operation will be utterly to destroy the state governments;
for they will be the judges how far their laws will operate. They are to modify
their own {522} courts, and you can make no state law to counteract them. The
discrimination between their judicial power, and that of the states, exists,
therefore, but in name. To what disgraceful and dangerous length does the
principle of this go! For if your state judiciaries are not to be trusted with
the administration of common justice, and decision of disputes respecting
property between man and man, much less ought the state governments to be
trusted with power of legislation. The principle itself goes to the destruction
of the legislation of the states, whether or not it was intended. As to my own
opinion, I most religiously and conscientiously believe that it was intended,
though I am not absolutely certain. But I think it will destroy the state
governments, whatever may have been the intention. There are many gentlemen in
the United States who think it right that we should have one great, national,
consolidated government, and that it was better to bring it about slowly and
imperceptibly rather than all at once. This is no reflection on any man, for I
mean none. To those who think that one national, consolidated government is
best for America, this extensive judicial authority will be agreeable; but I
hope there are many in this Convention of a different opinion, and who see
their political happiness resting on their state governments. I know, from my
own knowledge, many worthy gentlemen of the former opinion.
[Here Mr. Madison interrupted Mr. Mason, and demanded an
unequivocal explanation. As these insinuations might create a belief that every
member of the late federal Convention was of that opinion, he wished him to
tell who the gentlemen were to whom he alluded.]
Mr. MASON then replied, I shall never refuse to explain myself. It is
notorious that this is a prevailing principle. It was at least the opinion of
many gentlemen in Convention, and many in the United States. I do not know what
explanation the honorable gentleman asks. I can say, with great truth, that the
honorable gentleman, in private conversation with me, expressed himself against
it; neither did I ever hear any of the delegates from this state advocate it.
Mr. MADISON declared himself satisfied with this, unless the committee
thought themselves entitled to ask a further explanation.
After some desultory remarks, Mr. MASON continued: {523} I have heard
that opinion advocated by gentlemen for whose abilities, judgment, and
knowledge, I have the highest reverence and respect. I say that the general
description of the judiciary involves the most extensive jurisdiction. Its
cognizance, in all cases arising under the system and the laws of Congress, may
be said to be unlimited. In the next place, it extends to treaties made, or
which shall be made, under their authority. This is one of the powers which
ought to be given them. I also admit that they ought to have judicial
cognizance in all cases affecting ambassadors, foreign ministers and consuls,
as well as in cases of maritime jurisdiction. There is an additional reason now
to give them this last power; because Congress, besides the general powers, are
about to get that; of regulating commerce with foreign nations. This is a power
which existed before, and is a proper subject of federal jurisdiction. The next
power of the judiciary is also necessary under some restrictions. Though the
decision of controversies to which the United States shall be a party may at
first view seem proper, it may, without restraint, be extended to a dangerously
oppressive length. The next, with respect to disputes between two or more
states, is right. I cannot see the propriety of the next power, in disputes
between a state and the citizens of another state. As to controversies between
citizens of different states, their power is improper and inadmissible. In
disputes between citizens of the same state, claiming lands under the grants of
different states, the power is proper. It is the only case in which the federal
judiciary ought to have appellate cognizance of disputes between private
citizens. Unless this was the case, the suit must be brought and decided in one
or the other state, under whose grant the lands are claimed, which would be
injurious, as the decision must be consistent with the grant.
The last clause is still more improper. To give them cognizance in
disputes between a state and the citizens thereof, is utterly inconsistent with
reason or good policy.
Here Mr. NICHOLAS arose, and informed Mr. Mason that his interpretation
of this part was not warranted by the words.
Mr. MASON replied, that, if he recollected rightly, the propriety of the
power, as explained by him, had been contended for; but that, as his memory had
never been {524} good, and was now impaired much from his age, he would not
insist on that interpretation. He then proceeded: Give me leave to advert to
the operation of this judicial power. Its jurisdiction in the first case will
extend to all cases affecting revenue, excise, and custom-house officers. If I
am mistaken, I will retract. "All cases in law and equity arising under this
Constitution, and the laws of the United States," take in all the officers of
the government. They comprehend all those who act as collectors of taxes,
excisemen, &c. It will take in, of course, what others do to them, and what
is done by them to others. In what predicament will our citizens then be? We
know the difficulty we are put in by our own courts, and how hard it is to
bring officers to justice even in them. If any of the federal officers should
be guilty of the greatest oppressions, or behave with the most insolent and
wanton brutality to a man's wife or daughter, where is this man to get relief?
If you suppose in the inferior courts, they are not appointed by the states.
They are not men in whom the community can place confidence. It will be decided
by federal judges. Even suppose the poor man should be able to obtain judgment
in the inferior court, for the greatest injury, what justice can he get on
appeal? Can he go four or five hundred miles? Can he stand the expense
attending it? On this occasion they are to judge of fact as well as law. He
must bring his witnesses where he is not known, where a new evidence may be
brought against him, of which he never heard before, and which he cannot
contradict.
The honorable gentleman who presides here has told us that the Supreme
Court of appeals must embrace every object of maritime, chancery, and
common-law controversy. In the two first, the indiscriminate appellate
jurisdiction as to fact must be generally granted; because, otherwise, it could
exclude appeals in those cases. But why not discriminate as to matters of fact
with respect to common-law controversies? The honorable gentleman has allowed
that it was dangerous, but hopes regulations will be made to suit the
convenience of the people. But mere hope is not a sufficient security. I have
said that it appears to me (though I am no lawyer) to be very dangerous. Give
me leave to lay before the committee an amendment, which I think convenient,
easy, and proper.
{525}
[Here Mr. Mason proposed an alteration nearly the
same as the first part of the fourteenth amendment recommended by the
Convention, which see at the conclusion.]
Thus, sir, said Mr. Mason, after limiting the cases in which the federal
judiciary could interpose, I would confine the appellate jurisdiction to
matters of law only, in common-law controversies.
It appears to me that this will remove oppressions, and answer every
purpose of an appellate power.
A discrimination arises between common-law trials and trials in courts
of equity and admiralty. In these two last, depositions are committed to
record, and therefore, on an appeal, the whole fact goes up; the equity of the
whole case, comprehending fact and law, is considered, and no new evidence
requisite. Is it so in courts of common law? There evidence is only given viva
voce. I know not a single case where there is an appeal of fact as to common
law. But I may be mistaken. Where there is an appeal from an inferior to a
superior court, with respect to matters of fact, a new witness may be
introduced, who is perhaps suborned by the other party, a thousand miles from
the place where the first trial was had. These are some of the inconveniences
and insurmountable objections against this general power being given to the
federal courts. Gentlemen will perhaps say there will be no occasion to carry
up the evidence by viva voce testimony, because Congress may order it to be
committed to writing, and transmitted in that manner with the rest of the
record. It is true they may, but it is as true that they may not. But suppose
they do; little conversant as I am in this subject, I know there is a groat
difference between viva voce evidence given at the bar, and testimony given in
writing. I leave it to gentlemen more conversant in these matters to discuss
it. They are also to have cognizance in controversies to which the United
States shall be a party. This power is superadded, that there might be no
doubt, and that all cases arising under the government might be brought before
the federal court. Gentlemen will not, I presume, deny that all revenue and
excise controversies, and all proceedings relative to the duties of the
officers of government, from the highest to the lowest, may and must be brought
by these means to the federal courts; in the first instance, to the inferior
federal court, and afterwards to the {526} superior court. Every fact proved
with respect to these, in the court below, may be revived in the superior
court. But this appellate jurisdiction is to be under the regulations of
Congress. What these regulations may be, God only knows.
Their
jurisdiction
further extends to controversies between
citizens of different states. Can we not trust our state courts with the
decision of these? If I have a controversy with a man in Maryland, — if a
man in Maryland has my bond for a hundred pounds, — are not the state
courts competent to try it? Is it suspected that they would enforce the payment
if unjust, or refuse to enforce it if just? The very idea is ridiculous. What!
carry me a thousand miles from home — from my family and business —
to where, perhaps, it will be impossible for me to prove that I paid it?
Perhaps I have a respectable witness who saw me pay the money; but I must carry
him one thousand miles to prove it, or be compelled to pay it again. Is there
any necessity for this power? It ought to have no unnecessary or dangerous
power. Why should the federal courts have this cognizance? Is it because one
lives on one side of the Potomac, and the other on the other? Suppose I have
your bond for a thousand pounds: if I have any wish to harass you, or if I be
of a litigious disposition, I have only to assign it to a gentleman in
Maryland. This assignment will involve you in trouble and expense. What effect
will this power have between British creditors and the citizens of this state?
This is a ground on which I shall speak with confidence. Every one, who heard
me speak on the subject, knows that I always spoke for the payment of the
British debts. I wish every honest debt to be paid. Though I would wish to pay
the British creditor, yet I would not put it in his power to gratify private
malice to our injury. Let me be put right if I be mistaken; but there is not,
in my opinion, a single British creditor but can bring his debtors to the
federal court.
There are a thousand instances where debts have been paid, and yet must,
by this appellate cognizance, be paid again. Are these imaginary cases? Are
they only possible cases, or are they certain and inevitable? "To controversies
between a state and the citizens of another state." How will their jurisdiction
in this case do? Let gentlemen look at the westward. Claims respecting those
lands, every liquidated account, or other claim against this state, will be
tried {527} before the federal court. Is not this disgraceful? Is this state to
be brought to the bar of justice like a delinquent individual? Is the
sovereignty of the state to be arraigned like a culprit, or private offender?
Will the states undergo this mortification? I think this power perfectly
unnecessary. But let us pursue this subject farther. What is to be done if a
judgment be obtained against a state? Will you issue a
fieri facias
? It
would be ludicrous to say that you could put the state's body in jail. How is
the judgment, then, to be enforced? A power which cannot be executed ought not
to be granted.
Let us consider the operation of the last subject of its
cognizance
. "Controversies between a state, or the citizens thereof, and
foreign states, citizens, or subjects." There is a confusion in this case. This
much, however, may be raised out of it — that a suit will be brought
against Virginia. She may be sued by a foreign state. What reciprocity is there
in it? In a suit between Virginia and a foreign state, is the foreign state to
be bound by the decision? Is there a similar privilege given to us in foreign
states? Where will you find a parallel regulation? How will the decision be
enforced? Only by the
ultima ratio regum
. A dispute between a foreign
citizen or subject and a Virginian cannot be tried in our own courts, but must
be decided in the federal court. Is this the case in any other country? Are not
men obliged to stand by the laws of the country where the disputes are? This is
an innovation which is utterly unprecedented and unheard-of. Cannot we trust
the state courts with disputes between a Frenchman, or an Englishman, and a
citizen; or with disputes between two Frenchmen? This is disgraceful; it will
annihilate your state judiciary: it will prostrate your legislature.
Thus, sir, it appears to me that the greater part of these powers are
unnecessary, and dangerous, as tending to impair, and ultimately destroy, the
state judiciaries, and, by the same principle, the legislation of the state
governments. To render it safe, there must be an amendment, such as I have
pointed out. After mentioning the original jurisdiction of the Supreme Court,
which extends to but three cases, it gives it appellate jurisdiction, in all
other cases mentioned, both as to law and fact, indiscriminately and without
limitation. Why not remove the cause of fear and danger? {528} But it is said
that the regulations of Congress will remove these. I say that, in my opinion,
they will have a contrary effect, and will utterly annihilate your state
courts. Who are the court? The judges. It is a familiar distinction. We
frequently speak of a court in contradistinction from a jury. I think the court
are to be the judges of this. The judges on the bench are to be judges of fact
and law, with such exceptions, &c., as Congress shall make. Now, give me
leave to ask, Is not a jury excluded absolutely? By way of illustration, were
Congress to say that a jury, instead of a court, should judge the fact, will
not the court be still judges of the fact consistently with this Constitution?
Congress may make such a regulation, or may not. But suppose they do; what sort
of a jury would they have in the ten miles square? I would rather, a thousand
times, be tried by a court than by such a jury. This great palladium of
national safety, which is secured to us by our own government, will be taken
from us in those courts; or, if it be reserved, it will be but in name, and not
in substance. In the government of Virginia, we have secured an impartial jury
of the vicinage. We can except to jurors, and peremptorily challenge them in
criminal trials. If I be tried in the federal court for a crime which may
affect my life, have I a right of challenging or excepting to the jury? Have
not the best men suffered by weak and partial juries? This sacred right ought,
therefore, to be secured. I dread the ruin that will be brought on thirty
thousand of our people, with respect to disputed lands. I am personally
endangered as an inhabitant of the Northern Neck. The people of that part will
be obliged, by the operation of this power, to pay the quitrent of their lands.
Whatever other gentlemen may think, I consider this as a most serious alarm. It
will little avail a man to make a profession of his candor. It is to his
character and reputation they will appeal. Let gentlemen consider my public and
private character. To these I wish gentlemen to appeal for an interpretation of
my motives and views. Lord Fairfax's title was clear and undisputed. After the
revolution, we taxed his lands as private property. After his death, an act of
Assembly was made, in 1782, to sequester the quitrents due, at his death, in
the hands of his debtors. Next year, an act was made restoring them to the
executor of the proprietor. Subsequent to this, the treaty {529} of peace was
made, by which it was agreed that there should be no further confiscations.
But, after this, an act of Assembly passed, confiscating his whole property. As
Lord Fairfax's title was indisputably good, and as treaties are to be the
supreme law of the laud, will not his representatives be able to recover all in
the federal court? How will gentlemen like to pay an additional tax on lands in
the Northern Neck? This the operation of this system will compel them to do.
They now are subject to the same tax that other citizens are; and if the
quitrents be recovered in the federal court, they are doubly taxed. This may be
called an assertion; but were I going to my grave, I would appeal to Heaven
that I think it true. How will a poor man, who is injured or dispossessed
unjustly, get a remedy? Is he to go to the federal court, seven or eight
hundred miles? He might as well give his claim up. He may grumble, but, finding
no relief, he will be contented.
Again, all that tract of country between the Blue Ridge and the
Alleghany Mountains will be claimed, and probably recovered in the federal
court, from the present possessors, by those companies who have a title to
them. These lands have been sold to a great number of people. Many settled on
them, on terms which were advertised. How will this be with respect to
ex
post facto
laws? We have not only confirmed the title of those who made the
contract, but those who did not, by a law, in 1779, on their paying the
original price. Much was paid in a depreciated value, and much was not paid at
all. Again, the great Indiana purchase, which was made to the westward, will,
by this judicial power, be rendered a cause of dispute. The possessors may be
ejected from those lands. That company paid a consideration of ten thousand
pounds to the crown, before the lands were taken up. I have heard gentlemen of
the law say (and I believe it is right) that, after the consideration was paid
to the crown, the purchase was legally made, and ought to be valid. That
company may come in, and show that they have paid the money, and have a full
right to the land. Of the Indiana company I need not say much. It is well known
that their claims will be brought before these courts. Three or four counties
are settled on the land to which that company claims a title, and have long
enjoyed it peaceably. All these claims before those courts, if they succeed,
{530} will introduce a scene of distress and confusion never heard of before.
Our peasants will be, like those mentioned by Virgil, reduced to ruin and
misery, driven from their farms, and obliged to leave their country: —
"
Nos patriam fugimus, et dulcia linquimus
arva.
"
Having mentioned these things, give me leave to submit an amendment,
which I think would be proper and safe, and would render our citizens secure in
their possessions justly held. I mean, sir, "that the judicial power shall
extend to no case where the cause of action shall have originated before the
ratification of this Constitution, except in suits for debts due to the United
States, disputes between states about their territory, and disputes between
persons claiming lands under grants of different states." In these cases, there
is an obvious necessity for giving it a retrospective power. I have laid before
you my idea on the subject, and expressed my fears, which I most
conscientiously believe to be well founded.
Mr. MADISON. Mr. Chairman, the honorable gentleman having persuaded
himself that it was calculated to destroy the state governments, and to
dispossess of their property so great a proportion of this commonwealth, I am
not surprised at the opposition he has made. But, being equally persuaded that
his fears are groundless, I will endeavor to refute his objections where they
do not appear to me to be well founded. I shall be candid in my remarks. I
acknowledge that this part does not stand in that form which would be freest
from objection. It might be better expressed.
But, at the same time, truth obliges me to put a fair and liberal
interpretation upon the words. I believe the general government will do what is
for the interest of the United States; because they have no substantial reason
or inducement to violate their duty, nor are they warranted by this part of the
plan to commit the oppressions he dreads. The general policy of that clause is
to prevent all occasions of having disputes with foreign powers, to prevent
disputes between different states, and remedy partial decisions. I believe this
to be wise and salutary. The lateness of the hour prevents my entering fully
into the subject now. I shall reserve my answer to some other day. But I cannot
sit down without adding a few words. He is displeased that {531} there is no
provision for peremptory challenges to juries. There is no such provision made
in our Constitution or laws. The answer made by an honorable member lately is a
full answer to this. He said, and with great propriety and truth, that where a
technical word was used, all the incidents belonging to it necessarily attended
it. The right of challenging is incident to the trial by jury, and therefore,
as one is secured, so is the other. I hope gentlemen will see that the dangers
he has pointed out do not necessarily follow.
[
1
. Elliot misprinted this as Wednesday, June 18,
1788.]
Next
|
Previous
|
Contents
|
Text
Version
|
Home
|
Constitution Society
x
x

Mr. HENRY. Mr. Chairman, I have already expressed
painful sensations at the surrender of our great rights, and I am again driven
to the mournful recollection. The purse is gone; the sword is gone; and here is
the only thing of any importance that is to remain with us. As I think this is
a more fatal defect than any we have yet considered, forgive me if I attempt to
refute the observations made by the honorable member in the chair, and last up.
It appears to me that the powers in the section before you are either
impracticable, or, if reducible to practice, dangerous in the extreme.
The honorable gentleman began in a manner which surprised me. It was
observed that our state judges might be contented to be federal judges and
state judges also. If we are to be deprived of that class of men, and if they
are to combine against us with the general government, we are gone.
I consider the Virginia judiciary as one of the best barriers against
strides of power — against that power which, we are told by the honorable
gentleman, has threatened the destruction of liberty. Pardon me for expressing
my extreme regret that it is in their power to take away that barrier.
Gentlemen will not say that any danger can be expected from the state
legislatures. So small are the barriers against the encroachments and
usurpations of Congress, that, when I see this last barrier — the
independency of the judges — impaired, I am persuaded I see the
prostration of all our rights. In what a situation will your judges be, when
they are sworn to preserve the Constitution of the state and of the general
government! If there be a concurrent dispute between them, which will prevail?
They cannot serve two masters struggling for the same object. The laws of
Congress being paramount to those of the states, and to their constitutions
also, whenever they come in competition, the judges must decide in favor of the
former. This, instead of relieving or aiding me, deprives me of my only comfort
— the independency of the judges. The judiciary are the sole protection
against a tyrannical execution of the laws. But if by this system we lose our
judiciary, and they cannot help us, we must sit down quietly, and be oppressed.
{540} The appellate jurisdiction as to law and fact, notwithstanding the
ingenuity of gentlemen, still, to me, carries those terrors which my honorable
friend described. This does not include law, in the common acceptation of it,
but goes to equity and admiralty, leaving what we commonly understand by common
law out altogether. We are told of technical terms, and that we must put a
liberal construction on it. We must judge by the common understanding of common
men. Do the expressions "fact and law" relate to cases of admiralty and
chancery jurisdiction only? No, sir, the least attention will convince us that
they extend to common-law cases. Three cases are contradistinguished from the
rest. "In all cases affecting ambassadors, other public ministers, and consuls,
and those in which a state shall be a party, the Supreme Court shall have
original jurisdiction. In all the other cases before mentioned, the Supreme
Court shall have appellate jurisdiction, both as to law and fact." Now, sir,
what are we to understand by these words? What are the cases before mentioned?
Cases of common law, as well as of equity and admiralty. I confess I was
surprised to hear such an explanation from an understanding more penetrating
and acute than mine. We are told that the cognizance of law and fact is
satisfied by cases of admiralty and chancery. The words are expressly against
it. Nothing can be more clear and incontestable. This will, in its operation,
destroy the trial by jury. The verdict of an impartial jury will be reversed by
judges unacquainted with the circumstances. But we are told that Congress are
to make regulations to remedy this. I may be told that I am bold; but I think
myself, and I hope to be able to prove to others, that Congress cannot, by any
act of theirs, alter this jurisdiction as established. It appears to me that no
law of Congress can alter or arrange it. It is subject to be regulated, but is
it subject to be abolished? If Congress alter this part, they will repeal the
Constitution. Does it give them power to repeal itself? What is meant by such
words in common parlance? If you are obliged to do certain business, you are to
do it under such modifications as were originally designed. Can gentlemen
support their argument by regular or logical conclusions? When Congress, by
virtue of this sweeping clause, will organize these courts, they cannot depart
from the Constitution; and their laws in {541} opposition to the Constitution
would be void. If Congress, under the specious pretence of pursuing this
clause, altered it, and prohibited appeals as to fact, the federal judges, if
they spoke the sentiments of independent men, would declare their prohibition
nugatory and void. In every point of view, it seems to me that it will continue
in as full force as it is now, notwithstanding any regulations they may attempt
to make. What then, Mr. Chairman? We are told that, if this does not satisfy
every mind, they will yield. It is not satisfactory to my mind, whatever it may
be to others. The honorable gentleman has told us that our representatives will
mend every defect. I do not know how often we have recurred to that source, but
I can find no consolation in it. Who are they? Ourselves. What is their duty?
To alter the spirit of the Constitution — to new model it? Is that their
duty, or ours? It is our duty to rest our rights on a certain foundation, and
not trust to future contingencies.
We are told of certain difficulties. I acknowledge it is difficult to
form a constitution. But I have seen difficulties conquered which were as
unconquerable as this. We are told that trial by jury is difficult to be had in
certain cases. Do we not know the meaning of the term? We are also told it is a
technical term. I see one thing in this Constitution; I made the observation
before and I am still of the same opinion, that every thing with respect to
privileges is so involved in darkness, it makes me suspicious — not of
those gentlemen who formed it, but of its operations in its present form. Could
not precise terms have been used? You find, by the observations of the
gentleman last up, that, when there is a plenitude of power, there is no
difficulty; but when you come to a plain thing, understood by all America,
there are contradictions, ambiguities, difficulties, and what not. Trial by
jury is attended, it seems, with insuperable difficulties, and therefore
omitted altogether in civil cases. But an idea is held out that it is secured
in criminal cases. I had rather it had been left out altogether than have it so
vaguely and equivocally provided for. Poor people do not understand technical
terms. Their rights ought to be secured in language of which they know the
meaning. As they do not know the meaning of such terms, they may be injured
with impunity. If they dare oppose {542} the hands of tyrannical power, you
will see what has been practised elsewhere. They may be tried by the most
partial powers, by their mst implacable enemies, and be sentenced and put to
death, with all the forms of a fair trial. I would rather be left to the
judges. An abandoned juror would not dread the loss of character like a judge.
From these, and a thousand other considerations, I would rather the trial by
jury were struck out altogether. There is no right of challenging partial
jurors. There is no common law f America, (as has been said,) nor constitution,
but that on your table. If there be neither common law nor constitution, there
can be no right to challenge partial jurors. Yet the right is as valuable as
the trial by jury itself.
My honorable friend's remarks were right, with respect to incarcerating
a state. It would ease my mind, if the honorable gentleman would tell me the
manner in which money should be paid, if, in a suit between a state and
individuals, the state were cast. The honorable gentleman, perhaps, does not
mean to use coercion, but some gentle caution. I shall give my voice for the
federal cognizance only where it will be for the public liberty and safety. Its
jurisdiction, in disputes between citizens of different states, will be
productive of the most serious inconveniences. The citizens of bordering states
have frequent intercourse with one another. From the proximity of the states to
each other, a multiplicity of these suits will be instituted. I beg gentlemen
to inform me of this — in what courts are they to go and by what law are
they to be tried? Is it by a law of Pennsylvania or Virginia? Those judges must
be acquainted with all the laws of the different states. I see arising out of
that paper a tribunal that is to be recurred to in all cases, when the
destruction of the state judiciaries shall happen; and, from the extensive
jurisdiction of these paramount courts, the state courts must soon be
annihilated.
It may be remarked that here is presented to us that which is execrated
in some parts of the states — I mean a retrospective law. This, with
respect to property, is as odious as an
ex post facto
law is with
respect to persons. I look upon them as one and the same thing. The
jurisdiction of controversies between citizens, and foreign subjects and
citizens, will operate retrospectively. Every thing with respect to the treaty
with Great Britain and other nations {543} will be involved by it. Every man
who owes any thing to a subject of Great Britain, or any other nation, is
subject to a tribunal that he knew not when he made the contract. Apply this to
our citizens. If ever a suit be instituted by a British creditor for a sum
which the defendant does not in fact owe, he had better pay it than appeal to
the federal Supreme Court. Will gentlemen venture to ruin their own citizens?
Foreigners may ruin every man in this state by unjust and vexatious suits and
appeals. I need only touch it, to remind every gentleman of the danger.
No objection is made to their cognizance of disputes between citizens of
the same state, claiming lands under grants of different states.
As to controversies between a state and the citizens of another state,
his construction of it is to me perfectly incomprehensible. He says it will
seldom happen that a state has such demands on individuals. There is nothing to
warrant such an assertion. But he says that the state may be plaintiff only. If
gentlemen pervert the most clear expressions, and the usual meaning of the
language of the people, there is an end of all argument. What says the paper?
That it shall have cognizance of controversies between a state and citizens of
another state, without discriminating between plaintiff and defendant. What
says the honorable gentleman? The contrary — that the state can only be
plaintiff. When the state is debtor, there is no reciprocity. It seems to me
that gentlemen may put what construction they please on it. What! is justice to
be done to one party, and not to the other? If gentlemen take this liberty now,
what will they not do when our rights and liberties are in their power? He said
it was necessary to provide a tribunal when the case happened, though it would
happen but seldom. The power is necessary, because New York could not, before
the war, collect money from Connecticut! The state judiciaries are so degraded
that they cannot be trusted. This is a dangerous power which is thus
instituted. For what? For things which will seldom happen; and yet,: because
there is a possibility that the strong, energetic government may want it, it
shall be produced and thrown in the general scale of power. I confess I think
it dangerous. Is it not the first time, among civilized mankind, that there was
a tribunal to try disputes between the aggregate society {544} and foreign
nations? Is there any precedent for a tribunal to try disputes between foreign
nations and the states of America? The honorable gentleman said that the
consent of the parties was necessary: I say that a previous consent might leave
it to arbitration. It is but a kind of arbitration at best.
To hear gentlemen of such penetration make use of such arguments, to
persuade us to part with that trial by jury, is very astonishing. We are told
that we are to part with that triad by jury which our ancestors secured their
lives and property with, and we are to build castles in the air, and substitute
visionary modes of decision for that noble palladium. I hope we shall never he
induced, by such arguments, to part with that excellent mode of trial. No
appeal can now be made as to fact in common-law suits. The unanimous verdict of
twelve impartial men cannot be reversed. I shall take the liberty of reading to
the committee the sentiments of the learned Judge Blackstone, so often quoted,
on the subject.
[Here Mr. Henry read the eulogium of that
writer on this trial.
Blackstone's Commentaries
, iii. 319.]
The opinion of this learned writer is more forcible and cogent than any
thing I could say. Notwithstanding the transcendent excellency of this trial,
its essentiality to the preservation of liberty, and the extreme danger of
substituting any other mode, yet we are now about to alienate it.
But on this occasion, as on all others, we are admonished to rely on the
wisdom and virtue of our rulers. We are told that the members from Georgia, New
Hampshire, &c., will not dare to infringe this privilege; that, as it would
excite the indignation of the people, they would not attempt it: that is, the
enormity of the offence is urged as a security against its commission. It is so
abominable that Congress will not exercise it. Shall we listen to arguments
like these, when trial by.jury is about to be relinquished? I beseech you to
consider before you decide. I ask you, What is the value of that privilege?
When Congress, in all the plenitude of their arrogance, magnificence, and
power, can take it from you, will you be satisfied? Are we to go so far as to
concede every thing to the virtue of Congress? Throw yourselves at once on
their mercy; be no longer free than their virtue will predominate: if this will
satisfy republican {545} minds, there is an end of every thing. I disdain to
hold any thing of any man. We ought to cherish that disdain America viewed with
indignation the idea of holding her rights of England. The Parliament gave you
the most solemn assurances that they would not exercise this power. Were you
satisfied with their promises? No. Did you trust any man on earth? No. You
answered that you disdained to hold your innate, indefeasible rights of any
one. Now, you are called upon to give an exorbitant and most alarming power.
The genius of my countrymen is the same now that it was then. They have the
same feelings. They are equally martial and bold. Will not their answer
therefore be the same? I hope that gentlemen will, on a fair investigation, be
candid, and not on every occasion recur to the virtue of our representatives.
When deliberating on the relinquishment of the sword and purse, we have
a right to some other reason than the possible virtue of our rulers. We are
informed that the strength and energy of the government call for the surrender
of this right. Are we to make our country strong by giving up our privileges? I
tell you that, if you judge from reason, or the experience of other nations,
you will find that your country will be great and respectable according as you
will preserve this great privilege. It is prostrated by that paper. Juries from
the vicinage being not secured, this right is in reality sacrificed; All is
gone. And why? Because a rebellion may arise. Resistance will come from certain
countries, and juries will come from the same countries.
I trust the honorable gentleman, on a better recollection, will be sorry
for this observation. Why do we love this trial by jury? Because it prevents
the hand of oppression from cutting you off. They may call any thing rebellion,
and deprive you of a fair trial by an impartial jury of your neighbors. Has not
your mother country magnanimously preserved this noble privilege upwards of a
thousand years? Did she relinquish a jury of the vicinage because there was a
possibility of resistance to oppression? She has been magnanimous enough to
resist every attempt to take away this privilege. She has had magnanimity
enough to rebel when her rights were infringed. That country had juries of
hundredors for many generations. And shall Americans give up that which nothing
could induce the English people {546} to relinquish? The idea is abhorrent to
my mind. There was a time when we should have spurned at it. This gives me
comfort — that, as long as I have existence, my neighbors will protect me.
Old as I am, it is probable I may yet have the appellation of
rebel
. I
trust that I shall see congressional oppression crushed in embryo. As this
government stands, I despise and abhor it. Gentlemen demand it, though it takes
away the trial by jury in civil cases, and does worse than take it away in
criminal cases. It is gone unless you preserve it now. I beg pardon for
speaking so long. Many more observations will present themselves to the minds
of gentlemen when they analyze this part. We find enough, from what has been
said, to come to this conclusion — that it was not intended to have jury
trials at all; because, difficult as it was, the name was known, and it might
have been inserted. Seeing that appeals are given, in matters of fact, to the
Supreme Court, we are led to believe that you must carry your witnesses an
immense distance to the seat of government, or decide appeals according to the
Roman law. I shall add no more, but that I hope that gentlemen will recollect
what they are about to do, and consider that they are going to give up this
last and best privilege.
Mr. PENDLETON. Mr. Chairman, before I enter upon the objections made to
this part, I will observe that I should suppose, if there were any person in
this audience who had not read this Constitution, or who had not heard what has
been said, and should have been told that the trial by jury was intended to be
taken away, he would be surprised to find, on examination, that there was no
exclusion of it in civil cases, and that it was expressly provided for in
criminal cases. I never could see such intention, or any tendency towards it. I
have not heard any arguments of that kind used in favor of the Constitution. If
there were any words in it which said that trial by jury should not be used, it
would be dangerous. I find it secured in criminal cases, and that the trial is
to be had in the state where the crime shall have been committed. It is
strongly insisted that the privilege of challenging, or excepting to the jury,
is not secured. When the Constitution says that the trial shall be by jury,
does it not say that every incident will go along with it? I think the
honorable gentleman was mistaken yesterday in his reasoning on the propriety of
a jury from the vicinage.
{547} He supposed that a jury from the neighborhood is had from this
view — that they should be acquainted with the personal character of the
person accused. I thought it was with another view — that the jury should
have some personal knowledge of the fact, and acquaintance with the witnesses,
who will come from the neighborhood. How is it understood in this state?
Suppose a man, who lives in Winchester, commits a crime at Norfolk; the jury to
try him must come, not from Winchester, but from the neighborhood of Norfolk.
Trial by jury
is secured by this system in criminal cases, as are all
the incidental circumstances relative to it. The honorable gentleman yesterday
made an objection to that clause which says that the judicial power shall be
vested in one Supreme Court, and such inferior courts as Congress may ordain
and establish. He objects that there is an unlimited power of appointing
inferior courts. I refer to that gentleman, whether it would have been proper
to limit this power. Could those gentlemen who framed that instrument have
extended their ideas to all the necessities of the United States, and seen
every case in which it would be necessary to have an inferior tribunal? By the
regulations of Congress, they may be accommodated to public convenience and
utility. We may expect that there will be an inferior court in each state; each
state will insist on it; and each, for that reason, will agree to it.
To show the impropriety of fixing the number of inferior courts, suppose
our Constitution had confined the legislature to any particular number of
inferior jurisdictions; there it would remain; nor could it be increased or
diminished, as circumstances would render it necessary. But as it is, the
legislature can by laws change it from time to time, as circumstances will
require. What would have been the consequences to the western district, if the
legislature had been restrained in this particular? The emigrations to that
country rendered it necessary to establish a jurisdiction there equal in rank
to the General Court in this part of the state. This was convenient to them,
and could be no inconvenience to us. At the same time, the legislature did not
lose sight of making every part of society subject to the supreme tribunal. An
appeal was allowed to the Court of Appeals here. This was necessary. Has it
reduced any inconvenience? I have not seen any appeal from that court. Its
organization {548} has produced no inconvenience whatever. This proves that it
is better to leave them unsettled, than fixed in the Constitution. With respect
to the subjects of its jurisdiction, I consider them as being of a general and
not local nature, and therefore as proper subjects of a federal court. I shall
not enter into an examination of each part, but make some reply to the
observations of the honorable gentleman.
His next objection was to the first two clauses — cases arising
under the Constitution, and laws made in pursuance thereof. Are you to refer
these to the state courts? Must not the judicial powers extend to enforce the
federal laws, govern its own officers, and confine them to the line of their
duty? Must it not protect them, in the proper exercise of duty, against all
opposition, whether from individuals or state laws? No, say gentlemen, because
the legislature may make oppressive laws, or partial judges may give them a
partial interpretation. This is carrying suspicion to an extreme which tends to
prove there should be no legislative or judiciary at all. The fair inference
is, that oppressive laws will not be warranted by the Constitution, nor
attempted by our representatives, who are selected for their ability and
integrity, and that honest, independent judges will never admit an oppressive
construction.
But, then, we are alarmed with the idea of its being a consolidated
government. It is so, say gentlemen, in the executive and legislative, and must
be so in the judiciary. I never conceived it to be a consolidated government,
so as to involve the interest of all America. Of the two objects of judicial
cognizance, one is general and national, and the other local. The former is
given to the general judiciary, and the latter left for the local tribunals.
They act in cooperation, to secure our liberty. For the sake of economy, the
appointment of these courts might be in the state courts. I rely on an honest
interpretation from independent judges. An honest man would not serve
otherwise, because it would be to serve a dishonest purpose. To give execution
to proper laws, in a proper manner, is their peculiar province. There is no
inconsistency, impropriety, or danger, in giving the state judges the federal
cognizance. Every gentleman who beholds my situation, my infirmity, and various
other considerations, will hardly suppose I carry my view to an accumulation of
power. Ever since I had any power, I was {549} more anxious to discharge my
duty than to increase my power.
The impossibility of calling a sovereign state before the jurisdiction
of another sovereign state, shows the propriety and necessity of vesting this
tribunal with the decision of controversies to which a state shall be a party.
But the principal objection of that honorable gentleman was, that
jurisdiction was given it in disputes between citizens of different states. I
think, in general, those decisions might be left to the state tribunals;
especially as citizens of one state are declared to be citizens of all. I think
it will, in general, be so left by the regulations of Congress. But may no case
happen in which it may be proper to give the federal courts jurisdiction in
such a dispute? Suppose a bond given by a citizen of Rhode Island to one of our
citizens. The regulations of that state being unfavorable to the claims of the
other states, if he is obliged to go to Rhode Island to recover it, he will be
obliged to accept payment of one third, or less, of his money. He cannot sue in
the Supreme Court, but he may sue in the federal inferior court; and on
judgment to be paid one for ten, he may get justice by appeal. Is it an
eligible Situation? Is it just that a man should run the risk of losing nine
tenths of his claim? Ought he not to be able to carry it to that court where
unworthy principles do not prevail? Paper money and tender laws may be passed
in other states, in opposition to the federal principle, and restriction of
this Constitution, and will need jurisdiction in the federal judiciary, to stop
its pernicious effects.
Where is the danger, in the case put, of malice producing an assignment
of a bond to a citizen of a neighboring state — Maryland? I have before
supposed that there would be an inferior federal court in every state. Now,
this citizen of Maryland, to whom this bond is assigned, cannot sue out process
from the supreme federal court to carry his debtor thither. He cannot carry him
to Maryland. He must sue him in the inferior federal court in Virginia. He can
only go farther by appeal. The creditor cannot appeal. He gets a judgment. An
appeal can be had only on application of the defendant, who thus gains a
privilege instead of an injury; so that the observation of the honorable
gentleman is not well founded. It was said by the honorable gentleman {550}
to-day, that no regulation Congress would make could prevent from applying to
common-law cases matters of law and fact. In the construction of general words
of this sort, they will apply concurrently to different purposes. We give them
that distributive interpretation, and liberal explication, which will not make
them mischievous; and if this can be done by a court, surely it can by a
legislature. When it appears that the interpretation made by legislative
bodies, in carrying acts into execution, is thus liberal and distributive,
there is no danger here. The honorable gentleman was mistaken when he supposed
that I said, in cases where the competency of evidence is questioned, the fact
was to be changed in the superior court. I said, the fact was not at all to be
affected. I described how the superior court was to proceed, and, when it
settled that point, if another trial was necessary, they sent the cause back,
and then it was tried again in the inferior court.
The honorable gentleman has proposed an amendment which he supposes
would remove those inconveniences. I attended to it, and it gave great force to
my opinion that it is better to leave it to be amended by the regulations of
Congress. What is to be done in cases where juries have been introduced in the
admiralty and chancery? In the admiralty, juries sometimes decide facts.
Sometimes in chancery, when the judges are dissatisfied, from the want of
testimony or other cause, they send it to be tried by a jury. When the jury
determines, they settle it. Let the gentleman review his amendment. It strikes
me forcibly that it would be better to leave it to Congress than to introduce
amendments which would not answer. I mentioned yesterday that, from the
situation of the states, appeals could not be abused. The honorable gentleman
to-day said it was putting too much confidence in our agents and rulers. I
leave it to all mankind, whether it be not a reasonable confidence, Will the
representatives of any twelve states sacrifice their own interest, and that of
their fellow.citizens, to answer no purpose? But suppose we should happen to be
deceived; have we no security? So great is the spirit of America, that it was
found sufficient to oppose the greatest power in the world. Will not the
American spirit protect us against any danger from our own representatives? It
being now late, I shall add no more.
{551} Mr. GEORGE MASON. Mr. Chairman, the objection I made, respecting
the assignment of a bond from a citizen of this state to a citizen of another
state, remains still in force. The honorable gentleman has said that there can
be no danger, in the first instance, because it is not within the original
jurisdiction of the Supreme Court; but that the suit must be brought in the
inferior federal court of Virginia. He supposes there can never be an appeal,
in this case, by the plaintiff, because he gets a judgment on his bond; and
that the defendant alone can appeal, who therefore, instead of being injured,
obtains a privilege. Permit me to examine the force of this. By means of a
suit, on a real or fictitious claim, the citizens of the most distant states
may be brought to the supreme federal court. Suppose a man has my bond for a
hundred pounds, and a great part of it has been paid, and, in order
fraudulently to oppress me, he assigns it to a gentleman in Carolina or
Maryland. He then carries me to the inferior federal court. I produce my
witness, and judgment is given in favor of the defendant. The plaintiff
appeals, and carries me to the superior court, a thousand miles, and my
expenses amount to more than the bond.
The honorable gentleman recommends to me to alter my proposed amendment.
I would as soon take the advice of that gentleman as any other; but, though the
regard which I have for him be great, I cannot assent on this great occasion.
There are not many instances of decisions by juries in the admiralty or
chancery, because the facts are generally proved by depositions. When that is
done, the fact, being ascertained, goes up to the superior court, as part of
the record; so that there will be no occasion to revise that part.
Mr. JOHN MARSHALL. Mr. Chairman, this part of the plan before us is a
great improvement on that system from which we are now departing. Here are
tribunals appointed for
the decision of controversies
which were before
either not at all, or improperly, provided for. That many benefits will result
from this to the members of the collective society, every one confesses. Unless
its organization be defective, and so constructed as to injure, instead of
accommodating, the convenience of the people, it merits our approbation. After
such a candid and fair discussion by those gentlemen who support it, —
after the very able manner in {552} which they have investigated and examined
it, — I conceived it would be no longer considered as so very defective,
and that those who opposed it would be convinced of the impropriety of some of
their objections. But I perceive they still continue the same opposition.
Gentlemen have gone on an idea that the federal courts will not determine the
causes which may come before them with the same fairness and impartiality with
which other courts decide. What are the reasons of this supposition? Do they
draw them from the manner in which the judges are chosen, or the tenure of
their office? What is it that makes us trust our judges? Their independence in
office, and manner of appointment. Are not the judges of the federal court
chosen with as much wisdom as the judges of the state governments? Are they not
equally, if not more independent? If so, shall we not conclude that they will
decide with equal impartiality and candor? If there be as much wisdom and
knowledge in the United States as in a particular state, shall we conclude that
the wisdom and knowledge will not be equally exercised in the selection of
judges?
The principle on which they object to the federal jurisdiction seems, to
me, to be founded on a belief that there will not be a fair trial had in those
courts. If this committee will consider it fully, they will find it has no
foundation, and that we are as secure there as any where else. What mischief
results from some causes being tried there? Is there not the utmost reason to
conclude that judges, wisely appointed, and independent in their office, will
never countenance any unfair trial? What are the subjects of its jurisdiction?
Let us examine them with an expectation that causes will be as candidly tried
there as elsewhere, and then determine. The objection which was made by the
honorable member who was first up yesterday (Mr. Mason) has been so fully
refuted that it is not worth while to notice it. He objected to Congress having
power to create a number of inferior courts, according to the necessity of
public circumstances. I had an apprehension that those gentlemen who placed no
confidence in Congress would object that there might be no inferior courts. I
own that I thought those gentlemen would think there would be no inferior
courts, as it depended on the will of Congress, but that we should be dragged
to the centre of the Union. But I did {553} not conceive that the power of
increasing the number of courts could be objected to by any gentleman, as it
would remove the inconvenience of being dragged to the centre of the United
States. I own that the power of creating a number of courts is, in my
estimation, so far from being a defect, that it seems necessary to the
perfection of this system. After having objected to the number and mode, he
objected to the subject matter of their cognizance. [Here Mr. Marshall read the
2d section.]
These, sir, are the points of
federal jurisdiction
to which he
objects, with a few exceptions. Let us examine each of them with a supposition
that the same impartiality will be observed there as in other courts, and then
see if any mischief will result from them. With respect to its cognizance in
all cases arising under the Constitution and the laws of the United States, he
says that, the laws of the United States being paramount to the laws of the
particular states, there is no case but what this will extend to. Has the
government of the United States power to make laws on every subject? Does he
understand it so? Can they make laws affecting the mode of transferring
property, or contracts, or claims, between citizens of the same state? Can they
go beyond the delegated powers? If they were to make a law not warranted by any
of the powers enumerated, it would be considered by the judges as an
infringement of the Constitution which they are to guard. They would not
consider such a law as coming under their.jurisdiction. They would declare it
void. It will annihilate the state courts, says the honorable gentleman. Does
not every gentleman here know that the causes in our courts are more numerous
than they can decide, according to their present construction? Look at the
dockets. You will find them crowded with suits, which the life of man will not
see determined. If some of these suits be carried to other courts, will it be
wrong? They will still have business enough.
Then there is no danger that particular subjects, small in proportion,
being taken out of the jurisdiction of the state judiciaries, will render them
useless and of no effect. Does the gentleman think that the state courts will
have no cognizance of cases not mentioned here? Are there any words in this
Constitution which exclude the courts of the states from those cases which they
now possess? Does the {554} gentleman imagine this to be the case? Will any
gentleman believe it? Are not controversies respecting lands claimed under the
grants of different states the only controversies between citizens of the same
state which the federal judiciary can take cognizance of? The case is so clear,
that to prove it would be a useless waste of time. The state courts will not
lose the jurisdiction of the causes they now decide. They have a concurrence of
jurisdiction with the federal courts in those cases in which the latter have
cognizance.
How disgraceful is it that the state courts cannot be trusted! says the
honorable gentleman. What is the language of the Constitution? Does it take
away their jurisdiction? Is it not necessary that the federal courts should
have cognizance of cases arising under the Constitution, and the laws, of the
United States? What is the service or purpose of a judiciary, but to execute
the laws in a peaceable, orderly manner, without shedding blood, or creating a
contest, or availing yourselves of force? If this be the case, where an its
jurisdiction be more necessary than here?
To what quarter will you look for protection from an infringement on the
Constitution, if you will not give the power to the judiciary? There is no
other body that can afford such a protection. But the honorable member objects
to it, because he says that the officers of the government will be screened
from merited punishment by the federal judiciary. The federal sheriff, says he,
will go into a poor man's house and beat him, or abuse his family, and the
federal court will protect him. Does any gentleman believe this? Is it
necessary that the officers will commit a trespass on the property or persons
of those with whom they are to transact business? Will such great insults on
the people of this country be allowable? Were a law made to authorize them, It
would be void. The injured man would trust to a tribunal in his neighborhood.
To such a tribunal he would apply for redress, and get it. There is no reason
to fear that he would not meet that justice there which his country will be
ever willing to maintain. But,
on appeal
, says the honorable gentleman,
what chance is there to obtain justice? This is founded on an idea that they
will not be impartial. There is no clause in the Constitution which bars the
individual member injured from applying to the state courts to give him
redress. He says that there is no instance of appeals as to fact in common-law
cases. The contrary is well {555} known to you, Mr. Chairman, to be the case in
this commonwealth. With respect to mills, roads, and other cases, appeals lie
from the inferior to the superior court, as to fact as well as law. Is it a
clear case, that there can be no case in common law in which an appeal as to
fact might be proper and necessary? Can you not conceive a case where it would
be productive of advantages to the people at large to submit to that tribunal
the final determination, involving facts as well as law? Suppose it should be
deemed for the convenience of the citizens that those things which concerned
foreign ministers should be tried in the inferior courts; if justice could be
done, the decision would satisfy all. But if an appeal in matters of facts
could not be carried to the superior court, then it would result that such
cases could not be tried before the inferior courts, for fear of injurious and
partial decisions.
But, sir, where is the necessity of discriminating between the three
cases of chancery, admiralty, and common law? Why not leave it to Congress?
Will it enlarge their powers? Is it necessary for them wantonly to infringe
your rights? Have you any thing to apprehend, when they can in no case abuse
their power without rendering themselves hateful to the people at large? When
this is the case, something may be left to the legislature freely Chosen by
ourselves, from among ourselves, who are to share the burdens imposed upon the
community, and who can be changed at our pleasure. Where power may be trusted,
and there is no motive to abuse it, it seems to me to be as well to leave it
undetermined as to fix it in the Constitution.
With respect to disputes between
a state and the citizens of another
state
, its jurisdiction has been decried with unusual vehemence. I hope
that no gentleman will think that a state will be called at the bar of the
federal court. Is there no such case at present? Are there not many cases in
which;the legislature of Virginia is a party, and yet the state is not sued? It
is not rational to suppose that the sovereign power should be dragged before a
court. The intent is, to enable states to recover claims of individuals
residing in other states. I contend this construction is warranted by the
words. But, say they, there will be partiality in it if a state cannot be
defendant — if an individual cannot proceed to obtain judgment against a
state, though he may be sued {556} by a state. It is necessary to be so, and
cannot be avoided. I see a difficulty in making a state defendant, which does
not prevent its being plaintiff. If this be only what cannot be avoided, why
object to the system on that account? If an individual has a just claim against
any particular state, is it to be presumed that, on application to its
legislature, he will not obtain satisfaction? But how could a state recover any
claim from a citizen of another state, without the establishment of these
tribunals?
The honorable member objects to suits being instituted in the federal
courts, by the citizens of one state, against the citizens of another state.
Were I to contend that this was necessary in all cases, and that the government
without it would be defective, I should not use my own judgment. But are not
the objections to it carried too far? Though it may not in general be
absolutely necessary, a case may happen, as has been observed, in which a
citizen of one state ought to be able to recur to this tribunal, to recover a
claim from the citizen of another state. What is the evil which this can
produce? Will he get more than justice there? The independence of the judges
forbids it. What has he to get? Justice. Shall we object to this, because the
citizen of another state can obtain justice without applying to our state
courts? It may be necessary with respect to the laws and regulations of
commerce, which Congress may make. It may be necessary in cases of debt, and
some other controversies. In claims for land, it is not necessary, but it is
not dangerous. In the court of which state will it be instituted? said the
honorable gentleman. It will be instituted in the court of the state where the
defendant resides, where the law can come at him, and nowhere else. By the laws
of which state will it be determined? said he. By the laws of the state where
the contract was made. According to those laws, and those only, can it be
decided. Is this a novelty? No; it is a principle in the jurisprudence of this
commonwealth. If a man contracted a debt in the East Indies, and it was sued
for here, the decision must be consonant to the laws of that country. Suppose a
contract made in Maryland, where the annual interest is at six per centum, and
a suit instituted for it in Virginia; what interest would be given now, without
any federal aid? The interest of Maryland most certainly; and if the contract
{557} had been made in Virginia, and suit brought in Maryland, the interest of
Virginia must be given, without doubt. It is now to be governed by the laws of
that state where the contract was made. The laws which governed the contract at
its formation govern it in its decision. To preserve the peace of the Union
only, its jurisdiction in this case ought to be recurred to. Let us consider
that, when citizens of one state carry on trade in another state, much must be
due to the one from the other, as is the case between North Carolina and
Virginia. Would not the refusal of justice to our citizens, from the courts of
North Carolina, produce disputes between the states? Would the federal
judiciary swerve from their duty in order to give partial and unjust decisions?
The objection respecting the assignment of a bond to a citizen of
another state has been fully answered. But suppose it were to be tried, as he
says; what would be given more than was actually due in the case he mentioned?
It is
possible
in our courts, as they now stand, to obtain a judgment
for more than justice. But the court of chancery grants relief. Would it not be
so in the federal court? Would not depositions be taken to prove the payments;
and if proved, would not the decision of the court be accordingly?
He objects, in the next place, to its jurisdiction in controversies
between a state and a foreign state. Suppose, says he, in such a suit, a
foreign state is cast; will she be bound by the decision? If a foreign state
brought a suit against the commonwealth of Virginia, would she not be barred
from the claim if the federal judiciary thought it unjust? The previous consent
of the parties is necessary; and, as the federal judiciary will decide, each
party will acquiesce. It will be the means of preventing disputes with foreign
nations. On an attentive consideration of these points, I trust every part will
appear satisfactory to the committee.
The exclusion of trial by jury, in this case, he urged to prostrate our
rights. Does the word court only mean the judges? Does not the determination of
a jury necessarily lead to the.judgment of the court? Is there any thing here
which gives the judges exclusive jurisdiction of matters of fact? What is the
object of a jury trial? To inform the court of the facts. When a court has
cognizance of facts, {558} does it not follow that they can make inquiry by a
jury? It is impossible to be otherwise. I hope that in this country, where
impartiality is so much admired, the laws will direct facts to be ascertained
by a jury. But, says the honorable gentleman, the juries in the ten miles
square will be mere tools of parties, with which he would not trust his person
or property; which, he says, he would rather leave to the court. Because the
government may have a district of ten miles square, will no man stay there but
the tools and officers of the government? Will nobody else be found there? Is
it so in any other part of the world, where a government has legislative power?
Are there none but officers, and tools of the government of Virginia, in
Richmond? Will there not be independent merchants, and respectable gentlemen of
fortune, within the ten miles square? Will there not be worthy farmers and
mechanics? Will not a good jury be found there, as well as any where else? Will
the officers of the government become improper to be on a jury? What is it to
the government whether this man or that man succeeds? It is all one thing. Does
the Constitution say that juries shall consist of officers, or that the Supreme
Court shall be held in the ten miles square? It was acknowledged, by the
honorable member, that it was secure in England. What makes it secure there? Is
it their constitution? What part of their constitution is there that the
Parliament cannot change? As the preservation of this right is in the hands of
Parliament, and it has ever been held sacred by them, will the government of
America be less honest than that of Great Britain? Here a restriction is to be
found. The jury is not to be brought out of the state. There is no such
restriction in that government; for the laws of Parliament decide every thing
respecting it. Yet gentlemen tell us that there is safety there, and nothing
here but danger. It seems to me that the laws of the United States will
generally secure trials by a jury of the vicinage, or in such manner as will be
most safe and convenient for the people.
But it seems that the right of challenging the jurors is not secured in
this Constitution. Is this done by our own Constitution, or by any provision of
the English government? Is it done by their Magna Charta, or bill of rights?
This privilege is founded on their laws. If so, why should it be objected to
the American Constitution, that it is not inserted {559} in it? If we are
secure in Virginia without mentioning it in our Constitution, why should not
this security be found in the federal court?
The honorable gentleman said much about the quitrents in the Northern
Neck. I will refer it to the honorable gentleman himself. Has he not
acknowledged that there was no complete title? Was he not satisfied that the
right of the legal representatives of the proprietor did not exist at the time
he mentioned? If so, it cannot exist now. I will leave it to those gentlemen
who come from that quarter. I trust they will not be intimidated, on this
account, in voting on this question. A law passed in 1782, which secures this.
He says that many poor men may be harassed and injured by the representatives
of Lord Fairfax. If he has no right, this cannot be done. If he has this right,
and comes to Virginia, what laws will his claims be determined by? By those of
this state. By what tribunals will they be determined? By our state courts.
Would not the poor man, who was oppressed by an unjust prosecution, be
abundantly protected and satisfied by the temper of his neighbors, and would he
not find ample.justice? What reason has the honorable member to apprehend
partiality or injustice? He supposes that, if the judges be judges of both the
federal and state courts, they will incline in favor of one government. If such
contests should arise, who could more properly decide them than those who are
to swear to do justice? If we can expect a fair decision any where, may we not
expect justice to be done by the judges of both the federal and state
governments? But, says the honorable member, laws may be executed tyrannically.
Where is the independency of your judges? If a law be exercised tyrannically in
Virginia, to what can you trust? To your judiciary. What security have you for
justice? Their independence. Will it not be so in the federal court?
Gentlemen ask, What is meant by law cases, and if they be not distinct
from facts? Is there no law arising on cases of equity and admiralty? Look at
the acts of Assembly. Have you not many cases where law and fact are blended?
Does not the jurisdiction in point of law as well as fact, find itself
completely satisfied in law and tact? The honorable gentleman says that no law
of Congress can make any exception to the federal appellate jurisdiction of
facts as well as {560} law. He has frequently spoken of technical terms, and
the meaning of them. What is the meaning of the term
exception
? Does it
not mean an alteration and diminution? Congress is empowered to make exceptions
to the appellate jurisdiction, as to law and fact, of the Supreme Court. These
exceptions certainly go as far as the legislature may think proper for the
interest and liberty of the people. Who can understand this word, exception, to
extend to one case as well as the other? I am persuaded that a reconsideration
of this case will convince the gentleman that he was mistaken. This may go to
the cure of the mischief apprehended. Gentlemen must be satisfied that this
power will not be so much abused as they have said.
The honorable member says that he derives no consolation from the wisdom
and integrity of the legislature, because we call them to rectify defects which
it is our duty to remove. We ought well to weigh the good and evil before we
determine. We ought to be well convinced that the evil will be really produced
before we decide against it. If we be convinced that the good greatly
preponderates, though there be small defects in it, shall we give up that which
is really good, when we can remove the little mischief it may contain, in the
plain, easy method pointed out in the system itself?
I was astonished when I heard the honorable gentleman say that he wished
the trial by jury to be struck out entirely. Is there no justice to be expected
by a jury of our fellow-citizens? Will any man prefer to be tried by a court,
when the jury is to be of his countrymen, and probably of his vicinage? We have
reason to believe the regulations with respect to juries will be such as shall
be satisfactory. Because it does not contain all, does it contain nothing? But
I conceive that this committee will see there is safety in the case, and that
there is no mischief to be apprehended.
He states a case, that a man may be carried from a federal to an
anti-federal corner, (and
vice versa
) where men are ready to destroy
him. Is this probable? Is it presumable that they will make a law to punish men
who are of different opinions in politics from themselves? Is it presumable
that they will do it in one single case, unless it be such a case as must
satisfy the people at large? The good opinion of the people at large must be
consulted by their representatives; otherwise, mischiefs would be produced
which would {561} shake the government to its foundation. As it is late, I
Shall not mention all the gentleman's argument, but some parts of it are so
glaring that I cannot pass them over in silence. He says that the establishment
of these tribunals, and more particularly in their jurisdiction of
controversies between citizens of these states and foreign citizens and
subjects, is like a retrospective law. Is there no difference between a
tribunal which shall give justice and effect to an existing right, and creating
a right that did not exist before? The debt or claim is created by the
individual. He has bound himself to comply with it. Does the creation of a new
court amount to a retrospective law?
We are satisfied with the provision made in this country on the subject
of trial by jury. Does our Constitution direct trials to be by jury? It is
required in our bill of rights, which is not a part of the Constitution. Does
any security arise from hence? Have you a jury when a judgment is obtained on a
replevin bond, or by default? Have you a jury when a motion is made for the
commonwealth against an individual; or when a motion is made by one joint
obligor against another, to recover sums paid as security? Our courts decide in
all these cases, without the intervention of a jury; yet they are all civil
cases. The bill of rights is merely recommendatory. Were it otherwise, the
consequence would be that many laws which are found convenient would be
unconstitutional. What does the government before you say? Does it exclude the
legislature from giving a trial by jury in civil cases? If it does not forbid
its exclusion, it is on the same footing on which your state government stands
now. The legislature of Virginia does not give a trial by jury where it is not
necessary, but gives it wherever it is thought expedient. The federal
legislature will do so too, as it is formed on the same principles.
The honorable gentleman says that unjust claims will be made, and the
defendant had better pay them than go to the Supreme Court. Can you suppose
such a disposition in one of your citizens, as that, to oppress another man, he
will incur great expenses? What will he gain by an unjust demand? Does a claim
establish a right? He must bring his witnesses to prove his claim. If he does
not bring his witnesses, the expenses must fall upon him. Will he go on a
calculation that the defendant will not defend it, or cannot {562} produce a
witness? Will he incur a great deal of expense, from a dependence on such a
chance? Those who know human nature, black as it is, must know that mankind are
too well attached to their interest to run such a risk. I conceive that this
power is absolutely necessary, and not dangerous; that, should it be attended
by little inconveniences, they will be altered, and that they can have no
interest in not altering them. Is there any real danger? When I compare it to
the exercise of the same power in the government of Virginia, I am persuaded
there is not. The federal government has no other motive, and has every reason
for doing right which the members of our state legislature have. Will a man on
the eastern shore be sent to be tried in Kentucky, or a man from Kentucky be
brought to the eastern shore to have his trial? A government, by doing this,
would destroy itself. I am convinced the trial by jury will be regulated in the
manner most advantageous to the community.
Gov. RANDOLPH declared that the faults which he once saw in this system
he still perceived. It was his purpose, he said, to inform the committee in
what his objections to this part consisted. He confessed some of the objections
against the judiciary were merely chimerical; but some of them were real, which
his intention of voting in favor of adoption would not prevent him from
developing.
Next
|
Previous
|
Contents
|
Text
Version
|
Home
|
Constitution Society
x
x

Mr. HENRY replied, that he did not consider the
objections answered in such a manner as gave satisfaction. He hoped gentlemen
would consider and remember that; if they were not heard now, they may never be
heard again on the subject: it was an important part of the proposed plan of
government, which ought, if possible, to be fairly understood; he hoped,
therefore, that gentlemen would not be impatient. He proceeded to state the
cases which might arise under the proposed plan of government, and the probable
interference of the federal judiciary with the state judiciaries
; the
dangers and difficulties which would arise to the citizens from the operation
of a federal revenue law which would extend to the lands, tenements, and other
property, coming under the denomination of direct taxes — and, when
intrusted to a federal collector, might be attended with abuses of a dangerous
and alarming tendency; the property of the citizens seized and sold for one
tenth part of its value; they ousted from their house and home, with no other
resource for redress but to the federal government, which might perhaps be five
hundred miles from the place of sale. He observed, This may be done, Mr.
Chairman; for we have instances to prove my assertion, even in some parts of
our state, where persons have been turned out of house and home by our
collectors, and their property sold for a mere trifle; and if it had not been
for an act of the last Assembly, this practice would still have continued. Mr.
Chairman, I feel myself particularly interested in this part of the
Constitution. I perceive dangers must and will arise; and, when the laws of
that government come to be enforced here, I have. my fears for the
consequences. It is not on that paper before you we have to rely, should it be
received; it is on those who maybe appointed under it. It will be an empire of
menD and not of laws, Your rights and liberties rest upon men. Their wisdom and
integrity may preserve you; but, on the contrary, should they prove ambitious
and designing, {578} may they not flourish and triumph upon the ruins of their
country?
He then proceeded to state the appellate jurisdiction of the judicial
power, both as to law and fact, with such exceptions and under such regulations
as Congress shall make. He observed, that, as Congress had a right to organize
the federal judiciary, they might or might not have recourse to a jury, as they
pleased. He left it to the candor of the honorable gentleman to say whether
those persons who were at the expense of taking witnesses to Philadelphia, or
wherever the federal judiciary may sit, could be certain whether they were to
be heard before a jury or not. An honorable gentleman (Mr. Marshall) the other
day observed, that he conceived the trial by jury better secured under the plan
on the table than in the British government, or even in our bill of rights. I
have the highest veneration and respect for the honorable gentleman, and I have
experienced his candor on all occasions; but, Mr. Chairman, in this instance,
he is so materially mistaken that I cannot but observe, he is much in error. I
beg the clerk to read that part of the Constitution which relates to trial by
jury. [
The clerk then read the 8th article of the bill of rights.
]
Mr. MARSHALL rose to explain what he had before said on this subject: he
informed the committee that the honorable gentleman (Mr. Henry) must have
misunderstood him. He said that he conceived the trial by jury was as well
secured, and not better secured, in the proposed new Constitution as in our
bill of rights. [
The clerk then read the 11th article of the bill of
rights.
]
Mr. HENRY. Mr. Chairman: the gentleman's candor,
sir, as I informed you before, I have the highest opinion of, and am happy to
find he has so far explained what he meant; but, sir, has he mended the matter?
Is not the ancient trial by jury preserved in the Virginia bill of rights? and
is that the case in the new plan? No, sir; they can do it if they please. Will
gentlemen tell me the trial by a jury of the vicinage where the party resides
is preserved? True, sir, there is to be a trial by the jury in the state where
the fact was committed; but, sir, this state, for instance, is so large that
your juries may be collected five hundred miles from where the party resides
— no neighbors who are acquainted with their characters, their good or bad
conduct in {579} life, to judge of the unfortunate man Who may be thus exposed
to the rigor of that government. Compare this security, then, sir, in our bill
of rights with that in the new plan of government; and in the first you have
it, and in the other, in my opinion, not at all. But, sir, in what situation
will our citizens be, who have made large contracts under our present
government? They will be called to a federal court, and tried under the
retrospective laws; for it is evident, to me at least, that the federal court
must look back, and give better remedies, to compel individuals to fulfil
them.
The whole history of human nature cannot produce a government like that
before you. The manner in which the judiciary and other branches of the
government are formed, seems to me calculated to lay prostrate the states, and
the liberties of the people. But, sir, another circumstance ought totally to
reject that plan, in my opinion; which is, that it cannot be understood, in
many parts, even by the supporters of it. A constitution, sir, ought to be,
like a beacon, held up to the public eye, so as to be understood by every, man.
Some gentlemen have observed that the word
jury
implies a jury of the
vicinage. There are so many inconsistencies in this, that, for my part, I
cannot understand it. By the bill of rights of England, a subject has a right
to a trial by his peers. What is meant by his peers? Those who reside near him,
his neighbors, and who are well acquainted with his character and situation in
life. Is this secured in the proposed plan before you? No, sir. As I have
observed before, what is to become of the
purchases of the Indians
?
— those unhappy nations who have given up their lands to private
purchasers; who, by being made drunk, have given a thousand, nay, I might say,
ten thousand acres, for the trifling sum of sixpence! It is with true concern,
with grief, I tell you that I have waited with pain to come to this part of the
plan; because I observed gentlemen admitted its being defective, and, I had my
hopes, would have proposed amendments But this part they have defended; and
this convinces me of the necessity of obtaining amendments before it is
adopted. They have defended it with ingenuity and perseverance, but by no means
satisfactorily. If previous amendments are not obtained, the trial by jury is
gone. British debtors will be ruined by being dragged to {580} the federal
court, and the liberty and happiness of our citizens gone, never again to be
recovered.
Mr. STEPHENS. Mr. Chairman: the gentleman, sir, means to frighten us by
his bugbears of hobgoblins, his sale of lands to pay taxes, Indian purchases,
and other horrors, that I think I know as much about as he does. I have
travelled through the greater part of the Indian countries. I know them well,
sir. I can mention a variety of resources by which the people may be enabled to
pay their taxes.
[He then went into a description of the Mississippi and
its waters, Cook's River, the Indian tribes residing in that country, and the
variety of articles which might be obtained to advantage by trading with these
people.]
I know, Mr. Chairman, of several rich mines of gold and silver in the
western country; and will the gentleman tell me that these precious metals will
not pay taxes? If the gentleman does not like this government, let him go and
live among the Indians. 1 know of several nations that live very happily; and I
can furnish him with a vocabulary of their language.
Mr. GEORGE NICHOLAS observed, that he should only make a few
observations on the objections that had been stated to the clauses now under
consideration — and not renew the answer already given. The gentleman says
he would admit some parts of the Constitution, but that he would never agree to
that now before us. t beg gentlemen, when they retire from these walls, that
they would take the Constitution, and strike out such parts as the honorable
gentleman (Mr. Henry) has given his approbation to, and they will find what a
curious kind of government he would make it. It appears to me, sir, that he has
objected to the whole; and that no part, if he had his way, would be agreed to.
It has been observed, sir, that the judges appointed under the British
constitution are more independent than those to be appointed under the plan on
the table. This, sir, like other assertions of honorable gentlemen, is equally
groundless. May there not be a variety of pensions granted to the judges in
England, so as to influence them? and cannot they be removed by a vote of both
houses of Parliament? This is not the case with our federal judges. They are to
be appointed during good behavior, and cannot be removed, and at stated times
are to receive a compensation for their services. {581} We are told, sir, Of
fraudulent assignments of bonds. Do gentlemen suppose that the federal judges
will not see into such conduct, and prevent it? Western claims are to be
revived too — new suits commenced in the federal courts for disputes
already determined in this state. This, sir, this cannot be, for they are
already determined under the laws of this state, and, therefore, are
conclusive.
But, sir, we are told that two executions are to issue — one from
the federal court and the other from the state court. Do not gentlemen know,
sir, that the first execution is good, and must be satisfied, and that the
debtor cannot be arrested under the second execution? Quitrents, too, sir, are
to be sued for. To satisfy gentlemen, sir, I beg leave to refer them to an act
of Assembly passed in the year 1782, before the peace, which absolutely
abolished the quitrents, and discharged the holders of lands in the Northern
Neck from any claim of that kind. [He then read the act alluded to.] As to the
claims of certain companies who purchased lands of the Indians, they were
determined prior to the opening of the land-office by the Virginia Assembly;
and it is not to be supposed they will again renew their claims. But, sir,
there are gentlemen who have come by large possessions, that it is not easy in
account for.
[Here Mr. HENRY interfered, and hoped the honorable
gentleman meant nothing personal.]
Mr. NICHOLAS observed, I mean what I say, sir. But we are told of
the
blue laws
of Massachusetts: are these to be brought in debate here? Sir,
when the gentleman mentioned them the day before yesterday, I did not well
understand what he meant; but from inquiry, I find, sir, they were laws made
for the purpose of preserving the morals of the people, and took the name of
blue
laws from being written on blue paper. But how does this apply to
the subject before you? Is this to be compared to the plan now on the table?
Sir, this puts me in mind of an observation I have heard out of doors; which
was that, because the New Englandmen wore black Stockings and plush breeches,
there can be no union with them. We have heard a great deal of the trial by
jury — a design to destroy the state judiciaries, and the destruction of
the state governments. This, sir, has already been travelled over, and I think
sufficiently explained {582} to render it unnecessary for me to trouble this
committee again on the subject.
Mr. HENRY. Mr. Chairman, if the gentleman means personal insinuations,
or to wound my private reputation, I think this an improper place to do so. If,
on the other hand, he means to go on in the discussion of the subject, he ought
not to apply arguments which might tend to obstruct the discussion. As to land
matters, I can tell how I came by what I have; but I think that gentleman (Mr.
Nicholas) has no right to make that inquiry of me. I meant not to offend any
one. I have not the most distant idea of injuring any gentleman: my. object was
to obtain information. If I have offended in private life, or wounded the
feelings of any man, I did not intend it. I hold what I hold in right, and in a
just manner. I beg pardon, sir, for having intruded thus far.
Mr. NICHOLAS. Mr. Chairman, I meant no personality in what I said, nor
did I mean any resentment. If such conduct meets the contempt of that
gentleman, I can only assure him it meets with an equal degree of contempt from
me.
[Mr. President observed, that he hoped gentlemen would
not be personal; that they would proceed to investigate the subject calmly, and
in a peaceable manner.]
Mr. NICHOLAS replied, that he did not mean the honorable gentleman, (Mr.
Henry;) but he meant those who had taken up large tracts of land in the western
country. The reason he would not explain himself before was, that he thought
some observations dropped from the honorable gentleman which ought not to have
come from one gentleman to another.
Mr. MONROE. Mr. Chairman: I am satisfied of the propriety of closing
this subject, sir; but I must beg leave to trouble the committee a little
further. We find, sir, that two different governments are to have concurrent
jurisdiction in the same object. May not this bring on a conflict in the
judiciary? And if it does, will it not end in the ruin of one or the other?
There will be two distinct judiciaries — one acting under the federal
authority, the other the state authority. May it not also tend to oppress the
people by having suits going on against them in both courts for the same debt?
{583} Mr. MADISON answered Mr. Monroe, by observing that the county
courts were perfectly independent of each other, where the same inconvenience
might arise: the states are also independent of each other. We well know, sir,
that foreigners cannot get justice done them in these courts, and this has
prevented many wealthy gentlemen from trading or residing among us, there are
also many public debtors, who have escaped from justice for want of such a
method as is pointed out in the plan on the table. To prevent any interference
of the federal and state judiciaries, the judges of the states may be deprived
of holding any office in the general government.
Mr. GRAYSON observed, that the federal and state judiciaries could not,
on the present plan, be kept in perfect harmony, As to the trial by jury being
safer here than in England, that I deny. Jury trials are secured there, sir, by
Magna Charta, in a clear and decided manner; and that here it is not in express
and positive terms, is admitted by most gentlemen who now hear me. He concluded
with saying, that he did not believe there existed a social compact upon the
face of the earth so vague and so indefinite as the one now on the table.
Mr. HENRY went into an explanation of the trial by jury, and the
difference between the new plan and our bill of rights, and observed that the
latter had been violated by several acts of Assembly, which could only be
justified by necessity. He begged gentlemen to consider how necessary it was to
have that invaluable blessing secured: those feeble implications, relative to
juries, in the new plan, might create the unhappy tendency of factions in a
republican government, which nothing but a monarchy could suppress. As to
people escaping with public money, the gentleman must know that bond and
security are always taken on occasions where men are intrusted with collection
of it; and these can follow them, and be sued for and recovered in another
state, or wherever they may escape to.
Mr. MADISON here observed, that the declaration on that paper could not
diminish the security of the people, unless a majority of their representatives
should concur in a violation of their rights.
Mr. GEORGE MASON. Mr. Chairman, I should not have troubled the committee
again on this subject, were {584} there not some arguments in support of that
plan, sir, that appear to me totally unsatisfactory. With respect to concurrent
jurisdiction, sir, the honorable gentleman has observed, that county courts had
exercised this right without complaint. Have Hanover and Henrico the same
objects? Can an officer in either of those counties serve a process in the
other? The federal judiciary has concurrent jurisdiction throughout the states,
and therefore must interfere with the state judiciaries. Congress can pass a
law constituting the powers of the federal judiciary throughout the states:
they may also pass a law vesting the federal power in the state judiciaries.
These laws are
permanent
, and cannot be controverted by any law of the
state.
If we were forming a general government, and not states, I think we
should perfectly comply with the genius of the paper before you; but if we mean
to form one great national government for thirteen states, the arguments which
I have heard hitherto in support of this part of the plan do not apply at all.
We are willing to give up all powers which are necessary to preserve the peace
of the Union, so far as respects foreign nations, or our own preservation; but
we will not agree to a federal judiciary, which is not necessary for this
purpose, because the powers there granted will tend to oppress the middling and
lower class of people. A poor man seized by the federal officers, and carried
to the federal court, — has he any chance under such a system as this?
Justice itself may be bought too dear; yet this may be the case. It may cost a
man five hundred pounds to recover one hundred pounds. These circumstances are
too sacred to leave undefined; and I wish to see things certain, positive, and
clear. But, however, sir, these matters have been so fully investigated, that I
beg pardon for having intruded so far, and I hope we shall go on in the
business.
[The 1st section of the 4th article was
then read.]
Mr. GEORGE MASON. Mr. Chairman: the latter part of this clause, sir, I
confess I do not understand —
Full faith and credit shall be given to
all acts
; and how far it may be proper that Congress shall declare the
effects, 1 cannot clearly see into.
Mr. MADISON. Mr. Chairman, it appears to me that this is a clause which
is absolutely necessary. I never heard {585} any objection to this Clause
before, and have not employed a thought on the subject.
[The 2d section was then
read.]
Mr. GEORGE MASON. Mr. Chairman, on some former part of the investigation
of this subject, gentlemen were pleased to make some observations on the
security of
property
coming within this section. It was then said, and I
now say, that
there is no security
; nor have gentlemen convinced me of
this.
[The 3d section was then
read.]
Mr. GRAYSON. Mr. Chairman: it appears to me, sir, under this section,
there never can be
a southern state admitted into the Union
. There are
seven states, which are a majority, and whose interest it is to prevent it. The
balance being actually in their possession, they will have the regulation of
commerce, and the federal ten miles square wherever they please. It is not to
be supposed, then, that they
will admit
any southern state into the
Union, so as to lose that majority.
Mr. MADISON replied, that he thought this part of the plan
more
favorable to the Southern States
than the present Confederation, as there
was a greater chance of
new states
being admitted.
Mr. GEORGE MASON took a retrospective view of several parts which had
been before objected to. He endeavored to demonstrate the dangers that must
inevitably arise from
the insecurity
of our rights and privileges, as
they depended on vague, indefinite, and ambiguous implications. The adoption of
a system so replete with defects, he apprehended, could not but be productive
of the most
alarming
consequences. He dreaded popular resistance to its
operation. He expressed, in emphatic terms, the
dreadful effects
which
must ensue, should the people resist; and concluded by observing, that he
trusted gentlemen would pause before they would decide a question which
involved such awful consequences.
Mr. LEE, (of Westmoreland.) Mr. Chairman, my feelings are so oppressed
with the declarations of my honorable friend, that I can no longer suppress my
utterance, I respect the honorable gentleman, and never believed I should live
to have heard fall from his lips opinions so injurious to our country, and so
opposite to the dignity of this assembly. {586} If the dreadful picture which
he has drawn be so abhorrent to his mind as he has declared, let me ask the
honorable gentleman if he has not pursued the very means to bring into action
the horrors which he deprecates. Such speeches within these walls, from a
character so venerable and estimable, easily progress into overt acts, among
the less thinking and the vicious. Then, sir, I pray you to remember, and the
gentlemen in opposition not to forget, should these impious scenes commence,
which my honorable friend might abhor, and which I execrate, whence and how
they began.
God of heaven avert from my country the dreadful curse!
But if the madness of some, and the vice of others, should risk the
awful appeal, I trust that the friends to the paper on your table, conscious of
the justice of their cause, conscious of the integrity of their views, and
recollecting their uniform moderation, will meet the afflicting call with that
firmness and fortitude which become men summoned to defend what they conceive
to be the true interest of their Country, and will prove to the world that,
although they boast not, in words, of love of country and affection for
liberty, still they are not less attached to these invaluable objects than
their vaunting opponents, and can, with alacrity and resignation, encounter
every difficulty and danger in defence of them.
The remainder of the Constitution was then read, and the several
objectionable parts noticed by the opposition, particularly that which related
to the mode pointed out by which
amendments
were to be obtained; and,
after discussing it fully, the Convention then rose.
Next
|
Previous
|
Contents
|
Text
Version
|
Home
|
Constitution Society
x
x

Mr. HENRY, after observing that the proposal of
ratification was premature, and that the importance of the subject required the
most mature deliberation, proceeded thus: —
The honorable member must forgive me for declaring my dissent from it;
because, if I understand it rightly, it admits that the new system is
defective, and most capitally; for, immediately after the proposed
ratification, there comes a declaration that the paper before you is not
intended to violate any of these three great rights — the liberty of
religion, liberty of the press, and the trial by jury. What is the inference
{588} when you enumerate the rights which you are to enjoy? That those not
enumerated are relinquished. There are only three things to be retained —
religion, freedom of the press, and jury trial. Will not the ratification carry
every thing, without excepting these three things? Will not all the world
pronounce that we intended to give up all the rest? Every thing it speaks of,
by way of rights, is comprised in these things. Your subsequent amendments only
go to these three amendments.
I feel myself distressed, because the necessity of securing our
personal rights
seems not to have pervaded the minds of men; for many
other valuable things are omitted: — for instance, general warrants, by
which an officer may search suspected places, without evidence of the
commission of a fact, or seize any person without evidence of his crime, ought
to be prohibited. As these are admitted, any man may be seized, any property
may be taken, in the most arbitrary manner, without any evidence or reason.
Every thing the most sacred may be searched and ransacked by the strong hand of
power. We have infinitely more reason to dread general warrants here than they
have in England, because there, if a person be confined, liberty may be quickly
obtained by the writ of
habeas corpus
. But here a man living many
hundred miles from the judges may get in prison before he can get that writ.
Another most fatal omission is with respect to standing armies. In our
bill of rights of Virginia, they are said to be dangerous to liberty, and it
tells you that the proper defence of a free state consists in militia; and so I
might go on to ten or eleven things of immense consequence secured in your bill
of rights, concerning which that proposal is silent. Is that the language of
the bill of rights in England? Is it the language of the American bill of
rights, that these three rights, and these only, are valuable? Is it the
language of men going into a new government? Is it not necessary to speak of
those things before you go into a compact? How do these three things stand? As
one of the parties, we declare we do not mean to give them up. This is very
dictatorial — much more so than the conduct which proposes alterations as
the condition of adoption. In a compact there are two parties — one
excepting, and another proposing. As a party, we propose that we shall secure
these three things; {589} and before we have the assent of the other
contracting party, we go into the compact, and leave these things at their
mercy.
What will be the consequence? Suppose the other states shall call this
dictatorial. They will say, Virginia has gone into the government, and carried
with her certain propositions, which, she says, ought to be concurred in by the
other states. They will declare that she has no right to dictate to other
states the conditions on which they shall come into the Union. According to the
honorable member's proposal, the ratification will cease to be obligatory
unless they accede to these amendments. We have ratified it. You have committed
a violation, will they say. They have not violated it. We say, we will go out
of it. You are then reduced to a sad dilemma — to give up these three
rights, or leave the government. This is worse than our present Confederation,
to which we have hitherto adhered honestly and faithfully. We shall be told we
have violated it, because we have left it for the infringement and violation of
conditions which they never agreed to be a part of the ratification. The
ratification will be complete. The proposal is made by the party. We, as the
other, accede to it, and propose the security of these three great rights; for
it is only a proposal. In order to secure them, you are left in that state of
fatal hostility which I shall as much deplore as the honorable gentleman. I
exhort gentlemen to think seriously before they ratify this Constitution, and
persuade themselves that they will succeed in making a feeble effort to get
amendments after adoption.
With respect to that part of the proposal which says that every power
not granted remains with the people, it must be previous to adoption, or it
will involve this country in inevitable destruction. To talk of it as a thing
subsequent, not as one of your unalienable rights, is leaving it to the casual
opinion of the Congress who shall take up the consideration of that matter.
They will not reason with you about the effect of this Constitution. They will
not take the opinion of this committee concerning its operation. They will
construe it as they please. If you place it subsequently, let me ask the
consequences. Among ten thousand
implied powers
which they may assume,
they may, if we be engaged in war, liberate every one of your slaves if they
please. And this must and will be done by men, a majority of whom have not
{590} a common interest with you. They will, therefore, have no feeling of your
interests. It has been repeatedly said here, that the great object of a
national government was national defence. That power which is said to be
intended for security and safety may be rendered detestable and oppressive. If
they give power to the general government to provide for the
general
defence
, the means must be commensurate to the end. All the means in the
possession of the people must be given to the government which is intrusted
with the public defence. In this state there are two hundred and thirty-six
thousand blacks, and there are many in several other states. But there are few
or none in the Northern States; and yet, if the Northern States shall be of
opinion that our slaves are numberless, they may call forth every national
resource. May Congress not say,
that every black man must fight
? Did we
not see a little of this last war? We were not so hard pushed as to make
emancipation general; but acts of Assembly passed that every slave who would go
to the army should be free. Another thing will contribute to bring this event
about. Slavery is detested. We feel its fatal effects — we deplore it with
all the pity of humanity. Let all these considerations, at some future period,
press with full force on the minds of Congress. Let that urbanity, which I
trust will distinguish America, and the necessity of national defence, —
let all these things operate on their minds; they will search that paper, and
see if they have power of manu-mission. And have they not, sir? Have they not
power to provide for the general defence and welfare? May they not think that
these call for the abolition of slavery? May they not pronounce all slaves
free, and will they not be warranted by that power? This is no ambiguous
implication or logical deduction. The paper speaks to the point: they have the
power in clear, unequivocal terms, and will clearly and certainly exercise it.
As much as I deplore slavery, I see that prudence forbids its abolition. I deny
that the general government ought to set them free, because a decided majority
of the states have not the ties of sympathy and fellow-feeling for those whose
interest would be affected by their emancipation. The majority of Congress is
to the north, and the slaves are to the south.
In this situation, I see a great deal of the property of the people of
Virginia in jeopardy, and their peace and tranquility {591} gone. I repeat it
again, that it would rejoice my very soul that every one of my fellow-beings
was emancipated. As we ought with gratitude to admire that decree of Heaven
which has numbered us among the free, we ought to lament and deplore the
necessity of holding our fellowmen in bondage. But is it practicable, by any
human means, to liberate them without producing the most dreadful and ruinous
consequences? We ought to possess them in the manner we inherited them from our
ancestors, as their manumission is incompatible with the felicity of our
country. But we ought to soften, as much as possible, the rigor of their
unhappy fate. I know that, in a variety of particular instances, the
legislature, listening to complaints, have admitted their emancipation. Let me
not dwell on this subject. I will only add that this, as well as every other
property of the people of Virginia, is in jeopardy, and put in the hands of
those who have no similarity of situation with us. This is a local matter, and
I can see no propriety in subjecting it to Congress.
With respect to subsequent amendments, proposed by the worthy member, I
am distressed when I hear the expression. It is a new one altogether, and such
a one as stands against every idea of fortitude and manliness in the states, or
any one else. Evils admitted in order to be removed subsequently, and tyranny
submitted to in order to be excluded by a subsequent alteration, are things
totally new to me. But I am sure the gentleman meant nothing but to amuse the
committee. I know his candor. His proposal is an idea dreadful to me. I ask,
does experience warrant such a thing from the beginning of the world to this
day? Do you enter into a compact first, and afterwards settle the terms of the
government? It is admitted by every one that this is a compact.
Although the Confederation be lost, it is a compact, constitution, or
something of that nature. I confess I never heard of such an idea before. It is
most abhorrent to my mind. You endanger the tranquillity of your country, you
stab its repose, if you accept this government unaltered. How are you to allay
animosities? — for such there are, great and fatal.
He flatters me, and tells me that I could influence the people, and
reconcile them to it. Sir, their sentiments are {592} as firm and steady as
they are patriotic. Were I to ask them to apostatize from their native
religion, they would despise me. They are not to be shaken in their opinions
with respect to the propriety of preserving their rights. You never can
persuade them that it is necessary to relinquish them. Were I to attempt to
persuade them to abandon their patriotic sentiments, I should look on myself as
the most infamous of men.
I believe it to be a fact that the great body of yeomanry are in decided
opposition to it. I may say with confidence that, for nineteen counties
adjacent to each other, nine tenths of the people are conscientiously opposed
to it. I may be mistaken, but I give you it as my opinion; and my opinion is
founded on personal knowledge, in some measure, and other good authority. I
have not hunted
popularity
by declaiming to injure this government.
Though public fame might say so, it was not owing to me that this flame of
opposition has been kindled and spread. These men never will part with their
political opinions. If they should see their political happiness secured to the
latest posterity, then, indeed, they may agree to it. Subsequent amendments
will not do for men of this cast. Do you consult the Union in proposing them?
You may amuse them as long as you please, but they will never like it. You have
not solid reality — the hearts and hands of the men who are to be
governed.
Have gentlemen no respect to the actual dispositions of the people in
the adopting states? Look at Pennsylvania and Massachusetts. These two great
states have raised as great objections to that government as we do. There was a
majority of only nineteen in Massachusetts. We are told that only ten thousand
were represented in Pennsylvania, although seventy thousand had a fight to be
represented. Is not this a serious thing? Is it not worth while to turn your
eyes, for a moment, from subsequent amendments to the situation of your
country? Can you have a lasting union in these circumstances? It will be in
vain to expect it. But if you agree to previous amendments, you shall have
union, firm and solid.
I cannot conclude without saying that I shall have nothing to do with
it, if subsequent amendments be determined upon. Oppressions will be carried on
as radically by the majority when adjustments and accommodations will be held
up. I {593} say, I conceive it my duty, if this government is adopted before it
is amended, to go home. I shall act as I think my duty requires. Every other
gentleman will do the same. Previous amendments, in my opinion, are necessary
to procure peace and tranquillity. I fear, if they be not agreed to, every
movement and operation of government will cease; and how long that baneful
thing, civil discord, will stay from this country, God only knows: When men are
free front restraint, how long will you suspend their fury? The interval
between this and bloodshed is but a moment. The licentious and wicked of the
community Will seize with avidity every thing you hold. In this unhappy
situation, what is to be done? It surpasses my stock of wisdom. If you will, in
the language of freemen, stipulate that there are rights which no man under
heaven can take from you, you shall have me going along with you; not
otherwise.
[Here Mr Henry informed the committee that he had a
resolution prepared, to refer a declaration of rights, with certain amendments
to the most exceptionable parts Of the Constitution, to the other states in the
confederacy, for their consideration, previous to its ratification, The clerk
than read the resolution, the declaration of rights, and amendments, which were
nearly the same as those ultimately proposed by the Convention; which see at
the conclusion.]
Mr. HENRY then resumed the subject. I have thus candidly submitted to
you, Mr. Chairman, and this committee, what occurred to me as proper amendments
to the Constitution, and a declaration of rights containing those fundamental,
unalienable privileges, which I conceive to be essential to liberty and
happiness. I believe that, on a review of these amendments, it will still be
found that the arm of power will be sufficiently strong for national purposes,
when these restrictions shall be a part of the government. I believe no
gentleman who opposes me in sentiments will be able to discover that any one
feature of a strong government is altered; and at the same time your
unalienable rights are secured by them. The government unaltered may be
terrible to America, but can never be loved till it be amended. You find all
the resources of the continent may be drawn to a point. In danger,
the
President
may concentre to a point every effort of the continent. If the
government be constructed to satisfy the people, and remove their
apprehensions, the wealth and the Strength of the continent will go where {594}
public utility shall direct. This government, with these restrictions, will be
a strong government, united with the privileges of the people. In my weak
judgment, a government is strong when it applies to the most important end of
all governments — the rights and privileges of the people. In the
honorable member's proposal, jury trial, the press and religion, and other
essential rights, are not to be given up. Other essential rights — what
are they? The world will say that you intended to give them up. When you go
into an enumeration of your rights, and stop that enumeration, the inevitable
conclusion is, that what is omitted is intended to be surrendered.
Anxious as I am to be as little troublesome as possible, I cannot leave
this part of the subject without adverting to one remark of the honorable
gentleman. He says that, rather than bring the Union into danger, he will adopt
it with its Imperfections. A great deal is said about disunion, and consequent
dangers. I have no claim to a greater share of fortitude than others; but I can
see no kind of danger. I form my judgment on a single fact alone — that we
are at peace with all the world; nor is there any apparent cause of a rupture
with any nation in the world. Is it among the American states that the cause of
disunion is to be feared? Are not the states using all their efforts for the
promotion of union? New England sacrifices local prejudices for the purposes of
union. We hear the necessity of the union, and predilection for the union,
reëchoed from all parts of the continent; and all at once disunion is to
follow! If gentlemen dread disunion, the very thing they advocate will
inevitably produce it. A previous ratification will raise insurmountable
obstacles to union. New York is an insurmountable obstacle to it, and North
Carolina also. They will never accede to it, till it be amended. A great part
of Virginia is opposed most decidedly to it as it stands. This very spirit,
which will govern us in these three states, will find a kindred spirit in the
adopting states. Give me leave to say that it is very problematical if the
adopting states can stand on their own legs. I hear only on one side, but as
far as my information goes, there are heartburnings and animosities among them.
Will these animosities be cured by subsequent amendments?
Turn away from America, and consider European politics. {595} The
nations there which can trouble us are, France, England, and Spain. But at
present we know for a certainty that those nations are engaged in very
different pursuits from American conquests. We are told by our intelligent
ambassador, that there is no such danger as has been apprehended. Give me leave
then to say, that dangers from beyond. the Atlantic are imaginary.
From these premises, then, it may be concluded that, from the creation
of the world to this time, there never was a more fair and proper opportunity
than we have at this day to establish such a government as will permanently
establish the most transcendent political felicity. Since the revolution, there
has not been so much experience. Since then, the general interests of America
have not been better understood, nor the Union more ardently loved, than at
this present moment. I acknowledge the weakness of the old Confederation. Every
man says that something must be done. Where is the moment more favorable than
this? During the war, when ten thousand dangers surrounded us, America was
magnanimous. What was the language of the little state of Maryland? "I will
have time to consider. I will hold out three years. Let what may come, I will
have time to reflect." Magnanimity appeared every where. What was the upshot?
America triumphed. Is there any thing to forbid us to offer these amendments to
the other states? If this moment goes away unimproved, we shall never see its
return.
We now act under a happy system, which says that a majority may alter
the government when necessary. But by the paper proposed, a majority will
forever endeavor in vain to alter it. Three fourths may. Is not this the most
promising time for securing the necessary alteration? Will you go into that
government, where it is a principle that a contemptible minority may prevent an
alteration? What will he the language of the majority? Change the government.
Nay, seven eighths of the people of America may wish the change; but the
minority may come with a Roman
veto
, and object to the alteration. The
language of a magnanimous country, and of freemen, is, Till you remove the
defects, we will not accede. It would be in vain for me to show that there is
no danger to prevent our obtaining those amendment, if you are not convinced
already. If the other states {596} will not agree to them, it is not an
inducement to union. The language of this paper is not dictatorial, but merely
a proposition for amendments. The proposition of Virginia met with a favorable
reception before. We proposed that convention which met at Annapolis. It was
not called dictatorial. We proposed that at Philadelphia. Was Virginia thought
dictatorial? But Virginia is now to lose her preminence. Those rights of
equality to which the meanest individual in the community is entitled, are to
bring us down infinitely below the Delaware people. Have we not a right to say,
Hear our propositions! Why, sir, your slaves have a right to make their humble
requests. Those who are in the meanest occupations of human life have a right
to complain. What do we require? Not preëminence, but safety — that
our citizens may be able to sit down in peace and security under their own
fig-trees. I am confident that sentiments like these will meet with unison in
every state; for they will wish to banish discord from the American soil. I am
certain that the warmest friend of the Constitution wishes to have fewer
enemies — fewer of those who pester and plague him with opposition. I
could not withhold from my fellow-citizens any thing so reasonable. I fear you
will have no union, unless you remove the cause of opposition. Will you sit
down contented with the name of union, without any solid foundation?
Mr. Henry then concluded, by expressing his hopes that his resolution
would be adopted, and added, that, if the committee should disapprove of any of
his amendments, others might be substituted.
Gov. RANDOLPH. Mr. Chairman: once more, sir, I address you; and perhaps
it will be the last time I shall speak concerning this Constitution, unless I
be urged by the observations of some gentlemen. Although this is not the first
time that my mind has been brought to contemplate this awful period, yet I
acknowledge it is not rendered less awful by familiarity with it. Did I
persuade myself that those fair days were present which the honorable gentleman
described, — could I bring my mind to believe that there were peace and
tranquillity in this land, and that there was no storm gathering which would
burst, and that previous amendments could be retained, — I would concur
with the honorable gentleman; for nothing but the fear of inevitable {597}
destruction would lead me to vote for the Constitution in spite of the
objections I have to it. But, sir, what have I heard to-day? I sympathized most
warmly with what other gentlemen said yesterday, that, let the contest be what
it may, the minority should submit to the majority. With satisfaction and joy I
heard what he then said — that he would submit, and that there should be
peace if his power could procure it. What a sad reverse to-day! Are we not
told, by way of counterpart to language that did him honor, that he would
secede? I hope he will pardon, and correct me if I misrecite him; but if not
corrected, my interpretation is, that secession by him will be the consequence
of adoption without previous amendments.
[Here Mr. HENRY explained himself, and denied having
said any thing of secession, but that he said, he would have no hand in
subsequent amendments; that he would remain and vote, and afterwards he would
have no business here.]
I see, continued his excellency, that I am not mistaken in my thoughts.
The honorable gentleman says, he will remain and vote on the question, but
after that he has no business here, and that he will go home. I beg to make a
few remarks on the subject of secession. If there be in this house members who
have in contemplation to secede from the majority, let me conjure them, by all
the ties of honor and duty, to consider what they are about to do. Some of them
have more property than I have, and all of them are equal to me in personal
rights. Such an idea of refusing to submit to the decision of the majority is
destructive of every republican principle. It will kindle a civil war, and
reduce every thing to anarchy and confusion. To avoid a calamity so lamentable,
I would submit to it, if it contained greater evils than it does.
What are they to say to their constituents when they go home? "We come
here to tell you that liberty is in danger, and, though the majority is in
favor of it, you ought not to submit." Can any man consider, without shuddering
with horror, the awful consequences of such desperate conduct? I entreat men to
consider and ponder what good citizenship requires of them. I conjure them to
contemplate the consequences as to themselves as well as others. They
themselves will be overwhelmed in the general disorder. I did not think that
the proposition of the honorable gentleman {598} near me (Mr. White) could have
met with the treatment it has. The honorable gentleman says there are only
three rights stipulated in it. I thought this error might have been accounted
for at first; but after he read it, the continuance of the mistake has
astonished me. He has wandered from the point. [Here he read Mr. Whitens
proposition.] Where in this paper do you discover that the people of Virginia
are tenacious of three rights only? It declares that all power comes from the
people, and whatever is not granted by them, remains with them; that among
other things remaining with them, are liberty of the press, right of
conscience, and some other essential rights. Could you devise any express form
of words, by which the rights contained in the bill of rights of Virginia could
be better secured or more fully comprehended? What is the paper which he offers
in the form of a bill of rights? Will that better secure our rights than a
declaration like this? All rights are therein declared to be completely vested
in the people, unless expressly given away. Can there be a more pointed or
position reservation?
That honorable gentleman, and some others, have insisted that the
abolition of slavery will result from it, and at the same time have complained
that it encourages its continuation. The inconsistency proves, in some degree,
the futility of their arguments. But if it be not conclusive, to satisfy the
committee that there is no danger of enfranchisement taking place, I beg leave
to refer them to the paper itself. I hope that there is none here who,
considering the subject in the calm light of philosophy, will advance an
objection dishonorable to Virginia — that, at the moment they are securing
the rights of their citizens, an objection is started that there is a spark of
hope that those unfortunate men now held in
bondage
may, by the
operation of the general government be made
free
. But if any gentleman
be terrified by this apprehension, let him read the system. I ask, and I will
ask again and again, till I be answered, (not by declamation,)
Where
is
the part that has a tendency to
the abolition of slavery
? Is it the
clause which says that "the migration or importation of such persons as any of
the states now existing shall think proper to admit shall not be prohibited by
Congress prior to the year 1808"? This is an exception from the power of
regulating commerce, and the restriction {599} is only to continue till 1808.
Then Congress can, by the exercise of that power, prevent future importations;
but does it affect the existing state of slavery? Were it right here to mention
what passed in convention on the occasion, I might tell you
that the
Southern States, even South Carolina herself, conceived this property to be
secure by these words
. I believe, whatever we may think here, that there
was not a member of the Virginia delegation who had
the smallest suspicion
of the abolition of slavery
. Go to their meaning, Point out the clause
where this formidable power of emancipation is inserted.
But another clause of the Constitution proves the absurdity of the
supposition, The words of the clause are, "No person held to service or labor
in one state, under the laws thereof, escaping into another, shall, in
consequence of any law or regulation therein, be discharged from such service
or labor, but shall be delivered up on claim of the party to whom such service
or labor may be due." Every one knows that
slaves
are held to service
and labor. And when authority is given to owners of slaves to vindicate their
property, can it be supposed they can be
deprived
of it? If a citizen of
this state, in consequence of this clause, can take his runaway slave in
Maryland, can it be seriously thought that, after taking him and bringing him
home, he could be made free?
I observed that the honorable gentleman's proposition comes in a truly
questionable shape, and is still more extra? ordinary and unaccountable for
another consideration — that, although we went article by article through
the Constitution, and although we did not expect a general review of the
subject, (as a most comprehensive view had been taken of it before it was
regularly debated,) yet we are carried back to the clause giving that dreadful
power, for the general welfare, Pardon me, if I remind you of the true state of
that business. I appeal to the candor of the honorable gentleman, and if he
thinks it an improper appeal, I ask the gentlemen here,
whether
there be
a
general, indefinite
power of providing for the general welfare? The
power is, "to lay and collect taxes, duties, imposts, and excises, to pay the
debts, and provide for the common defence and general welfare," so that they
can only raise money by these means, in order to provide for the general
welfare. No man who reads it can say it is general, as the honorable gentleman
represents {600} it. You must violate every rule of construction and common
sense, if you sever it from the power of raising money, and annex it to any
thing else, in order to make it that formidable power which it is represented
to be.
The honorable gentleman say's there is no restraint on the power of
issuing general warrants. If I be tedious in asking where is that power, you
will ascribe it to him who has put me to the necessity of asking. They have no
such power given them: if they have, where is it?
Again he recurs to
standing armies
, and asks if Congress cannot
raise such. Look at the bill of rights provided by the honorable gentleman
himself, and tell me if there be no great security by admitting it when
necessary. It says that standing armies should be avoided in time of peace. It
does not absolutely prohibit them. Is there any clause in it, or in the
Confederation, which prevents Congress from raising an army? No: it is left to
the discretion of Congress. It ought to be in the power of Congress to raise
armies, as the existence of society might, at some future period, depend upon
it. But it should be recommended to them to use the power only when necessary.
I humbly conceive that you have as great security as you could desire from that
clause in the Constitution which directs that money for supporting armies will
be voted for every two years — as, by this means, the representatives who
will have appropriated money unnecessarily, or imprudently, to that purpose,
may be removed, and a new regulation made. Review the practice of the, favorite
nation of the honorable gentleman. In their bill of rights there is no
prohibition of a standing army, but only that it ought not to be maintained
without the consent of the legislature. Can it be done here without the consent
of the democratic branch? Their consent is necessary to every bill, and money
bills can originate with them only. Can an army, then, be raised or supported
without their approbation?
[His excellency then went over all the articles of Mr.
Henry's proposed declaration of rights, and endeavored to prove that the rights
intended to be thereby secured were either provided for in the Constitution
itself, or could not be infringed by the general government, as being
unwarranted by any of the powers which were delegated therein; for that it was
in vain to provide against the exercise of a power which did not exist.]
He then proceeded to examine the nature of some of the amendments
proposed by the honorable gentleman. As to {601} the reservation of rights not
expressly given away, he repeated what he had before observed of the 2d article
of the Confederation, that it was interpreted to prohibit Congress from
granting passports, although such a power was necessarily incident to that of
making war. Did not this, says he show the vanity of all the federal authority?
Gentlemen have displayed great wisdom in the use they make of the experience of
the defects in the old Confederation. When we see the defect of that article,
are we to repeat it? Are those gentlemen zealous friends to the Union, who
profess to be so here, and yet insist on a repetition of measures which have
been found destructive to it? I believe their professions, but they must pardon
me when I say their arguments are not true.
[His excellency then read the 2d amendment proposed,
respecting
the number of representatives
.]
What better security have you under these words than under the clause in
the paper before you? This puts it in the power of your representatives to
continue the number of it in that paper. They may always find a pretext to
justify their regulations concerning it. They may continue the number at two
hundred, when an augmentation would be necessary.
As to the amendment respecting direct taxation, the subject has been so
fully handled, and is so extensive in its nature, that it is needless to say
any thing of it.
The 4th amendment goes on the wide field of indiscriminate suspicion
that every one grasps after Offices, and that Congress will create them
unnecessarily. Perhaps it will exclude the most proper from offices of great
importance to the community.
[Here he read the 5th amendment.] — I beg the honorable gentleman
to tell me on what subject Congress will exercise this power improperly. If
there be any treachery in their view, the words in this amendment are broad
enough to allow it. It is as good a security in this Constitution, as human
ingenuity can devise; for if they intend any treachery, they will not let you
see it.
[Here he read the 7th and 8th amendments.] — I have never hesitated
to acknowledge that I wished the regulation of commerce had been put in the
hands of a greater body than it is in the sense of the Constitution. But I
appeal to {602} my colleagues in the federal Convention, whether this was not a
sine qua non
of the Union. Of all the amendments, this is the most
destructive, which requires the consent of three fourths of both houses to
treaties
ceding or restraining
territorial rights
. This is
priding in the Virginia sovereignty, in opposition to the majority. This
suspected Congress, these corrupt sixty-five and corrupt twenty-six, are
brought so low they cannot be trusted, lest they should have it in their power
to lop off part of Virginia — cede it, so as that it should become a
colony to some foreign state. There is no power in the Constitution
to cede
any part of the territories of the United States
. The whole number of
Congress, being unanimous, have no power to suspend or cede territorial rights.
But this amendment admits, in the fullest latitude, that Congress have a right
to dismember the empire.
His amendment respecting the militia is unnecessary. The same powers
rest in the states by the Constitution. Gentlemen were repeatedly called upon
to show where the power of the states over the militia was taken away, but they
could not point it out.
[He read the 12th amendment.] — Will this be a melioration of the
Constitution? I wish to know what is meant by the words
police
and
good government
! These words may lead to complete tyranny in Congress.
Perhaps some gentlemen think that these words relate to particular objects, and
that they will diminish and confine their power. They are most extensive in
their significations, and will stretch and dilate it, and all the imaginary
horrors of the honorable gentleman will be included in this amendment.
[He read the 13th amendment.] — I was of this opinion myself; but I
informed you before why I changed it.
[He read the 14th amendment.] — If I were to propose an amendment
on this subject, it would be to limit the word
arising
. I would not
discard it altogether, but define its extent. The jurisdiction of the judiciary
in cases arising under the system, I should wish to be defined, so as to
prevent its being extended unnecessarily: I would restrain the appellate
cognizance as to fact, and prevent oppressive and vexatious appeals.
[He read the 15th amendment.] — The right of challenging and
excepting, I hope, has clearly appeared to the committee to be a necessary
appendage of the trial by jury itself.
Permit me now to make a few remarks on the proposal of {603} these
amendments, previous to our ratification. The first objection arises from the
paper itself. Can you conceive, or does any man believe, that there are twelve,
or even nine, states in the whole Union, that would subscribe to this paper?
— a paper fraught with, perhaps, more defects than the Constitution
itself. What are we about to do? To make this the condition of our coming into
this government. I hope gentlemen will never agree to this. If we declare that
these amendments, and a bill of rights containing twenty articles, must be
incorporated into the Constitution before we assent to it, I ask you whether
you may not bid a long farewell to the Union? It will produce that deplorable
thing — the dissolution of the Union — which no man yet has dared
openly to advocate. No, say the gentlemen, because Maryland kept off three
years from the confederacy, and no injury happened. This very argument carries
its own refutation with it. The war kept us together, in spite of the
discordance of the states. There is no war now. All the nations of Europe have
their eyes fixed on America, and some of them perhaps cast wistful looks at
you. Their gold may be tried, to sow disunion among us. The same bandage which
kept us before together, does not now exist. Let gentlemen seriously ponder the
calamitous consequences of dissolving the Union in our present situation. I
appeal to the great Searcher of hearts, on this occasion, that we behold the
greatest danger that ever happened hanging over us; for previous amendments are
but another name for rejection. They will throw Virginia out of the Union, and
cause heartaches to many of those gentlemen who may vote for them. But let us
consider things calmly. Reflect on the facility of obtaining amendments if you
adopt, and weigh the danger if you do not. Recollect that many other states
have adopted it, who wish for many amendments. I ask you if it be not better to
adopt, and run the chance of amending it hereafter, than run the risk of
endangering the Union. The Confederation is gone; it has no authority. If, in
this situation, we reject the Constitution, the Union will be dissolved, the
dogs of war will break loose, and anarchy and discord will complete the ruin of
this country. Previous adoption will prevent these deplorable mischiefs. The
union of sentiments with us in the adopting states will render subsequent
amendments easy. I therefore rest my happiness with perfect confidence on this
subject.
{604} Mr. GEORGE MASON. Mr. Chairman, with respect to commerce and
navigation, he has given it as his opinion that their regulation, as it now
stands, was a
sine qua non
of the Union, and that without it the states
in Convention would never concur. I differ from him. It never was, nor in my
opinion ever will be, a
sine qua non
of the Union.
I will give you, to the best of my recollection, the history of that
affair. This business was discussed at Philadelphia for four months, during
which time the subject of commerce and navigation was often under
consideration; and I assert that eight states out of twelve, for more than
three months, voted for requiring two thirds of the members present in each
house to pass commercial and navigation laws. True it is, that afterwards it
was carried by a majority as it stands. If I am right, there was a great
majority for requiring two thirds of the states in this business, till a
compromise took place between the Northern and Southern States; the Northern
States agreeing to the temporary importation of slaves, and the Southern States
conceding, in return, that navigation and commercial laws should be on the
footing in which they now stand. If I am mistaken, let me be put right. Those
are ray reasons for saying that this was not a
sine qua non
of their
concurrence. The Newfoundland fisheries will require that kind of security
which we are now in want of. The Eastern States therefore agreed, at length,
that treaties should require the consent of two thirds of the members present
in the Senate.
Mr. DAWSON. Mr. Chairman, when a nation is about to make a change in its
political character, it behoves it to summon the experience of ages which have
passed, to collect the wisdom of the present day, to ascertain clearly those
great principles of equal liberty which secure the rights, liberties, and
properties, of the people. Such is the situation of the United States at the
moment we are about to make such a change.
The Constitution proposed for the government of the United States has
been a subject of general discussion. While many able and honorable gentlemen
within these walls have, in the development of the various parts, delivered
their sentiments with that freedom which will ever mark the citizens of an
independent state, and with that ability which will prove to the world their
eminent talents, I, sir, although {605} urged by my feelings, have forborne to
say any thing on my part, from a satisfactory impression of the inferiority of
my talents, and from a wish to acquire every information which might assist my
judgment in forming a decision on a question of such magnitude. But, sir, as it
involves in its fate the interest of so extensive a country, every sentiment
which can be offered deserves its proportion of public attention. I shall
therefore avoid any apology for now rising, although uncommon propriety.might
justify it, and rather trust to the candor of those who hear me. Indeed, I am
induced to come forward, not from any apprehension that my opinion will have
weight, but in order to discharge that duty which I owe to myself, and to those
I have the honor to represent.
The defects of the articles by which we are at present confederated have
been echoed and reëchoed, not only from every quarter of this house, but
from every part of the continent. At the framing of those articles, a common
interest excited us to unite for the common good. But no sooner did this
principle cease to operate, than the defects of the system were sensibly felt.
Since then, the seeds of civil dissension have been gradually opening, and
political confusion has pervaded the states. During the short time of my
political life, having been fully impressed with the truth of these
observations, when a proposition was made by Virginia to invite the sister
states to a general convention, at Philadelphia,
to amend these defects
,
I readily gave my assent; and when I considered the very respectable characters
who formed that body, — when I reflected that they were, most of them,
those sages and patriots under whose banners, and by whose counsels, we had
been rescued from impending danger, and placed among the nations of the earth,
— when I also turned my attention to that illustrious character, to
immortalize whose memory Fame shall blow her trump to the latest ages, — I
say, when I weighed all these considerations, I was almost persuaded to declare
in favor of the proposed plan, and to exert my slender abilities in its favor,
But when I came to investigate it impartially, on the immutable principles of
government, and to exercise that reason with which the God of nature hath
endowed me, and which I will ever freely use, I was convinced of this
important, though melancholy truth, — that the greatest men may err, and
that {606} their errors are sometimes of the greatest magnitude. I was
persuaded that, although the proposed plan contains many things excellent, yet,
by the adoption of it as it now stands, the liberties of America in general,
the property of Virginia in particular, would be endangered.
These being my sentiments, — sentiments which I offer with the
diffidence of a young politician, but with the firmness of a republican, which
I am ready to change when I am convinced they are founded in error, but which I
will support until that conviction, — I should be a traitor to my country,
and unworthy that freedom for which I trust I shall ever remain an advocate,
were I to declare my entire approbation of the plan as it now stands, or assent
to its ratification without previous amendments.
During the deliberations of this Convention, several gentlemen of
eminent talents having exerted themselves to prove the necessity of the union
by presenting to our view the relative situation of Virginia to the other
states, the melancholy representation made to-day, and frequently before, by an
honorable gentleman, (Gov. Randolph,) of our state, reduced, in his estimation,
to the lowest degree of degradation, must now haunt the recollection of many
gentlemen in this committee. How far he has drawn the picture to the life, or
where it is too highly colored, rests with them to determine. To gentlemen,
however, sir, of their abilities, the task was easy, and perhaps I may add
unnecessary. It is a truth admitted on all sides, and I presume there is not a
gentleman who hears me who is not a friend to a union of the thirteen states.
But, sir, an opinion has gone abroad (from whence it originated, or by
whom it is supported, I will not venture to say) that the opponents to the
paper on your table are enemies to the union. It may not, therefore, be
improper for me to declare, that I am a warm friend to a firm, federal,
energetic government; that I consider a confederation of the states, on
republican principles, as a security to their mutual interests, and a disunion
as injurious to the whole; but t shall lament exceedingly, when a confederation
of independent states shall be converted into a consolidated government; for,
when that event shall happen, I shall consider the history of American liberty
as short as it has been brilliant, and we shall afford one more proof to the
favorite maxim of tyrants, that "mankind cannot govern themselves."
{607} An honorable gentleman (Col. H. Lee) came forward some days since,
with all the powers of eloquence and all the warmth of enthusiasm. Alter
descanting on some military operations to the south, of which he was a
spectator, and pronouncing sentence of condemnation on a Mr. Shays, to the
north, — as a military character he boldly throws the gauntlet, and defies
the warmest friend to the opposition to come forth and say that the friends to
the system on your table are not also friends to republican liberty.
Arguments, sir, in this house, should ever be addressed to the reason,
and should be applied to the system itself, and not to those who either support
or oppose it. I, however, dare come forth, and tell that honorable gentleman,
not with the military warmth of a young soldier, but with the firmness of a
republican, that, in my humble opinion, had the paper now on your table, and
which is so ably supported, been presented to our view ten years ago, (when the
American spirit shone forth in the meridian of glory, and rendered us the
wonder of an admiring world,) it would have been considered, as containing
principles incompatible with republican liberty, and therefore doomed to
infamy.
Having, sir, made these loose observations, and having proved, I flatter
myself, to this honorable Convention, the motives from which my opposition to
the proposed system originated, I may now be permitted to turn my attention,
for a very few moments, to the system itself; and to point out some of the
leading parts most exceptionable, in my estimation — my original
objections to which have not been removed by the debate, but rather confirmed.
If we grant to Congress the power of direct taxation, if we yield to
them the sword, and if we also invest them with the judicial authority, two
questions, of the utmost importance, immediately present themselves to our
inquiries — whether these powers will not be oppressive in their
operations, and, aided by other parts of the system, convert the thirteen
confederated states into one consolidated government; and whether any country
as extensive as North America, and where climates, dispositions, and interests,
are so essentially different, can be governed under one consolidated plan,
except by the introduction of despotic principles.
The warmest friends, sir, to the government, — some of those who
formed, signed, and have recommended it, — some {608} of those who have
enthusiastically supported it in every quarter of this continent, — have
answered my first query in the affirmative: they have admitted that it
possesses few federal features, and will ultimately end in a consolidated
government — a truth which, in my opinion, they would have denied in vain;
for every article, every section, every clause, and almost every line, proves
that it will have this tendency; and if this position has, during the course of
the long and learned debates on this head, been established to the satisfaction
of the Convention, I apprehend that the authority of all eminent writers on the
subject, and the experience of all ages, cannot be controverted, and that it
will be admitted that no government formed on the principles of freedom can
pervade all North America.
This, sir, is my great objection — an objection general in its
nature, because it operates on the whole system; an objection which I early
formed, which I flattered myself would have been removed, but which, I am
obliged to say, has been confirmed by the observations which have been made by
many learned gentlemen, and which would be tedious for me now to
recapitulate.
That the legislative, executive, and judicial powers should be separate
and distinct, in all free governments, is a political fact so well established,
that I presume I shall not be thought arrogant, when I affirm that no country
ever did, or ewer can, long remain free, where they are blended. All the states
have been in this sentiment when they formed their state constitutions, and
therefore have guarded against the danger; and every schoolboy in politics must
be convinced of the propriety of the observation; and yet, by the proposed
plan, the legislative and executive powers are closely united; the Senate, who
compose one part of the legislature, are also, as council to the President, the
supreme head, and are concerned in passing laws which they themselves are to
execute.
The wisdom, sir, of many nations has induced them to enlarge the powers
of their rulers; but there are very few instances of the relinquishment of
power, or the abridgment of authority, on the part of the governors. The very
1st clause of the 8th section of the 1st article, which gives to Congress the
power "to lay and collect taxes, duties, imposts, excises," &c., appears to
me to be big with unnecessary {609} danger, and to reduce human nature, to
which I would willingly pay a compliment did not the experience of all ages
rise up against me, to too great a test. The arguments, sir, which have been
urged by some gentlemen, that the impost will defray all expenses, in my
estimation cannot be supported; and common sense will never assent to the
assertions which have been made, that the government will not be an additional
expense to this country. Will not the support of an army and navy — will
not the establishment of a multiplicity of offices in the legislative,
executive, and particularly the judiciary departments, most of which will be of
a national character, and must be supported with a superior degree of dignity
and credit — be prodigious additions to the national expense? And, sir, if
the states are to retain even a shadow of sovereignty, the expense thence
arising must also be defrayed, and will be very considerable.
I come now, sir, to speak of a clause to which our attention has been
frequently called, and on which many gentlemen have already delivered their
sentiments — a clause, in the estimation of some, of little consequence,
and which rather serves as a pretext for scuffling for votes; but which, in my
opinion, is one of the most important contained in the system, and to which
there are many and weighty objections. I refer to the clause empowering the
President, by and with the consent of two thirds of the senators present, to
make
treaties
. If, sir, the dismemberment of the empire, if the
privation of the most essential national rights, and the very existence of a
people, depend on this clause, surely, sir, it merits the most thorough
investigation; and if, on that investigation, it appears that those great
rights are endangered, it highly behoves us to amend it in such a manner as
will prevent the evils which may arise from it as it now stands, My objections
to it do not arise from a view of the particular situation of the western part
of this state, although certainly we are bound, by every principle, to attend
to the interest of our fellow-citizens in that quarter; but from an
apprehension that the principle pervades all America, and that, in its
operation, it will be found highly injurious to the Southern States. It will, I
presume, be readily admitted that the dismemberment of empire is the highest
act of sovereign authority, the exercise of which can be authorized {610} only
by absolute necessity. Exclusive, then, sir, of any consideration which arises
from the particular system of American politics, the guard established against
the exercise of this power is by far too slender.
The President, with the concurrence of two thirds of the Senate present,
may make a treaty, by which any territory may be ceded, or the navigation of
any river surrendered; thereby granting to five states the exercise of a right
acknowledged to be the highest act of sovereignty — to fifteen men, not
the representatives of the country to be ceded, but, as has already happened,
men whose interest and policy it may be to make such surrender. Admitting, for
a moment, that this point is as well guarded by the proposed plan as by the old
Articles of Confederation, (to which, however, common sense can never assent,)
have we not already had cause to tremble, and ought we not to guard against the
accomplishment of a scheme to which nothing but an inattention to the general
interest of America, and a selfish regard to the interest of particular states,
could have given rise? Surely, sir, we ought; and since we have already seen a
diabolical attempt made to surrender the navigation of a river, the source of
which is as yet unknown, and on which depends the importance of the southern
part of America; since we have every reason to believe that the same principle
which at first dictated this measure, still exists, and will forever operate;
it is our duty — a duty which we owe to ourselves, which we owe to the
southern part of America, and which we owe to the natural rights of mankind
— to guard against it in such manner as will forever prevent its
accomplishment. This, sir, is not done by the clause, nor will it rest on that
sure footing which I wish, and which the importance of the subject demands,
until the concurrence of three fourths
of all the senators
shall be
requisite to ratify a treaty respecting the cession of territory, the surrender
of the navigation of rivers, or the use of all the American seas.
That sacred palladium of liberty, the freedom of the press, (the
influence of which is so great that it is the opinion of the ablest writers
that no country can remain long in slavery where it is unrestrained,) has not
been expressed; nor are the liberties of the people ascertained and protected
by any declaration of rights; that inestimable privilege, (the most important
which freemen can enjoy,) the trial by jury in all {611} civil cases, has not
been guarded by the system; — and while they have been inattentive to
these all-important considerations, they have made provision for the
introduction of standing armies in time of peace. These, sir, ever have been
used as the grand machines to suppress the liberties of the people, and will
ever awaken the jealousy of republicans, so long as liberty is dear, and
tyranny odious, to mankind.
Congress, sir, have the power to declare war, and also to raise and
support armies; and if we suppose them to be a representation of the states,
the
nexus imperii
of the British constitution is here lost. There the
king has the power of declaring war, and the Parliament that of raising money
to support it. Governments ought not to depend on an army for their support,
but ought to be so formed as to have the confidence, respect, and affection of
the citizens. Some degree of virtue, sir, must exist, or freedom cannot live. A
standing army will introduce idleness and extravagance, which will be followed
by their sure concomitant vices. In a country extensive like ours, the power of
the sword is more sensibly felt than in a small community. The advantages, sir,
of military science and discipline cannot be exerted unless a proper number of
soldiers are united in one body, and actuated by one soul. The tyrant of a
single town, or a small district, would soon discover that a hundred armed
soldiers were a weak defence against ten thousand peasants or citizens; but ten
thousand well-disciplined soldiers, will command, with despotic sway, millions
of subjects, and will strike terror into the most numerous populace. It was
this, sir, which enabled the pretorian bands of Rome, whose number scarcely
amounted to ten thousand, after having violated the sanctity of the throne by
the atrocious murder of a most excellent emperor, to dishonor the majesty of
it, by proclaiming that the Roman empire — the mistress of the world
— was to be disposed of, to the highest bidder, at public auction; —
and to their licentious frenzy may be attributed the
first
cause of the
decline and fall of that mighty empire. We ought, therefore, strictly to guard
against the establishment of an army — whose only occupation would be
idleness; whose only effort the introduction of vice and dissipation; and who
would, at some future day, deprive user our liberties, as a reward for past
favors, by the introduction of some military despot.
{612} I had it in contemplation to have made some observations on the
disposition of the judicial powers; but, as my knowledge in that line is
confined, and as the subject has been so ably handled by other gentlemen, and
the defects clearly developed, and as their arguments remain unanswered, 1
shall say nothing on that head. The want of responsibility to the people from
their representatives would furnish matter of ample discussion; but I pass it
over in silence, only observing that it is a grand, and indeed a daring fault,
and one which sanctions with security the most tyrannic edicts of a despotic
ruler. The ambiguous terms in which all rights are secured to the people, and
the clear and comprehensive language used when power is granted to Congress,
also afford matter for suspicions and objections; but the able manner in which
my very worthy, my very eloquent, and truly patriotic friend and coadjutor,
whose name shall ever be hallowed in the temple of liberty, has handled this
subject, would render any observations from me tedious and unnecessary.
Permit me, then, to conclude by reminding gentlemen who appeal to
history to prove the excellence of the proposed plan, that their mode of
comparison is unjust. "Wealth and extent of territory," says the great
Montesquieu, "have a relation to government, and the manners and customs of the
people are closely connected with it." The same system of policy which might
have been excellent in the governments of antiquity would not, probably, suit
us at the present day. The question, therefore, which should be agitated, is,
not whether the proposed Constitution is better or worse than those which have
from time to time existed, but whether it is calculated to secure our liberties
and happiness at the present stage of the world.
For my own part, after an impartial investigation of it, and after a
close attention and candid consideration of the arguments, which have been
used, I am impressed with an opinion that it is not. I am persuaded that, by
adopting it, and then proposing amendments, that unfortunate traveller,
Liberty, is more endangered than the union of the states will be by first
proposing these amendments. I am so far an enthusiast, in favor of liberty,
that I never will trust the sacred deposit to other hands, nor will I exchange
it for any earthly consideration; and I have such a fixed aversion to the
bitter {613} cup of slavery, that, in my estimation, a draught is not
sweetened, whether administered by the hand of a Turk, a Briton, or an
American.
Impressed, then, sir, with these sentiments, and governed by these
principles, I shall decidedly give my vote in favor of previous amendments.
But, sir, should the question be decided contrary to my wishes, the first wish
of my heart is, that the decision may promote the happiness and prosperity of
the country so dear to us all.
Mr. GRAYSON. Mr. Chairman, gentlemen have misrepresented what I said on
the subject of
treaties
. On this ground let us appeal to the law of
nations. How does it stand? Thus — that Without the consent of the
national legislature, dismemberment cannot be made. This is a subject in which
Virginia is deeply interested, and ought to be well understood. It ought to be
expressly provided that no dismemberment should take place without the consent
of the legislature. On this occasion, I beg leave to introduce an instance
mentioned on the floor of Congress. Francis, king of France, was taken by the
Spaniards at the battle of Pavia. He stipulated to give up certain territories,
to be liberated. Yet the stipulation was not complied with, because it was
alleged that it was not made by the sovereign power. Let us apply this.
Congress has a right to dismember the empire. The President may do it, and the
legislature may confirm it. Let gentlemen contradict it if they can. This is
one of the highest acts of sovereignty, and I think it of the utmost importance
that it should be placed on a proper footing. There is an absolute necessity
for the existence of the power. It may prevent the annihilation of society by
procuring a peace. It must be lodged somewhere. The opposition wish it to be
put in the hands of three fourths of the members of both houses of Congress. It
would be then secure. It is not so now.
The dangers of disunion were painted in strong colors. How is the fact?
It is this — that, if Virginia thinks proper to insist on previous
amendments, joined by New York and North Carolina, she can procure what
amendments she pleases. What is the geographical position of these states? New
York commands the ocean. Virginia and North Carolina join the Spanish
dominions. What would be the situation, then, of the Other states? They would
be topographically {614} separated, though politically, connected with one
another. There would be no communication between the centre and the component
parts. While those states were thus separated, of what advantage would
commercial regulations be to them? Yet will gentlemen pretend to say that we
must adopt first, and then beg for amendments? I see no reason in it. We
undervalue our own importance. Consider the vast consequence and importance of
Virginia and North Carolina. What kind of connection would the rest of the
states form? They would be carrying states, without Having any thing to carry.
They could have no communication with the other Southern States. I therefore
insist that, if you are not satisfied with the paper as it stands, it is as
clear to me as that the sun shines, that, by joining these two states, you may
command such amendments as you may think necessary for the happiness of the
people.
The late Convention were not empowered totally to alter the present
Confederation. The idea was to
amend
. If they lay before us a thing
quite different, we are not bound to accept it. There is nothing dictatorial in
refusing it: we wish to remove the spirit of party. In all parts of the world
there is a reciprocity in contracts and compacts. If one man makes a
proposition to another, is he bound to accept it?
Six or seven states have agreed to it. As it is not their interest to
stand by themselves, will they not with open arms receive us? Tobacco will
always make our peace with them. I hope, then, that the honorable gentleman
will find, on a reconsideration, that we are not at all in that dangerous
situation he represented. In my opinion, the idea of subsequent amendments is
preposterous. They are words without meaning. The little states will not agree
to an alteration. When they find themselves on an equal footing with the other
states in the Senate, and all power vested in them, — the executive mixed
with the legislative, — they will never assent. Why are such extensive
powers given to the Senate? Because the little states gained their point. In
every light I consider subsequent amendments as unwise and impolitic.
Considering the situation of the continent, this is not a time for
changing our government. I do not think we stand so secure with respect to
other nations as to change our government. The nations of Europe look with
watchful eyes {615} on us, and with reason; for the West India islands depend
on our motions. When we have strength, importance, and union, they will have
reason to tremble for their islands. Almost all the governments of the world
have been formed by accident. We are now, in time of peace, without any real
cause, changing our government. We ought to be cool and temperate, and not act
like the people of Denmark, who gave up their liberties, in a transport of
passion, to the crown. Let us therefore be cautious, and deliberate before we
determine.
What is the situation of Virginia? She is rich when her resources are
compared with those of others. Is it right for a rich nation to consolidate
with a poor one? By no means. It was right for Scotland to unite with England,
as experience has shown. Scotland only pays forty-eight thousand pounds, when
England pays four shillings in the pound, which amounts to two million pounds.
In all unions where a rich state is joined with a poor one, it will be found
that the rich one will pay in that disproportion. A union between such nations
ought never to take place, except in peculiar circumstances, and on very
particular conditions, How is it with Virginia? It is politic for her to unite,
but not on any terms. She will pay more than her natural proportion, and the
present state of the national debt renders it an object. She will also lose her
importance. She is now put in the same situation as a state forty times
smaller.
Does she gain any advantage from her central situation, by acceding to
that paper? Within ten miles of Alexandria the centre of the states is said to
be. It has not said that the ten miles square will be there. In a monarchy, the
seat of government must be where the monarch pleases. How ought it to be in a
republic like ours? — now in one part, and at another time in another, or
where it will best suit the convenience of the people. Then I lay it down as a
political right that the seat of government ought to be fixed by the
Constitution, so as to suit the public convenience.
Has Virginia any gain from her riches and commerce? What does she get in
return? I can see what she gives up, which is immense. The little states gain
in proportion as we lose. Every disproportion is against us. If the effects of
such a contrariety of interests be happy, it must be extraordinary and
wonderful. From the very nature of the paper, {616} one part, whose interest is
different from the other, is to govern it. What will be our situation? The
Northern States are carrying states. We are considered as productive states.
They will consequently carry for us. Are manufactures favorable to us? If they
reciprocate the act of Charles II., and say that no produce of America will be
carried in any foreign bottom, what will be the consequence? This — that
all the produce of the Southern States will be carried by the Northern States
on their own terms, which must be very high.
Though this government has the power of taxation, and the most important
subject of the legislation, there is no responsibility any where. The members
of Delaware do not return to Virginia to give an account of their conduct. Yet
they legislate for us. In addition to this, it will be productive of great
expenses. Virginia has assumed an immense weight of private debt, and her
imports and exports are taken away. Judge, then, how such an accumulation of
expenses will accommodate us. I think that, were it not for one great character
in America, so many men would not be for this government. We have one ray of
hope. We do not fear while he lives; but we can only expect his
fame
to
be immortal. We wish to know who, besides him, can concentrate the confidence
and affections of all America.
He then concluded by expressing hopes that the proposition of his
honorable friend would be acceded to.
Mr. MADISON. Mr. Chairman, nothing has excited more admiration in the
world than the manner in which free governments have been established in
America; for it was the first instance, from the creation of the world to the
American revolution, that free inhabitants have been seen deliberating on a
form of government, and selecting such of their citizens as possessed their
confidence, to determine upon and give effect to it. But why has this excited
so much wonder and applause? Because it is of so much magnitude, and because it
is liable to be frustrated by so many accidents. If it has excited so much
wonder that the United States have, in the middle of war and confusion, formed
free systems of government, how much more astonishment. and admiration will be
excited, should they be able, peaceably, freely, and satisfactorily, to
establish one general {617} government, when there is such a diversity of
opinions and interests — when not cemented or stimulated by any common
danger! How vast must be the difficulty of concentrating, in one government,
the interests, and conciliating the opinions, of so many different,
heterogeneous bodies!
How have the confederacies of ancient and modern times been formed? As
far as ancient history describes the former to us, they were brought about by
the wisdom of some eminent sage. How was the imperfect union of the Swiss
cantons formed? By danger. How was the confederacy of the United Netherlands
formed? By the same. They are surrounded by dangers. By these, and one
influential character, they were stimulated to unite. How was the Germanic
system formed? By danger, in some degree, but principally by the overruling
influence of individuals.
When we consider this government, we ought to make great allowances. We
must calculate the impossibility that every state should be gratified in its
wishes, and much less that every individual should receive this gratification.
It has never been denied, by the friends of the paper on the table, that it has
defects; but they do not think that it contains any real danger. They conceive
that they will, in all probability, be removed, when experience will show it to
be necessary. I beg that gentlemen, in deliberating on this subject, would
consider the alternative. Either nine states shall have ratified it, or they
will not. If nine states will adopt it, can it be reasonably presumed, or
required, that nine states, having freely and fully considered the subject, and
come to an affirmative decision, will, upon the demand of a single state, agree
that they acted wrong, and could not see its defects — tread back the
steps which they have taken, and come forward, and reduce it to uncertainty
whether a general system shall be adopted or not? Virginia has always
heretofore spoken the language of respect to the other states, and she has
always been attended to. Will it be that language to call on a great majority
of the states to acknowledge that they have done wrong? Is it the language of
confidence to say that we do not believe that amendments for the preservation
of the common liberty, and general interests, of the states, will be consented
to by them? This is the language neither of confidence nor respect. Virginia,
when she speaks respectfully, will be as much attended {618} to as she has
hitherto been when speaking this language.
It is a most awful thing that depends on our decision — no less
than whether the thirteen states shall unite freely, peaceably, and
unanimously, for security of their common happiness and liberty, or whether
every thing is to be put in confusion and disorder. Are we to embark in this
dangerous enterprise, uniting various opinions to contrary interests, with the
vain hope of coming to an amicable concurrence?
It is worthy of our consideration that those who prepared the paper on
the table found difficulties not to be described in its formation: mutual
deference and concession were absolutely necessary. Had they been inflexibly
tenacious of their individual opinions, they would never have concurred. Under
what circumstances was it formed? When no party was formed, or particular
proposition made, and men's minds were calm and dispassionate. Yet, under these
circumstances, it was difficult, extremely difficult, to agree to any general
system.
Suppose eight states only should ratify, and Virginia should propose
certain alterations, as the previous condition of her accession. If they should
be disposed to accede to her proposition, which is the most favorable
conclusion, the difficulty attending it will be immense. Every state which has
decided it, must take up the subject again. They must not only have the
mortification of acknowledging that they had done wrong, but the difficulty of
having a reconsideration of it among the people, and appointing new conventions
to deliberate upon it. They must attend to
all
the amendments, which may
be dictated by as great a diversity of political opinions as there are local
attachments. When brought together in one assembly, they must go through, and
accede to, every one of the amendments. The gentlemen who, within this house,
have thought proper to propose previous amendments, have brought no less than
forty amendments, a bill of rights which contains twenty amendments, and twenty
other alterations, some of which are improper and inadmissible. Will not every
state think herself equally entitled to propose as many amendments? And suppose
them to be contradictory! I leave it to this Convention whether it be probable
that they can agree, or agree to {619} any thing but the plan on the table; or
whether greater difficulties will not be encountered than were experienced in
the progress of the formation of the Constitution.
I have said that there was a great contrariety of opinions among the
gentlemen in the opposition. It has been heard in every stage of their
opposition. I can see, from their amendments, that very great sacrifices have
been made by some of them. Some gentlemen think that it contains too much state
influence; others, that it is a complete consolidation; and a variety of other
things. Some of them think that the equality in the Senate is nor a defect;
others, that it is the bane of all good government. I might, if there were
time, show a variety of other cases where their opinions are contradictory. If
there be this contrariety of opinions in this house, what contrariety may not
be expected, when we take into view thirteen conventions equally or more
numerous! Besides, it is notorious, from the debates which have been published,
that there is no sort of uniformity in the grounds of the opposition.
The state of New York has been adduced. Many in that state are opposed
to it from local views. The two who opposed it in the general Convention from
that state are in the state Convention. Every step of this system was opposed
by those two gentlemen. They were unwilling to part with the old Confederation.
Can it be presumed, then, sir, that gentlemen in this state, who admit the
necessity of changing, should ever be able to unite in sentiments with those
who are totally averse to any change?
I have revolved this question in my mind with as much serious attention,
and called to my aid as much information, as I could, yet I can see no reason
for the apprehensions of gentlemen; but I think that the most happy effects for
this country would result from adoption, and if Virginia will agree to ratify
this system, I shall look upon it as one of the most fortunate events that ever
happened for human nature, t cannot, therefore, without the most excruciating
apprehensions, see a possibility of losing its blessings. It gives me infinite
pain to reflect that all the earliest endeavors of the warmest friends of their
country to introduce a system promotive of our happiness, may be blasted by a
rejection, for which I think, with my honorable friend, that previous
amendments are but another name. The gentlemen in opposition {620} seem to
insist on those amendments, as if they were all necessary for the liberty and
happiness of the people. Were I to hazard an opinion on the subject, I would
declare it infinitely more safe, in its present form, than it would be after
introducing into it that long train of alterations which they call amendments.
With respect to the proposition of the honorable gentleman to my left,
(Mr. Wythe,) gentlemen apprehend that, by enumerating three rights, it implied
there were no more. The observations made by a gentleman lately up, on that
subject, correspond precisely with my opinion. That resolution declares that
the powers granted by the proposed Constitution are the gift of the people, and
may be resumed by them when perverted to their oppression, and every power not
granted thereby remains with the people, and at their will. It adds, likewise,
that no right, of any denomination, can be cancelled, abridged, restrained, or
modified, by the general government, or any of its officers, except in those
instances in which power is given by the Constitution for these purposes. There
cannot be a more positive and unequivocal declaration of the principle of the
adoption — that every thing not granted is reserved. This is obviously and
self-evidently the case, without the declaration. Can the general government
exercise any power not delegated? If an enumeration be made of our rights, will
it not be implied that every thing omitted is given to the general government?
Has not the honorable gentleman himself admitted that an imperfect enumeration
is dangerous? Does the Constitution say that they shall not alter the law of
descents, or do those things which would subvert the whole system of the state
laws? If it did, what was not excepted would be granted. Does it follow, from
the omission of such restrictions that they can exercise powers not delegated?
The reverse of the proposition holds. The delegation alone warrants the
exercise of any power.
With respect to
the amendments
proposed by the honorable
gentleman, it ought to be considered how far they are good. As far as they are
palpably and insuperably objectionable they ought to be opposed. One amendment
he proposes is, that any army which shall be necessary shall be raised by the
consent of two thirds of the states. I most devoutly wish that there may never
be an occasion for having {621} a single regiment. There can be no harm in
declaring that standing armies, in time of peace, are dangerous to liberty, and
ought to be avoided, as far as it may be consistent with the protection of the
community. But when we come to say that the national security shall depend, not
on a majority of the people of America, but that it may be frustrated by less
than one third of the people of America, I ask if this be a safe or proper
mode. What parts of the United States are most likely to stand in need of this
protection? The weak parts, which are the Southern States. Will it be safe to
leave the United States at the mercy of one third of the states — a number
which may comprise a very small proportion of the American people? They may all
be in that part of America which is least exposed to danger. As far as a remote
situation from danger would render exertions for public defence less active, so
far the Southern States would be endangered.
The regulation of
commerce
, he further proposed, should depend on
two thirds of both houses. I wish I could recollect the history of this matter;
but I cannot call it to mind with sufficient exactness. But I well recollect
the reasoning of some gentlemen on that subject. It was said, and I believe
with truth, that every part of America does not stand in equal need of
security. It was observed that the Northern States were most competent to their
own safety. Was it reasonable, asked they, that they should bind themselves to
the defence of the Southern States, and still be left at the mercy of the
minority for commercial advantages? Should it be in the power of the minority
to deprive them of this and other advantages, when they were bound to defend
the whole Union, it might be a disadvantage for them to confederate.
These were his arguments. This policy of guarding against political
inconveniences, by enabling a small part of the community to oppose the
government, and subjecting the majority to a small minority, is fallacious. In
some cases it may be good; in others it may be fatal. In all cases, it puts it
in the power of the minority to decide a question which concerns the majority.
I was struck with surprise when I heard him express himself alarmed with
respect to the emancipation of slaves. Let me ask, if they should even attempt
it, if it will not be {622} a usurpation of power. There is no power to warrant
it, in that paper. If there be, I know it not. But why should it be done? Says
the honorable gentleman, for the general welfare: it will infuse strength into
our system. Can any member of this committee suppose that it will increase our
strength? Can any one believe that the American councils will come into a
measure which will strip them of their property, and discourage and alienate
the affections off five thirteenths of the Union? Why was nothing of this sort
aimed at before? I believe such an idea never entered into any American breast,
nor do I believe it ever will enter into the heads of those gentlemen who
substitute unsupported suspicions for reasons.
I am persuaded that the gentlemen who contend for previous amendments
are not aware of the dangers which must result. Virginia, after having made
opposition, will be obliged to recede from it. Might not the nine states say,
with a great deal of propriety, "It is not proper, decent, or right, in you, to
demand that we should reverse what we have done. Do as we have done; place
confidence in us, as we have done in one another; and then we shall freely,
fairly, and dispassionately consider and investigate your propositions, and
endeavor to gratify your wishes. But if you do not do this, it is more
reasonable that you should yield to us than we to you. You cannot exist without
us; you must be a member of the Union.
The case of Maryland, instanced by the gentleman, does not hold. She
would not agree to confederate, because the other states would not assent to
her claims of the western lands. Was she gratified? No; she put herself like
the rest. Nor has she since been gratified. The lands are in the common stock
of the Union.
As far as his amendments are not objectionable, or unsafe, so far they
may be subsequently recommended — not because they are necessary, but
because they can produce no possible danger, and may gratify some gentlemen's
wishes. But I never can consent to his previous amendments, because they are
pregnant with dreadful dangers.
Mr. HENRY. Mr. Chairman, the honorable gentleman
who was up some time ago exhorts us not to fall into a repetition of the
defects of the Confederation. He said we ought not to declare that each state
retains every power, jurisdiction, and right, which is not expressly delegated,
because {623} experience has proved the insertion of such a restriction to be
destructive, and mentioned an instance to prove it. That case, Mr. Chairman,
appears tome to militate against himself. Passports would not be given by
Congress — and why? Because there was a clause in the Confederation which
denied them implied powers. And says he, Shall we repeat the error? He asked me
where was the power of emancipating slaves. I say it will be implied, unless
implication be prohibited. He admits that the power of granting passports will
be in the new Congress without the insertion of this restriction; yet he can
show me nothing like such a power granted in that Constitution. Notwithstanding
he admits their right to this power by implication, he says that I am unfair
and uncandid in my deduction that they can emancipate our slaves, though the
word
emancipation
is not mentioned in it. They can exercise power by
implication in one instance, as well as in another. Thus, by the gentleman's
own argument, they can exercise the power, though it be not delegated.
We were then told that the power of treaties and commerce was the
sine qua non
of the Union; that the little states would not confederate
otherwise. There is a thing not present to human view. We have seen great
concessions from the large states to the little states. But little concessions
from the little states to the great states will be refused. He concedes that
great concessions were made in the great Convention. Now, when we speak of
rights, and not of emoluments, these little states would not have been
affected. What boon did we ask? We demanded only rights which ought to be
unalienable and sacred. We have nothing local to ask. We ask rights which
concern the general happiness. Must not justice bring them into the concession
of these? The honorable gentleman was pleased to say that the new government,
in this policy, will be equal to what the present is. If so, that amendment
will not injure that part.
He then mentioned the danger that would arise from foreign gold. We may
be bribed by foreign powers if we ask for amendments, to secure our own
happiness. Are we to be bribed to forget our own interests? I will ask, if
foreign gold be likely to operate, where will it be? In the seat of government,
or in those little channels in which the state {624} authority will flow? It
will be at the fountain of power, where bribery will not be detected. He speaks
of war and bloodshed. Whence do this war and bloodshed come? I fear it, but not
from the source he speaks of. I fear it, sir, from the operation and friends of
the federal government. He speaks with contempt of this amendment. But whoever
will advert to the use made repeatedly, in England, of the prerogative of the
king, and the frequent attacks on the privileges of the people, notwithstanding
many legislative acts to secure them, will see the necessity of excluding
implications. Nations who have trusted to logical deduction have lost their
liberty.
The honorable gentleman last up agrees that there are defects, and by
and by, he says there is no defect. Does not this amount to a declaration that
subsequent amendments are not necessary? His arguments, great as the
gentleman's abilities are, tend to prove that amendments cannot be obtained
after adoption. Speaking of forty amendments, he calculated that it was
something like impracticability to obtain them. I appeal, therefore, to the
candor of the honorable gentleman, and this committee, whether amendments be
not absolutely unattainable, if we adopt; for he has told us that, if the other
states will do like this, they cannot be previously obtained. Will the
gentleman bring this home to himself? This is a piece of information which I
expected. The worthy member who proposed to ratify has also proposed that what
amendments may be deemed necessary should be recommended to Congress, and that
a committee should be appointed to consider what amendments were necessary. But
what does it all come to at last? That it is a vain project, and that it is
indecent and improper. I will not argue unfairly, but I will ask him if
amendments are not unattainable. Will gentlemen, then, lay their hands on their
hearts, and say that they can adopt it in this shape? When we demand this
security of our privileges, the language of Virginia is not that of respect!
Give me leave to deny. She only asks amendments previous to her adoption of the
Constitution.
Was the honorable gentleman accurate, when he said that they could exist
better without us than we could without them? I will make no comparison. But I
will say that the states which have adopted will not make a respectable {625}
appearance without us. Would he advise them to refuse us admission when we
profess ourselves friends to the Union, and only solicit them to secure our
rights? We do not reject a connection with them. We only declare that we will
adopt it, if they will but consent to the security of rights essential to the
general happiness.
He told you to confine yourselves to amendments which were indisputably
true, as applying to several parts of the system proposed. Did you hear any
thing like the admission of the want of such amendments from any one else? I
will not insist on any that does not stand on the broad basis of human rights.
He says there are forty. I say there is but one half the number, for the bill
of rights is but one amendment.
He tells you of the important blessings which he imagines will result to
us and mankind in general from the adoption of this system. I see the awful
immensity of the dangers with which it is pregnant. I see it. I feel it. I see
beings of a higher order anxious concerning our decision. When I see beyond the
horizon that bounds human eyes, and look at the final consummation of all human
things, and see those intelligent beings which inhabit the ethereal mansions
reviewing the political decisions and revolutions which, in the progress of
time, will happen in America, and the consequent happiness or misery of
mankind, I am led to believe that much of the account, on one side or the
other, will depend on what we now decide. Our own happiness alone is not
affected by the event. All nations are interested in the determination. We have
it in our power to secure the happiness of one half of the human race. Its
adoption may involve the misery of the other hemisphere.
[Here a violent storm arose, which put the house in such
disorder, that Mr. Henry was obliged to conclude.]
Mr. NICHOLAS proposed that the question should be put at nine o'clock
next day.
He was opposed by Mr. CLAY.
Mr. RONALD also opposed the motion, and wished amendments to be prepared
by a committee, before the question should be put.
Mr. NICHOLAS contended that the language of the proposed ratification
would secure every thing which gentlemen desired, as it declared that all
powers vested in the {626} Constitution were derived from the people, and might
be resumed by them whensoever they should be perverted to their injury and
oppression; and that every power not granted thereby remained at their will. No
danger whatever could arise; for, says he, these expressions will become a part
of the contract. The Constitution cannot be binding on Virginia, but with these
conditions. If thirteen individuals are about to make a contract, and one
agrees to it, but at the same time declares that he understands its meaning,
signification, and intent, to be, (what the words of the contract plainly and
obviously denote,) that it is not to be construed so as to impose any
supplementary condition upon him, and that he is to be exonerated from it
whensoever any such imposition shall be attempted, — I ask whether, in
this case, these conditions, on which he has assented to it, would not be
binding on the other twelve. In like manner these conditions will be binding on
Congress. They can exercise no power that is not expressly granted them.
Mr. RONALD. Mr. Chairman, I came hither with a determination to give my
vote so as to secure the liberty and privileges of my constituents. I thought
that a great majority argued that amendments were necessary. Such is my
opinion; but whether they ought to be previous or subsequent to our adoption, I
leave to the wisdom of this committee to determine. I feel an earnest desire to
know what amendments shall be proposed, before the question be put. One
honorable gentleman has proposed several amendments. They are objected to by
other gentlemen. I do not declare myself for or against those amendments; but
unless I see such amendments, one way or the other, introduced, as will secure
the happiness of the people, and prevent their privileges from being
endangered, I must, though much against my inclination, vote against this
Constitution.
Mr. MADISON conceived that what defects might be in the Constitution
might be removed by the amendatory mode in itself. As to a solemn declaration
of our essential rights, he thought it unnecessary and dangerous —
unnecessary, because it was evident that the general government had no power
but what was given it, and that the delegation alone warranted the exercise of
power; dangerous, because an enumeration which is not complete is not safe.
Such an enumeration could not be made, within any compass of time, {627} as
would be equal to a general negation, such as his honorable friend (Mr. Wythe)
had proposed. He declared that such amendments as seemed, in his judgment, to
be without danger, he would readily admit, and that he would be the last to
oppose any such amendment as would give satisfaction to any gentleman, unless
it were dangerous.
Next
|
Previous
|
Contents
|
Text
Version
|
Home
|
Constitution Society
x
x

TYLER moved to read she amendments and bill of rights proposed by Mr. Henry,
for the same purpose.
Mr. HARRISON. Mr. Chairman, the little states refused to come into the
Union without extravagant concessions. It will be the same case on every other
occasion. Can it be supposed that the little states, whose interest and
importance are greatly advanced by the Constitution as it now stands, will ever
agree to any alteration which must infallibly diminish their political
influence? On this occasion, let us behave with that fortitude which animated
us in our resistance to Great Britain.
The situation and disposition of the states reader subsequent {628}
amendments dangerous and impolitic, and previous amendments eligible.
New Hampshire
does not approve of the Constitution as it
stands.
They have refused it so. In
Massachusetts
, we are told that there
was a decided majority in their Convention who opposed the Constitution as it
stood, and were in favor of previous amendments, but were afterwards, by the
address and artifice of the federalists, prevailed upon to ratify it.
Rhode Island
is not worthy the attention of this house. She is of
no weight or importance to influence any general subject of consequence.
Connecticut
adopted it, without proposing amendments.
New York
, we have every reason to believe, will reject the
Constitution, unless amendments be obtained. Hence it clearly appears that
there are three states which wish for amendments.
Jersey
,
Pennsylvania
, and
Delaware
, have adopted it
unconditionally.
In
Maryland
, there is a considerable number who wish amendments
to be had.
Virginia
is divided, let this question be determined which way it
will. One half of the people, at least, wish amendments to be obtained.
North Carolina
is decidedly against it.
South Carolina
has
proposed amendments.
Under this representation, it appears that there are seven states who
wish to get amendments. Can it be doubted, if the seven states insert
amendments as the condition of their accession, that they would be agreed to?
Let us not, then, be persuaded into an opinion that the Union will be dissolved
if we should reject it. I have no such idea.
As far as I am acquainted with history, there never existed a
constitution where the liberty of the people was established in this way.
States have risen by gradual steps: let us follow their example. The line which
we ought to pursue is equally bounded. How comes that paper on your table to be
now here discussed? The state of Virginia, finding the power of the
Confederation insufficient for the happiness of the people, invited the other
states to call a convention, in order that the powers of Congress might be
enlarged. I was not in the Assembly then; and if I had been, {629} I have no
vanity to suppose I could have decided more cautiously. They were bound to do
what we ought to do now. I have no idea of danger to the Union. A vast
majority, from every calculation, are invincibly attached to it. I see an
earnest desire in gentlemen to bring this country to be great and powerful.
Considering the very late period when this country was first settled, and the
present state of population and wealth, this is impossible now. The attempt
will bring ruin and destruction upon us. These things must not be forced. They
must come of course, like the course of rivers, gently going on. As to the
inconveniences, to me, from adoption, they are none at all. I am not prejudiced
against New England, or any part. They are held up to us as a people from whom
protection will come. Will any protection come from thence for many years? When
we were invaded, did any gentleman from the Northern States come to relieve us?
No, sir, we were left to be buffeted. General Washington, in the greatness of
his soul, came with the French auxiliaries, and relieved us opportunely. Were
it not for this, we should have been ruined. I call Heaven to witness that I am
a friend to the Union. But I conceive the measure of adoption to be
unwarrantable, precipitate, and dangerously impolitic. Should we rush into
sudden perdition, I should resist with the fortitude of a man. As to the
amendments proposed by gentlemen, I do not object to them: they are inherently
good. But they are put in the wrong place — subsequent instead of
previous. [Mr. Harrison added other observations, which could not be
heard.]
Mr. MADISON. Mr. Chairman, I should not have risen at all, were it not
for what the honorable gentleman said. If there be any suspicions that, if the
ratification be made, the friends of the system will withdraw their
concurrence, and much more, their persons, it shall never be with my
approbation. Permit me to remark that, if he has given us a true state of the
disposition of the several members of the Union, there is no doubt they will
agree to the same amendments after adoption. If we propose the conditional
amendments, I entreat gentlemen to consider the distance to which they throw
the ultimate settlement, and the extreme risk of perpetual disunion. They
cannot but see how easy it will be to obtain subsequent amendments. They can be
proposed when the legislatures of two thirds of the states {630} shall make
application for that purpose; and the legislatures of three fourths of the
states, or conventions in the same, can fix the amendments so proposed. If
there be an equal zeal in every state, can there be a doubt that they will
concur in reasonable amendments? If, on the other hand, we call on the states
to rescind what they have done, and confess that they have done wrong, and to
consider the subject again, it will produce such unnecessary delays, and is
pregnant with such infinite dangers, that I cannot contemplate it without
horror. There are uncertainty and confusion on the one hand, and order,
tranquillity, and certainty, on the other. Let us not hesitate to elect the
latter alternative. Let us join with cordiality in those alterations we think
proper. There is no friend to the Constitution but who will concur in that
mode.
Mr. MONROE, after an exordium which could not be heard, remarking that
the question now before the committee was, whether previous or subsequent
amendments were the most prudent, strongly supported the former. He could not
conceive that a conditional ratification would, in the most remote degree,
endanger the Union; for that it was as clearly the interest of the adopting
states to be united with Virginia, as it could be her interest to be in union
with them. He demanded if they would arm the states against one another, and
make themselves enemies of those who were respectable and powerful from their
situation and numbers. He had no doubt that they would, in preference to such a
desperate and violent measure, come forward and make a proposition to the other
states, so far as it would be consistent with the general interest. Adopt it
now, unconditionally, says he, and it will never be amended, not even when
experience shall have proved its defects. An alteration will be a diminution of
their power, and there will be great exertions made to prevent it. I have no
dread that they will immediately infringe the dearest rights of the people, but
that the operation of the government will be oppressive in process of time.
Shall we not pursue the dictates of common sense, and the example of all free
and wise nations, and insist on amendments with manly fortitude?
It is urged that there is an impossibility of getting previous
amendments, and that a variety of circumstances concur to render it
impracticable. This argument appears to {631} me fallacious, and as a specious
evasion. The same cause which has hitherto produced a spirit of unanimity, and
a predilection for the Union, will hereafter produce the same effects.
How did
the federal Convention
meet? From the beginning of time,
in any age or country, did ever men meet under so loose, uncurbed a commission?
There was nothing to restrain them but their characters and reputation. They
could not organize a system without defects. This cannot, then, be perfect. Is
it not presumable that by subsequent attempts we shall make it more complete
and perfect?
What are the great objections now made? Are they local? What are the
amendments brought forth by my friends? Do they not contemplate the great
interests of the people, and of the Union at large? I am satisfied, from what
we have seen of the disposition of the other states, that, instead of disunion
and national confusion, there will be harmony and perfect concord. Disunion is
more to be apprehended from the adoption of a system reprobated by some, and
allowed by all to be defective. The arguments of gentlemen have no weight on my
mind. It is unnecessary to enter into the refutation of them. My honorable
friends have done it highly to my satisfaction. Permit me only to observe, with
respect to those amendments, that they are harmless. Do they change a feature
of the Constitution? They secure our rights without altering a single feature;
I trust, therefore, that gentlemen will concur with them.
Mr. INNES. Mr. Chairman, I have hitherto been silent on this great and
interesting question. But my silence has not proceeded from a neutrality of
sentiments, or a supineness of disposition. The session of the Court of Oyer
and Terminer, at this time, has indispensably called my attention to the
prosecutions for the commonwealth. Had I taken an earlier part in the
discussion, my observations would have been desultory, and perhaps not
satisfactory, not being apprized of all the arguments which had been used by
gentlemen. We are now brought to that great part of the system where it is
necessary for me to take a decided part. This is one of the most important
questions that ever agitated the councils of America. When I see in this house,
{632} divided in opinion, several of those brave officers whom I have seen so
gallantly fighting and bleeding for their country, the question is doubly
interesting to me. I thought it would be the last of human events, that I
should be on a different side from them on so awful an occasion. However
painful and distressing to me the recollection of this diversity of sentiment
may be, I am consoled by this reflection — that difference of opinion has
a happy consequence; it aids discussion, and is a friend to truth. We ought
(and I hope we have the temper) to be regulated by candor and moderation —
without which, in a deliberative body, every thing with respect to the public
good evaporates into nothing.
I came hither under a persuasion that the felicity of our country
required that we should accede to this system; but I am free to declare that I
came in with my mind open to conviction, and a predetermination to recede from
my opinion, if I should find it to be erroneous. I have heard nothing hitherto
that would warrant a change of one idea. The objections urged by the advocates
of the opposition have been ably, and, in my conception, satisfactorily
answered by the friends of the Constitution. I wish, instead of reasoning from
possible abuses, that the government had been considered as an abstract
position, drawn from the history of alterations and such theoretic opinions as
experience has demonstrated to be right. I have waited to hear this mode of
reasoning, but in vain. Instead of this, sir, horrors have been called up,
chimeras suggested, and every terrific and melancholy idea adduced to prevent
what I think indispensably necessary for our national honor, happiness, and
safety — I mean the adoption of the system under consideration.
How are we to decide this question? Shall we take the system by way of
subsequent amendments, or propose amendments as the previous condition of our
adoption? Let us consider this question coolly. In my humble opinion, it
transcends the power of this Convention to take it with previous amendments. If
you take it so, I say that you transcend and violate the commission of the
people; for, if it be taken with amendments, the opinions of the people at
large ought to be consulted on them. Have they an opportunity of considering
previous amendments? They have seen the Constitution, and sent us hither to
adopt or reject it. Have we more latitude on this subject? If you propose {633}
previous amendments as the condition of your adoption, they may radically
change the paper on the table, and the people will be bound by what they know
not. Subsequent amendments would not have that effect. They would not operate
till the people had an opportunity of considering and altering them, if they
thought proper. They could have it in their power to give contrary directions
to their members of Congress.
But I observe, with regret, that there is a general spirit of jealousy
with respect to our
northern brethren
. Had we this political jealousy in
1775? If we had had, it would have damped our ardor and intrepidity, and
prevented that unanimous resistance which enabled us to triumph over our
enemies. It was not a Virginian, Carolinian, or Pennsylvanian, but the glorious
name of an American, that extended from one end of the continent to the other,
that was then beloved and confided in. Did we then expect that, in case of
success, we should be armed against one another? I would have submitted to
British tyranny rather than to northern tyranny, had what we have been told
been true — that they had no part of that philanthropic spirit which
cherishes fraternal affection, unites friends, enables them to achieve the most
gallant exploits, and renders them formidable to other nations.
Gentlemen say that the states have not similar interests that what will
accommodate their interests will be incompatible with ours; and that the
northern oppression will fetter and manacle the hands of the southern people.
Wherein does the dissimilarity consist? Does not our existence as a nation
depend on our union? Is it to be supposed that their principles will be so
constuprated, and that they will be so blind to their own true interests, as to
alienate the affections of the Southern States, and adopt measures which will
produce discontents, and terminate in a dissolution of a union as necessary to
their happiness as to ours? Will not brotherly affection rather be cultivated?
Will not the great principles of reciprocal friendship and mutual amity be
constantly inculcated, so as to conciliate all parts of the Union? This will be
inevitably necessary, from the unity of their interests with ours. To suppose
that they would act contrary to these principles, would be to suppose them to
be not {634} only destitute of honor and probity, but void of reason — not
only bad, but mad men.
The honorable gentleman has warned us to guard against European
politics. Shall we not be more able to set their machinations at defiance, by
uniting our councils and strength, than by splitting into factions and
divisions? Our divisions, and consequent debility, are the objects most
ardently wished for by the nations of Europe. What cause induced Great Britain,
and other European nations which had settlements in America, to keep their
colonies in an infantine condition? What cause leads them to exclude our
vessels from the West Indies? The fear of our becoming important and powerful.
Will not they be perpetually stimulated by this fear? Will not they incessantly
endeavor to depress us by force or stratagem? Is there no danger to be
apprehended from Spain, whose extensive and invaluable possessions are in our
vicinity? Will that nation rejoice at an augmentation of our strength or
wealth?
But we are told that we need not be afraid of Great Britain. Will that
great, that warlike, that vindictive nation lose the desire of revenging her
losses and disgraces? Will she passively overlook flagrant violations of the
treaty? Will she lose the desire of retrieving those laurels which are buried
in America? Should I transfuse into the breast of a Briton that
amor
patriæ
which so strongly predominates in my own, he would say, While
I have a guinea, I shall give it to recover lost America!
But, says another gentleman, the maritime powers of Europe look with
anxious and jealous eyes on you. While you are helpless, they will let you
alone; but if you attempt to become respectable, they will crush you! Is this
the language or consolation of an American? Must we acquiesce to continue in
this situation? We should, by this way of reasoning, sacrifice our own honor
and interests, to please those supercilious nations, and promote their
interests; and, with every means of acquiring a powerful fleet, would never
have a ship of the line. To promote their glory, we should become wretched and
contemptible. Our national glory, our honor, our interests, forbid this
disgraceful conduct. It may be said that the ancients, who deserved and
acquired glory, have lost their liberty. Call to mind the many nations of
Indians and cannibals that have lost it likewise. {635} And who would not
rather be a Roman, than one of those who hardly deserve to be enumerated among
the human species?
This question is as important as the revolution which severed us from
the British empire. It rests now to be determined whether America has in
reality gained by that change Which has been thought so glorious, and whether
those hecatombs of American heroes, whose blood was so freely shed at the
shrine of liberty, fell in vain, or whether we Shall establish such a
government as shall render America respectable and happy. I wish her not only
to be internally possessed of political and civil liberty, but to be
formidable, terrible, and dignified in war, and not depend on the ambitious
princes of Europe for tranquillity, security, or safety, I ask, if the most
petty of those princes, even the dey of Algiers, were to make war upon us, if
the other states of Europe should keep a neutrality, whether we should not be
reduced to the greatest distress? Is it not in the power of any maritime power
to seize our vessels, and destroy our commerce, with impunity?
But we are told that the New Englanders mean to take our trade from us,
and make us hewers of wood and carriers of water; and, the next moment, that
they will emancipate our slaves! But how inconsistent is this! They tell you
that the admission of the importation of slaves for twenty years shows that
their policy is to keep us weak; and yet, the next moment, they tell you that
they intend to set them free! If it be their object to corrupt and enervate us,
will they emancipate our slaves? Thus they complain and argue against it on
contradictory principles. The Constitution is to turn the world topsy-turvy, to
make it answer their various purposes!
Can it be said that liberty of conscience is in danger? I observe on the
side of the Constitution those who have been champions of religious liberty, an
attack on which I would as soon resist as one on civil liberty. Do they employ
consistent arguments to show that it is in danger? They inform you that Turks,
Jews, Infidels, Christians, arm all other sects, may be Presidents, and command
the fleet and army, there being no test to be required; and yet the tyrannical
and inquisitorial Congress will ask me, as a private citizen, what is my
opinion on religion, and punish {636} me if it does not conform to theirs. I
cannot think the gentleman could be serious when he made these repugnant and
incompatible objections.
With respect to previous amendments, what will be the consequence?
Virginia first discovered the defects of the existing confederacy. When the
legislature was sitting, a few years ago, they sent an invitation to the other
states to make amendments to it. After some preparatory steps, the late federal
Convention was called. To this were sent select deputies from all the states
except Rhode Island. After five months spent in tedious and painful
investigation, they, with great difficulty, devised the paper on the table; and
it has been adopted by every state which has considered and discussed it.
Virginia is about dictating again to the other states. Eight states have
exercised their sovereignty in ratifying it. Yet, with a great deal of
humility, we ask them to rescind, and make such alterations as the
ancient
dominion
shall think proper. States are but an aggregate of individuals.
Would not an individual spurn at such a requisition? They will say, It has been
laid before you, and if you do not like it, consider the consequences. We are
as free, sister Virginia, and as independent, as you are; we do not like to be
dictated to by you. But, say gentlemen, we can afterwards come into the Union;
we may come in at another time; that is, if they do not accede to our
dictatorial mandate. They are not of such yielding, pliant stuff, as to revoke
a decision founded on their most solemn deliberations, to gratify our
capricious wishes.
After hearing the arguments on this subject, and finding such a variety
of contradictory objections, I am the more averse to solicit another
convention, from which I should expect great discord, and no good effect at
all. Not doubting the sincerity of gentlemen's protestations, I say, the mode
pointed out in the Constitution is much better; for, according to their mode,
the Union would never be complete till the thirteen states had acceded to it,
and eight states must rescind and revoke what they have done. By the paper
before you, if two thirds of the states think amendments necessary, Congress
are obliged to call a convention to propose amendments, which are to be
submitted to the legislatures, or conventions, in three fourths of the states,
the acquiescence of which will render them binding. Now, is there not a {637}
greater probability of obtaining the one than the other? ill not nine states
more probably agree to any amendments than thirteen? The doctrine of chances is
in favor of it.
Unless we in vain look for a perfect constitutions we ought to take it.
In vain you will seek, from India to the pole, for a perfect constitution.
Though it may have certain defects, yet I doubt whether any system more perfect
can be obtained at this time. Let us no longer pursue chimerical and ridiculous
systems. Let us try it: experience is the best test. It will bear equally on
all the states from New Hampshire to Georgia; and as it will operate equally on
all, they will all call for amendments; and whatever the spirit of America
calls for, must doubtless take place immediately.
I consider Congress as ourselves, as our fellow-citizens, and no more
different from us than our delegates in the state legislature. I consider them
as having all a fellow-feeling for us, and that they will never forget that
this government is that of the people. Under this impression, I conclude that
they will never dare to go beyond the bounds prescribed in the Constitution,
and that, as they are eligible and removable by ourselves, there is sufficient
responsibility; for where the power of election frequently reverts to the
people, and that reversion is unimpeded, there can be no danger. Upon the
whole, this is the question — Shall it be adopted or rejected? With
respect to previous amendments, they are equal to rejection. They are abhorrent
to my mind. I consider them as the greatest of evils. I think myself bound to
vote against every measure which I conceive to be a total rejection, than which
nothing, in my conceptions, can be more imprudent, destructive, and calamitous.
Mr. TYLER. Mr. Chairman, I should have been satisfied with giving my
vote on the question to-day; but, as I wish to hand down to posterity my
opposition to this system, t conceive it to be my duty to declare the
principles on which I disapprove it, and the cause of my opposition. I have
seriously considered the subject in my mind, and when I consider the effects
which may happen to this country from its adoption, I tremble at it. My
opposition to it arose first from general principles, independent of any local
consideration. But when I find that the Constitution is expressed in indefinite
terms, in terms which the gentlemen who composed it do not all concur in the
meaning of, — I say that, {638} when it is thus liable to objections and
different constructions, I. find no rest in my mind. Those clauses which answer
different constructions will be used to serve particular purposes. If the able
members who composed it cannot agree on the construction of it, shall I be
thought rash or wrong to pass censure on its ambiguity?
The worthy member last up has brought us to a degrading situation —
that we have no right to propose amendments. I should have expected such
language had we already adopted a Constitution which will preclude us from this
advantage. If we propose to them to reconsider what they have done, and not
rescind it, will it be dictating to them? I do nor undertake to say that our
amendments will bind other states: I hope no gentleman will be so weak as to
say so. But no gentleman on the other side will deny our right of proposing
amendments. Wherefore is it called dictatorial? It is not my wish that they
should rescind but so much as will secure our peace and liberty. We wish to
propose such amendments to the sister states as will reconcile all the states.
Will gentlemen think this will dissolve the Union?
Among all the chimeras adduced on this occasion, we are intimidated with
the fear of being attacked by the petty princes of Europe. The little predatory
nations of Europe are to cross the Atlantic and fall upon us; and to avoid
this, we must adopt this government, with all its defects. Are we to be
frightened into its adoption?
The gentleman has objected to previous amendments, because the people
did not know them. Have they seen their subsequent amendments?
[Here Mr. Innes rose, and explained the difference
— that previous amendments would be binding on the people, though they had
never seen them, and should have no opportunity of considering them before they
should operate; but that subsequent amendments, being only recommendatory in
their nature, could be reviewed by the people before they would become a part
of the system; and, if they disapproved of them, they might direct their
delegates in Congress to alter and modify them.]
Mr. TYLER then proceeded: I have seen their subsequent amendments, and,
although they hold out something like the thing we wish, yet they have not
entered pointedly and substantially into it. What have they said about direct
taxation? They have said nothing on this subject. Is there any limitation of,
or restriction on, the federal judicial {639} power? I think not. So that
gentlemen hold out the idea of amendments which will not alter one dangerous
part of it. It contains many dangerous articles. No gentleman here can give
such a construction of it as will give general satisfaction. Shall we be told
that we shall be attacked by the Algerines, and that disunion will take place,
unless we adopt it? Such language as this I did not expect here. Little did I
think that matters would come to this, when we separated from the mother
country. There, sir, every man is amenable to punishment. There is far less
responsibility in this government. British tyranny would have been more
tolerable. By our present government, every man is secure in his person, and
the enjoyment of his property. There is no man who is not liable to be punished
for misdeeds. I ask, What is it that disturbs men whose liberty is in the
highest zenith? Human nature will always be the same. Men never were, nor ever
will, be satisfied with their happiness.
They tell you that one letter's alteration will destroy it. I say that
it is very far from being perfect. I ask, if it were put in immediate
operation, whether the people could bear it — whether two bodies can tax
the same species of property. The idea of two omnipotent powers is
inconsistent. The natural tendency must be, either a revolt, or the destruction
of the state governments, and a consolidation of them all into one general
system. If we are to be consolidated, let it be on better grounds. So long as
climate will have effect on men, so long will the different climates of the
United Status render us different. Therefore a consolidation is contrary to our
nature, and can only be supported by an arbitrary government.
Previous and subsequent amendments are now the only dispute
; and
when gentlemen say that there is a greater probability of obtaining the one
than the other, they accompany their assertions with no kind of argument. What
is the reason that amendments cannot be got after ratification? Because we have
granted power. Because the amendments you propose will diminish their power,
and undo some clauses in that paper. This argument proves to me that they
cannot be serious. It has been plainly proved to you that it is impracticable.
Local advantages are given up, as well as the regulation of trade, When it is
the case, will the little {640} states agree to an alteration? When gentlemen
insist on this, without producing any argument, they will find no credulity in
me. Another convention ought to be had, whether the amendments be previous or
subsequent. They say another convention is dangerous. How is this proved? It is
only their assertion. Gentlemen tell us we shall be mined without adoption. Is
this reasonable? It docs not appear so to me.
Much has been said on the subject of war by foreigners, and the Indians;
but a great deal has been said in refutation of it. Give me leave to say that,
from the situation of the powers of Europe at this time, no danger is to be
apprehended from thence. Will the French go to war with you, if you do not pay
them what you owe them? Will they thereby destroy that balance, to preserve
which they have taken such immense trouble? But Great Britain wilt go to war
with you, unless you comply with the treaty. Great Britain, which, to my
sorrow, has monopolized our trade, is to go to war with us unless the law of
treaties be binding. Is this reasonable? It is not the interest of Britain to
quarrel with us. She will not hazard any measure which may tend to take our
trade out of her hands. It is not the interest of Holland to see us destroyed
or oppressed. It is the interest of every nation in Europe to keep up the
balance of power, and therefore they will not suffer any nation to attack us,
without immediately interfering.
But much is said of the propriety of our becoming a great and powerful
nation. There is a great difference between offensive and defensive war. If we
can defend ourselves, it is sufficient. Shall we sacrifice the peace and
happiness of this country, to enable us to make wanton war?
My conduct throughout the revolution will justify me. I have invariably
wished to oppose oppressions. It is true that I have now a paltry office, I am
willing to give it up — away with it! It has no influence on my present
conduct. I wish Congress to have the regulation of trade. I was of opinion that
a partial regulation alone would not suffice. I was among those members who, a
few years ago, proposed that regulation. I have lamented that I have put my
hand to it, since this measure may have grown out of it. It was the hopes of
our people to have their trade on a respectable footing. But it never entered
into my head that {641} we should quit liberty, and throw ourselves into.the
hands of an energetic government. Do you want men to be more free, or less
free, than they are? Gentlemen have been called upon to show the causes of this
measure. None have been shown. Gentlemen say we shall be ruined unless we adopt
it. We must give up our opinions. We cannot judge for ourselves. I hope
gentlemen, before this, have been satisfied that such language is improper. All
states which have heretofore been lavish in the concession of power and
relinquishment of privileges have lost their liberty. It has been often
observed (and it cannot be too often observed) that liberty ought not to be
given up without knowing the terms. The gentlemen themselves cannot agree in
the construction of various clauses of it; and so long as this is the case, so
long shall liberty be in danger.
Gentlemen say we are jealous. I am not jealous of this house. I could
trust my life with them. If this Constitution were safer, I should not be
afraid. But its defects warrant my Suspicions and fears. We are not passing
laws now, but laying the foundation on which laws are to be made. We ought,
therefore, to be cautious how we decide. When I consider the Constitution in
all its parts, I cannot but dread its operation. It contains a variety of
powers too dangerous to be vested in any set of men whatsoever. Its power of
direct taxation, the supremacy of the laws of the Union, and of treaties, are
exceedingly dangerous. I have never heard any manner of calling the President
to account for his conduct, nor even the members of the democratic branch of
the government. We may turn out our ten members, but what can we do with the
other fifty-five? The wisdom of Great Britain gave each state its own
legislative assembly and judiciary, and a right to tax themselves. When they
attempted to infringe that right, we declared war. This system violates that
right. In the year 1781 the Assembly were obliged to pass a law, that forty
members could pass laws. I have heard many members say that it was a great
departure from the constitution, and that it would lead to aristocracy. If we
could not trust forty, can we trust ten? Those who lay a tax ought to be
amenable to the payment of a proportionate share of it. I see nothing in their
subsequent amendments going to this point — that we shall have a right to
tax ourselves.
{642} But gentlemen say that this would destroy the Constitution. Of
what avail, then, will their subsequent amendments be? Will gentlemen satisfy
themselves that, when they adopt this Constitution, their country will be
happy? Is not the country divided? Is it a happy government, which divides the
people, and sets brother in opposition to brother? This measure has produced
anarchy and confusion. We ought to have been unanimous, and gone side by side,
as we went through the revolution. Instead of unanimity, it has produced a
general diversity of opinions, which may terminate in the most unhappy
consequences. We only wish to do away ambiguities, and establish our rights on
clear and explicit terms. If this be done, we shall all be like one man —
we shall unite and be happy. But if we adopt it in its present form, unanimity
or concord can never take place. After adoption, we can never expect to see it
amended; because they will consider requests and solicitations for amendments
as in a high degree dictatorial. They will say, You have signed and sealed, and
you cannot now retract.
When I review all these considerations, my heart is full, and can never
be at peace till I see these defects removed. Our only consolation is the
virtue of the present age. It is possible that, when they see the country
divided, these politicians will reconcile the minds of their countrymen, by
introducing such alterations as shall be deemed necessary. Were it not for this
hope, I should he in despair. I shall say no more, but that I wish my name to
be seen in the yeas and nays, that it may be known that my opposition arose
from a full persuasion and conviction of its being dangerous to the liberties
of my country.
Mr. STEPHEN addressed the chairman, but in so low a voice that he could
not be distinctly heard. He described, in a feeling manner, the unhappy
situation of the country, and the absolute necessity of preventing a
dismemberment of the confederacy. I was, said he, sent hither to adopt the
Constitution as it is; but such is my regard for my fellow-citizens, that I
would concur in amendments. The gentlemen on the other side have adduced no
reasons or proofs to convince us that the amendments should become a part of
the system before ratification. What reason have we to suspect that persons who
are chosen from among ourselves {643} will not agree to the introduction of
such amendments as will be desired by the people at large?
In all safe and free governments, there ought to be a judicious mixture
in the three different kinds of government. This government is a compound of
those different kinds. But the democratic kind preponderates, as it ought to
do. The members of one branch are immediately chosen by the people; and the
people also elect, in a secondary degree, the members of the other two. At
present we have no confederate government. It exists but in name. The honorable
gentleman asked, Where is the genius of America? What else but that genius has
stimulated the people to reform that government which woful experience has
proved to be totally inefficient? What has produced the unison of sentiments in
the states on this subject? I expected that filial duty and affection would
have impelled him to inquire for the genius of Virginia — that genius
which formerly resisted British tyranny, and, in the language of manly
intrepidity and fortitude, said to that nation, Thus far, and no farther, shall
you proceed!
What has become of that genius which spoke that magnanimous language
— that genius which produced the federal Convention? Yonder she is, in
mournful attire, her hair dishevelled, distressed with grief and sorrow,
supplicating our assistance against gorgons, fiends, and hydras, which are
ready to devour her and carry desolation throughout her country. She bewails
the decay of trade and neglect of agriculture — her farmers discouraged
— her ship-carpenters, blacksmiths, and all other tradesmen, unemployed.
She casts her eyes on these, and deplores her inability to relieve them. She
sees and laments that the profit of her commerce goes to foreign states. She
further bewails that all she can raise by taxation is inadequate to her
necessities. She sees religion die by her side, public faith prostituted, and
private confidence lost between man and man. Are the hearts of her citizens so
deaf to compassion that they will not go to her relief? If they are so
infatuated, the dire consequences may be easily foreseen. Expostulations must
be made for the defection of Virginia, when Congress meets. They will inquire
where she has lately discovered so much political wisdom — she that gave
an immense tract of country to relieve the general distresses. Wherein consists
her {644} superiority to her friends of South Carolina and the respectable
state of Massachusetts, who, to prevent a dissolution of the Union, adopted the
Constitution, and proposed such amendments as they thought necessary, placing
confidence in the other states, that they would accede to them?
After making several other remarks, he concluded by declaring that, in
his opinion, they were about to determine whether we should be one of the
United States or not.
Mr. ZACHARIAH JOHNSON. Mr. Chairman, I am now called upon to decide the
greatest of all questions — a question which may involve the felicity or
misery of myself and posterity. I have hitherto listened attentively to the
arguments adduced by both sides, and attended to hear the discussion of the
most complicated parts of the system by gentlemen of great abilities. Having
now come to the ultimate stage of the investigation, I think it my duty to
declare my sentiments on the subject. When I view the necessity of government
among mankind, and its happy operation when judiciously constructed; and when I
view the principles of this Constitution, and the satisfactory and liberal
manner ill which they have been developed by the gentleman in the chair, and
several other gentlemen; and when I view, on the other hand, the strained
construction which has been put, by the gentlemen on the other side, on every
word and syllable, in endeavoring to prove oppressions which can never possibly
happen, — my judgment is convinced of the safety and propriety of this
system. This conviction has not arisen from a blind acquiescence or dependence
on the assertions and opinions of others, but from a full persuasion of its
rectitude, after an attentive and mature consideration of the subject; the
arguments of other gentlemen having only confirmed the opinion which I had
previously formed, and which I was determined to abandon, should I find it to
be ill founded.
As to the principle of representation, I find it attended to in this
government in the fullest manner. It is founded on absolute equality. When I
see the power of electing the representatives — the principal branch
— in the people at large — in those very persons who are the
constituents of the state legislatures; when I find that the other branch is
chosen by the state legislature; that the executive is eligible in a secondary
degree by the people likewise, and that the {645} terms of elections are short,
and proportionate to the difficulty and magnitude of the objects which they are
to act upon; and when, in addition to this, I find that no person holding
any office
under the United States shall be a member of either branch,
— I say, when I review all these things, that I plainly see a security of
the liberties of this country, to which we may safely trust. Were this
government defective in this fundamental principle of representation, it would
be so radical that it would admit of no remedy.
I shall consider several other parts which are much objected to. As to
the regulation of the militia, I feel myself doubly interested. Having a
numerous offspring, I am careful to prevent the establishment of any regulation
that might entail oppression on them. When gentlemen of high abilities in this
house, and whom I respect, tell us that the militia may be subjected to martial
law in time of peace, and whensoever Congress may please, I am much astonished.
My judgment is astray, and exceedingly undiscerning, if it can bear such a
construction. Congress has only the power of arming and disciplining them. The
states have the appointment of the officers, and the authority of training the
militia, according to the discipline prescribed by Congress. When called into
the actual service of the United States, they shall be subject to the marching
orders of the United States. Then, and then only, it ought to be so. When we
advert to the plain and obvious meaning of the words, without twisting and
torturing their natural signification, we must be satisfied that this objection
is groundless. Had we adverted to the true meaning, and not gone farther, we
should not be here to-day, but should have come to a decision long ago. We are
also told that religion is not secured; that religious tests are not required.
You will find that the exclusion of tests will strongly tend to establish
religious freedom. If tests were required, and if the Church of England, or any
other, were established, I might be excluded from any office under the
government, because my conscience might not permit me to take the test
required. The diversity of opinions and variety of sects in the United States
have justly been reckoned a great security with respect to religious liberty.
The difficulty of establishing a uniformity of religion in this country is
immense. The extent of the country is very great. The multiplicity of sects is
very great {646} likewise.
The people are not to be
disarmed of their weapons. They are left in full possession of them.
The
government is administered by the representatives of the people, voluntarily
and freely chosen.
Under these circumstances, should any one attempt to establish their own
system, in prejudice of the rest, they would be universally detested and
opposed, and easily frustrated. This is a principle which secures religious
liberty most firmly. The government will depend on the assistance of the people
in the day of distress. This is the case in all governments. It never was
otherwise. They object to this government because it is strong and energetic,
and, with respect to the rich and poor, that it will be favorable to the one
and oppressive to the other. It is right it should be energetic. This does not
show that the poor shall be more oppressed than the rich. Let us examine it. If
it admits that private and public justice should be done, it admits what is
just. As to the indolent and fraudulent, nothing will reclaim these but the
hand of force and compulsion. Is there any thing in this government which will
shiny that it will bear hardly and unequally on the honest and industrious part
of the community? I think not. As to the mode of taxation, the proportion of
each state, being known, cannot be exceeded; and such proportion will be
raised, in the most equitable manner, of the people, according to their
ability. There is nothing to warrant a supposition that the poor will be
equally taxed with the wealthy and opulent.
I shall make a comparison, to illustrate my observations, between the
state and the general government. In our state government, so much admired by
the worthy gentleman over the way, though there are 1700 militia in some
counties, and but 150 in others, yet every county sends two members, to assist
in legislating for the whole community. There is disproportion between the
respectable county of Augusta, which l have the honor to represent, and the
circumscribed, narrow county of Warwick. Will any gentleman tell us that this
is a more equal representation than is fixed in the Constitution, whereby
30,000 are to send one representative, in whatever place they may reside? By
the same state system. the poor, in many instances, pay as much as the rich.
Many laws occur to my mind where I could show you that the representation and
taxation bear hard on those who live {647} in large, remote, back counties. The
mode of taxation is more oppressive to us than to the rest of the Community.
Last fall, when the principle of taxation was debated, it was determined that
tobacco should be received in discharge of taxes; but this did not relieve us,
for it would not fetch what it cost us, as the distance is so great, and the
carriage so difficult. Other specific articles were not received in payment of
taxes; so that we had no other alternative than to pay specie, which was a
peculiar hardship. I could point out many other disadvantages which we labor
under; but I shall not now fatigue the house.
It is my lot to be among the poor people. The most that I can claim or
flatter myself with, is to be of the middle rank. I wish no more, for I am
contented. But I shall give my opinion unbiased and uninfluenced, without
erudition or eloquence, but with firmness and candor; and in so doing I will
satisfy my Conscience. If this Constitution be bad, it will bear equally as
hard on me as on any other member of the society. It will bear hard on my
children, who are as dear to me as any man's children can be to him. Having
their felicity and happiness at heart, the vote I shall give in its favor can
only be imputed to a conviction of its utility and propriety. When I look for
responsibility, I fully find it in that paper. When the members of the
government depend on ourselves for their appointment, and will bear an equal
share of the burdens imposed on the people, — when their duty is
inseparably connected with their interests, — I conceive there can be no
danger. Will they forfeit the friendship and confidence of their countrymen,
and counteract their own interest? As they will probably have families, they
cannot forget them. When one of them sees that Providence has given him a
numerous family, he will be averse to lay taxes on his own posterity. They
cannot escape them. They will be as liable to be taxed as any other persons in
the community. Neither is he sure that he shall enjoy the place again, if he
breaks his faith. When I take these things into consideration, I think there is
sufficient responsibility.
As to the amendments now on your table, besides the impropriety of
proposing them to be obtained previous to ratification, they appear to me to be
evidently and clearly objectionable. Look at the bill of rights; it is totally
mutilated {648} and destroyed, in that paper. The 15th article of the bill of
rights of Virginia is omitted entirely in this proposed bill of rights. That
article says that "no free government, or the blessings of liberty, can be
preserved to any people, but by a firm adherence to justice, moderation,
temperance, frugality, and virtue, and by frequent recurrence to fundamental
principles." This article is the best of the whole. Take away this, and all is
gone. Look at the first article of our bill of rights. It says that all men are
by nature equally free and independent. Does that paper acknowledge this? No;
it denies it.
They tell us that they see a progressive danger of bringing about
emancipation. The principle has begun since the revolution. Let us do what we
will, it will come round. Slavery has been the foundation of that impiety and
dissipation which have been so much disseminated among our countrymen. If it
were totally abolished, it would do much good.
Gentlemen say that we destroy our own principles by subsequent
amendments. They say that it is acting inconsistently with our reasons. Let us
examine this position. Here is a principle of united wisdom founded on mutual
benefits; and, as experience may show defects, we stipulate that, when they
shall happen, they shall be amended; that, when a majority finds defects, we
will search a remedy and apply it. There are two ways of amending it pointed
out in the system itself. When introduced, either way, it is to be binding.
I am happy to see that happy day approaching when we lose sight of
dissensions and discord, which are the greatest sources of political
misfortunes. Division is a dreadful thing. This Constitution may have defects.
There can be no human institution without defects. We must go out of this world
to find it otherwise. The annals of mankind do not show us one example of a
perfect constitution.
When I see such a diversity of opinions among gentlemen on this
occasion, it brings to my recollection a portion of history which strongly
warns us to be moderate and cautious.
The historical facts to which I allude happened in a situation similar
to our own. When the Parliament of England beheaded King Charles I., conquered
their enemies, obtained liberty, and established a kind of republic, one would
think {649} that they would have had sufficient wisdom and policy to preserve
that freedom and independence which they had with such difficulty acquired.
What was the consequence? That they would not bend to the sanction of laws or
legal authority. For the want of an efficient and judicious system of
republican government, confusion and anarchy took place. Men became so lawless,
so destitute of principle, and so utterly ungovernable, that, to avoid greater
calamities, they were driven to the expedient of sending for the son of that
monarch whom they had beheaded, that he might become their master. This is like
our situation in some degree. It will completely resemble it, should we lose
our liberty as they did. It warns and cautions us to shun their fate, by
avoiding the causes which produced it. Shall we lose our blood and treasure,
which we lost in the revolution, and permit anarchy and misery to complete the
ruin of this country? Under these impressions, and for these reasons, I am for
adopting the Constitution without previous amendments. I will go any length
afterwards, to reconcile it to gentlemen, by proposing subsequent amendments.
The great and wise state of Massachusetts has taken this step. The great and
wise state of Virginia might safely do the same. I am contented to rest my
happiness on that footing.
Mr. HENRY. Mr. Chairman, when we were told of the
difficulty of obtaining previous amendments, I contended that they might be as
easily obtained as subsequent amendments. We are told that nine states have
adopted it. If so, when the government gets in motion, have they not a right to
consider our amendments as well as if we adopted first? If we remonstrate, may
they not consider and admit our amendments? But now, sir, when we have been
favored with a view of their subsequent amendments, I am confirmed in what I
apprehended; and that is, subsequent amendments will make our condition worse;
for they are placed in such a point of view as will make this Convention
ridiculous. I speak in plain, direct language. It is extorted from me. If this
Convention will say, that the very right by which amendments are desired is not
secured, then I say our rights are not secured. As we have the right of
desiring amendments, why not exercise it? But gentlemen deny this right, It
follows, of course, that, if this right be not secured, our other fights are
not. The proposition of subsequent amendments {650} is only to lull our
apprehensions. We speak the language of contradiction and inconsistency, to say
that rights are secured, and then say that they are not. Is not this placing
this Convention in a contemptible light? Will not this produce contempt of us
in Congress, and every other part of the world? Will gentlemen tell me that
they are in earnest about these amendments?
I am convinced they mean nothing serious. What are the rights which they
do not propose to secure — which they reject? — for I contend there
are many essential and vital rights which are omitted. One is the power of
direct taxation. Gentlemen will not even give this invaluable right a place
among their subsequent amendments. And do gentlemen mean seriously that they
will oppose us on this ground on the floor of Congress? If Virginia thinks it
one of her dearest rights, she need not expect to have it amended. No, sir; it
will be opposed. Taxes and excises are to be laid on us. The people are to be
oppressed, and the state legislature prostrated. Very material amendments are
omitted With respect to your militia, we only request that, if Congress should
refuse to find arms for them, this country may lay out their own money to
purchase them. But what do the gentlemen on the other side say? As much as that
they will oppose you in this point also; for, if my recollection has not failed
inc, they have discarded this also. And shall we be deprived of this privilege?
We propose to have it, in case there shall be a necessity to claim it. And is
this claim incompatible with the safety of this country — with the
grandeur and strength of the United States? If gentlemen find peace and rest on
their minds, when the relinquishment of our rights is declared to be necessary
for the aggrandizement of the government, they are more contented than I am.
Another thing which they have not mentioned, is the power of
treaties
. Two thirds of the senators present can make treaties; and they
are, when made, to be the supreme law of the land, and are to be paramount to
the state constitutions. We wish to guard against the temporary suspension of
our great national rights. We wish some qualification of this dangerous power.
We wish to modify it. One amendment which has been wished for, in this respect,
is, that no treaty should be made without the {651} consent of a considerable
majority of both houses. I might go on and enumerate many other great rights
entirely neglected by their subsequent amendments; but I shall pass over them
in silence. I am astonished at what my worthy friend (Mr. Innes) said —
that we have no right of proposing previous amendments. That honorable
gentleman is endowed with great eloquence — eloquence splendid,
magnificent, and sufficient to shake the human mind! He has brought the whole
force of America against this state. He has also strongly represented our
comparative weakness, with respect to the powers of Europe. But when I review
the actual state of things, I see that dangers from thence are merely ideal.
His reasoning has no effect on me. He cannot shake my political faith. He
admits our power over subsequent amendments, though not over previous
amendments. Where is the distinction between them? If we have a right to depart
from the letter of our commission in one instance, we have in the other; for
subsequent amendments have no higher authority than previous. We shall be
absolutely certain of escaping danger in the one case, but not in the other. I
think the apprehension expressed by another honorable gentleman has no good
foundation. He apprehended civil discord if we did not adopt. I am willing to
concede that he loves his country. I will, for the sake of argument, allow that
I am one of the meanest of those who love their country. But what does this
amount to? The great and direct end of government is liberty. Secure our
liberty and privileges, and the end of government is answered. If this be not
effectually done, government is an evil. What amendments does he propose which
secure our liberty? I ask pardon if I make a mistake, but it seems to me that
his proposed subsequent amendments do not secure one single right. They say
that your rights are secured in the paper on the table, so that these
subsequent amendments are a mere supererogation. They are not necessary,
because the objects intended to be secured by them are secured already. What is
to become of the trial by jury? Had its security been made a part of the
Constitution, it would have been sufficiently guarded. But as it is, in that
proposition it is by no means explicitly secured. Is it not trifling to admit
the necessity of securing it, and not do it in a positive, unequivocal manner?
I wish I could place it in any other view {652} than a trifling one. It is only
intended to attack every project of introducing amendments. If they are
serious, why do they not join us, and ask, in a manly, firm, and resolute
manner, for these amendments? Their view is to defeat every attempt to amend.
When they speak of their subsequent recommendations, they tell you that
amendments must be got, and the next moment they say they are unnecessary!
I beg pardon of this house for having taken up more time than came to my
share, and I thank them for the patience and polite attention with which I have
been heard. If I shall be in the minority, I shall have those painful
sensations which arise from a conviction of
being overpowered in a good
cause
. Yet I will be a peaceable citizen. My head, my hand, and my heart,
shall be at liberty to retrieve the loss of liberty, and remove the defects of
that system in a constitutional way. I wish not to go to violence, but will
wait with hopes that the spirit which predominated in the revolution is not yet
gone, nor the cause of those who are attached to the revolution yet lost. I
shall therefore patiently wait in expectation of seeing that government
changed, so as to be compatible with the safety, liberty, and happiness, of the
people.
Gov. RANDOLPH. Mr. Chairman, one parting word I humbly supplicate.
The suffrage which I shall give in favor of the Constitution will he
ascribed, by malice, to motives unknown to my breast. But, although for every
other act of my life t shall seek refuge in the mercy of God, for this I
request his justice only. Lest, however, some future annalist should, in the
spirit of party vengeance, deign to mention my name, let him recite these
truths —
that I went to the federal Convention
with the strongest
affection for the Union; that I acted them in full conformity with this
affection;
that I refused to subscribe, because I had, as I still have,
objections to the Constitution
, and wished a free inquiry into its merits;
and that the accession of eight states reduced our deliberations to the single
question of Union or no Union.
Mr. President now resumed the chair, and Mr. Matthews
reported, that the committee had, according to order, again had the proposed
Constitution under their consideration, and had gone through the same, and come
{653} to several resolutions thereupon, which he read in his place, and
afterwards delivered in at the clerk's table, where the same were again read,
and are as followeth: —
"Whereas the powers granted under the proposed
Constitution are the gift of the people, and every power not granted thereby
remains with them, and at their will, — no right, therefore, of any
denomination, can be cancelled, abridged, restrained, or modified, by the
Congress, by the Senate or House of Representatives, acting in any capacity, by
the President, or any department or officer of the United States, except in
those instances in which power is given by the Constitution for those purposes;
and, among other essential rights, liberty of conscience and of the press
cannot be cancelled, abridged, restrained, or modified, by any authority of the
United States.
"And whereas any imperfections, which may exist in the
said Constitution, ought rather to be examined in the mode prescribed therein
for obtaining amendments, than by a delay, with a hope of obtaining previous
amendments, to bring the Union into danger,
"
Resolved
, That it is the opinion of this
committee, that the said Constitution be ratified. But in order to relieve the
apprehensions of those who may be solicitous for amendments, —
"
Resolved
, That it is the opinion of this
committee, that whatsoever amendments may be deemed necessary, be recommended
to the consideration of the Congress which shall first assemble under the said
Constitution, to be acted upon according to the mode prescribed in the 5th
article thereof."
The 1st resolution being read a second time, a motion
was made, and the question being put, to amend the same by substituting, in
lieu of the said resolution and its preamble, the following resolution,
—
"
Resolved
, That, previous to the ratification of
the new Constitution of government recommended by the late federal Convention,
a declaration of rights, asserting, and securing from encroachment, the great
principles of civil and religious liberty, and the unalienable rights of the
people, together with amendments to the most exceptionable parts of the said
Constitution of government, ought to be referred by this Convention to the
other states in the American confederacy for their consideration,"
—
It passed in the negative — ayes, 80; noes,
88.
On motion of Mr. Patrick Henry, seconded by Mr.
Theodorick Bland, the ayes and noes, on the said question, were taken, as
follows: —
AYES.
Edmund Custis,
John Pride,
Edmund Booker
William Cabell,
Samuel Jordan Cabell,
John Trigg,
Charles Clay,
H. Lee, of Bourbon,
John Jones,
Binns Jones,
Charles Patteson,
David Bell,
Robert Alexander,
Edmund Winston,
Thomas Read,
Benjamin Harrison,
John Tyler,
David Patteson,
Stephen Pankey,
Joseph Michaux,
Thomas H. Drew,
French Strother,
Joel Early,
Joseph Jones,
William Watkins,
Meriwether Smith,
James Upshaw,
John Fowler,
Samuel Richardson,
Joseph Haden,
John Early,
Thomas Arthurs,
John Guerrant,
William Sampson,
Isaac Coles,
George Carrington,
Parke Goodall,
J. Carter Littlepage,
Thomas Cooper,
John Mart,
Thomas Roane,
Holt Richeson,
{654}
Benjamin Temple,
S. Thompson Mason,
William White,
Jonathan Patteson,
Christopher Robertson,
John Logan,
Henry Pawling,
John Miller,
Green Clay,
Samuel Hopkins,
Richard Kennon,
Thomas Allen,
Alexander Robertson,
John Evans,
Walter Crocket,
Abraham Trigg,
Matthew Walton,
John Steele,
Robert Williams,
J. Wilson, of Pittsylvania,
Thomas Turpin,
Patrick Henry,
Robert Lawson,
Edmund Ruffin,
Theodorick Bland,
William Grayson,
Cuthbert Bullitt,
Thomas Carter,
Henry Dickenson,
James Monroe,
John Dawson,
George Mason,
Andrew Buchanan,
John Powell Briggs,
Thomas Edmunds,
Richard Carey,
Samuel Edminson,
James Montgomery.
NOES.
E. Pendleton,
President
,
George Parker,
George Nicholas,
Wilson Nicholas,
Zachariah Johnson,
Archibald Stuart,
William Dark,
Adam Stephen,
Martin M'Ferran,
William Fleming,
James Taylor, of Caroline,
Paul Carrington,
Miles King,
Worlich Westwood,
David Stuart,
Charles Simms,
Humphrey Marshall,
Martin Pickett,
Humphrey Brooke,
J. Sherman Woodcock,
Alexander White,
Warner Lewis,
Thomas Smith,
George Clendinen,
John Stewart,
William Mason,
Daniel Fisher,
Andrew Woodrow,
Ralph Humphreys,
George Jackson,
John Prunty,
Isaac Vanmeter,
Abel Seymour,
Governor Randolph,
John Marshall,
Nathaniel Burwell,
Robert Andrews,
James Johnson,
Robert Breckenridge,
Rice Bullock,
William Fleet,
Burdet Ashton,
William Thornton,
J. Gordon, of Lancaster,
Henry Towles,
Levin Powell,
Wm. Overton Callis,
Ralph Wormley, Jr.,
Francis Corbin,
William M'Clerry,
Willis Riddick,
Solomon Shepherd,
William Clayton,
Burwell Bassett,
James Webb,
James Taylor, of Norfolk,
John Stringer,
Littleton Eyre,
Walter Jones,
Thomas Gaskins,
Archibald Woods,
Ebenezer Zone,
James Madison,
J. Gordon, of Orange,
William Ronald,
Anthony Walke,
Thomas Walke,
Benjamin Wilson,
J. Wilson, of Randolph,
Walker Tomlin,
William Peachy,
William M'Kee,
Andrew Moore,
Thomas Lewis,
Gabriel Jones,
Jacob Rinker,
John Williams,
Benjamin Blunt,
Samuel Kello,
John Hartwell Cocke,
John Allen,
Cole Digges,
H. Lee, of Westmoreland,
Bushrod Washington,
John Blair,
George Wythe,
James Innes,
Thomas Matthews.
And then, the
main question
being put that the
Convention do agree with the committee in the said 1st resolution, it was
resolved in the
affirmative
— ayes, 89; noes, 79.
On the motion of Mr. George Mason, seconded by Mr.
Patrick Henry, the ayes and noes, on the said main question, were taken, as
follows: —
AYES.
E. Pendleton,
President
,
George Parker,
George Nicholas,
Wilson Nicholas,
Zachariah Johnson,
Archibald Stuart,
William Dark,
Adam Stephen,
Martin M'Ferran,
William Fleming,
James Taylor, of Caroline,
Paul Carrington,
David Patteson,
Miles King,
Worlich Westwood,
David Stuart,
Charles Simms,
Humphrey Marshall,
Martin Pickett,
Humphrey Brooke,
John S. Woodcock,
{655}
Alexander White,
Warner Lewis,
Thomas Smith,
George Clendinen,
John Stewart,
William Mason,
Daniel Fisher,
Andrew Woodrow,
Ralph Humphreys,
George Jackson,
John Prunty,
Isaac Vanmeter,
Abel Seymour,
Governor Randolph,
John Marshall,
Nathaniel Burwell,
Robert Andrews,
James Johnson,
Robert Breckenridge,
Rice Bullock,
William Fleet,
Burdet Ashton,
William Thornton,
J. Gordon,of Lancaster,
Henry Towles,
Levin Powell,
W. Overton Callis,
Ralph Wormley, Jun.,
Francis Corbin,
William M'Clerry,
Willis Riddick,
Solomon Shepherd,
William Clayton,
Burwell Bassett,
James Webb,
J. Taylor, of Norfolk,
John Stringer,
Littleton Eyre,
Walter Jones,
Thomas Gaskins,
Archibald Woods,
Ebenezer Zane,
James Madison,
James Gordon, of Orange,
William Ronald,
Anthony Walke,
Thomas Walke,
Benjamin Wilson,
J. Wilson, of Randolph,
Walker Tomlin,
William Peachy,
William M'Kee,
Andrew Moore,
Thomas Lewis,
Gabriel Jones,
Jacob Rinker,
John Williams,
Benjamin Blunt,
Samuel Kello,
John Hartwell Cocke,
John Allen,
Cole Digges,
H. Lee, of Westmoreland,
Bushrod Washington,
John Blair,
George Wythe,
James Innes,
Thomas Matthews.
NOES.
Edmund Custis,
John Pride,
Edmund Brooker,
William Cabell,
Samuel Jordan Cabell,
John Trigg,
Charles Clay,
Henry Lee, of Bourbon,
John Jones,
Binns Jones,
Charles Patteson,
David Bell,
Robert Alexander,
Edmund Winston,
Thomas Read,
John Tyler,
Stephen Pankey,
Joshua Michaux,
Thomas H. Drew,
French Strother,
Joel Early,
Joseph Jones,
William Walkins,
Meriwether Smith,
James Upshaw,
John Fowler,
Samuel Richardson,
Joseph Haden,
John Early,
Thomas Arthurs,
John Guerrant,
William Sampson,
Isaac Coles,
George Carrington,
Parker Goodall,
John Carter Littlepage,
Thomas Cooper,
John Marr,
Thomas Roane,
Holt Richeson,
Benjamin Temple,
Stephens T. Mason,
William White,
Jonathan Patteson,
Christopher Robertson,
John Logan,
Henry Pawling,
John Miller,
Green Clay,
Samuel Hopkins,
Richard Kennon,
Thomas Alien,
Alexander Robertson,
John Evans,
Walter Crocket,
Abraham Trigg,
Matthew Walton,
John Steele,
Robert Williams,
J. Wilson, of Pittsylvania,
Thomas Turpin,
Patrick Henry,
Robert Lawson,
Edmund Ruffin,
Theodorick Bland,
William Grayson,
Cuthbert Bullitt,
Thomas Carter,
Henry Dickenson,
James Monroe,
John Dawson,
George Mason,
Andrew Buchanan,
John Howell Briggs,
Thomas Edmunds,
Richard Cary,
Samuel Edminson,
James Montgomery.
The 2d resolution being then read a second time, a
motion was made, and, the question being put to amend the same by striking out
the preamble thereto, it was resolved in the affirmative.
And then, the main question being put, that the
Convention do agree with the committee in the 2d resolution so amended, it was
resolved in the affirmative.
On motion,
Ordered
, That a committee be appointed
to prepare and {656} report a form of ratification pursuant to the first
resolution; and that Governor Randolph, Mr. Nicholas, Mr. Madison, Mr.
Marshall, and Mr. Corbin, compose the said committee.
On motion,
Ordered
, That a committee be appointed
to prepare and report such amendments as by them shall be deemed necessary, to
be recommended, pursuant to the second resolution; and that the Hon. George
Wythe, Mr. Harrison, Mr. Matthews, Mr. Henry, Governor Randolph, Mr. George
Mason, Mr. Nicholas, Mr. Grayson, Mr. Madison, Mr. Tyler, Mr. John Marshall,
Mr. Monroe, Mr. Ronald, Mr. Bland, Mr. Meriwether Smith, Mr. Paul Carrington,
Mr. Innes, Mr. Hopkins, Mr. John Blair, and Mr. Simms, compose the said
committee.
His excellency, Governor RANDOLPH, reported, from the
committee appointed, according to order,
a form of ratification
, which
was read and agreed to by the Convention, in the words following: VIRGINIA, TO
WIT:
"We, the delegates of the people of Virginia, duly
elected in pursuance of a recommendation from the General Assembly, and now met
in Convention, having fully and freely investigated and discussed the
proceeding of the federal Convention, and being prepared, as well as the most
mature deliberation hath enabled us, to decide thereon, Do, in the name and in
behalf of the people of Virginia, declare and make known, that the powers
granted under the Constitution, being derived from the people of the United
States, be resumed by them whensoever the same shah be perverted to their
injury or oppression, and that every power,
not granted thereby, remains
with them, and at their will
; that, therefore, no right, of any
denomination, can be cancelled, abridged, restrained, or modified, by the
Congress, by the Senate or House of Representatives, acting in any capacity, by
the President, or any department or officer of the United States, except in
those instances in which power is given by the Constitution for those purposes;
and that, among other essential rights, the liberty of conscience and of the
press cannot be cancelled, abridged, restrained, or modified, by any authority
of the United States.
"With these impressions, with a solemn appeal to the
Searcher of hearts for the purity of our intentions, and under the conviction
that whatsoever imperfections may exist in the Constitution ought rather to be
examined m the mode prescribed therein, than to bring the Union into danger by
delay, with a hope of obtaining amendments previous to the ratifications,
—
"We, the said delegates, in the name and behalf of the
people of Virginia, do by these presents,
assent to
and
ratify the
Constitution
, recommended on the seventeenth day of September, one thousand
seven hundred and eighty-seven, by the federal Convention, for the government
of the United States; hereby announcing to all those whom it may concern, that
the said Constitution is binding upon the said people, according to an
authentic copy hereto annexed, in the words following."
[For the Constitution, see the
commencement of Vol. I.]
Next
|
Previous
|
Contents
|
Text
Version
|
Home
|
Constitution Society
x
x