s^^^

f:

\

>'

/sv

^

^^i

-<7

N THE CUSTODY Or THE

BOSTON PUBLIC LIBRARY.

SHELF N°

'^'•\

ADAMS

BIOGRAPHICAL MEMOIR

OF

HUGH WILLIAMSON, M. D. LL. D.

MEMBER OF THE NEW-YORK HISTORICAL SOCIETY; CORRESPONDING SECRETARY

OF THE LITBBARY AND PHILOSOPHICAL SOCIETY OP NEW-YORK ; MEMEBER

OF THE AMERICAN PHILOSOPHICAL SOCIETY; OP THE HOLLAND

SOCIETY OF SCIENCES; OF THE SOCIETY OF ARTS AND

SCIENCES OF UTRKCHT, &C. &C.

DELIVERED ON THE FIRST OF NOVEMBER, 1819,

AT THE REaUEST OF THE

NEW-YORK HISTORICAL SOCIETY.

BY DAVID HOSACK, M. D. LL. D.

Professor of the Institutes and Practice of Medicine in the University of
New-York; Fellow of the Royal Societies of London and Edin-
burgh ; Member of the Philosophical and Historical So-
cieties of New- York, Philadelphia, Boston, &c.

JVEff'YORK:

PUBLISHED BY E. BLISS AND E. WHITE, NO- 128 BROADWAY.

J. Seymour, printer.
C

NEW- YORK HISTORICAL SOCIETY,

July IBth^ 1819.

Resolved, That a Biographical Discourse, commemorative
of the political character, and literary services, of Doctor
Hugh Williamson, late a member of this Society, deceased,
be deUvered before the Society, and that Doctor David
HosACK be requested to perform the duty,

JOHN PINTARD, Recording Secretary.

NEW-YORK HISTORICAL SOCIETY,

November 9th, 1819.

Resolved, That the thanks of this Society be presented to
Doctor David Hosack, for his Biographical Memoir of our
late respected member, Hugh Williamson, LL.D., delivered
before the Society on the first instant, and that he be respect-
fully requested to furnish a copy for publication.

Resolved, That ColondJokn Trumbull,Gulian CVerplanck,
Esq,, and the Rev. F. C» Schaeffer, be a committee to wait on
Doctor Hosack with the preceding resolution.

JOHN PINTARD, Recording Secretary.

NOTICE.

It is proper for me in this place to acknowledge, that, in
preparing the following Discourse, in addition to those re-
sources which an uninterrupted friendship of twenty-five
years with the subject of this memoir, has furnished me, I
have received many of the anecdotes and other circumstances
relative to the earlier years and education of Dr. Williamson
from his family and friends.

To his brother, Captain John Williamson, of Charleston,
South CaroHna— to his nephew, Mr. John Nevin, of Ship-
pensburgh, Pennsylvania — to the late President of the United
States, Thomas Jefferson— to the Right Reverend Bishop
White — to James Read, Esq. of Philadelphia, — and to Mrs.
Hall, daughter of the late Dr. Ewing, Provost of the Univer-
sity of Pennsylvania, I am particularly indebted.

For several facts relative to the means of classical educa-
tion afforded by the middle colonies anterior to the Americaii
revolution, I also acknowledge my obligations to " the Me-
moirs of the Life of the late Dr. Rittenhouse, by WiUiam
Barton, Esq. ;" and to that learned and excellent history of
literature and science in this country, entitled, A Brief Re-
trospect of the 18th Century, by the Rev. Samuel Miller,
D. D. now Professor of Ecclesiastical ^istory and Church
Government in the Theological Seminary at Princeton, in
New-Jersey.

D. H.

Kew-Yorky January 1, 1820.

BIOGRAPHICAI. MEMOIR.

Gentlemen,

Members of the Historical Society^

We are assembled at this time to contemplate the
character of our late distinguished member. Dr. Hugh
Williamson, and to recount the services rendered to
his country and to literature by that eminent philoso-
pher and statesman. Upon no occasion could the reso-
lution you have adopted, to commemorate the virtues
and the wisdom of the more eminent and useful mem-
bers of our institution, have been more appropriate,
than that which you have selected ; for if a life, devoted
to patriotism — to professional services — to the cause of
science — and to the constant performance of moral and
religious duty, — deserve our notice, and be v/orthy of a
public record, then it is meet that the name of Hugh
Williamson be placed upon the column you propose to
erect to the memory of the great and the good.

To you, young Gentlemen of the College of Physi-
cians and Sur^eons,'^ who are at this time convened for

* This discourse was deli\ ered to the Historical Society, in the Hall
of the College of Physicians and Surgeons, at the opening of the win-
ter session, upon which occasion the students of medicine w,^re ai^o
assernblrd.

P.
the prosecution of \oar medical studies, the subject of
the discourse, now to be delivered, is full of interest and
instruction. I have, accordingly, with the permission
of the society, at whose request this exercise has been
prepared, made choice of this day for the performance
of the duty assigned me, that I may have an opportu-
nity of exhibiting to you the portrait of virtue, science,
and religion, blended, as they ever ought to be, in the
character of an accomplished physician.

Dr. Williamson was a native of the state of Pennsyl-
vania; he was born on the 5th day of December, 1735,
in West Nottingham township, near Octarara river,
which divides Chester from Lancaster county. His pa-
rents were natives of Ireland, but their earlier ancestors,
it is believed, came originally from Scotland.

His father, John Williamson, was an industrious
tradesman, who had pursued his business, that of a clo-
thier, in the city of Dublin. He came to America, and
settled in Chester county, about the year 1730.

The mother of Dr. Williamson, Mary Davison, was
a native of Derry ; wdth her father, George Davison,
she came to this country, when a child about three years
of age : on their way to America they were captured
and plundered on the coast, by Theach, the noted pirate
Blackbeard ; upon being released they arrived in Phila-
delphia. She died about fifteen years since, having at-
tained her 90th year. The parents of Dr. Williamson
w^ere married in the year 1731, shortly after his father's
arrival in this country; and ten children, viz. six sons
and four daughters, were the fruits of that connexion.
Hugh was their eldest son.
His parents were both distinguished for their undevi-
ating integrity — their habits of industry and frugality —
their great moral worth, and attention to the duties of
religion.

Of this parentage, Dr. Williamson was justly proud,
believing with the Roman poet,

-nee census, nee clarum nomen avorum,

Sed probitas niagnos, ingeniumque facit."

Ovid. EpisL—Pont. I. 9. r. 39.

His father, observing that Hugh was of a slender, de-
licate constitution, and that he was not likely to attain
to that vigour that would enable him to support himself
by manual labour, resolved to give him a liberal educa-
tion. After having received the common preparatory
instruction of a country school, near his father's house,
he was sent at an early age to learn the languages at an
academy established at New-London Cross Roads, un-
der the direction of that very eminent scholar, the Rev.
Francis Alison, justly entitled, from his talents, learning,
and discipline, the Bushy of the western hemisphere.

At that period, I may remark, the means of instruc-
tion in the middle colonies were confined to grammar
schools or academies ; for the University of Cambridge,
Massachusetts,* the college of William and Mary, in
Virginia, t and of Yale College, in Connecticut,^ were
the only regularly organized establishments at that time

* Established in 1638.
t Established in 1690.
t Established in 1701.
in this country ; for neither in New-Jersey,§ Pennsyl-
vania, || New- York,** nor Maryland, had any public
measures been taken for the promotion of literature:
what was done was exclusively the result of individual
exertion.

But although the colonies just mentioned did not en-
joy the benefits of regularly organized collegiate institu-
tions, yet they possessed in their academies and gram-
mar schools, the most ample means of instruction in
classical literature, and in most of the sciences consti-
tuting the usual education preparatory to the study .of
the learned professions.

The academies established on the Neshaminy, in the
neighbourhood of Philadelpliia, by the Rev. Mr. Wil-
liam Tennent and Mr. Roan ; the grammar school com-
menced by Mr. Grew, Mr. Annan, and Mr. Stevenson,
in tlie city of Philadelphia ; the still more celebrated
institution of the Rev. Dr. Alison, at New-London
Cross Roads, Chester County ; that of Fog's Manor,
established by the Rev. Samuel Blair ; and that of West
Nottingham, by the Rev. Dr. Samuel Finley, who was
afterwards made President of the College of New- Jer-
sey, have been the means of educating some of the most
distinguished men that have adorned our country ; and
in connexion with the elder collegiate institutions, of
diffusing through our land a taste for letters, that is still
assiduously cultivated, and the impulse of which must
long be continued.

<> College of New- Jersey, was established in 1746.

;i College of Philadelphia, in 175S.

"'^ King% now Columbia, College, in 1754.

Q

The names of the venerable Charles Thompson, the
late Seeretary of the American Congress; the Rev. Dr.
John Ewing, late Provost of the University of Penn-
sylvania ; Thomas M'Kean, the late Governor of that
State ; Dr. Benjamin Rush, one of the most distin-
guished physicians of his day ; the Rev. Dr. John Rodg-
ers ; the Rev, Dr. Alexander M'Whorter ; and the Ten-
nents, Gilbert, John, and William, among the most able
and learned divines of our country ; with many other
eminently useful men, who received their elementary
education at the seminaries I have enumerated, com-
pose a constellation which will ever reflect lustre upon
the American character, and honour upon the teachers
from whom they received their first lessons in literature ;
and, I may add, in virtue : for it was no less an object
of their instructers, '' to mend the heart," than to im-
prove the understanding.

Mr. Williamson enjoyed the advantages of being edu-
cated in one of the most celebrated of these institutions,
then under the care of Dr. Alison, which academy, upon
the removal of that gentleman to the station of Vice
Provost and Professor of Moral Philosophy, in the Col-
lege of Philadelphia, was afterwards transferred to
Newark, in the State of Delaware, under the directioti
of his pupil, the Rev. Alexander M'DowelL

In the school of Dr. Alison, and of his successor Mr.
M'Dowell, Mr. Williamson remained until he had made
great proficiency in all those branches of learning that,
were considered necessary for his admission into col-
lege.
In the prosecution of his studies, while at school, he
distinguished himself by his diligence, his love of order,
and his correct, moral, and religious deportment ; for,
even at that early age, he had imbibed from his parents
and instructers, a due sense of that '^ intimate connexion
which subsists between letters and morality, between
sensibility and taste, between an improved mind and a
virtuous heart."* Accordingly, under the impulse of
these first impressions, through life, he

-all Ills study bftiit

To worship God aright, and know his works."

Thus prepared under the care of his eminent teach-
ers, he retired from the seminary of Dr. Alison, and, at
his father's house, applied himself to the study of Eu-
clid's Elements, of which, in a short time, he became
master. I may here observe, that he discovered very
early in life, a strong attachment to mathematical rea-
soning, and to that order and precision, which the sci-
ence of mathematics impresses upon the mind : but his
absolute want of a poetical talent was not less percep-
tible.

' The father now proposed to send his son to Europe
to finish his education that had been so successfully be-
gun ; but as a charter had been obtained for the aca-
demy in Philadelphia, about the time he was to have
sailed, it was concluded that he should immediately
proceed to that city. Accordingly, he entered in the

* Johnson.
first class in the College of Philadelphia, where he re-
mained four years ; and at the first commencement held
in that college, on the 17th day of May, 1757, he re-
ceived the degree of Bachelor of Arts. It is an evi-
dence of the talents, the industry, and of the success,
with which Mr. Williamson prosecuted his collegiate
studies, and of the high estimation in which he was
held by the professors and trustees of the university,
that during the time he passed at college, he was suc-
cessively employed as a teacher, both in the Latin and
English schools, connected with that institution. A
little anterior to this period, his father and family had
removed to Shippensburgh, Cumberland County. His
father died in the same year that his son received his
first degree.

Hugh was appointed his sole executor, and, upon the
event of his father's death, took up his residence with
his mother at Shippensburgh, where he remained about
two years, during which period he, in a great degree,
devoted himself to the settlement of his father's estate,
personally collecting the debts that w^ere due to it, and
which were very much scattered. By the fatigue of
body, in connexion with the distress of mind he expe-
rienced upon the death of his father, his constitution
received a shock which induced an alarming hypochon-
driasis, that was only relieved by travelling, and a re-
lease from the anxiety and care which his attention to
business had imposed.

As has already been intimated, Mr. Williamson's
mind was early impressed with a sense of rpbeion. It
is a remark of an excellent writer, who duly appreciates
this union of the intellectual faculties with purity of
moral character and conduct in life, " That knowledge
only is of value which exalts the virtue, multiplies the
comforts, sooths the sorrow, and improves the general
felicity of human intercourse."* With Mr. Williamson,
this sentiment was not a mere speculative opinion ; it
entered into the daily practice and pursuits of his life,
and that love of truth and virtue which philosophy had
taught him as a dignified sentiment, Christianity conse-
crated as a religious duty. With this frame of mind, it
was his original intention, and he considered it his duty,
to prepare himself for the ministry, at the same time be-
lieving that occupation to be the most honourable and
useful in which he could be engaged, and for which his
piety and education had peculiarly qualified him. ''• It
was remarkable," says a communication which I have
received from his family, " that before he entered upon
the study of divinity, while yet quite a young man,
he visited and prayed with the sick in the neighbour-
hood, and it was pleasing to the pious of those days to
remark the fervency and devotion with which this young
layman approached the throne of grace."

During the period of his residence with his mother,
then a widow, he devoted all his time not occupied by
the business of his father's estate, to the study of di-
vinity, frequently visiting Dr. Samuel Finley, an emi-
nent divine, already mentioned, who at that time preach-

•^- Wakefield.
ed at East Nottingham township, Chester county, and
who then directed his pursuits. In 1759, Mr. William-
son went to Connecticut, where he still pursued his
theological studies, and was licensed to preach the gos-
pel. After his return from Connecticut, he was also
admitted a member of the presbytery of Philadelphia.
He preached but a short time, not exceeding two years,
and then his preaching must have been only occasional ;
he never was ordained, or took charge of a congrega-
tion, for his health did not permit him to perform the
stated duties of a pastor. The infirm state of his health
in early life made it very questionable whether his lungs
would bear the exertions of public speaking : these ap-
prehensions were now verified, for he became much
troubled with pains and strictures of his chest, which
led him to abandon the profession that was the first
object of his choice, and to which he was, from a sense
of duty, attached. The memorable controversy, too,
which took place about that period in the Presbyterian
church, between the adherents of Mr. Whitefield, and
those who considered themselves as the old and more
orthodox party,* also proved to him a source of great
disgust, and, 1 am informed, had great influence in with-
drawing him from his theological pursuits: he accord-
ingly left the pulpit, and entered upon the study of me-
dicine. To this science, it appears, he also had already
manifested some predilection : his nephew remarks upon
this subject, " my mother can give but little information

* See Life of the Rev. Dr. Rodgers, by Dr. Miller,
respecting the doctor's study of medicine ; she however
believes, that this science must have been a favourite
study with him long before he had determined to attend
to it regularly, as she found him, when studying divi-
nity, giving directions respecting inoculation for the
small-pox."

In the year 1760, he received the degree of Master
of Arts, in the College of Philadelphia, and was imme-
diately after appointed the professor of mathematics in
that institution.* He accepted the professorship, regard-
ing it a most honourable appointment, but without any
intention of neglecting his medical studies. It had been
observed of him very early in life, that he had a strong
natural fondness for mathematical investigation, and it
was remarked, that while he was a student in college,
all his public exercises and disputations partook so much
of the mathematical form of reasoning, that he was con-
sidered by his fellow students as an adroit and obstinate
antagonist. At the same time, as already hinted, it was
equally observable that he had no talent for versifica-
tion. I have often heard him remark, that the first part
of a Spanish proverb implied a severe censure upon him,
viz. that " he is a fool who cannot make one verse ; he
is a fool who will make two."

On the 8th of October, 1763, as I am informed by
my venerable friend, Bishop White, the President of the
Board of Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania,
Mr. Williamson gave notice of his intended resignation
of his professorship; and in 1764, he left his native

* Works of William Smith, D. D.

1^

country for Europe, for the purpose of prosecuting bis
medical studies at the University of Edinburgh.

He remained in that city, enjoying the advantages of
instruction afforded by the lectures of the elder Monro,
Whytte, Cullen, Home, Alston, and Dr. John Gregory,
the author of the Legacy, and father of the present dis-
tinguished professor of the practice of physic in that ce-
lebrated seat of learning. During his stay in Edin-
burgh, Mr. Williamson was occasionally confined to his
chamber or bed, by intermitting fevers and pains in the
breast, so much so that he had nearly resolved to make
a visit to Lisbon, or some other warm climate ; but re-
covering from these complaints at the close of the lec-
tures, he left Edinburgh, made a tour through the
northern parts of Scotland, after which he proceeded to
London, where he remained twelve months, diligently
pursuing his studies, and, as at Edinburgh, by his zeal
attracting the notice and kind attentions of his instruct-
ers. From London he crossed over to Holland, and
proceeded to Utrecht, where he completed his medical
education. Having passed the usual examination, in
which he displayed his classical and medical attain-
ments, and having submitted to the professors of that
University a Latin thesis, he obtained the degree of
Doctor of Medicine. He afterwards amused himself
with a tour on the continent, from which he returned to
his native country in a state of health considerably im-
proved.

After his return, Dr. Williamson practised medicine
in Philadelphia for some years with great success, as it
respected the health of his patients, but T^ath painful
effects as it regarded his own. By the occasional loss
of sleep, to which he was necessarily exposed, his con-
stitution soon became considerably impaired, and so
acute was his sensibility to the sufferings of the sick,
that he seldom had a patient, in imminent danger, that
he did not experience a febrile excitement of the sys-
tem. He therefore resolved to abandon medicine, and
to attempt the relief of his constitution by mercantile
pursuits. Fortunately for the interests of science, and,
I may add, for our country, this resolution was not car-
ried into effect until some years after this period. In
the meantime. Dr. Williamson remained in the city of
Philadelphia, devoted to his favourite literary and phi-
losophical investigations.

Shortly after this time, the attention of the philoso-
phers, both of Europe and America, was directed to an
event which was about to take place, of great impor-
tance to astronomical science and to navigation : I refer
to the transit of Venus over the sun's disk, which occur-
red on the third day of June, 1769; "a phenomenon
which had never been seen but twice by any inhabitant
of our earth ; which would never be seen again by any
person then living ; and on w hich depended very impor-
tant astronomical consequences."* This subject had
already engaged the attention of the astronomers of the
other hemisphere, and measures, preparatory to that
event, had been adopted ; for in the latter part of the
year 1767, it had been resolved by the Royal Society

* Rush's Eulogium on Dr. Rittenhouse.
of London, to send persons to the South Seas, as a part
of the world peculiarly favourable for observing the ex-
pected transit.

This phenomenon, which presented to the American
mathematicians and astronomers an ample occasion for
the display of their abilities in these departments of sci-
ence, as might be expected, attracted great attention in
the colonies.

At a meeting of the American Philosophical Society,
held on the 7th day of January, 1769, Dr. Hugh Wil-
liamson was appointed a member of a committee, con-
sisting of Mr. David Rittenhouse, the Rev. Dr. Ewing,
Dr. Smith, provost of the college, Mr. Charles Thomp-
son, and some others, eminently skilled in mathematics
and astronomy, to observe that rare phenomenon, as it
was aptly styled by Dr. Smith.

The contacts of the limbs of Venus and the sun, as
observed and drawn up by Dr. Williamson, together
with the determination of the sun's parallax and dis-
tance, as derived from those observations, are commu-
nicated to the world in the first volume of the Transac-
tions of the Philosophical Society of Philadelphia.

The observations published on that memorable occa-
sion, by the Rev. Dr. Ewing, Mr. David Rittenhouse,
the Rev. Dr. Smith, by Professor Winthrop, of Massa-
chusetts, as well as those by Dr. Williamson, and other
American astronomers, were considered by the philoso-
phers of Europe, as highly creditable to their authors,
and of great importance to the cause of science. By
the astronomer royal, the Rev. Mr. Nevil Maskelyne,
they were referred to with peculiar notice and approba-
tion :

" I thank you," says that eminent philosopher to his
correspondent, the Hon. Thomas Penn, " for the ac-
count of the Pennsylvania observations of the transit,
which seem excellent and complete^ and do honour to
the gentlemen who made them, and those who promot-
ed the undertaking."

Soon after this event, the Philosophical Society of
Philadelphia, sensible of the correctness and ability with
which the labours referred to had been conducted, and
desirous of obtaining additional means of settling the
longitude of Philadelphia, Norriton, and other places
which had been the sites of their former observations
of the transit of Venus, appointed the same committee,
of which Dr. Williamson had been an active member,
to observe the transit of Mercury, which was to take
place on the 9th day of November of the same year.
The observations of Dr. Williamson, with the elements
of his calculation of that transit, are also contained in
the same important volume of the American Transac-
tions.

In the month of September, of the same momentous
year, a considerable degree of public alarm was excited
by the appearance of a remarkable comet. Its tail was
of vast extent, subtending an arch of ten or fifteen de-
grees. Dr. Williamson, who had reflected much upon
subjects of this nature, could not allow himself to be-
lieve that comets, more than other heavenly bodies,
were destructive masses of fire, Havhig considered
the subject with great attention, he presented to the
American Philosophical Society a theory which seems
to have been perfectly new, and which he ever claimed
as his own.

He alleged that the lucid tail of that comet, which
must have been many millions of miles in length, was
nothing else than the atmosphere of the comet thrown
behind the nucleus as it approached the sun, and
illuminated by the refracted rays of the sun's light.
I have often heard him remark, that from night to night,
with his telescope, he traced a spot immediately behind
the nucleus in which there was not any observable light.
Hence he inferred, that comets, instead of being infi-
nitely hotter than melted iron, were, in all probability,
like Jupiter and Saturn, habitable planets, and in their
greatest and least distance from the sun might afford a
comfortable residence for people, not materially differ-
ing from the inhabitants of this earth in the capacity of
bearing cold or heat.

This idea of comets gives a prodigious extent to our
ideas of the rational beings with which this solar system
may be inhabited. It was not without considerable
difficulty that the society could be prevailed upon to
publish a theory of comets, so different from, and per-
fectly opposed to, the received opinions on that subject.
But the doctor, after the most rigid examination of his
own views, and of the objections that were adduced,
persisted in his determination to give them publicity,
and it is well known that he always considered his the-
ory of comets the most fortunate of all his conjectures
on philosophical subjects. The paper he at that time
published has lately been rewritten, and in an improved
form has been again communicated to the public in the
first volume of the Transactions of the Literary and
Philosophical Society of Nev^^-York. He concludes
that interesting communication with the following ex-
alted view of his subject :

" Having ventured an opinion that every planet and
every comet in our system is inhabited, we have only
taken a very imperfect view of the astonishing works of
the divine architect. There are about three thousand
fixed stars visible by the naked eye. Every one of
those stars is doubtless a sun, and each of those suns
affords light and heat to another system of worlds. Let
us only suppose that each of those suns illuminates as
many orbs as belong to our system. We shall state the
number at two hundred, though it is believed that twice
this number of comets, beside the planets, have already
been discovered. This would give three hundred thou-
sand worlds. But three thousand is a small number
when compared with the whole number of stars that
have been discovered. The relative places of fifty thou-
sand stars have been determined by the help of teles-
copes. Fifty thousand solar systems, each containing
at least one hundred worlds ! Five millions of worlds
all inhabited by rational beings ! How do we seem to
dwindle into littleness ! How small, how few, are the
ephemerons of this little globe, when compared with
the countless myriads who inhabit five millions of
worlds ! All those worlds, and every one of their in-
habitants, are under the constant care of the Divine
Being. Not one of them is neglected. ' Great and
marvellous are his works : how terrible his power !' *'

In the following year, (1770,) Dr. Williamson pre-
pared and published, through the same channel of com-
munication,* some observations upon the change of cli-
mate that had been remarked to take place more parti-
cularly in the middle colonies of North America.

The doctor had ascertained that within the last forty
or fifty years, the winters had not been so intensely
cold, nor the summers so disagreeably warm, as they
had been in the earlier settlement of the country ; and
that during the same period, a very observable change
had also taken place in the character of the prevailing
diseases ; that the fevers which had, for many years,
maintained a fatal reign through many parts of this
country, \yere then evidently on the decline ; and that
inflammatory fevers, with the several diseases of caki
seasons, had been observed to remit their violence as
the winters had become more temperate. To account
for those facts w^as the object of that communication.
The view taken of this subject — of the face and situa-
tion of the country — of the influence of prevailing winds
— of the effects of clearing, and the subsequent cultiva-
tion of the soil, and the illustrations that were adduced
from the history of the settlement of other parts of the
world, and of their progress in agriculture and civiliza-
tion, gave an interest to that paper that caused it to be

* Transactions of tbo American Philosophirnl Sorioty. hr. vol T, p
-Sf50, 2c\ edition.

D

extensively read and circulated. In Europe it received
the most respectful notice, and greatly extended the
name and fame of its author.

In a letter which I have lately received from Mr. Jef-
ferson, whose accuracy of observation is only equalled
by his extensive researches in literature and science, no-
ticing that production of Dr. Williamson, he observes.
'' the memoir in the Philosophical Transactions, on the
change of climate in America, I have ever considered as
a remarkably ingenious, sound, and satirfactory piece
of philosophy." The publication of this interesting
paper, with those which had preceded it, procured for
Dr. Williamson, not only the notice of the various lite-
rary institutions of his native country, into which he
was shortly after introduced as an honorary member,
but they obtained for him abroad the most flattering dis-
tinctions. The Holland Society of Sciences — the So-
ciety of Arts and Sciences of Utrecht — conferred upon
him, in the most honourable manner, a membership in
those distinguished institutions; and about the same
period he received from a foreign university, I believe
from Leyden, as the further reward of his literary la-
bours, the degree of Doctor of Laws.

I shall again advert to the subject of the last mention-
ed publication, when I may have occasion to notice the
more elaborate observations of Dr. Williamson on cli-
tnate, one of the works of his later years.

New scenes now opened upon his view. From some
letters addressed by Dr. Williamson to his friend, the
late Rev. Dr. Ewing, now in the possession of his fa-
ttiily, it appears that in 1772, the Doctor made a voyage
to the West India islands, for the purpose of collecting
subscriptions for the academy of Newark, in the state of
Delaware, of which institution he and Dr. Ewing were
both trustees. '' His stay in the islands, (says the sen-
sible writer* of the communication with which I have
been favoured,) seems to have been protracted by severe
bilious fevers ; from the effects of which, he almost des-
paired of recovering his former state of health : his zeal,
however, in the cause of literature, was not abated, and
finally he procured a handsome subscription. On his
way home, he passed a short time in Charleston, where
he received some liberal fees for medical advice."

Exceedingly anxious for the prosperity of the aca-
demy, while he was yet in the islands, he planned a
tour through Great Britain for the benefit of that insti-
tution ; his project was communicated to the trustees,
and received their approbation : accordingly, in the au-
tumn of 1773, Dr. Williamson, in conjunction with Dr.
Ewing, afterwards Provost of the University of Penn-
sylvania, was appointed to make a tour through Eng-
land, Scotland, and Ireland, to solicit further benefac-
tions for the same academy of Newark.

Thus honourably associated, and the reputation they
had acquired from their late astronomical observations
having preceded them, they were received wdth great
attention by the literati, and other men of influence in
Great Britain : a circumstance in itself, highly favoura-
ble to the object of their mission. Their success, how-

Mrs. HalU of Philadelphia, daughter of the late Dr. Ewing,
ever, was but indifferent, owing to the irritation of the
pul)]ic mind against the colonies, which about that time
was ah'eady considerable ; yet, their characters as men
of learning, procured them much personal attention, and
some money.

The constant hope of accommodation with the colo-
nies, and the example of the King, from whom they re-
ceived a liberal donation, notwithstanding his great dis-
pleasure towards his American subjects, encouraged
them to persevere in the business of their mission until
the autumn of 1775. Hostilities having tlien com-
menced, Dr. Ewing returned to America, leaving Dr.
Williamson in London, who determined to remain, and
to make some further efforts for the establishment of
his favourite academy.— But I must return to some cir-
cumstances of importance which here claim our noticec

The vessel in which Dr. Williamson had engaged
passage for Europe, lay in the harbour of Boston, to
which place he had proceeded, and was waiting for her
sailing at the very time at which that remarkable cir-
cumstance took place, the destruction of the tea of the
East India Company.* Upon Dr. Williamson's arrival

* According to (he regii!alions of the Custom-House at Boston, every
vessel, not entered within twenty days after her arrival, was liable to
seizure by the government vessels then in the harbour. As respected
the Tea ships, the inlKibitants of Boston waited nineteen days ; during
which period they daily solicited of the governor a permit, that those
vessels with tiieir te;i might return to the ports whence they had come.
This request was peremptorily refused. On the evening of the nine-
ieenth day, between the hours of seven and twelve o'clock, the time at
which it would have been seizable by government, the tea was destroy-
€d by a party of Americans. For many particulars relative to this
affair, I am indebted to a gimtleman, now in iny hearing, (General

as

111 England, he was the first to report to the British
Government that occurrence ; and, after a private inter-
view with Lord Dartmouth, was examined on the sub-
ject before his Majesty's Privy Council : that examina-
tion took place on the 19th of February, 1774. On
that occasion, Dr. Williamson ventured to declare,
that, if the coercive measures of Parliament were per-
sisted in, nothing less than a civil war would be the re-
sult. Time soon verified his prediction ; but the want
of correct information on the part of the British minis-
try, as to the state of public feeling in this country,
seems almost incredible. Lord North himself has been
heard to declare, that Dr. Williamson was the first per-
son who, in his hearing, had even intimated the proba-
bility of such an event.*

Ebenezer Stevens,) who was one of those concerned in the act of de-
stroying the tea, and who bore a conspicuous part in the subsequent
events of the Revohition. — See also Almonds Remembrancer, vol. 1.
Collection of the Mass. Histor. Society, vol. 2.

* While Dr. Williamson was at Boston, he became acquainted with
Messrs. Adams, Warren, Otis, and other selectmen. From Boston he
sailed for London, on the 22d of December, 177S, in a ship that belong-
ed to Mr. Hancock, a few days after the tea was destroyed. Governor
Hutchinson had sent his despatches by a brig that sailed some days be-
fore the ship. She belonged to a man of other politicH. In that brig
sailed three gentlemen passengers. The ship arrived six days before
the brig. In the mean time. Dr. Williamson, in conversation with Lord
Dartmouth, had detailed the events at Boston. The three gentlemen
who arrived in the brig, were immediately examined, and their evidence,
signed and sworn to before the Privy Council, was afterwards commu-
nicated to Parliament. Dr. Williamson being sent for, was at first ex-
amined before two or three public officers, about the 1st of February,
1774, preparatory to his being examined before the Privy Council. From
the several questions that had been put to him, and the direct answers, he
concluded that no satisfactory knowledge could have been acquired of the
late incidents in Boston : therefore, when he returned to his lodging, he
wrote a regular detail of the several material incidents he had observed
We now come to an event, memorable by the com-
motion it excited at the time, and by the magnitude of
the consequences which have since arisen from it ; I
refer to the discovery of the celebrated Letters of

in Boston, which included an answer to the several questions that had
been put to him, and a statement of sundry facts. When he attended
the next day at the Horse-Guards, where the Privy Council sat, an offi-
cer read to him what had been written as his answer to the questions
that had been propounded. He objected to the whole as incorrect, and
handed him the narrative he had written. After that officer had inform-
ed the Council of the Doctor's objections to the answers as written, the
Doctor was called in, and the Lord President informed him, that they
would receive his narrative, but wished to ask him a few more questions.
The clerk wrote his answer to one of the questions so very incorrectly,
as to convey an idea very different from what was intended — of this the
Doctor complained, and the clerk was properly reprimanded. When
the examination was finished, an officer (the Attorney General) handed
the Doctor a book, and a pen, that he might swear and sign his name.
He laid down the pen— requesting their lordships to believe, that he was
not in the habit of saying things that he was not willing to swear — But
although he had studied raediciuQ, and not law, he knew so much of the
law as that a witness should not be examined concerning any fact that
might endanger a man's life, unless the party was present by whom he
might be interrogated. This, he said, was counted to be the law in Eng-
land ; he could not tell whether it would pass for law in America : *' But
if the measures were about to be pursued by Parliament against America^
which out of doors were said to be intended, the time ivas not far distant,
tchen his native country would be deluged with blood.^^ " This hand,^''
said he, " shall be guiltless of that bloods The Lord Chancellor assured
him, that the examination and oath now taken, could not be used against
any man who might be prosecuted, and tried for life ; and the president
declared upon his honour, that it had been the custom, time out of mind,
to examine witnesses upon oath before the Privy Council, consequently
this could not be considered as setting a novel precedent. Dr. Wil-
liamson then subscribed the narrative. The examinations of the other
three gentlemen-were communicated to Parliament, but Dr. W. under-
stodTd that his examination had not been communicated, nor could he
think of any reason why it should have been suppressed, unless that he
had observed in the course of his narrative, that the selectmen in Boston
caused a guard to be placed over the Tea ships, for the double purpose,
as they alleged, of preventing the tea from being smuggled on shore,
and of preventing evil-minded persons from destroying the ships or tea ;
for they had determined that both should return to London. As that
Hutchinson and Oliver : and here I beg leave to call
your notice to a few of the earlier circumstances of the
late revolutionary war, in order to communicate a fact
hitherto unrevealed.

Although the disturbances which originated in the
famous stamp act, had nearly subsided with the repeal
of that noxious measure, and returning sentiments of
friendship were every day becoming more manifest, yet
new obstacles to a permanent reconciliation appeared
in the attempts of the British administration, to render
certain officers of the provincial governments dependant
on the crown alone. This measure of the court gave
particular offence to the colony of Massachusetts, from
the peculiarly obnoxious character of their governor,
who at times, impelled by avarice and by the love of
dominion, had, in furtherance of his schemes of self-
aggrandizement, uniformly manifested the most deter-

fact seemed to invalidate the ehaige of the premeditated intention of
the selectmen to destroy the tea, which charge, however, ivas of great
use to the administration in their desire to cripple the town of Boston,
it may have caused the suppression of his evidence.^'

It is a remarkable circumstance, that neither Governor Hutchinson, of
Massachusetts, nor any other man in the service of the governor, should
have had the candour to intimate to the Prime Minister, that resistance
might be the effect of severe measures.

In October, 1776, Lord North, having sent for Mr. Ralph Izard, then
in London, tmd Dr. Williamson, to ask their opinion concerning the
operation of a particular law, told the Doctor that he, in presence of the
Priv)' Council, was the first person that ever had intimated, in his hear-
ing, the probability of a civil war in America.

The particular facts contained in this note, were communicated to tlie
writer by Dr. Williamson, a short time before his decease.

* The author of this memoir is in possession of the original draft
Dr, Williamson's narrative communicated to the Privv Council,
mined support to the views and measures of the mother
country.

However discreditable to his reputation it may be,
certain it is, that Governor Hutchinson was secretly la-
bouring to subvert the chartered rights of the colony,
whose interests he had sworn to protect. His agency
in procuring the passage of the stamp act ^vas more
than suspected, and apparently upon reasonable grounds.

The illustrious Franklin, who had recently rendered
himself conspicuous by his examination before a com-
mittee of the British Privy Council, and who at this
period resided in London, as agent for the colonies of
Pennsylvania and Massachusetts, obtained possession,
through the agency of a third person, of certain letters
written by Governor Hutchinson ; Secretary Oliver,
afterwards Lieutenant Governor ; Charles Paxton, Es-
quire, and other servants of the crown ; and sent by
them from Boston to Thomas Whately, Esquire, Mem-
ber of Parliament, and a Private Secretary of Lord
Grenville.

In these letters, the character of the people of Massa-
chusetts was painted in the most odious colours, and
their grievances and proceedings misrepresented by
falsehoods the most glaring and unfounded.

It would seem to have been equally the object of
Governor Hutchinson, and his coadjutors, to furnish
excuses for the ministry, already sufficiently disposed
to adopt every measure of severity towards the colo-
nists, through the prejudiced representations of Bernard
and his commissioners ; and to poison the minds of the
opposition, who had, on most occasions, proved them-
selves their warm advocates.

Dr. Franklin lost no time in transmitting these letters
to his constituents at Boston. '' The indignation and
animosity which were excited, on their perusal, knew
no bounds. The House of Representatives agreed on
a petition, and remonstrance, to his Majesty, in which
they charged their Governor and Lieutenant Governor
with being betrayers of their trust, and of the people
they governed ; and of giving private, partial, and false
information. They also declared them enemies to the
colonies, and prayed for justice against them, and for
their speedy removal from their places."*

The petition and the remonstrance of the people of
Massachusetts were communicated to his Majesty's
Privy Council by Dr. Franklin, in person, and after a
hearing by that board, the Governor and Lieutenant
Governor were acquitted. It was on this occasion that
Mr. Wedderburn, (afterwards Lord Loughborough,)
who was employed as counsel on the part of the gover-
nor, pronounced his famous philippic against Dr. Frank-
lin ; which has always been considered among the most
finished specimens of oratory in the English language.
In this speech, he charged that venerable character with
having procured the letters by unfair means. " The
letters could not have come to Dr. Franklin (says Mr.
Wedderburn) by fair means — the writers did not give
them to him, nor yet did the deceased correspondent,

* Memoirs of the Lifo and Writings of Frunklin, 4to. p. 183. T^ond.
ed. 1818.

R
[Mr. Whately,] who, from our intimacy, would have
told me of it : nothing then will acquit Dr. Franklin of
the charge of obtaining them by fraudulent or corrupt
means, for the most malignant of purposes ; unless he
stole them from the person who stole them. This argu-
ment is irrefragable.

" I hope, my lords, you will mark and brand the man,
for the honour of this country, of Europe, and of man-
kind. Private correspondence has hitherto been held
sacred in times of the greatest party rage ; not only in
politics but religion." *' He has forfeited all the respect
of societies and of men. Into what companies will he
hereafter go with an unembarrassed face, or the honest
intrepidity of virtue ? Men will watch him with a jea-
lous eye — they will hide their papers from him, and
lock up their escrutoires. He will henceforth esteem it
a libel to be called a man of letters^ homo trium lite-

RARUM."t

A controversy having taken place in the public prints,
between Mr. William Whately, (the brother of the se-
cretary to whom the letters had been addressed, and
who was now dead,) and Mr., afterwards Sir John
Temple, arising out of the manner in which the letters
of Governor Hutchinson had been procured and trans-
mitted to Boston, and which dispute was followed by a
duel between those two gentlemen. Dr. Franklin, in

\ Memoirs of Franklin, 4to. vol. 1. Appendix. See also the letters of
Cuvcrnor Hutchinson, and Lieutenant Governor Oliver, kc. and re-
marks thereon, by Israel Mauduit, with the Assembly's address, kc. 5d
cu. Loud. 1774.
order to prevent any further mischief, published a letter
in the newspapers, in which he assumed the entire re-
sponsibility of sending the papers to America. Alluding
to this letter of Dr. Franklin, Mr. Wedderburn conti-
nued :

" But he not only took away the letters from one
brother, but kept himself concealed till he had nearly
occasioned the murder of the other. It is impossible to
read his account, expressive of the coolest and most de-
liberate malice, without horror. Amid these tragical
events, of one person nearly murdered, of another an-
swerable for the issue ; of a worthy governor hurt in
his dearest interest ; the fate of America is in suspense.
Here is a man, who with the utmost insensibility of re-
morse, stands up and avows himself the author of all :
I can compare it only to Zanga, in Dr. Young's Re-
venge—

* Know then 'twas I

I forged the letter — I disposed the picture —
I hated — I depised — and I destroy. — '

" 1 ask, my lords, whether the revengeful temper, at-
tributed by poetic fiction only to the bloody African, is
not surpassed by the coolness and apathy of the wily
American ?"

The speeches of Mr. Dunning, afterwards Lord Ash-
burton, and Mr. Lee, who appeared as counsel in behalf
of the assembly of Massachusetts, were never reported
at length ; but they chiefly insisted upon the noxious
parts of the letters of Hutchinson and Oliver.
By the preceding extracts from the speech of Mr.
Wedderburn, it will be seen that the chief subject of his
vehement invective was the disclosure, by Dr. Frank-
lin, of what was termed by the Parliamentary orator, a
private correspondence.* But the truth is, these letters
could not be considered in any wise as private ; but
were as public as letters could be. To use the em-

^ Dr. Priestley, who was present when Lord Loughborough pronoun-
ced his violent invective against Dr. Franklin, before the Privy Coun-
cil, has published an interesting letter respecting Dr. Franklin's beha-
viour on that occasion. It is well worth a perusal, and may be found
in the London Monthly Magazine, for 1804, and also in Priestley's Me-
moirs, and in the Memoirs and Life of Franklin, vol. 1. In a biogra-
phical work of some pretensions, the author, in his strictures on the
character and services of Lord Loughborough, thus expresses himself:
" His celebrated philippic pronounced against Dr. Franklin, before the
Privy Council, is not perhaps surpassed by those of Demosthenes against
Philip, or Cicero against Anthony."

I am constrained to enlarge this note by inserting the words of an
American writer, (Mr. Walsh,) whose just sentiments are enhanced by
the elegant and classical language in which they are conveyed.

" The discussion of the merits of the petition before the Privy Coun-
cil, took place on the 29th of January, 1774 ; Franklin was present, ac-
companied by some few friends, and the lawyers employed for the co-
lony. Mr. Wedderburn, the Solicitor General of the Crown, appeared as
counsel for Hutchinson and his accomplices ; or, rather, as the gladiator
of the ministers, who had fixed upon this occasion for the prostration of
the American advocate, and had assembled a number of their friends to
witness the edifying spectacle. Wedderburn gave himself little trouble
about vindicating his nominal clients, but assailed the intended victim
with the most opprobrious charges, and the most vehement invective.
He held him forth as ' a thief and a murderer ;' as, ' having forfeited all
the respect of societies and of men.' As he alternated his abuse with
humorous sarcasms, the members of the council universally laughed
aloud and the retainers of the ministry joined in the chorus. Franklin
betrayed not the least emotion ; he saw and heard with calm dignity ;
he only remarked to one of his lawyers, after the predetermined abso-
lution of the culprits, that he was sincerely sorry to observe the lords of
council behave so indecently, and to find 'that the coarsest language?
could be grateful to the politest ear.' This scene is one which calls for
national pommemoration, by the pencil of a Trumbull. It overwhelms
phatic language of Dr. Franklin himself, " They were
not of the nature of private letters between friends ;
they w ere written by public officers to persons in pub-
lic stations, on public affairs, and intended to procure
public measures : they were therefore handed to other
public persons, who might be influenced by them to pro-
duce those measures. Their tendency was to incense
the mother country against her colonies, and by the
steps recommended, to widen the breach, which they
effected. The chief caution expressed with regard to
privacy was, to keep their contents from the colony
agents, who, the writers apprehended, might return
them, or copies of them, to America. That apprehen-
sion was, it seems, well founded ; for the first agent who
laid his hands on them, thought it his duty to transmit
them to his constituents."* In a letter on this subject,
addressed to a friend, he also observes : " On this occa-
sion I think fit to acquaint you, that there has lately
fallen into my hands, part of a correspondence, that I

us with astonishment, when we reflect that the proper question for
consideration, was no other than the solemn complaint and prayer of
an important province ; that the man thus treated was the representa-
tive of that, and three other considerable provinces ; the boast and idol
of all the colonies, then in a state of fearful incalescence ; venerable for
his age, his genius, his discoveries and writings as a philosopher and a
moralist ; one whom all Europe besides was emulously seeking to hon-
our ; and of whom the exalted countryman of Wedderburn, Lord
Kames, wrote not long after his Sketches of the History of Man. * Dr.
Franklin, of Philadelpih, a man who makes a great figure in the learn-
ed world, and who would make a still greater figure for benevolence
and candour, were virtue as much regarded in this declining age as
knowledge. " Delaplaine's Repository of the Lives and Portraits of
Distinguished Americans, vol. 2.

* Franklin's Letter to the printer of the Daily Advertiser.

5S

have reason to believe laid the foundation of most, if not
all, of our present grievances. I am not at liberty to
tell through what channel I received it ; and I have en-
gaged that it shall not be printed, nor any copies taken
of the v^rhole, or any part of it ; but I am allowed to let
it be seen by some men of worth in the province, for
their satisfaction only. In confidence of your preserv-
ing inviolably my engagement, I send you enclosed the
original letters, to obviate every pretence of unfairness
in copying, interpolation, or omission."t

Thus, Dr. Franklin performed a service which his
situation as a public agent required of him. But not-
withstanding the secrecy with which it had been con-
ducted, the letters were soon after published by the
assembly of Massachusetts ; not however until after the
appearance of other copies in Boston, produced by a
member who, it was reported, had just received them
from England.

I must be permitted to make an extract on this sub-
ject, from a writer to whom the literature of this coun-
try is largely indebted, and whom I have just quoted.

" The celebrated affair of Oliver and Hutchinson's
letters, which occurred in December, 1772, exemplified
the complete predominance in the mind of Franklin, of
love of country, and the sense of official duty, over
every suggestion of a temporising prudence, and every
consideration of personal advantage. When accident
put into his hands the libellous and treacherous letters
of the governor, lieutenant governor, and other royal

f Memoirs, 4to. p. 191.
servants at Boston, it was enough for him to believe
that they ought to be communicated to those v^hom
they particularly concerned, to fulfil the obligation at
once, fearlessly committing the ulterior results to Pro-
vidence. He took, however, in pursuance of the high
motives upon which he acted, every precaution in his
power against sinister consequences. He kept inviola-
bly, to the end of his life, under a severe trial of forti-
tude, the engagement of secrecy which he had contract-
ed, as to the names of the individuals from whom he
had received the letters ; but though he foresaw a tem-
pest of obloquy, he did not hesitate a moment to dis-
close, in the most public manner, his own share in the
transaction, as soon as he knew the disclosure to be ne-
cessary for the prevention of mischief to an individual
erroneously implicated."* I may add, that in order to
prevent any violation of his engagement to the person
from whom he had received the letters, which the in-
terrogatories of the court might have compelled, he
thought it incumbent on him to return to America.f

' * Delaplaine's Repository, vol. 2.

i " When Dr. Franklin put in his answer to the bill in Chancery,
which had been filed against him in the name of Mr. Whately, he de-
murred to two of the interrogatories which it contained, and by which
he was required to name the person from whom he had received the
letters in question, and also the person in America to whom they had
by him been transmitted ; and declined making any disclosure of theii'
names. This demurrer was, however, overruled, and he was ordered
to answer these interrogatories ; but feeling that his doing so would bt^
a violation of his engagement to the person from whom he had received
the letters and probably injurious to the person to whom they had been
sent, he thought it incumbent on him to return to America, and thereby
avoid the breach of his engagement ; and he appears to have done this
conscientiously, and so completely, that the person from whom the let-
But it is time that I should declare to you, that this
third person from whom Dr. Franklin received these
famous letters, (and permit me to add, that this is the
first time the fact has been publicly disclosed,) was Dr.
Hugh Williamson.

I have before stated his mission in behalf of the aca-
demy. Dr. Williamson had now arrived in London.
Feeling a lively interest in the momentous questions
then agitated, and suspecting that a clandestine corres-
pondence, hostile to the interest of the colonies, was
carried on between Hutchinson and certain leading
members of the British Cabinet, he determined to ascer-
tain the truth by a bold experiment.

He had learned that Governor Hutchinson's letters
were deposited in an office different from that in which
they ought regularly to have been placed ; and having
understood that there was little exactness in the trans-
action of the business of that office, (it is believed it
was the office of a particular department of the trea-
sury,) he immediately repaired to it, and addressed
himself to the chief clerk, not finding the principal
within. Assuming the demeanour of official importance,

ters were received was never ascertained ; nor were any of the conjec-
tures respecting that person founded upon, or suggested by, any infidel-
ity or indiscretion on the part of Dr. Franklin. He was not, however,
under an equal obligation to secrecy in regard to the person to whom
the letters were immediately transmitted: and he therefore confiden-
tially informed a friend of his, (Dr. Bancroft, to whom the editor is in-
debted for this note,) that they had been sent to Mr. Cushing, then
speaker of the House of Representatives of the Massachusetts Bay,
with whom it was Dr. Franklin's duty, as agent for the assembjy of that
province, to correspond," See page 195 of Franklin's Memoirs, as
published by William Temple Franklin, Esq. London^ 4to.
he peremptorily stated, that he had come for the last
letters that had been received from Governor Hutchin-
son and Mr. Oliver, noticing the office in which they
ought regularly to have been placed. Without a ques-
tion being asked, the letters were delivered. The clerk,
doubtless, supposed him to be an authorized person from
some other public office. Dr. Williamson immediately
carried them to Dr. Franklin, and the next day left
London for Holland.

I received this important fact from a gentleman of
high respectability, now living; with whom, as the
companion and friend of his early days. Dr. Williamson
had intrusted the secret.*

By this daring measure, was detected and put beyond
question, the misrepresentations and designs of Hutch-
inson and his associates ; and, perhaps, no event in the
previous history of the provinces excited more bitter in-
dignation, or was calculated to call for opposition to the
measures of Great Britain, to which these misrepresen-
tations had given rise.

The lively interest, and the conspicuous part which
Dr. Williamson took in public affairs, did not prevent
him, while in England, from bestowing a portion of his
attention upon scientific pursuits. Electricity, whose
laws had been recently determined by the discoveries of
Dr. Franklin, and by his genius introduced among the
sciences, was then a study, which, like chemistry at the
present day, largely engrossed the minds of philoso-

Se(; additional doruments.

F
phers. In conjunction with Dr. Ingenhouz, Mr. Walsh,
Mr. John Hunter, and Dr. Franklin, he frequently in-
stituted electrical experiments, to which I have often
heard him refer with juvenile feelings, at the same time
professing his ardent attachment to this branch of know^-
ledge. The only paper which bears testimony to his
investigations on this subject, is that entitled, " Experi-
ments and Observations on the Gymnotus Electricus,
or Electrical Eel," which was first published in the Phi-
losophical Transactions of the Royal Society of London ,
for the year 1775, and has since been reprinted in the
abridgment of that work.* Like the experiments of
Mr. Walsh, those of Dr. Williamson led to a belief that
the shock given by the gymnotus electricus, was truly
an electrical phenomenon. The following are the re-
sults derived from the experiments which Dr. William-
son instituted on that occasion :

" 1st. That the Guiana Eel has the power of com-
municating a painful sensation to animals that touch or
come near it. 2d. That this effect depends entirely on
the will of the eel ; that it has the power of giving a
small shock, a severe one, or none at all, just as circum-
stances may require, od. That the shock given, or the
principal sensation communicated, depends not on the
muscular action of the eel, since it shocks bodies in cer-
tain situations at a great distance ; and since particular
substances only will convey the shock, while others,
equally elastic or hard, refuse to convey it. 4th. That

* Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society of London, abridged
by Hutton, Shaw, and Pearson, vol. xiii. page 597.
the shock must therefore depend on some fluid which
the eel discharges from its body. 5th. That as the fluid
discharged by the eel affects the same parts of the hu-
man body that are affected by the electric fluid ; as it
excites sensations perfectly similar ; as it kills or stuns
animals in the same manner ; as it is conveyed by the
same bodies that convey the electric fluid, and refuses
to be conveyed by other bodies that refuse to convey the
electric fluid ; it must also be the true electrical fluid ;
and the shock given by this eel must be the true electri-
cal shock." Finally, from these and sundry other ex-
periments. Dr. Williamson was also led to believe,
'' that the gymnotus has powers superior to, or rather
diflerent from, those of the torpedo, or electric ray." —
Time will not allow me to point out in what respects
the conclusions of Dr. Williamson, as deduced from his
own investigations, coincide with, or differ from, those
subsequently made on the same animal, by Baron Hum-
boldt.*

Dr. Williamson had scarcely made his tour through
Holland and the Low Countries, when the news of the
declaration of American Independence reached him.
He now concluded to return to his native land. He
proceeded to France, and after a short time spent in
that kingdom, during a great part of which he was con-
fined by sickness, he sailed from Nantz in December,
for Philadelphia, at which place he did not arrive be-
fore the 15th of March. The ship in which he sailed

* See his Persona Narrativ vol. 4.
was captured off the Capes of Delaware, but he, with
another passenger, escaped in an open boat with some
very important public despatches, of which Dr. Wil-
liamson was the bearer.

The American army, at the period of Dr. William-
son's return from Europe, was, in some measure, organ-
ized, and every office in the Medical Staff, or in the
line, that he could with any propriety accept, was filled
up. True it was, that he had strong claims to public
employment, and the proofs were in his possession ; but
those claims he could not at that time urge, without
endangering individuals who were on the other side of
the Atlantic, nor could he do it without a breach of con-
fidence, a species of crime that he cordially abhorred.
He resolved, therefore, to remain in private life, waiting
for opportunities which he trusted would present them-
selves in the course of a dangerous struggle. In the
mean time, he undertook a journey to Charleston, in
South Carolina, with a younger brother,* on a mercan-
tile speculation. His brother sailed from Charleston
for a neutral port in the West Indies. The Doctor, in
company with another gentleman, purchased a sloop in
Charleston, and having loaded her with a suitable cargo
intended for Baltimore, ordered her for Edenton, in
North Carolina; but before his arrival at Edenton, Ge-
neral Howe, with the British army, on his way to Phi-
ladelphia, had entered Chesapeake Bay. That circum-
stance determined the Doctor to continue in Edenton,

^ Captain John Williamson.
from which he afterwards traded to neutral islands in
the West Indies ; but w^hile he thus continued his mer-
cantile connexion with his brother, then also engaged in
the West India trade, he determined to resume the prac-
tice of medicine : this he did with the same success as
he- had done formerly at Philadelphia, and in a short
time acquired the confidence of the people of Edenton.

During the period of his residence there, he was in-
vited to Newbern, for the purpose of communicating the
small-pox to such as had not experienced the benefits of
inoculation. These circumstances in part contributed
to spread the name of Dr. Williamson, and to lay the
foundation of that fame and confidence which he after-
wards obtained in the State of North Carolina.

The Doctor had taken an early opportunity of in-
forming the governor of that province, that if any cir-
cumstance should occur in the course of the w^ar, in
\vhich he could be of use to the state, he might imme-
diately command his services. It is known that the
British troops took possession of Charleston in the win-
ter of 1779-1780, and that the assembly of North Ca--
rolina ordered a large draft to be made from their mili-
tia, of from four to six thousand men, who should join
the regular troops then ordered for the relief of South
Carolina. The command of the North Carolina militia
w^as given to their late Governor Caswell, with the
rank of Major General. The General putting Dr. Wil-
liamson in mind of a former promise, handed liim a
commission, by which he found himself at the bead of
the medical department, as physician and surgeon.
An occasion now presented itself, in which the Doc-
tor had an opportunity of displaying his firmness of cha-
racter, his humanity, his professional skill, and his in-
corruptible adherence to the cause in which he had
embarked. On the morning after the battle near Cam-
den, on the 18th of August, 1780, which the Doctor
witnessed, he fell in with General Caswell, and request-
ed of him to give him a flag, observing that, although a
great part of the militia had behaved ill, yet many of
them, as he must have observed, fought with distinguish-
ed bravery, and that a considerable number, in conse-
quence, were wounded and made prisoners. They
claimed our attention. The General advised him to
send in some of the regimental surgeons, observing that
his duty did not require that service from him. The
Doctor replied, that the regimental surgeons, such of
them as he had seen, refused to go; being, as he sus-
pected, afraid of the consequences. But, said he, if I
have lived until a flag will not protect me, I have out-
lived my country ; and, in that case, have lived one day
too long. To this observation, no reply was made — he
obtained a pass, and the necessary instructions.

He remained two months with the enemy in Cam-
den, during which time he rendered very essential, ser-
vices to the prisoners committed to his care. Such, too,
was the estimation in which the medical skill of Dr.
Williamson was held by the enemy, that during the ill-
ness of one of their general officers, in which the advice
of a physician became necessary, his attendance was
requested in addition to that of the surgeons constitut-
ing their medical department.
About the middle of October, cold mornings and
evenings proved injurious to convalescents who had no
warm clothing. It now became desirable that some
coarse woollens should be obtained. The Doctor, who
had brought with him a small supply of gold to obviate
accidents, availed himself of that cash to purchase the
clothing that became necessary for the prisoners under
his charge.

The British troops, in the autumn of 1780, took pos-
session of Portsmouth and Norfolk, and made an incur-
sion into North Carolina: a camp was directed to be
formed near the Great Dismal, for the defence of the
state. General Gregory, who had distinguished him-
self in the action near Camden, having been twice
wounded with a bayonet while bringing off his brigade,
was appointed to the command in that department;
and at his particular request. Dr. Williamson was per-
mitted to serve with him. This was a pleasing circum-
stance to the Doctor, for as a winter campaign was ex-
pected, he wished to have an opportunity of ascertain-
ing, by actual observation, how far careful attention to
the diet, dress, and comfortable lodging, might contri-
bute to preserve the health and lives of soldiers in their
encampment.

The General made choice of a strong position within
the borders of Virginia, about ten miles from the British
advanced post, and orders were issued that the Doctor's
instructions should be respected in every thing that
might contribute to the comfort and health of the troops.
A tent or hut, of sufficient size to lodge twelve or four-
teen men, was immediately directed to be built on dry
sandy ground. Dr. Williamson attended in person, and
superintended the position of every piece of timber en-
tering into its construction, and even overlooked the for-
mation of the several drains leading from it. That hut
became the general model for such as were afterwards
erected, and the Doctor selected the ground on which
all others were to be constructed. To the diet of the
soldiers his attention was also particularly directed ;
believing that fluid nourishments, by their effects in
promoting perspiration, and preserving a healthy state
of the excretions in general, are better calculated to
guard the body against febrile diseases, he made it a
subject of his care to provide the troops with a plentiful
supply of soups and other liquid nourishments : for this
purpose, while the soldiers remained on that ground, he
directed that each mess, consisting generally of eight or
ten persons, should detach a man from day to day,
whose particular duty it was made to collect the various
esculent vegetables that could be obtained in that neigh-
bourhood; the Doctor even took the direction of the
manner in which their nourishment should be prepared.
There is much reason to believe, that two-thirds of
the complaints by which military men suffer, originate
in the circumstance of sleeping too near the moist
ground, by which the perspiration is checked or mois-
ture is absorbed, tiiat, in most cases, is charged with
putrescent vegetable matter. The Doctor was fully
impressed with this truth ; and accordingly adopted the
means of securinj^ to his men a drv and comfortable
lodging. As many trees in that country are loaded
with moss, (the Tillandsia Usneoides of Linnaeus,) he
directed that every man should sleep on a bed of that
moss, or of dried leaves, so as to afford perfect security
against any moisture that might arise from the soil.

The sick and wounded were lodged in close and
warm houses. They were also plentifully supplied
with the tea prepared from the leaves of the Yapon, or
Ilex Cassine Peragua, Linn, a plant which flourishes
on the banks of Carolina, affords an excellent beverage,
and is employed by many as a substitute for the teas of
China. When the use of milk was indicated, that ar-
ticle was also provided for the sick, and at the Doctor's
expense. This experiment exceeded his most sanguine
expectations ; for altiiough they were in camp during
the winter, (never less of the North Carolina militia than
five hundred, and on some occasions, including the ad-
dition of the Virginia militia, the number amounted to
twelve hundred men,) they lost but two during the pe-
riod of six months ; nor did any man obtain a furlough
on account of indisposition.

Early in the spring of 1782, Dr. Williamson took his
seat as a representative of Edenton, in the House of
Commons of North Carolina. In that assembly he for-
tunately met with several members, whose brothers,
sons, or other connexions, he had served in the army,
or while they were prisoners. Those services were not
forgotten. It was to be expected that a gentleman who
had seen much of the world, and whose education had
been so extensive, could hardly fail, with the aid of mo-

G
derate oratorical abilities, to become an influential mem-
ber in a deliberative body. Such in fact he proved.
Among other bills which he introduced with success,
we find one for erecting a court of chancery, which had
often been attempted, in vain, in that state. It may be
presumed, that old members, who had been accustomed
to conduct the business of that house, were not gratified
with being left in the minority by a gentleman who
was, at that time, comparatively a stranger in their
state. Yet when the election came on for members of
congress, those very gentlemen added their influence to
that of the friends he had acquired in the army, and he
immediately was sent to the general congress without
opposition. He continued at the head of the delegation
for three years, the longest time that any member was
then permitted to serve.

During the three years in which he was not eligible
to hold a seat in that body, he served the state occasion-
ally in its legislature, or in some other capacity.

In the year 1786, he was one of the few members
who were sent to Annapolis, to revise and amend the
constitution of the United States ; and who, finding that
they had not sufficient powers to do any thing effectual,
recommended to the several states to make another
choice of delegates, and to invest them with the requi-
site powers. In that year Dr. Williamson published a
series of Essays, deprecating paper currency, and re-
commending an excise to be imposed. In the year
1787, he was one of the delegates from North Carolina,
in the general convention at Philadelphia, who formed
and signed the present constitution of the United States.
As the State of North Carolina had at that time in
circulation, two large emissions of paper money, which
were a legal tender, and which had depreciated to less
than half of its nominal value, we are not surprised that
a majority of its citizens should have looked on the fe-
deral constitution with an evil eye ; for debtors, as we
presume, in most countries form the majority. It fol-
lowed that the Doctor, who advocated the new consti-
tution with great zeal as well as ability, lost a portion of
his popularity in the state he had represented : he was,
nevertheless, again chosen in December, 1787, by the
general assembly, to take his seat in congress the suc-
ceeding spring, when he would be again eligible, having
been three years absent from that body. The assembly
at the same time passed a law for a general state con-
vention, to be held at Hillsborough, in July, 1788, for
the purpose of determining upon the constitution that
had been proposed. The convention, after much de-
bate, adjourned on the 2d of August, having refused to
adopt the proposed constitution by a majority of more
than two to one, viz. one hundred and eighty-four to
eighty-four.

The next general assembly, in December, 1788,
passed a law calling another convention, to meet in the
following year. It may be recollected, that eleven of
the states having adopted the new constitution, it was
immediately after carried into operation, and the first
congress met in New- York, in the year 1 789. It hap-
pened a short time after that congress met, of which
Dr. Williamson was a member, several small vessels lar
den with naval stores, arrived from North Carolina at
the port of New-York. The Collector of the customs
refused them entrance, unless they should pay the alien
duty, which was six to one of the domestic. Dr. Wil-
liamson, who continued in New-York, after the disso-
lution of the old congress, as a commissioner to settle
the accounts of North Carolina with the United States,
drew up and presented to congress a spirited protest
against the decision of the Collector ; at the same time
urging the fact, that North Carolina had not by any act
forfeited her claim to be considered as one of the
United States. This protest, in twenty-four hours, pro-
duced a law, by which the Carolina vessels were allow-
ed to enter upon paying the domestic tonnage. By that
interposition and attention to the interests of North Ca-
rolina, the Doctor more than regained his former popu-
larity. When the first convention sat, he was attending
in congress ; but he was chosen, and attended as a
member of the second convention in 1789, by which
the constitution was adopted by a majority of two to
one. The Doctor's congressional career was now to
terminate. He had been chosen a representative from
North Carolina, in the first and second congress ; but,
desirous of retiring from political life, he, at a new elec-
tion, declined being a candidate.

Before I pass on to other circumstances connected
with the career of Dr. Williamson, I beg to be indulged
in one or two remarks on the character and influence of
his political life. We have seen, that as a representa-
tive of the people in the legislature of North Carolina,
and in the supreme council of the nation, he was occu-
pied many years. No man, I believe, ever enjoyed in
a larger degree the confidence of his constituents, for
integrity of conduct ; and the influence of his character
w^ill be readily appreciated, when we advert to the many
important services he effected during the most eventful
period of our political history.

He was anxious to prove himself worthy of the high
trust reposed in him, nor did he ever permit any private
or selfish views to interfere with considerations of pub-
lic interest. As chairman of numerous committees, — as
the mover of important resolutions, — as the framer of
new propositions, and new laws, — he devoted the best
energies of an active mind, and was ever prominent in
the business of the house. In debate, his elocution was
striking, but somewhat peculiar. The graces of oratory
did not belong to Dr. Williamson ; yet the known pu-
rity of his intentions, his inflexible devotedness to the
interests of his country, and the unblemished tenour of
his private life, awakened an attention which was well
supported by the pertinency of his observations, the
soundness of his reasoning, and the information he pos-
sessed upon every subject to which he directed his at-
tention.

While in congress, his duties as a legislator were his
exclusive study, and this advantage seldom failed of a
success which was denied to the lengthened debate and
declamation of his opponents.

In his answer to a letter enclosing the thanks of the
general assembly of North Carolina, for his long and
feithful services, referring to his own conduct, he ob-
serves, " On this repeated testimony of the approbation
of my fellow citizens, I cannot promise that I shall be
more diligent or more attentive to their interests ; for
ever since I have had the honour to serve them in con-
gress, their particular interest, and the honour and pros-
perity of the nation, have been the sole objects of my
care ; to them I have devoted every hour of my time.^^

Although Dr. Williamson might not captivate by the
graces of elocution, he possessed a remarkable quick-
ness in perceiving and comprehending the several bear-
ings of a question ; and if eloquence be correctly de-
fined by Dr. Johnson, " the power of overthrowing an
adversary's argument, and putting your own in its
place," then Dr. Williamson may, indeed, be pronounced
an orator ; for in detecting the weak and defenceless
points of the adversary's citadel, he discovered no less
adroitness, than in the force and strength with which he
followed up the combat. He rarely occupied the house
with what is called a set speech ; but in his desultory
observations frequently appeared a knowledge of the
principles of legislation, which could only be furnished
by a mind enriched by experience, and deeply versed
in the history of man. How well his services were ap-
preciated, is evinced by the repeated vote of thanks with
which he w^as honoured by the Legislatures of Pennsyl-
vania and North Carolina. I shall add to their appro-
bation of the public part of Dr. Williamson's character,
the opinion of Mr. Jefferson, with which I have been
lately favoured : " We served together in congress, at

Annapolis, during the winter of 1783 and 4: there I
found him a very useful member, of an acute mind, at-
tentive to business, and of an high degree of erudition."

In January, 1789, Doctor Williamson was married
to Miss Maria Apthorpe, daughter of the late Flonoura-
ble Charles Ward Apthorpe, formerly a Member of his
Majesty's Council, for the province of New-York : by
that lady he had two sons : she died when the youngest
was but a few days old.

After the loss he had sustained by the death of Mrs.
Williamson, he resolved to retire from public employ-
ment ; to settle his private affairs ; to prepare for publi-
cation his work on Climate, and his more elaborate
performance, his History of North Carolina : but the
object of attention which lay still nearer his heart, and
which especially induced him to withdraw from the very
honourable station he had held, was the education of
his children : to them he devoted, with great solicitude,
a large portion of his time and attention. His eldest
son, who died in 1811, in the 22d year of his age, gave
evidence of the parental care that had been exercised
in the superintendence of his education, and of the suc-
cess with which it had been conducted. He was a good
classical scholar — was well versed in astronomical and
philosophical knowledge, and still more remarked for
his correct deportment, his benevolence of character,
and his sincere piety. He was an Alumnus of Colum-
bia College, and reflected credit upon that institution,
which holds so distinguished a place among the literary
establishments of this country.
The younger son, whose constitutional infirmities
gave little promise, by his death soon after, filled up the
measure of his father's aflflictions. Although the Doc-
tor was never heard to lament the loss of his children,
yet no fortitude of mind that he possessed could prevent
him from feeling, that in the death of his elder son in
particular, he had lost his companion, the staff and
solace of his old age. But his mind did not require
that repose which his feelings otherwise solicited. From
this period, the pursuits of philosophy became the more
exclusive objects of his regard.

In 1811, his " Observations on the climate in differ-
ent parts of America, compared with the climate in cor-
responding parts of the other Continent," were publish-
ed, in one volume 8vo. It is in vain to attempt any
thing like an analysis of this performance, at this time :
a few remarks, however, on this interesting subject,
may not be irrelevant. Actuated by patriotism and the
love of truth. Dr. Williamson indignantly exposes the
sophistry of those writers who have asserted, that Ame-
rica is a country in which the frigid temperature and vice
of the climate, prevent the growth and expansion of
animal and vegetable nature, and cause man and beast
to degenerate. He altogether discards the notion, that
a new or inferior race of men had been created for the
American continent. A firm believer in the Mosaic
writings, he labours with the learned Bishop of Clog-
her, to prove the conformity of things to Biblical his-
tory. He believes our country, in her rivers, moun-
tains, lakes, and vegetable productions, to be formed on
a scale of more magnificence than those of the old
world, and thinks that the winters are more temperate
on the western than on the eastern coast of North Ame-
rica ; although in some parts of this continent they are
colder than in corresponding latitudes of Europe : he
maintains a gradual amelioration of our climate. He
considers the opinion that the Indian is of a new race,
to be altogether untenable ; that every part of America
was inhabited when discovered by Columbus, and that
North America was settled from Tartary or Japan, and
from Norway ; that South America was peopled from
India.

While he admits the great antiquity of the globe, he,
nevertheless, is the advocate of the comparatively recent
origin of man : he concludes that the inhabitants of
America, in the progress of time, may be expected to
give proofs of genius, at least equal to those of the other
continent. Mr. Jefferson, many years since, had suc-
cessfully refuted the hypotheses of Buffon, with respect
to the comparative size and number of animals, and the
degeneration which was imputed to animal life in the
new world. Dr. Williamson occupies more extensive
ground, and, like his illustrious predecessor, armed with
truth and philosophy, not only fully vindicates the ani-
mal and vegetable productions of this continent, but
also the climate of America. The libellous assertions
of Buffon, Raynal, Robertson, and a host of inferior
writers, are put to nought by the facts and the conclu-
sive reasonings adduced by Dr. Williamson^

H

^38

In the following year, 1812, appeared his History of
North Carolina, in two volumes 8vo.

The author commences his undertaking with a short
account of the discoveries made in America by adven-
turers from the different parts of Europe. He next re-
lates the attempts of Sir Walter Raleigh to settle a co-
lony in North Carolina, and from that time the history
of that colony is continued down to the beginning of
the American Revolution : the work closes with a view
of the soil, produce, anci general state of health in dif-
ferent parts of that country. In the proofs and expla-
nations annexed to each volume^ are inserted many va-
luable documents, selected with r.are, illustrative of
matters contained in the body of the text.

The materials of this work were derived chiefly from
original sources, and, consequently, great dependence
may be placed on them for their correctness. These
materials too are the more to be valued, because little
information could be obtained from any accounts of
North Carolina, previously published. " Hackluyt,
Purchas, and other early writers," says Dr. Williamson,
in his preface, " have been sufficiently minute in de-
scribing the first discoveries, and the attempts that were
made to form settlements on different parts of the conti-
nent ; but no writer has treated with any attention of
the progress of colonization, or the civil history of North
Carolina, from the time in which the first permanent
settlements were formed in that country. Wynn, Old-
mixon, and others, who wrote of Carolina, have done
little more than name the northern province ; their at-
tention was chiefly engaged by South Carolina." " My
information," he continues, " has chiefly been taken
from public records, and from letter-books or other ma-
nuscripts in the possession of ancient families."

In the general arrangement of his materials we find
nothing to censure, and much to commend. The want
of dates will occasionally be felt, as their more frequent
occurrence must have been attended with additional ad-
vantage. In the selection of his matter, the Doctor has,
with much propriety, enlarged upon circumstances of
importance, without occupying the time of the reader
with those which are of a trifling nature.

North Carolina is remarkable in affording, among
many other memorable events^ a more constant succes-
sion of grievances than fell to the lot of any other colo-
ny, and it presents throughout abundant room for philo-
sophical inquiry and reflection. " I have confined my-
self," says the Doctor, " to this part of the history, al-
though it was the less pleasing task."

The information contained in this work is communi-
cated in a style remarkable for its uniform perspicuity
and vigour. The narrative throughout affords numer-
ous indications of more than ordinary penetration into
the springs of human action. The author's reflections
are the result of a ready and acute mode of thinking,
devested of undue bias, and replete with good sense and
salutary advice.

He who studies our colonial history, with the writings
of Stith, Beverly, Colden, Belknap, Williams, Trum-
bull, Sullivan, Minot, and MCall, must include the
North Carolina of Dr. Williamson.*

There are other writings by the same author, of a
minor nature, which merit notice. He was at no time
an indifferent spectator of passing events, and even after
he had actually withdrawn from public life, was repeat-
edly engaged, exclusively of his works on Climate and
on North Carolina, in various publications relating to
natural history, medicine, and other i)ranches of a phi-
losophical character. In 1797, Dr. Williamson wrote
a short but important papert on the fevers of North Ca-
rolina, as they had prevailed in 1792, in Martin Coun-
ty, near the river Roanoke, and as they had appeared in
1794, upon the river Neus, pointing out the treatment
that had been found most successful, and the fatal
effects of blood-letting in fevers of that type : these re-
marks were afterwards extended, and compose a chap-
ter in his History of North CaroIina,J highly interesting
both to the pupil and practitioner of medicine.

In the American Museum, byMathew Carey, he pub-
lished several fugitive pieces on languages and politics.

In his communication on the Fascination of Serpents,
published in the Medical Repository ,§ he offers some
new and ingenious opinions on that still inexplicable
phenomenon in natural history.

* See Reviews of Dr. Williamson's work on Climate, and the History
of North Carolina, in the American Medical and Philosophical Regis-
ter, voK 3.

f See Medical Repository, vol. 2. p. 15€»

X Sre vol. £.

^Voi. 10. p. 341, &c.
Upon the appearance of the yellow fever in New-
York, in 1805, Dr. Williamson was appointed by the
Corporation of the city, one of a Medical Committee to
investigate the particular character and origin of the
cases that occurred at the commencement of the pesti-
lence of that season. From all that the Doctor had
previously seen, as well as the facts that now fell under
his view, he was led to the belief, with the other mem-
bers of that committee, that the yellow fever is a disease
sui generis, and consequently of a nature altogether dif-
ferent from the bilious remittent fever of this country.

He enriched the American Medical and Philosophi-
cal Register with several valuable papers. The first
entitled, " Remarks upon the incorrect manner in which
Iron Rods are sometimes set up for defending Houses
from Lightning," &lc. conveys some important practi-
cal instruction upon that subject.* His other papers
were, " Conjectures respecting the Native Climate of
Pestilence ;" " Observations on Navigable Canals ;"
** Observations on the means of preserving the Com-
merce of New-York," and " Additional Observations
on Navigable Canals ;" all printed in the same periodi-
cal journal, under the signatures of Observer, or Merca-
tor. Doctor Williamson was among the first of our
citizens who entertained correct views as to the practi-
cability of forming a canal to connect the waters of Lake
Erie with the Hudson River; and the importance of
this great work so engaged his feelings, that besides the

* Vol. 1.
papers already mentioned, on Canal Navigation, he
published a series on the same subject, under the title
of Atticus* These papers were so well received, that
many thousand copies have been circulated through the
medium of newspapers, and the pamphlet itself has been
several times reprinted.

In the year 1810, Dr. Williamson was appointed by
the New- York Historical Society, to deliver the anni-
versary discourse, illustrative of the objects of that
Institution : he readily complied with their request, and
upon that occasion selected for his subject, " the bene-
fits of Civil History." That discourse is evidently the
result of much reading and reflection.

Having noticed the general neglect among ancient
nations, to preserve authentic records of their events,
and the consequent uncertainty and incorrectness with
which the occurrences of former times are related, even
by the best ancient writers, the author dwells upon the
pleasure and advantages which arise from the study of
civil history, and points out its importance as a means of
promoting human happiness.

In 1814, associated with the present governor* of this
state, and some other gentlemen friendly to the interests
of science, and desirous to promote the literary reputa-
tion of the state of New- York, Dr. Williamson took an
active part in the formation and establishment of the
Literary and Philosophical Society of this city ; and
contributed to its advancement by the publication of a
valuable paper in the first volume of its transactions.

His Excellency De Witt Clinton.
As a Trustee of the College of Physicians and Sur-
geons, of the University of the State of New-York, he
not only performed its duties with vigilance and impar-
tiality, but contributed to its interests by a liberal pecu-
niary appropriation.

Some other institutions of this city were also aided
by similar acts of his beneficence, especially the Orphan
Asylum, and the Society for the Relief of Poor Widows
with Small Children. To these his donations were
such as his moderate fortune enabled him to bestow,
consistently with his obligations to his family connex-
ions ; to whom, with the exception of a few inconsider-
able legacies, he has left the residue of his estate.

The Humane Society, the City Dispensary, and the
New- York Hospital, received a large portion of his
time and attention during the remaining years of his
life. In the last mentioned establishment, the punctu-
ality and ability with which he performed the numer-
ous duties assigned him, were subjects of great surprise
to his associate junior members.

His quickness of perception — his memory — his judg-
ment, and his external senses, all manifested an uncom-
mon activity to the very last days of his life. This ex-
emption from the ordinary defects and privations attend-
ant upon old age, is doubtless ascribable to his tempe-
rate and regular habits of living ; the order and method
with which he performed all his various duties; and
especially to that rigid abstinence from all vinous and
spirituous drinks, to which system of living he had so pe-
culiarly adhered from his earliest days. For of him it
may be truly said,
" In his youth he never did apply
Hot and rebellious liquors in his blood,
Nor did not with unbashful forehead, woo
The means of weakness and debility ;
Therefore his age was as a lusty winter,
Frostly but kindly."

As You Like It — Act 2.

The life of this excellent man was now drawing to its
close. Hitherto, by means of the uniform temperance
and regularity of his habits, he had, with very few ex-
ceptions, been protected from any return of those pul-
monary complaints with which he had been affected in
his youth. His intellectual faculties remained to the
last period of his life unbroken, and in their full vigour.

It is somewhere said, that to an active and well disci-
plined mind, a chair in a library is the throne of human
felicity. No man enjoyed the luxury of literary pur-
suits more than Dr. Williamson. These, with the so-
ciety of his particular friends, added to the consolations
afforded by religion, and the recollection of a life passed
in the performance of duty, and devoted to the benefit
of his fellow men, gilded the evening of his days, and
rendered them no less cheerful and serene than had been
the morning and meridian of his long and useful career.

For some time, however, after the death of his favour-
ite son, his strength and spirits were observed to de-
cline. In two or three years his ancles began to swell,
attended with other symptoms denoting the approach of
general dropsy. Although he had recourse to the Ball-
ston chalybeate, by the middle of April, 1816, the swell-
ing of the limbs and symptoms of a dropsical affection
of the chest had so far increased, that for several weeks
he could not lie in a horizontal posture, but was com-
pelled to sleep sitting in his chair : by the use, however,
of powerful diuretics, succeeded by tonic medicines and
daily exercise, his complaints in a few months were
chiefly removed, and he was restored to his usual pur-
suits, and his wonted cheerfulness, which were conti-
nued to the day of his decease.

This event took place on the 22d day of May last, in
the 85th year of his age, and in the sudden manner he
himself had anticipated. While taking his accustomed
ride a short distance from the city, accompanied by his
favourite niece,* to whom he was tenderly attached, the
heat of the day being unusually great, he suddenly sunk
into a deliquum. Medical assistance was immediately
called, but too late : his spirit had fled to him who gave
it.

It remains for me to detain you, while I offer a few
observations illustrative of such parts of Dr. William-
son's character as are not embraced in the details that
have already occupied our attention.

To those who have not enjoyed a personal acquaint-
ance with him, I may remark, that he was no less dis-
tinguished for the manliness of his form, than for the
energy and firmness of his mind. Dr. Williamson, in
his person, was tall, considerably above the general
standard, of a large frame, well proportioned, but of a
thin habit of body. He was remarkable for his erect,
dignified carriage, which he retained even in the decline

*Mrs. Hamilton, the wife of John C Hamilton, Esq.
I
of life. His whole physiognomy was peculiar and
striking. The proportion of his head to his person was
good, and its configuration capacious and well formed.
The features of his face were strongly marked, and in-
dicated bold and original thinking. His forehead was
high, open, and boldly arched. His cheek-bones were
elevated, exhibiting the characteristic of his Scottish an-
cestors. His eyes were of a dark gray colour ; in their
expression, penetrating and steady. His nose was long
and aquiline. His mouth exhibited an unusual depres-
sion, which in advanced life was greatly increased by
the loss of his teeth. His chin was long and remarka-
bly prominent. These peculiarities diminished the
beauty of a head, which, with those exceptions, was
one of nature's finest models. Altogether, his form was
one of those which cannot pass unnoticed ; and if, in
early life, he had sacrificed a little to the graces, his ap-
pearance would have been eminently attractive, as well
as commanding.

The portrait in your presence,* painted by an artistt
whose works reflect lustre upon our country, and whose
name is honoured by every production of his pencil, ex-
hibits a faithful likeness of the original.

In his conversation, Dr. Williamson was pleasant, fa-
cetious, and animated ; occasionally indulging in wit
and satire ; always remarkable for the strength of his
expressions, and an emphatic manner of utterance, ac-

"^ The original portrait of Dr. Williamson, in the possession of the au-
thor of this memoir, was suspended in the College Hall, at the time this
Discourse was pronounced.

t Colonel John Trumbull.
eompanied with a peculiarity of gesticulation, originally
in part ascribable to the impulse of an active mind, but
which early in life had become an established habit.

As was to be expected from the education of Dr. Wil-
liamson, and from his long and extensive intercourse
with the world, his manners, though in some respects
eccentric, were generally those of a polite, well bred
gentleman. Occasionally, however, when he met with
persons who either displayed great ignorance, want of
moral character, or a disregard to religious truth, he
expressed his feelings and opinions in such manner, as
distinctly to show them they possessed no claim to his
respect. To such, both his language and manner might
be considered as abrupt, if not possessing a degree of
what might be denominated Johnsonian rudeness.

His style, both in conversation and in writing. Was
simple, concise, perspicuous, and remarkable for its
strength ; always displaying correctness of thought, and
logical precision. In the order too and disposal of his
discourse, whether real or written, such was the close
connexion of its parts, and the dependence of one pro-
position upon that which preceded it, that it became
easy to discern the influence of his early predilection
for mathematical investigation. The same habit of ana-
lysis, arising from " the purifying influence of geometri-
cal demonstration," led him to avoid that profusion of
language, with which it has become customary with
some writers to dilute their thoughts : in like manner,
he carefully abstained from that embroidery of words
which a modern and vitiated taste has rendered too
prevalent.
Under the impressions and precepts he had very early
received, no circumstances could ever induce him to de-
part from that line of conduct v^^hich his understanding
had informed him was correct. His constancy of cha-
racter, the obstinacy I may say of his integrity, whether
in the minor concerns of private life, or in the perform-
ance of his public duties, became proverbial with all
who knew him. Nothing could ever induce him

" To swerve from truth, or change his constant mind."

As an illustration of his characteristic integrity, allow
me to add, from the information of one of his friends,
that when in congress, in 1791, it became his duty to
vote upon the law passed in that year, imposing an ex-
cise on domestic distilled spirits, the celebrated whiskey
law, as it was called, which gave rise to the western in-
surrection. In the debates on that subject, he took an
active interest, and although he well knew that he was
counteracting the sentiments of his constituents, he ap-
peared the decided friend and advocate of that law. —
On the day of its passing, and while the people were
going from the hall, Dr. Williamson overtook a friend,
from whom I received this anecdote : the Doctor joined
him, informed him of the passage of the bill, and added
in his usual sententious manner, " Sir, my vote was in
its favour ; I have discharged my duty to my conscience,
but I have lost my popularity. I shall never again be
elected to congress :" but that gave him no uneasiness :
believing it to be a right measure, he had voted as his
conscience and his best judgment dictated, and, as he
observed, " he was not without the hope that one of its
effects would be to lessen the use of a poison which was
destructive of the morals and health of a numerous class
of the people."* I beg leave to add another evidence,
which fell under my own notice, of that rigid adherence
to moral rectitude which ever marked his character.

A few years since, a gentleman of this city, desirous
of borrowing a sum of money, made an application to
Doctor Williamson for that purpose : the Doctor pro-
mised to supply him ; but upon the day when the trans-
action was to be completed, the gentleman not knowing
that the Doctor's verbal promise and his written bond
were of the same validity, and apprehending that some-
thing might occur to prevent the Doctor from comply-
ing with his engagement, offered him a larger interest
than that recognised by law. The Doctor, offended by
this insult to his integrity, at once declined further com-
munication with the party concerned, and refused the
loan he otherwise had been prepared to make.

Upon another more important occasion, he manifest-
ed somewhat similar feelings in rejecting a powerful
appeal to his pride, and, I may add, to his reputation.

Joseph Ceracchi, an Italian statuary of great celebrity
in his profession, finding the turbulent state of Europe
unfavourable to the exercise of his art, had come to this
country. This gentleman exercised his talents in erect-

* See Remarks by Dr. Williamson, on the increasing consumption of
Spirituous Liquors in the United States, and the evil they produce to
society. — History of JVorth Carolina, vol. 2.

Id

ing honorary memorials of some of our most distinguish-
ed public men. The busts of Washington, President
Adams, Governor Jay, General Hamilton, Governor
George Clinton, and Colonel John Trumbull, are emi-
nent examples of his art.

He, at that time also, as appears by a correspondence
in my possession, applied to Dr. Williamson, then a
member of congress, for permission to perpetuate in
marble, the bust of the American Cato, as Mr. Ceracchi
vras pleased to denominate him. I beg leave to read
the originals :

" Mr. Ceracchi requests the favour of Mr. William-
son to sit for his bust, not on account of getting Mr.
Williamson's influence in favour of the National Monu-
ment; this is a subject too worthy to be recommended ;
but merely on account of his distinguished character —
that will produce honour to the artist, and may give to
posterity the expressive features of the American Cato."

To this note. Dr. Williamson replied in his appropri-
ate caustic style :

" Mr. Hugh Williamson is much obliged to Mr. Ce-
racchi for the polite offer of taking his bust. Mr. Wil-
liamson could not possibly suppose that Mr. Ceracchi
had offered such a compliment by way of a bribe ; for
the man in his public station who could accept of a bribe,
or betray his trust, ought never to have his likeness
made, except from a block of wood,

*' Mr. Williamson, in the mean time, cannot avail

i
himself of Mr. Ceracchi's services, as he believes that
posterity will not be solicitous to know what were the
features of his face. He hopes, nevertheless, for the
sake of his children, that posterity will do him the jus-
tice to believe, that his conduct was upright, and that
he was uniformly influenced by a regard to the happi-
ness of his fellow citizens, and those who shall come
after them.

*' Philadelphia, llth Jipril, 1792."

To those who knew his unbending resolution when
once formed, it need not be added, that Dr. Williamson,
offended by this flattery, persisted in his determination
not to sit to Mr. Ceracchi.

The steadiness of his private attachments ought not
to be passed over in silence. Dr. Williamson was slow
in forming his friendship, but when formed, as the wri-
ter of this memorial of his worth can testify, it was im-
moveable, and not to be changed by time or distance.

Whatever may be the merits of Dr. Williamson, as a
scholar, a physician, a statesman, or philosopher ; how-
ever he may be distinguished for his integrity, his bene-
volence, and those virtues which enter into the moral
character of man ; he presents to the world claims of a
still higher order. The lovers of truth and virtue will
admire much more than his literary endowments, that
regard for religious duty, of which, under all circum-
stances and in all situations, he exhibited so eminent an
example.
There are some philosophers, and of great attain-
ments too in their particular departments of knowledge,
whose views are so rivetted to, I had almost said iden-
tified with, the objects of their research, that they can-
not extend their vision beyond the little spot of earth
which they inhabit; they are, indeed, with great feli-
city of expression, designated by the appropriate name
of Materialists, Dr. Williamson was not an associate
of this class ; — with all his inquiries into the physical
constitution of this globe, like Newton and Rittenhouse,
he could elevate his views to the Great Agent that gave
existence to our world, and sustains it in its connexions
with the other parts of the universe. With all the at-
tention he bestowed upon the various parts of nature,
he still, in the true spirit of a lover of wisdom, could
direct his thoughts to

-Sion Hill,

And Siloa's brook, that flow'd
Fast by the oracle of God."

To those who delight to dwell on themes like these,
it will be gratifying to receive the expression of his own
sentiments and feelings on this momentous subject. In
a letter I possess, written during his last illness, while
it displays the full possession of his mental faculties,
and manifests the consciousness of his approaching dis-
solution, and his patient resignation to that event ; he
observes, " I have not any apprehension of a long con-
finement by sickness ; men of my habits usually drop
off quickly, therefore I count it my duty to be constant-
ly in a state of pi;eparation, whether I may be called off
in the morning, at noon, or at midnight."
Upon another occasion, a short time before his de-
cease, he thus concludes a letter to his nephew, and
which, I believe, proved one of his last communications.

" I have, as 1 believe, given you notice of every thing
to which it is proper that you should attend ; and hav-
ing now, as I think, nearly finished my course through
the wilderness of life, grant, O Lord ! that w^hen my
feet shall touch the cold stream of the waters of Jordan,
my eyes may be steadily fixed on the heavenly Canaan,
so that I may say to death, ' where is thy sting ?' "

Such was the man whose character and services we
have this day endeavoured to commemorate.

Citizens of America,

If piety, patriotism, talents, and learning, and these
all devoted to his country's good and the best interests
of mankind, entitle their possessor to praise and grati-
tude, you will cherish with respect the memory of Hugh
Williamson, whose name will be associated with those
to whom we are most indebted for our country's inde-
pendence, and the first successful administration of that
happy constitution of government which we now enjoy.

Young GentlExMen,

You who are now^ engaged in the pursuits of sci-
ence as preparatory to the exercise of a liberal profes-
sion, will also learn, from the example that has been
exhibited, to set a due value upon the diligent and pro-

K
fitable employment of your time, to dedicate your
talents and services to your country's welfare; and
above all, to cherish that love of truth, virtue, and reli-
gion, for which the venerable subject of this imperfect
eulogy was so eminently distinguished.

NOTES,

NO. I.

Extract from a Letter of the Right Reverend Bishop White, of
Pennsylvania^ to Dr. Hosack, New-York.

Philadelphia, October 14, 1819.
Dear Sir,

On the receipt of your letter of the 12th, I called on my neighbour,
3Ir. Read, whose information on the subject of your inquiry is as
follows :

Dr. Williamson had learned that the lettei-s of Governor Hutchin-
son were deposited in an otiice, different from that in which they
ought regularly to have been. There had been some business
which had convinced him (Dr. W.) that, in the transactions of the
former office, there was no great exactness. He repaired to it, and
not finding the principal within, he addressed himself to the chief
clerk : assuming the demeanour of otiicial importance, he demand-
ed the late letters of Governor Hutchinson ; noticing the office in
which they ought properly to be placed. Mr. Read thinks it was
that of the Secretary of State, but is not sure. The letters were
delivered. Mr. Williamson carried them to a g^entleman who would
deliver them to Dr. Franklin, and the next day set off for Holland.
Mr. Read remarked, that his statement should be taken in connex-
ion with the narrative to be found in the Life of Dr. Franklin.

i have no doubt of the correctness of the communication of Mr.
Read. Independently of the character he has sustained through life,
and to a great age, Dr. W. and he were born within twelve miles of
"'ach other, and were companions from their boyhood.

Very respectfully your very humble servant,

WILLIAM WHITE.
To Dii. D. HosACK.
P. S. — The Mr. Read mentioned in this letter, is brother to the
late George Read, Esquire, of New-Castle, Member of the First
Congress, and since Senator for Delaware, under the Federal Go-
vernment, \V. W.

NO. II.

Extract from a Letter of James Read, Esq. to Dr. Hosack.

Philadelphia, October 26, 1819.
Sir,

The enclosed contains all the additional information 1 hav« beea
able to collect, relative to the subject of your letter, dated on the
20th instant.

As to the Hutchinson letters which I mentioned to Bishop White,
I well remember Dr. Williamson telling me, sometime after his re-
turn from Europe, that he was the person who had procured them ;
having gotten information as to the office in which they were, (l
think he said it was a particular part of the Treasury,) he went
there, and without hesitation said to a clerk, (the only person then
in the office,) that he came for the last letters that had been received
from Hutchinson and Oliver, from Boston ; that the clerk, without
asking a question, gave him the lett^irs, which he put into his pocket
and walked out. He was convinced the clerk supposed him to be
an authorized person from some other public office ; that he placed
the letters in a proper situation to be conveyed to Dr. Franklin,
then in London, and he departed immediately for Holland. This
is, if not exactly, at least the substance of what the Doctor told me,
in a conversation we had on the then situation of our pubHc affairs.
The effects resulting from that transaction are generally known.

It will afford me much gratification, if any thing contained herein
should be deemed useful to you in portraying the character of the
estimable, and truly respectable. Dr. Williamson.

1 am, with respect,
Sir,

Your obedient servant,

JAMES READ.

Dr. D. Hosack.

NO. III.

Extract from a Letter from the Honourable John Adams, LL. D.
late President of the United States, to Dr. Hosack.

Qvi^CEYyJanuari/ 28, 1820.
Sir,

Your Biographical Memoir of Dr. Williamson, which I have
read vvilh great interest and satisfaction, has excited so many re-
miniscences, as the French call them, that I know not where to be-
g^in, or where to end.

My first acquaintance with Dr. Williamson, was in Boston, in
1773, when he made a strong impression npou me, and g-ave me a
high opinion of the intelligence, as well as energy of his character.
He gave us great comfort, at that time, by the representation he gave
us of the ardour of the people in the American cause, in the mid-
dle and Southern States, especially in New-York and Philadelphia.
I was afterwards more particularly acquainted with him, when he
was a member of the House of Representatives, in Congress ; when
he communicated many things to me, particularly that he was de-
scended from Sir William Wallace, the great Scottish hero, patriot,
and martyr. He informed me also, that he was employed in wri-
ting the History of North Carolina, a work that I have long wished
to see, but have never been so fortunate as to obtain.

1 was one of the first persons to whom Mr. Cushing communi-
cated the great bundle of letters of Hutchinson and Oliver, which
had been transmitted to him, as Speaker of the House of Repre-
sentatives, by Dr. Franklin, their agent in London. I was permit-
ted to carry them with me upon a circuit of our Judicial Court, and
to communicate ihem to the chosen few. They excited no surprise,
excepting at the miracle of their acquisition. How that could have
been performed nobody could conjecture ; none doubted their au-
thenticity, for the hand-writing was full proof: and, besides, all
the leading men in opposition to the ministry, had long been fully
convinced that the writers were guilty of such malignant representa-
tion, and that those representations had suggested to the ministry
their nefarious projects. I doubt not the veracity of Dr. William-
son's account of the agency in procuring those letters, but 1 believe
he has omitted one circumstance, to wit, that he was employed upon
that occasion by Mr. Temple, afterwards Sir ,Iohn Tt uiple, who
told me, in Holland, that he had communicated those letters to Dr.
Franklin. Though I swear to you, said he, that I did not procure
them in the manner represented. This I believe, and I believe fur-
ther, that he did not deliver them with his own hand, into Dr. Frank-
lin's, but employed a member of Parliament. Very possibly Mr.
Hartley, for that purpose, for Dr. Franklin declared publicly that he
received them from a member of Parliament.
I am.

Your obliged friend, and most
Humble Servant,

JOHN ADAMS.
ToD. HosACK, M.D. LL.D.

To the foregoing statement it may be proper to add, that Captain
John Williamson, a surviving brother of the deceased, in a conver-
sation which I held with him shortly after the death of Dr. Wil-
liamson, fully confirmei the above account of his brother's agency
in procuring the letters of Hutchinson. He moreover declared,
that his information had been derived immediately from his bro-
ther. D. H.